*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

TARVARD CLASS
OF 1924
“wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

 

CAMBRIDGE
Printed for the Class
I949

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1924

Records of the Class

LAWRENCE ABBOTT

HOME AppREss: 205 Melbourne Ave., Mamaroneck, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 715 Hamilton Hall, Columbia University, New York 27,
N. Y.

BORN: July 9, 1902, Cornwall-on-Hudson, N. Y. parents: Ernest Hamlin
Abbott, ’93, May Louise Kleberg.

PREPARED AT: Storm King School, Cornwall-on-Hudson, N Y. ¥.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; a.m. (Columbia

Univ.), 1945.
marrieD: Ann Sands Tatham, Oct. 22, 1932, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Vaughan, Aug. 26, 1936; Sarah Tatham, Aug. 3, 1940; Pauline Sands,

April 7, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Maunder Kleberg Abbott, ’22; Alexander Lyman
Abbott, ’22.

OCCUPATION: Teacher; writer.

OFFICES HELD: President, Silver Swan Inn, Inc., 1930-36; member of program
department, assistant to the musical counsel, National Broadcasting
Company, 1934-42; contributing editor, Time, 1942-43; master in
mathematics, Hotchkiss School, 1943-47; treasurer, Town Hill School,
1946-47; instructor in economics, Columbia College, since 194.

MEMBER OF: Century Association; American Economic Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Approach to Music, 1940; The Listener's Book on Harmony,

1941.
VARIETY has apparently been the chief characteristic of my life
since graduation, My occupations have included those of ‘pub-
licity writer, country innkeeper, program executive in a broad-
casting company, author of books on music, magazine editor,
and, recently, student and teacher of economics. Bur there has
actually been more continuity to my life than this lise would
suggest. Until about six years ago, my twin fields of interest
(aside from one interlude) were writing and music, and they
had become nicely meshed together. Then, for reasons T shall
try to explain, I decided in 1943 to do an about-face, and since

[i]

movie aah cs as aa MO ALLS LS LOO LE A: YUNG CEG EINE UG SE tale enlemncearadananamt apes eat tar eter rrameaiantedstaaalvis ee ebbda SES CML ie 3S re

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

then — and this is what seems to me to be the most significant
thing to report to my classmates — I have been going through the
adventurous process of changing careers in midstream.

My first job after graduation was as a cub writer of adver-
tising copy in a New York agency. Then I became associated
with Tamblyn & Brown, and for three years wrote and directed
publicity campaigns in connection with fund-raising drives..
Meanwhile I was devoting some of my spare time to musical
writing, including a record-review column in The Outlook
and the music history section of The Book of Knowledge.

Then in 1930 (of all times!) I succumbed to the urge to go
into business for myself. Partly as a consequence of a summer
trip to Europe with Rink Hathaway, I hit upon the scheme of
opening a wayside inn, with thoughts of enriching myself by
purveying old-world charm to new-world motorists. A pre-
revolutionary stone house near Poughkeepsie, New York, under-
went some “restoring” and blossomed forth as ““The Silver Swan.”
This serene rural spot soon turned out to be a ringside seat for
the emotion-packed drama of the Great Depression, Like many
thousands of other small business men, I found myself a be-
wildered victim of forces beyond my control, kept in a con-
tinual, exhausting struggle to keep the wolf’s other foot out of
the door. I also had plenty of first-hand contacts with hungry,
jobless wanderers, since the inn was situated on a main highway.

Out of this experience came two things. One was a realization
that if I were to support my wife in the style to which I wanted
her to become accustomed, I had better get back into writing for
a living. The other was a growing, nagging interest in the social
and economic maladjustments of our nation, and in searching for
possible remedies. This became a kind of private hobby, which
gradually led me into a more and more serious study of eco-
nomics.

In 1934 I joined the staff of the National Broadcasting Com-
pany, became its chief writer of scripts for concert and operatic
broadcasts, director of its music research staff, and, also, assistant
to Walter Damrosch, supervisor and textbook writer of the
“NBC Music Appreciation Hour” broadcasts. I also tried my
wife’s patience by devoting a good many evenings and week-

ends to writing a couple of books on music, from which I got

[2]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

great inner Satisfaction and small trickles of royalties. In 1941 I
resigned to become music editor of Time.

I won't go into all the thought, inner conflict, and hesitation
that preceded my decision to switch from music to economics
and from writing to teaching (with perhaps writing again at
some future time). But by 1943 I had started formal graduate
study of economics at Columbia University, and had also become
a member of the faculty of Hotchkiss School, where I taught
mathematics, directed the school band, established a carpentry
shop, and enjoyed with my family the bracing New England
country life. In 1947 I completed the transition by joining the
economics department of Columbia College, and since then have
been combining full-time teaching with full-time study of eco-
nomics — an absorbing combination, I can assure you!

The array of problems that face an economist today is stagger-
ing. Not only the immediate and obvious ones such as inflation,
labor-management relations, and unemployment, but the basic
and enormously challenging “social engineering” problem of how
to provide adequate security, stability, and fairness in our eco-
nomic life without losing some of the other things we need and
prize and have already partly lost (individual freedom, oppor-
tunity, incentives for work, risk-taking, and contributing to
progress, etc.) and, above all, without incurring rigidities that
make adjustments to change all but impossible. A large order?
Yes, but I think it can be done. Watch for further details in the
Fiftieth Anniversary Report!

DANIEL ABRAMSON

HOME ADpRESS: 50 Willow Crescent, Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 127 Bay State Rd., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 24, 1902, Hartford, Conn. parents: Morris Abramson, Sophia
Rickman,

PREPARED AT: Hartford Public High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1924; M.D. 1928.

MARRIED: Bernice Shafmaster, Nov. 28, 1937, Brookline, Mass. (died Nov.
11, 1945); Miriam Copellman Provizer, Jan. 16, 1947. CHILDREN: Maureen
Nancy, June 4, 1939; Stuart Jay, Feb. 24, 1942 (died June 23, 1032);
Constance Reisa, Sept. 22, 1943. STEPCHILDREN: Phyllis Marcia Proviver,
March 21, 1929; David Bruce Provizer, Aug. 21, 193 5.

OccuPATION: Obstetrician and gynecologist.

[3]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

OFFICES HELD: Obstetrician, Boston Lying-in Hospital; assistant visiting gyne-
cologist, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston; assistant in obstetrics, Massachu-
setts General Hospital, Boston; Harvard Medical School.

MEMBER OF: Obstetrical Society of Boston; Massachusetts Medical Society;
Masons, 32°; Temple Lodge, AF & AM, Shriner, Aleppo Temple;
American College of Surgeons; American Board of Obstetrics and
Gynecology; National Board of Medical Examiners (diplomate) ;
American Medical Association.

PUBLICATIONS: “Relaxation of Pelvic Joints in 1 Pregnancy, ” Abramson, Wil-
son, and Roberts, Surgery, Gynecology & Obstetrics, March, 1934;
“Relaxin in Human Serum as a Test of Pregnancy,” Abramson, Hur-
witt, and Lesnick, Surgery, Gynecology & Obstetrics, September, 1937;
“The Advantages of Conservative Obstetrics as Shown by Examination
Six Weeks Post Partum,” Abramson and Nelson, American Journal of
Obstetrics & Gynecology, May, 1941; “The Effect of Intravenous
Diodrast in Rabbits,” Abramson and Crabtree, Surgery, Gynecology
e Obstetrics, July, 1940.

AFTER four years of hard, but enjoyable, labor at the Medical
School, followed by five years of clinical training at the Beth
Israel and Boston Lying-in Hospitals, I found myself the proud
but humble occupant of an office, and ready to receive the public.
It seemed a terribly long time before I had to purchase an extra
chair for my waiting room. However, both patience and prayer
did wonders. Teaching and research helped considerably to keep
the interest alive, while I was playing somewhat of a role in in-
creasing our population,

After five years of private practice and bachelorhood, marriage
caught up with me and in the ensuing eight years there were
added three more to our family. Tragedy was not absent, how-
ever, for my second child, a son, passed away at the tender age of
four months. To this was added the loss of my wife in 1945 after
a long illness. However, happiness again reigned in 1947 when
I took the marriage vows once more, and not only acquired a
charming wife but a grown son and daughter.

Though I was not actively engaged in war work, having been
turned down by the Navy Medical Procurement Board, the war
years were very trying, in that hospital duties, as well as private
practice, increased manyfold, forcing those of us who stayed be-
hind to work for most of the twenty-four hours in each day.
The politicians, you see, have not been able to bribe nature to
make any labor laws applicable to obstetricians, It would seem

[4]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

that having constant contact with women would be somewhat
monotonous. Their contrariness, however, makes them most in-
teresting; and besides, many husbands do most of their suffering.
Our only consolation is that we have never lost a father. Express-
ing my thoughts regarding the world situation would be futile.
My only hope is that our Twenty-fifth Anniversary may mark
the beginning of a true and lasting era of peace.

IRVING ABRASH

HOME appress: 400 Goffle Rd., Hawthorne, N. J.

OFFIcE AppREss: c/o Gilt Edge Textile Corp. 229 W. 36th St. New York
18, N. Y¥.

BORN: Dec. 2, 1904, Paterson, N. J. PaRENTs: Samuel Abrash, Rose Steinberg.

PREPARED AT: Paterson High School, Paterson, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1924.

MarRieD: Sarah Elinor Dimond, June 7, 1928, New York, N. Y. cHitpren:
Ross B., April 23, 1934; Henry Ivan, Sept. 27, 1935; Elinor Lillian,
March 16, 1939.

occuPATION: Textile manufacturing.

THE first busy years after graduation were filled with continu-
ance of my education at New York University Law School, New
School for Social Research, and Bradford Durfee Textile School
in Fall River, Massachusetts, while I gained experience in the silk
and rayon manufacturing industry. Portrait painting was my
avocation.

The year 1934 brought the inception of a new and absorbing
interest — my family. I hope it will culminate in my sons’ en-
rolling in Harvard to receive the many advantages I could not
enjoy in so hurried an academic journey.

Riding the cycles of the textile industry in war and peace has
not been dull.

CHESTER DeFOREST ADAMS

HOME AppbrEss: 161 Hillcrest Drive, Fullerton, Calif.

BORN: Nov. 15, 1902, Duluth, Minn. Parents: Frank DeForest) Adams,
Grace Gibson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1924; LL.B. 19:8.

[5]

attest RE ia ON iF aetna ee
WO C2 te 20a eee _ ‘ eaennniaetnenpemmnaiy .

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

marrieD: Roberta Perrin, May 11, 1932, Duluth, Minn. CHILDREN: James
DeForest, Feb. 26, 1938; Lynne Gibson, Sept. 3, 1943.
occuPATION: Retired.

CHESTER HOWARD ADAMS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 205 Perry Rd., Grand Blanc, Mich.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1902, Palmer, Mass. Parents: James Elliott Adams, Nellie
Chapin Fletcher. °

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922. DEGREE: MD. (Univ. of Michigan), 1926.
marrieD: Vesta Viola Nickels, April 20, 1926, Toledo, Ohio. camp: Janice

Corrine, June 12, 1927 (m. George Murany, March 19, 1948).
occuPATION: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Army of the United States, Medical Corps; sep-
arated from service, April, 1946, with rank of lieutenant colonel; serv-
ice in European Theatre of Operation.

I LEFT the Class of 1924 at the end of my sophomore year to
enter Harvard Medical School. In 1924 I transferred to the
University of Michigan Medical School where I received my
M.D. in June, 1926. Shortly before graduation I married Vesta
Nickels. After graduation, I served a year’s internship in the
University Hospital, Ann Arbor, Michigan. Following this, the
Adamses — now there were three — moved to Goodrich, Michi-
gan, where IJ started practice in a group arrangement. This was
an excellent arrangement until the depression caused incomes to
dwindle sharply.

In 1932 we returned to Massachusetts and I spent the next six
years in State work in the field of psychiatry. This was a very
profitable period from the standpoint of experience. In 1938 we
returned to Michigan and I established a general medical practice.

Came the war. In July, 1942, I was commissioned in the Army
and reported for military service. In 1944 I was shipped overseas
to the European Theatre with a medical battalion. I was returned
to the United States and separated from service in January, 1946.

After arriving home, I immediately returned to the practice of
medicine at Grand Blanc. A few months ago I gave up general
medical practice to accept a research fellowship in arthritis and
allied conditions. This field, which is interesting and stimulating,
has been a goal for many years.

[6]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

So much for the chronological history. My hobbies are the
practice of medicine, people, and travel.

ALBERT ABRAHAM ADELMAN

HOME ADDRESS: qr Wallis Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Coleman Bros. Corp., 40 Central St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 10, 1903, Grodno, Russia. PARENTS: Louis Harold Adelman, Bess
Kaplan.

PREPARED AT: East Boston High School, East Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B. IN CE. cum laude, 1924.

MARRIED: Rose J. Travis, Nov. 29, 1928, Brookline, Mass. cHiLpREN: Natalie
Joan, Sept. 10, 1929; Lilla Muriel, Sept. 10, 1932; Stephen Edward, Oct.
2, 1936.

occuPaATION: Chief engineer, Coleman Brothers Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Boston Society of Civil Engineers; Harvard Engineering So-

ciety.

ACCORDING to records, most engineering graduates do not
practise engineering as a profession. I’m one who does. I’m chief
engineer of Coleman Brothers Corporation. During the war
years our work was almost entirely in connection with the war
effort. We accomplished construction work which totalled over
twenty million dollars.

My daughter, Natalie Joan, is nineteen years old and a junior
at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Lilla Muriel, aged
sixteen, is a senior at Brookline High School and hopes to enter
Wellesley next year. Stephen Edward is twelve and in grammar
school. Of course, he’ll go to Harvard. I would have liked Lilla
to go to Radcliffe, but haven’t recovered from the disappoint-
ment at having her sister refused there.

We live in Brookline in a home which [ built in 1941.

MERRITT JAMES ALDRICH

HOME appREss: 97 Norfolk St., Holliston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 175 Berkeley St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 20, 1899, Ukiah, Calif. parents: Charles Allen Aldrich, Euphra-
sia Jane Angle.

PREPARED AT: Ukiah Union High School, Ukiah, Calif,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: S.B., 1924; LL.B. 1928.
MARRIED: Doris Cuzner, May 13, 1923, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1938), Edith
Carol Borrebach, 1939, Maine. cHitpren: Martha Chase, March 38,

| [7]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

1930; Deborah Ann, Jan. 20, 1933; Suzanne, May 5, 1936; Adriane Carol,
Dec. 17, 1940; Merritt James, Jr., April 17, 1942; Meredith Jane, May
25, 1944.

OccUPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Private, United States Army, July to December,
1918.

MEMBER OF: California State Bar; American Bar Association; Boston Bar
Association.

AFTER graduation from Harvard Law School, I was admitted
to practice in the states of California and Massachusetts and have
practised law in Massachusetts courts for the past twenty years,
associated with Liberty Mutual Insurance Company. At present

I am resident attorney for that company in Boston and for eastern
and southern Massachusetts.

WILLIAM THAYER AMES:

HOME ADDRESS: 13 W. 209th St., New York 1, N. Y.
OFFIcE ADDRESS: Brooklyn Conservatory, Brooklyn, N. Y.

BORN: March 20, 1901, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: John Worthington
Ames, ’92, Sarah Ripley Thayer.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1924; A.M.,; 1940.
MarrieD: Alison Stuart Rickey, March 14, 1942, Schenectady, N. Y.
OCCUPATION: Music teacher.

SINCE my graduation in 1924, I have followed the life of a com-
poser and teacher. | spent three years, from 1924 to 1927, study-
ing in Paris and travelling in the Netherlands and Austria. I
returned to America in the spring of 1927 and joined the faculty
of the Eastman School at Rochester in 1928, where I taught for
ten years. I left the Eastman School in 1938 to pursue composing
more intensively, and lived in Woodstock, New York, for several
years. There I became a member of the Maverick Chamber Mu-
sic Society and taught at the Maverick Chamber Music School.

In 1942 I moved with my wife to New York City, where I
taught at the Music School Settlement and at the Westchester .
Conservatory in White Plains. I am now teaching at the Brook-
lyn Conservatory.

[8]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

* WALTER AMORY

BORN: June 13, 1899, Walpole, N. H. parents: Copley Amory, °88, Mary
Forbes Russell.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923.

MmarrigD: Elizabeth Lowell Hancock Cole, August 25, 1923, Hingham, Mass.
CHILDREN: Walter, Jr., Aug. 4, 1924; John Copley, June 20, 1929.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Copley Amory, Jr., 712; Henry Russell Amory, ’14; John
Forbes Amory, Sp.; Thomas Chace Amory, ’31.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted in Royal Air Force, July, 1917; shot
down and wounded, October, 1918; taken prisoner by Germans and
released to English hospital, March, 1919; released from military service,
as first lieutenant, 1919.

pieD: Oct. 2, 1937, New York, N. Y.
WALTER AMORY entered Harvard after preparatory study at
Groton School and military service in World War I. Leaving
Groton in 1917 to enlist in the Royal Air Force, he was wounded
and shot down behind the German lines in October, 1918, and
was held prisoner until the next March. After being released by
the Germans, he was removed to an English hospital and later
that year was discharged from service, with the rank of first
lieutenant.

Upon returning to the United States, he entered Harvard with
the Class and while in college engaged in many activities. He
was a member of the Freshman Crew, the znd University Crew
(1922), Porcellian Club, S. K. Club, Institute of 1770, D.K.E.,
the Hasty Pudding Club and served on the Freshman Entertain-
ment Committee, the Student Council (1921-22), and as Sopho-
more Class president.

In 1923 he left college and, after spending three months in
Europe, became associated with the Waltham Watch and Clock
Company. Two years later he accepted a position with Ellis &
Andrews, realtors, in Cambridge, and remained with them unul
the following May, when he entered the offices of Lee, Higgin-
son & Company. In the early ’30’s he joined the statf of Post &
Flagg, New York, and was associated with them until illness, a
year before his death, forced him to retire from business.

He was a member of the Seawanhaka Corinthian Yacht Club
and also held a reserve commission in the aviation branch of the
U.S, Marine Corps.

[9]

; SL RET EN A ERR eos ey rere seats aa nena

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

AARON M.. ANGELL

HOME ADDRESS: 671 W. 193rd St., New York 33, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Amron Construction Co., Inc., 197 Seventh Ave., New York
11, N. Y.

porN: April 4, 1895, Kovno, Russia, PARENTS: Moisey Sewell Angenitzky,
Anna Aronovsky.

PREPARED AT: Romny High School, Russia.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1921, 1922-1924. DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH. ENGIN. cum
laude, 1924.

MarRIED: Rebecca Cherkassky, March 14, 1922, New York, N. Y. cuizp:
Sewell Ralph, June 1, 1924.

occuPATION: Building construction.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Ensign (pilot), Air Force, Russia, 1917.

OFFICES HELD: President, Amron Construction Company, Inc.

WITHIN a month after my graduation from Harvard in 1924, I
moved to New York City with my wife and four-week-old son.
Shortly after my arrival here I entered the construction business.
In about three years I went into business for myself and have
had my own concern to this day. |

New York City is a center of new types of construction, but
it is also an old city with many buildings of respectable vintage
still in use. Although my firm does all types of work, I have be-
come recognized as an authority on the alteration, remodeling,
reconstruction, and modernization of these relics of a bygone
age. The work is hard and taxes the ingenuity and imagination
of a person to the utmost, but in all construction work I do not
believe there is any phase which is more interesting or which pro-
vides as much variety as does the rebuilding of old structures. In
1943 my son received the degree of Bachelor of Civil Engineer-
ing from New York University. After three years in the United
States Army with the Corps of Engineers, he came to work with
me. For the first time in many years I am able to take time off
from business to enjoy myself. Since my son is very much in-
terested in this work and enjoys it, too, I am trying gradually to
shift more and more responsibility to him and take things a little
easier for myself.

I have had many difficult problems to solve in the past twenty-
five years, but now I think I'll relax a little and Iet my son worry
about how to keep the building from collapsing.

[10]

Ss SNUG NUS RSENS nerd iicnetb lana eanaesin ERENCE tC CRUR RE ARN RCRA RE NETS me EROS

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALAN B. ANSBACHER

HOME ADDRESS: 1133 Park Ave., New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 11 W. qznd St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: May 6, 1904, New York, N. Y. PaRENTs: David A. Ansbacher, Elsie
Oppenheimer.

PREPARED AT: Franklin School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Carolyn Ross Lawson, July 2, 1932, New York, N. Y.

OCCUPATION: Real estate. —

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Ansbacher did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

ARTHUR ANTHONY

HOME ADDRESS: 24 Plymouth Ave., Elsmere, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 82 State St., Albany, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 15, 1899, Loutra, Greece. parents: Anthony Anthony, Kath-
erine Plemenon.

PREPARED AT: Marblehead High School, Marblehead, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: LL.B. (Univ. of Buffalo), 1932.

OCCUPATION: Law.

OFFICES HELD: Regional attorney, New York State Labor Relations Board;
April, 1945, to August, 1946.

WHEN I left Harvard in 1924, I took a job as a salesman in New
York City. For several years I travelled through New York State,
crossing into Canada occasionally to get acquainted with our
neighbors to the north of us all the way from Niagara Falls to the
old and quaint city of Quebec.

When the depression was gaining momentum in the early part
of 1928 and early 1929 and business was on the down grade, I
happened to be residing in Buffalo and I decided to study law,
my life-long ambition. I matriculated at the University of Buffalo
Law School in the fall of 1929 and received my LL. B. degree in
June, 1932.

During my travels through New York Srate I had made many
friends in Albany and decided that as Albany was the capital of
the State it was as good a place as any to practise law. It was not
so easy during the early days of the depression, but [stuck it out
here with moderate success. I entered politics and ran for office
on two occasions on the Republican ticket and have been a meim-

[ir]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

ber of the Republican County Committee for the past ten years,

Albany is ideally located for me, as I can drive to New York
and to Boston to attend football games at Cambridge. I haven't
missed a Harvard-Yale game for years. I do like to travel along
the Atlantic Coast and through the Adirondacks to Canada oc-
casionally. I am now planning a trip across the country to Cali-
fornia in the early fall.

I have always done a lot of reading and outside of my legal
reading, I manage to read one novel each week, besides magazines
and other general reading matter.

LAWRENCE SOULE APSEY

HOME ADDRESS: Chestnut St., Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Raytheon Manufacturing Co., Waltham, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 14, 1902, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Albert Stokes Apsey, ’93,
Laura Louise Soule.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; LL.B. magna
cum laude, 1927.

MARRIED: Virginia Whittingham, April 16, 1927, Millburn, N. J. CHILDREN:
Peter Stokes, July 25, 1939; Margery Stabler, April 19, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Special assistant to the Attorney General.

OFFICES HELD: President, Greater Boston Cooperative Society, 1934-373 chief,
Title Section, 1939, Appellate Section, 1939-40, Lands Division, United
States Department of Justice; chief, New York office, Anti-trust Divi-
sion, United States Department of Justice, 1943-46; general attorney,
Raytheon Manufacturing Company, since 1946, member, executive
board, World Federalists, U.S.A., 1946; National Executive Council and
Massachusetts State Board of Directors, United World Federalists,
Inc., 1947-48.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Bar Association; United World
Federalists Inc.

PUBLICATIONS: Notes and recent cases in Harvard Law Review, Vol. 40;
collaborated on second edition, Norman and Houghton, Massachusetts
Trial Evidence, and in Federal Eminent Domain (G.O.P., 1940); articles
on World Government: “Strengthening the United Nations,” Federal
Bar Journal, April, 1948, “The Key to Peace,” Tbe National University
Extension Association Debate Handbook, 1948.

VERITAS, I thought, in this age must be found in service; and
what better training for public service than a Harvard College
and Law School education? One of my early lessons in truth

[12]

csemmenaaemaan earner ene maaan ne een nine sone ese enema

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

turned out to be that a Harvard degree is not always an asset in
politics — at least in the city of Cambridge. I was defeated for
the City Council in 1926, and although I acquired a law degree
and a bride to assist me in my next campaign, I was again defeated
in 1927. The necessity of attempting to convince the voters of
my quite unproved capacity left me with a distasteful conviction
that blowing one’s own horn is incompatible with the true spirit
of service.

My law practice began in my father’s Boston office, but soon
after my father died. A few months proved the impossibility of
making a living by practising alone, and resulted in my becoming
associated with the Boston firm of Hill, Ferrick & Bonner in
1929. Beginning with 1930, as a result of my wife’s serious illness
and the death of our first baby, we were snowed under with
medical bills for many months. This forced me to seek a more
remunerative position, and resulted in my association with an-
other Boston firm, Channing, Corneau & Frothingham. With the
Bonner firm I had learned to try cases and with the Channing
firm I received a valuable discipline in legal craftsmanship. Bv
this time the depression was upon us, salaries were reduced, and
for a period of six months we lived most frugally, scraping the
pennies to make both ends meet.

Nevertheless, we had several opportunities for service of one
kind or another. I joined the group endeavoring to obtain public
support for a plan for the unification of transportation — railroad,
rapid transit, and shipping — in Greater Boston. I donated much

time to the preparation of legislation, to appearances before legis-
lative committees, and to public speaking; but the project did nor
succeed,

We investigated different religious beliefs and engaged in re-
ligious work. At our home we conducted a forum dedicated to
the search for truth. Music, poetry, religion, metaphy SICS, CCO~
nomics, and diet all came in for discussion and experiment.

Out of this forum, during the depression, emerged a group
which was convinced that consumers’ codperation offered “the
middle way” —a way by which the consumer, owning and
democratically operating his own sources of supply, could com-
bat the evils of both monopoly and cut-throat competition, This
group formed the Greater Boston Codperative Society, which

[13]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

still conducts a codperative food store in Boston. Several houses
with a small restaurant were rented on Beacon Hill for Operation
on a coéperative basis. The financial margin was too small and
various unforeseen mishaps caused the enterprise to fail in about
two years. With the assistance of a loan, I was able, over the
next ten years, to see that the investment was repaid,

In 1937 the firm of Channing, Corneau & Frothingham dis-

solved and I obtained a position at a substantial increase in sal-
ary with the Lands Division of the United States Department
of Justice in Washington. There I first headed a research unit
on condemnation law and supervised the preparation of a 1,000-
page manual on Federal Eminent Domain. I was then made chief
of the Title Section, which passes on the title to land acquired b
the United States, and finally, chief of the Appellate Section,
which handles appeals in cases involving the public lands. In
these bright days in Washington our son Peter was born
in 1939. :

In 1940 I had an opportunity to serve a greater public need by «
transferring to the Anti-trust Division. Immediately, I was as-
signed to the trial staff of the Hartford-Empire Case against the
tlass container trust and shipped to Toledo where I had a fasci-
lating two-year experience in a major court trial, It was here
hat our daughter Margery was born in 1942. At the close of the
rial I was recalled to Washington to take charge of the prepara-
on of the government’s appeal in its case against the Aluminum
company of America. After a brief interlude on the Associated
ress appeal, I was sent to New York City in 1943 as chief of
ie Anti-trust Division office there. The Aluminum case prepara-
on was completed in New York and argued before a special
pellate court in January, 1945. A reversal was obtained in
hich Alcoa was held to have been an illegal monopoly.

The end of the war brought the atomic bomb and the threat

the virtual annihilation of our civilization through atomic
i. Promotion of Federal World Government, in the limited
lere of international security, offered the most challenging op-
rtunity for service yet encountered. Since the Justice Depart-
nt work left little opportunity for participation in the
motion of World Government, I obtained, in 1946, employ-
nt in private industry as general attorney for the Raytheon

[14]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Manufacturing Company, makers of electronic equipment, at
Waltham, Massachusetts. After this move, my wife and I threw
ourselves into World Government work. I assisted in the forma-
tion at Asheville, North Carolina, on February 22, 1947, of the
principal American organization promoting this cause, United
World Federalists, Inc. Since then, I have served on the National
Executive Council as well as the Massachusetts Board of Di-
rectors of this organization and have helped to organize “The
Minute Man Chapter” in my home town of Concord and in other
nearby towns.

Recently, the conflict between my steadily increasing duties
at Raytheon and the demands of the World Federalist work has
produced a condition which has chronically recurred in my life:
namely, a serious impairment of health and efficiency due to hav-
ing one’s efforts spread too thinly over too many activities.
Drastic retrenchment necessarily follows with loss of much for
which one has been striving.

The recurrence of this experience raises the question whether
service should not be made to yield to the necessity of taking
enough time in all things to be one’s best self. In bringing out
the best in one’s self by simplification can one compensate for the
good works left undone? I hope it will not take another twenty-
five years to find the answer to this one.

THOMAS ELIAS ARMSTRONG

HOME apprEss: 1028 Connecticut Ave., Washington 6, D. C.

OFFICE ApDpREss: Pentagon Bldg., Washington 25, D. C.

BoRN: May 26, 1903, Duluth, Minn. parents: Marion Cavitt Armstrong,
Nellie Duttenhofer.

PREPARED AT: East Side High School, Denver, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; M.B.A. 1926.

OccUPATION: Special consultant, office of the Secretary of the Aur Force and
Office of the Secretary of Defense; also work with the Army and the
Navy.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Reserve Officers’ Training Corps commission,
1924-29, Squadron A, New York, 1929-32.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Service in the Office of the Quartermaster

General.

C15]

HARVARD CLASS OF I924

HORACE LANE ARNOLD

HOME ApDpREss: Simon Willard Road, Concord, Mass.
OFFICE AppREss: Harvard University Printing Office, 1 Divinity Ave., Cam-
_ bridge, Mass.
BorN: Nov. 8, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: Horace David Arnold, ’85, Ida
Persis Lane.
PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1924(25).
marrieD: Mary Jeanette Williams, April 11, 1930, Little Rock, Ark. cu-
DREN: Ellen Warren, Feb. 1, 1935; Mary Jeanette, April 4, 1938; John
Sedgwick, June 5, 1940.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Warren Dudley Arnold, ’16,; David Bullard Arnold, ’18.
OCCUPATION: Assistant director, Harvard University Printing Office.

MY SHORT contribution to our Triennial Report recorded the
fact that in 1925 I started work with an engineering concern and
had been with them ever since. The words “ever since” seem to
convey a sort of grandfatherly sense of eternity — an eternity of
almost a year and a half! — which was probably very real to me_
at the time. Perhaps I was even contemplating retirement. I still
am, though now it seems considerably further off than it did then.

My newly acquired A.B. entitled me in 1925 to start at the
bottom of Lockwood, Greene, and Company, engineers, and
work up. I started as errand boy and progressed through the
drafting room to the position of assistant resident engineer on a
construction job. The more I saw of the itinerant life of an en-
gineer, the less I liked the prospect. So at the end of three years
I made a change.

My second venture in the business world was with Lever
Brothers in the accounting department. My lack of knowledge
of accounting entitled me to start at the bottom and work up.
Progress was marked by raises in pay which were more frequent
and larger than those given to others in the department but
which, placed end to end and measured with a micrometer, didn’t
make my contemplated marriage seem very feasible financially.
So at the end of two years I made a change.

Number three on my list of business activities was a year with
A. W. Elson, Incorporated, manufacturers and printers of pho-
togravure plates, if you know what they are. I didn’t, so I was
entitled to start at the bottom and work up. The balance sheets

[16]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

showed that the business was in bad condition. However, the
proprietor, who was well advanced in years, had definite ideas
for the correction of this situation and was very anxious to have
someone understudy him and take over the management of the
business as soon as possible. It seemed like a good gamble, but
the business collapsed financially a year later—-in fact on our
first wedding anniversary. So, willy-nilly, I made a change.

Eventually, in March, 1932, I settled in at Harvard and have
been there “ever since” —an eternity of seventeen years. My
rather complete ignorance of printing entitled me to start, not
at the bottom, but with the title of assistant manager in the print-
ing plant of the Harvard University Press. Almost a dozen years
rolled by with no radical upheavals in the even tenor of my life.
Eventually, however, I decided to do something to help out in
the war effort, so I made a change.

In May, 1943, I transferred to Harvard’s largest war contract,
Radio Research Laboratory, where my complete ignorance of
electronics entitled me to start at the bottom and work up in this
organization devoted to the development of radar countermeas-
ures. Three months after embarking on this endeavor, I was sent
abroad to set up, and to act as business manager for, a counter-
part organization, American-British Laboratory. After almost a
year in England, I returned to Radio Research Laboratory.

In September, 1944, I again made a change, this time to my
present position as assistant director of the Harvard University
Printing Office which, a few years before, had been separated
from the Harvard University Press and set up as a separate de-
partment of the University. There life is not as sanctimonious as
our address (Divinity Avenue) might indicate. There we print
the college examinations, the official publications of the Univer-
sity, and the Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report of the Class of
1924.

Somewhere in the midst of this checkered career, my wife and
I moved to Concord and eventually, in 1936, built our own home
on our own four acres of woodland which, since the hurricane
of 1938, has given us a more than ample supply of fireplace wood
and exercise. It also yields countless frogs, snakes, spiders, squir-
rels, and other creatures that promptly become the house pers
of our eldest child whose interest in plant and animal hfe is lim-

[17]

HARVARD CLASS OF I924

itless. If the energy and diligence which she devotes to things
that creep and crawl could be devoted to school work ——-. Our
second child is also a girl, and very feminine. Her comments and
reactions are refreshing in their directness and constantly show
sound thought and reasoning. In most ways she is my wife’s
daughter, but in looks she is mine. And our youngest is a boy
whose mechanical bent results in nicked chisels, misplaced tools,
and abortive creations as he attempts to build things beyond his
ability.

By adding up the ages of our three offspring, I find that I have
had well over thirty years of experience in bringing up children
and in dealing with their ingenuity. I am convinced that I have
learned more from them than they have from me, but that is
probably a good thing.

HAROLD LOREN ARONSON -

AppREss: 220 W, 24th St., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Feb. 13, 1903, Cleveland, Ohio. Parents: Reuben Aronson, Anna
Scheingold. :

PREPARED AT: Circleville High School, Circleville, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924.

occupation: Chemistry.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Aronson did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

PHILIP CHANNING ASPINWALL © |

HOME ADDRESS: 222 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fay School, Southboro, Mass.

BORN: July 22, 1902, Brookline, Mass. PARENTs: Thomas Aspinwall, Alicia
* Stuart Towne.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School for Boys, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924(25).

OCCUPATION: Teacher.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II, corporal, Communications, Army

Air Force, for one year.

AFTER graduation I spent some years in the real estate business
in Boston, Jater changing to teaching. I have been on the faculty
of the Longwood Day School in Brookline, and the Eaglebrook
School in Deerfield, Massachusetts, and since World War II, have

[18 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

been at the Fay School in Southboro. I have travelled extensively
in this country and Canada, and somewhat in Europe.

NATHANIEL HARRY BADAINES

HOME ADDRESS: 408 Greenwood PI., Syracuse 10, N. Y.

OFFICE appress: U. S. Veterans’ Administration, Chimes Bldg. Syracuse
2, N. Y.

BorN: April 20, 1902, Wilna, Poland. Parents: Jacob Meyer Badaines, Ida
G. Magidson.

PREPARED aT: Pittsfield High School, Pittsfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924, M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1929.

MaRRIED: Belle Raye Polikoff, Nov. 19, 1933, New York, N. Y. cHitpren:
Roberta, June 20, 1936; Eleanor Sue, Aug. 10, 1939; Joel Stewart, Oct.
27, 1941.

occuPATION: Physician; Clinical director, Veterans’ Administration, Syracuse.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served in U. S. Army Medical Corps during
World War II, entered as major, April 18, 1944; discharged as lieuten-
ant colonel, May 3, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Chief of Out-Patient-Admission Service, Veterans’ Admin-
istration Hospital, Batavia, N. Y., 1943-46; Clinical Director, Veterans’
Administration Regional Office, Syracuse, N. Y., since 1946.

MEMBER OF: Onondaga County Medical Society; New York State Medical
Society; American Zionist Organization.

PUBLICATIONS: Several minor medical articles on high blood pressure in
medical magazines and books.

IT IS hard to realize that a quarter of a century has passed since
our days at Harvard. These were our important years of pre-
paring for life’s calling, mating, and rearing a family. Life has
been strenuous, full of new interests and new discoveries.

After graduation came four years of medical school. Then in-
ternship and residencies in Washington, New York City, and
Baltimore added seven more years to my existence. At this
stage we were in the throes of the depression and I became asso-
ciated with the U. S. Veterans’ Administration, Medical Division,
as physician in medicine, and I have continued in this work with
promotions, having thus devoted my years to the welfare of the
veteran.

In 1933 I began married life with a southern belle from South
Carolina. The ensuing eight years brought us three fine children.
The eldest is blessed with fine talent for classical piano plaving;

[19]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

the two smaller children are too young for us to form any definite

judgment as to their abilities, but I am very hopeful for them.

This brings us to World War II. Fortunately, I remained in
this country and counted each day until victory came.

I have spent most of my married life in a small community in
New York State (much to my liking), and have had but little
calling for social and political activities. | am no confirmed Dem-
ocrat or Republican, but hope for the election of the best man
on his merits. Most of my time is devoted to medicine and its
professional duties. Recently I have received word admitting me
to take the exam for the Board of Internal Medicine. This exam,
which qualifies one as a specialist, I am planning to take soon.

A word as to my religious inclinations. On the whole, I feel
strongly that religion has its place in human society, and I per-
sonally attend religious services at fairly regular intervals. 1 am
also endeavoring to bring up my children in a religious training.

As to hobbies, although not a dyed-in-the-wool outdoor man,
I do enjoy the virtues of nature, such as the woods and lakes, fish-
ing, baseball, walking, and boating.

For indoor pastimes reading, music (I play the violin myself
when in the mood), small gatherings with close friends, the
movies, and taking part in the children’s games and play take up
most of my leisure time.

And so, for the present my wife and I are primarily devoting
our interests towards the development of our three children. My
contentment is provided by the simpler activities of our family
and my work, and therein lies the essence of life’s happiness.
This culminates the first twenty-five years of my post-college
existence.

RAYMOND HEZEKIAH BAKER

HOME ApprEss: 57 Corning St., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: Aug. §, 1899, Plainville, Conn. parents: Samuel Hezekiah Baker,
Julia Lamanda Davis.

PREPARED AT: New Britain Public High School, New Britain, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREE: S.B. (Howard Univ.), 1933.

MarrieD: Fannie Virginia Jones, 1934, Pawtucket, R, L.

occupation: Interior Decorator.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Private, Students’ Army Training Corps, October
to December, 1918, Howard University, Washington, D. C.

[ 20 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Junior recreation worker in U.S.O., 1941-43.
PUBLICATIONS: Religious songs: “The Lord Is My Light,” 1942; “Hear Our
Prayer,” 1945.

I LEFT Harvard University in the fall of 1924 to travel as a
singer with White’s Lyceum Bureau Octet of Boston on a six-
week tour from Boston to West Virginia. For a while no work
seemed available. Then I secured a teaching position in Glouces-
ter County, Virginia, as principal of a grammar school. From
1925 to 1928 I was principal of a high school. I left ostensibly
to finish college and secure my degree. Meanwhile, while teach-
ing, I took three and a half courses at the Harvard Summer
School in 1926 and 1927.

Fortune’s smiling face turned away again until I secured a sub-
stitute messenger’s job in the summer of 1930 at the Dunbar Na-
tional Bank in New York City. From there I went to help my
grand-uncle, Albert Adams, chef, at the New York Episcopal
Church’s camp at New Paltz, New York. The camp was named
Guilford Bower.

From 1931 to 1933 I studied at Howard University in Wash-
ington, D. C., receiving my S.B. degree in mathematics in June,
1933. I then returned to Boston.

The following year I met —and later married — Fannie Vir-
ginia Jones, a nurse and companion to an elderly maid, Miss Abbie
Rich, who was one of the daughters of the late Mr. Rich of chain
theatre fame.

Again fate intervened and frowning or smiling fortune found
me with E.R.A., W.P.A., and F.W.A. for seven years, from 1936
to 1943. Then President Roosevelt signed the bill abolishing the
Federal Works Administration. During these seven years I
served as teacher of math in the Opportunity School, as singer
with the Federal Music Project, as rodman with surveyors, as
laborer with U. S. Army engineers at Lowell, as laborer on the
roads in Hyde Park and in the Boston subway erection on Hunt-
ington Avenue, as senior clerk in the U. S. Department of Labor,
as clerk in the Massachusetts Geodetic Survey Department, as
singer with a group, sponsored by the Park Department, who en-
tertained soldiers and sailors in the forts in Boston Harbor and
at veterans’ hospitals, and finally, as junior recreation worker
(F.W.A.) with the Boston U.S.O. Until the war's end in 1944, I

[2r]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

was a machine operator and porter in factories on defense work,
I was happy to receive a diploma and Army and Navy E with
the other employees from Reece’s International Automatic (sew-
ing) Buttonhole Machine Company of Boston.
Since the close of the second World War, I have been doing
interior decorating work, securing and managing my own jobs.
I found time to publish two songs, one in 1942, the other in
1945. At present I am in my second year of law study at the La
Salle Extension University of Chicago, and I am also working
on song composition with attendant studies in harmony and com-
position.

ALFRED JOHN BALDI .

HOME ADDRESS: §3 Cushing Ave., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 8 Beacon St., Boston 8, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 22, 1902, Boston, Mass. Parents: Bartholomew Baldi, Giovanna
Scalata.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1924; D.M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1929.

MarRiIED: Lillian H. Tomasello, April 19, 1934, Boston, Mass. cuitp: Jeanne,
April 8, 1935.

ICCUPATION: Dentist.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant commander (Dental Corps),
U.S.N.R.; reported to active duty, 1944; separated, 1946. Served at
Naval Training Center, Sampson, N. Y., and U. S. Naval Air Station,
Quonset Point, R. I.

4EMBER OF: American Dental Association; Massachusetts Dental Society,
Northeastern Dental Society; Guild of St. Apollonia; Association of
Military Surgeons of the United States; American Anesthesia Society
(fellow); Reserve Officer of the Naval Services, —

.FTER twenty years of private practice during which I have

een in contact with thousands of patients from all over New

ngland, and after two years of naval service when I had the

Dportunity to study thousands upon thousands of men from all

ver the nation, I am now able to make the following observa-
ons,

The events of the past decades of our years give undeniable
‘idence of disintegration. Let us look at the record. We have
en two wars, one catastrophic economic depression, and the
iminence of another, and civil strife everywhere on the face of
e globe. We have seen the Atlantic Charter, the most signifi-

[22]

ea aen et enenmenenerneenemnnmmemnninee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

cant public document since the Sermon on the Mount, deteriorate
into a flimsy slogan to aid and abet human slaughter. As we
look about us, we see evidence of such spiritual disintegration
that man has lost faith in himself and in his fellow-man. He no
longer realizes in himself the dignity of man. Because he has lost
this perspective he reaches out beyond himself to acquire as much
of the material as he possibly can with impunity, to compensate
an insatiable frustration that stems from his loss of spirituality.
Organized religion has become but a symbol, Christianity has be-
come merely an idea.

Where or when all this started is not for me to determine.
All that I can see is the indisputable evidence around me. The
reader who discards his passions and prejudices is bound to see
this complete surrender to materialism all about him. As he
searches his soul he is bound to realize that there can be but one
hope out of all this chaos —a retracing of our steps to the Uni-
versal Truth that has made our civilization the greatest the world
has ever known, a return to the dignity of man. If man cannot
respect himself as a son of God, how can he respect his fellow-
man? Conversely, if he sees in himself the thread of divinity
that stems from his origin, how can he look with evil design upon
his brother who stems from the same source?

This retracing of our steps to the Universal Truth will be
difficult. It will mean sacrifice of those things that we have been
led to believe are paramount as the measure of a man’s success

“in life. Indeed, we must alter our standard of success to what
we have given in life, rather than what we have acquired from
it. Our founding fathers had this faith and because of it America
became great.

ARTHUR PAUL BALDWIN

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 31 St. Marks Pl., St. George, Staten Island, N. Y.

BoRN: Dec. 20, 1899, New York, N. Y. parents: Cornelius Augustus Bald-
win, Lillian Paul.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. Cum laude, 1924.

OCCUPATION: Real estate.

ARTHUR PAUL BALDWIN has been carried as a “lost” man
on our records since February 14, 1936.

[23]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

FRANCIS TILESTON BALDWIN

HOME apprEss: 31 Hawthorn St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn, Inc., 1220 Statler Office
Bldg., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 11, 1902, Fitzwilliam, N. H. parents: Thomas Tileston Baldwin,
Edith Perkins.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924.

MARRIED: Simone Belleau, Sept. 3, 1928, Quebec, P. Q., Canada. cHILD: Peter
Tileston, Oct. 20, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Tileston Baldwin, Jr., °12.

occuPATION: Account executive and stockholder, Batten, Barton, Durstine
& Osborn, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, publicity, 1942-43, Cambridge district, 1944,
Greater Boston United War Fund; chairman of publicity, Greater
Boston Community Council, 1943-44, Massachusetts Division, National
War Fund, 1945-46; member, corporation, Mt. Auburn Hospital, since
1943, executive board, Cambridge Council of Boy Scouts, since 1941;
president, Cambridge Community Council, 1944-46, director, 1944-45,
secretary, 1948-49, Cambridge Community Federation, director, Cam-
bridge Chapter, American Red Cross, 1946-48, Cambridge Center for
Adult Education, since 1943, Prospect Union Association, since 1947;
governor and vice-chairman, New England Council of the American
Advertising Agencies, 1948-49; trustee, Middlesex School, since 1943;
corporator, Charlestown Five Cent Savings Bank, since 1943.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Garrison Club of Quebec; Cam-
bridge Club; Harvard Club of New York.

FOLLOWING our departure from college in June, 1924, I took
what was probably the course of least resistance and went to
work for a relative in the investment banking business. Every-
thing seemed rosy until, after a few months, I suddenly realized
that I couldn’t comprehend what my job was all about and that
I just couldn’t stand it.

By chance, I bumped into a friend who suggested that I work
for his advertising agency —an activity I knew nothing about
but which at least sounded better than the securities field. So, on
January 2, 1925, | hung up my hat at Barton, Durstine & Osborn,

a young, aggressive, five-year-old company. After a short tour
of duty in New York, I was returned home to the Boston office
where I have been ever since. In 1928 B.D.O. merged with the
old-line George Batten Company to form the firm of Batten,
Barton, Durstine & Osborn (to which mouthful a wag once added

[24]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Hoover, Barnum, and God — and that is only one of hundreds
of quips about the name). The agency business has prospered
since the grim thirties. While our Boston operation, headed by
that grand guy and outstanding Harvard man, Frank Hatch, ’19,
goes along in a typically quiet, unhurried, congenial, New Eng-
land way, it provides a modest and comfortable living for those
of us on its payroll. We are contented to share the industry, abil-
ity, and ambition of our colleagues in New York and our other
branch offices which happily trickle back to us in our dividend
checks. Our state of mind is illustrated by one of my local fel-
low-stockholders who, last summer, named his newly acquired
but thoroughly seasoned sailing dinghy “Lucky Strike.”

Advertising has progressed, I hope, since the days when the
Batten Company was founded in the nineties. At that time a
sign in a New York office building admonished, “No Peddlers
or Advertising Men Allowed.” Yet in 1925 (and even in some
quarters today) advertising men were looked on with some sus-
picion and ridicule. However, thanks to the wartime job of ad-
vertising — and in spite of The Hucksters—the industry does
currently enjoy a happy and secure reputation. ’m glad I’m in
it, notwithstanding what my wife has had to put up “with. Un-
predictable hours, dinners uneaten, invitations-out cancelled at
the last minute, scarcely a vacation without a flying trip back to
the office, Thanksgiving, Christmas, and New Year’s days more
than once interrupted by broadcasts — she has taken them all as
a matter of course. So, whether I want my son to be an ad-man,
I'm not quite sure. But the agency business does offer some very
pleasant and stimulating collateral associations.

Our contacts with our clients are necessarily with top manage-
ment. And top management usually includes some of the com-
munity’s civic and charitable leaders. The result is that when a
hospital or other social agency, the Community Fund, the Red
Cross, the Boy Scouts, or any number of other good causes need
publicity and public relations help and advice, we are enlisted.
While such activities mean considerable work, there is great
satisfaction in being associated with worthwhile projects.

During the war, it was my privilege to help run the Officers’
Club at Harvard, which occupied the Pudding building. Ir was
a busy operation and during more than three years upwards of

[25]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

15,000 men were members — with a thousand a month using the
club at the peak. It was fun and it was work — but it was grati-
fying because we received so many letters from all over the
world thanking Harvard and the club for a pleasant time in Cam-
bridge. And speaking of the Pudding, it is my hope that every-
one at the Reunion will make use of the clubhouse during that
time and that, when it is all over, the Pudding will have proved to
be a pleasant part of Chairman Potter’s excellent program.

™ JAMES TODD BALDWIN

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Crafts Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: C. H. Sprague & Son Co., 10 Post Office Sq., Boston, Mass.

BORN: March 15, 1902, Chestnut Hill, Mass. parents: George Storer Bald-
win, Nellie Swift Todd.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.
HARVARD BROTHER: George Storer Baldwin, ’21.

occupation: Treasurer, C, H. Sprague & Son Company, wholesale coal
dealers.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant, U.S.N.R., Naval Air Station, Quon-
set, R. I, April, 1942; sent to Naval Air Station, Kaneohe, Oahu, T. H.,
Communications, July, 1942; assistant flag secretary, January, 1943, flag
secretary, to September, 1944, staff, Fleet Air Wing 2; executive officer,
Officer Training Unit #5, Naval Air Station, Jacksonville, Fla.; re-
leased to inactive duty with permanent rank of commander, November,
I .

MeMnre or: The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.; Ski Club Hochgebirge.

EVENTS in my life since graduation have trended essentially in

two directions, that of making a living and that of using my leis-

ure time to the best advantage for health and happiness for my-
self and others. While endeavoring to earn my living, I went
through the rather exciting and easy money-making and -losing
period from 1926 to 1932 as a stock broker. In fact, my career
as such extended through to 1938 when the seniors of our firm
decided to call it quits. During the latter part of 1938 I joined
the coal company with which I am presently employed. The
other side of my life during these twenty-five years has found
me quite actively skiing, gunning, golfing, and playing tennis.
Addendum! On May 28, 1949, I am to marry Sally Drew

Hurlbut, thereby acquiring a stepson and three stepdaughters,

and a joyful new lease on life,

[26]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY HAROLD BALOS

HOME ADpRESS: 119 Park St., Newton 58, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Tudor Press, Inc., 251 Causeway St., Boston 14, Mass.

BORN: April 23, 1903, Blackburn, Lancashire, England. parents: Isaac Aaron
Balos, Mary Abramowitsch Grew.

PREPARED AT: Stuyvesant High School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924.

MarriED: Lois Henderson, Dec. 28, 1925, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1932);
Dora Maria Peter, May 28, 1936, Sharon, Mass. cHtLtprReN: Jonathan
(Bayliss), Sept. 7, 1926 (m. Doris Lee Sturtevant Hawley, March 5,
1948); Sandra (Bayliss), Dec. 15, 1928 (m. Edwin John Bowditch,

. Sept. 18, 1948); Peter (Bayliss), Jan. 26, 1930; Brigitta Ann, July 13,
1940; Rowena Peter, June 21, 1942. GRaNpcHiLD: Catherine Bayliss, Dec.
31, 1948.

HARVARD SON: Jonathan Bayliss, ’47.

OCCUPATION: Printing and publishing.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Office of Strategic Services, October, 1942,
to December, 1945.

MEMBER OF: Society of Printing House Craftsmen; Bookbuilders of Boston;
Boston Advertising Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles and reviews for various magazines and
newspapers.

AS A Pierian, I can say that a little talent is a dangerous thing.
Copey’s attitude confirmed me in what I took to be my bent, and
I went to New York’s Grub Street for an apprenticeship. I
wrote close to five million words for publication: all sorts of
stuff — properly supercilious reviews, .owlish appraisals, and om-
niscient surveys. I wrote teen-age thrillers, movie treatments,
novels based on movie scenarios, business articles, and lush adver-
tising brochures. I worked on an unabridged dictionary and wrote
articles for two multi-volume encyclopedias. I wrote adventure
novels, crime biographies, and sweet love stories. I edited dozens
of books and hundreds of articles; and (may the Lord forgive
me) I wrote popular psychology and philosophy. The super-
ficiality was often distressing, but I found the limitless scope
stimulating. I was almost persuaded that breadth and depth are
twin values.

Meanwhile, in 1925, I married, went to Florida, and was
beached by the bust which followed the fantastic inflation there.
For the next few years I continued pecking away at my tvpe-
_ Writer, but in 1929 another deflation deflared me. Remember that

[27]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Black Thursday in October? I escaped to Cambridge to Manage
distribution for the Harvard University Film Foundation, and
a year later went into the publishing business. In 1932 I was
divorced.

In 1934, in Boston, I met my present wife, went to Switzerland
in 1935 to visit her and her family, and a year later we were
married. In 1937 we returned to Europe for a grass-roots tour
of eight countries, 8,000 miles by car in four months. Right after
the Reunion we expect to go abroad again for our first real
vacation in a dozen years.

Came the war. I was too much of a crock for the uniformed
forces, but I was lucky enough to get a civilian berth in the
Office of Strategic Services, a wonderful vantage point from
which to observe as well as fight the war. There I ferreted out _
photographs and other material of strategic and tactical value,
ascertained precise identification for use by O.S.S. operatives,
for targets, and so forth. Later I headed the unit... Then I worked
on matters of political interest, especially the impact of events on
significant European and Near Eastern nationality groups in

America, and in turn the effect of their opinions — and actions
—on events abroad. I made and wrote several studies in this
field.

These days I merely print books and other things, instead of
publishing them. It’s relatively less complicated, and more profit-
able. Yet I rather think that when I feel I can afford the luxury

I'll try publishing again, ~

CHARLES BENJAMIN BARNES, JR.

HOME apprEss: 267 Fox Hill St. Westwood, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Hemenway & Barnes, 73 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 18, 1900, Hingham, Mass. parents: Charles Benjamin Barnes,
’90, Josephine Lea Low.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: S.B., 1924; LL.B. 1927.

MaRRIED: Phoebe Washburn, June 15, 1929, Worcester, Mass. CHILDREN:
Phoebe, Feb. 14, 1933; Josephine Lea, Nov. 19, 1935; Charles Ben-
jamin, 3rd, Nov. 30, 1938; Cornclia Bradford, July 3, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Pindar Barnes, ’30. |

occupation: Lawyer and trustee; partner in firm of Hemenway & Barnes.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: National Guard Battery, 21th Coast Artillery

[28]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

(Anti-Aircraft), Mass. N.G., March 7, 1922, to March 6, 1925, Na-
tional Guard Reserve, May 30, 1925, to May 29, 1928; Massachusetts
State Guard, rst M. Sq., Feb. 18, 1941, to Oct. 15, 1946; first lieutenant
at time of discharge.

OFFICES HELD: Alternate delegate, Republican National Convention, 1928
and 1932; director, Allied Stores Corporation, since 1948, Blackstone
Valley Gas and Electric Company, since 1941, Joseph Burnett Com-
pany, since 1935, Webster and Atlas National Bank of Boston, since
1945; trustee, Army and Navy Service Committee, Inc. since 1931,
New England Home for Deaf Mutes, since 1930, Peter Bent Brigham
Hospital, since 1942, South End House Association, since 1930, Vin-
cent Memorial Hospital, since 1935; secretary, Peter Bent Brigham
Hospital, since 1946, Vincent Memorial Hospital, since 1938; member
executive committee, Winsor School, since 1948.

MEMBER OF: Curtis Club; Dedham Polo and Country Club; Harvard Club
of New York; Knockers Club; Somerset Club; American Bar Associa-
tion; Bar Association of the City of Boston.

IT IS almost as difficult to realize that twenty-five years have
elapsed since we entered “the brotherhood of learned men” as
it is for me to write an account of those years sufficiently in-
teresting to warrant its inclusion in the Class Report, even though
Fritz Schwarz tells us it will be “quite a tome”; however, I sup-
pose to write something is a “must.”

Graduation was followed by three years at the Law School
where, thanks to the inspiration of Williston, Beale, Scott, and
the Warrens, I first learned how really to work and think fairly
straight. Most unexpectedly I then took up practice in my
father’s small but highly regarded law firm where I have re-
mained ever since, engaged in a very general practice which in
recent years has been for me, personally, largely in the fields
of wills, trusts, estates, corporations, and taxation. A substantial
portion of my time is devoted to investing other people’s funds
as trustee, a fascinating but worrisome occupation. Perhaps the
greatest single satisfaction which I have derived from my pro-
fession has ‘been the day-to-day close association with mv re-
spected and beloved father and his equally adimirable partners,
and the constant challenge to maintain his and their professional
standards. Since the war I have also had the joy of acquiring a
number of additional partners, all of whom are of such character
as to make it fun and a real privilege to be associated with them
in such a congenial firm.

[29]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Having been somewhat handicapped by deafness until 1941,
I have been the most fortunate beneficiary of one of the miracles
of modern surgery, the so-called “window operation.” In fact,
I am more than grateful to be Exhibit A at the Massachusetts
Fye and Ear Infirmary, with hearing, which for thirty-five years
or more was only 16% normal, now 86% normal.

Aside from the practice of law, I have enjoyed an active in-
terest in the management of two hospitals, the operation of an
Army and Navy Service Club, and several other charitable organ-
izations, and in local town affairs.

At graduation I had hoped to go into politics, but I have long
since given up the idea without regrets. I do regret, however,
that I have not had more time to spend with my children. For-
tunately, my much “better half” loves fishing and shooting almost
as much as I, and hence our vacations have been a mutual joy.

In short, the lapse of twenty-five years finds me happy and
contented, being blessed with loyal friends, a wonderful home,
a perfect wife, and four fine children.

+ GEORGE FRANCIS BARNES

BORN: Feb. 3, 1899, Holyoke, Mass. parents: Samuel Edwin Barnes, Ada
Sells.

PREPARED AT: Dickenson High School, Jersey City, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B, 1924.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Private, Students’ Army Training Corps, Cornell
University Unit, Oct. 2, 1918, to Dec. 7, 1918. Sergeant, Reserve Offi-
cers’ Training Corps, Oct. 1, 1919, to June 19, 1920.

prep: March 26, 1932, Miami, Fla.

BROTHER: Edwin M. Barnes, 69 Van Reypen St., Jersey City, N. J.

GEORGE FRANCIS BARNES entered Harvard after prepara-
tory work at Dickenson High School and a year’s study at Cornell
University. After graduation, he spent a year and a half engaged ©
in credit and valuation work in New York and then became
associated with the security department of the Bankers Trust
Company. This position was followed successively by work in
the same department of the Guaranty Trust Company and the
National City Bank, both of New York.

Taken ill in May, 1931, he spent the next ten months in Green-

L30]

. jini NMNRONaaAAnmmneNncini dinette EI Men tinder th —

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

wich, Connecticut, and Miami, Florida, in an attempt to regain

his health.

BERNARD BARTON

HOME ADDRESS: Derwood, Md.

OFFICE ApprEss: U.S. Tariff Commission, Washington, D. C.

BORN: Aug. 25, 1903, Sutton, Mass. PARENTS: Edmund Blake Barton, ’98,
Madeline Sybella Lidstone.

PREPARED AT: Bedales School, Petersfield, England; Cambridge High School,
Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: S.B., 1924; M.B.A., 1926.

MARRIED: Tatiana Gnoocheff, April 17, 1940. CHILDREN: Peter Blake, Oct.
17, 1941; David Paul, July 11, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Burns Barton, ’23.

occupation: U. S. government economist (foreign trade).

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Secretary, combined medical supplies and the
combined textile committees; director, Division of International Alloca-
tions (War Production Board).

OFFICES HELD: Director, Division of International Allocations (War Pro-

‘duction Board), 1945-46; chief, Division of Foreign Trade Statistics,
- 1939-43; associate director, Urban Study of Consumer Purchases, 1936-

38. .
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington (chairman, appointments com-
mittee); Square Dance Group (organizer and past president).

THE political game always had an irresistible appeal for me —
probably a hangover from the Harvard Dramatic Club. So, in
the fall of 1938, when Tom Eliot ran for Congress, I resigned
from my job and worked with his outfit on the campaign. It was
an experience that I would not have missed, since it taught me
more about human behavior than did William James. It also con-
vinced me that I could not afford this glamorous career.
Returning to the Commerce Department in 1939, I was made
chief of the Division of Foreign Trade Statistics, the shop which
collects, classifies, tabulates by machine, and publishes the official
statistics on United States exports and imports. This job I en-
joyed, but when the division was transferred to the Census Bureau
late in 1942, I joined Bob Nathan’s planners in the War Produc-
tion Board, and was assigned to the Combined Production and
Resources Board. This Anglo-American Board, responsible for
allocating manufactured civilian goods in short supply, was broad-
ened later to include as many as fourteen countries on one com-

C31]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

mittee. These commodity committees operated on the basis of
unanimity — the highest common denominator of agreement —
and when one major country decided it could operate more
profitably as a lone wolf, we liquidated. From this aura of global
planning, better defined as high level international horse trading,
there crystallized in my mind a deep and strong conviction as
to how we should conduct our international affairs.

The awesome advent of the atomic bomb hardened the core of
my conviction that the only realistic and workable solution to
the problem of world peace and justice is a strong world govern-
ment. The essential criteria are: (1) decisions by the majority
(possibly two-thirds) of the countries’ representatives, chosen in
free elections; (2) enforcement of these decisions; and (3) the
right of any citizen to appeal when basic civil rights are being
violated. Because these elements are lacking, the United Nations
is fast becoming a mere facade to conceal the old routine of diplo-
matic double talk. |

As to the present crusade of the “Un-American” Committee,
it martyrizes the communists and gives them ample precedent
for spy hunts and outlawing anti-communists in the Soviet sphere.
An initiation into the Russian colony in Washington has convinced
me that Soviet citizens would ardently embrace the democratic
way of life, if they could get close enough! A few billions spent
in effective propaganda and intrigue (at which the Russians are
past masters) could foment a successful democratic revolution
in the Soviet Union and forestall another war. That’s my solu-
tion. What's yours? | :

Having got that off my chest, let me turn to domestic affairs,
before a Congressional committee roasts me on its grill. In the
spring of 1940, I married a charming Russian dancer, well in-
doctrinated into the American way of life as the result of spend-
ing eight summers in Vermont girls’ camps. Now we have two
young American cossacks, aged four and seven, and live on a
friend’s one-hundred-and-sixty-acre farm twenty miles outside
of Washington, and commute by train. Our social milieu is
waltzing and square dancing, and our favorite part of the country
is the Far West, where we hope eventually to retire.

My present job is economist with the United States Tariff Com-
mission. Surrounded by congenial colleagues, I do what I can

[32]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to present facts which point inescapably in the direction of free
world trade.

FRANCIS THOMAS BAXTER

AppRESS: 37 Grinnell St., Greenfield, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 14, 1898, Greenfield, Mass. parents: Patrick Baxter, Hannah
Frances O’Brien.

PREPARED AT: Greenfield High School, Greenfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary's files.
Baxter did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

GEORGE UPHAM BAYLIES

HOME ADDRESS: 99 Edgemont Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDREss: American Can Co., 230 Park Ave., New York, N. Y.

BorN: April 28, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: Walter Cabot Baylies, °84,
Charlotte Upham.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Jeannette Lawrence Osborn, Sept. 3, 1947, Cambridge, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Lincoln Baylies, ’15,; Walter Ray Baylies, ’24; Edmund
Baylies, Sp.

occupation: General sales assistant, American Can Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered service, Aug. 19, 1942; assigned to Army
Air Force; attended Armament School at Buckley Field, Denver, Colo.;
assigned to 54th Fighter Group; volunteered with First Air Commando
Group under Col. Phillip Cochran and served in India and Burma from
October, 1943, to January, 1945; discharged at Fort Devens, July, 1945.

OFFIcEs HELD: Board of directors, New England Paint, Varnish, and Lacquer
Association, 1945-47.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New York; Boston
Madison Square Garden Club; First Corps Cadets Veterans’ Associa-
tion; Republican Club of Massachusetts.

AFTER graduation I attended the Harvard Graduate School of
Business Administration, leaving in May, 1926, to take employ-
ment with the American Can Company, with which I have been
ever since. Although my father and one brother had been asso-
ciated with the textile industry for years, I felt that the textile
industry at that time did not look too encouraging for a future.

[33]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

My decision to approach American Can Company for a job was
based on two fundamental reasons. First, it represented an indus-
try which seemed to me one of the necessities of life, a fact
which would mean a tremendous and continuous future. Sec-
ondly, American Can Company was the leader in that industry,
which meant even greater future possibilities.

After about a year and one-half in the factories, I was assigned
to the sales department, and I was transferred to the Boston office
in February, 1931, becoming Boston district sales manager in
1936.

War broke in December, 1941. Some of the younger fellows
had left to join the service, and by the summer of 1942 I re-
ceived the usual and well-known card, “Greetings,” from Uncle
Sam. I have always liked the Army, but I certainly did not want
to join the Air Corps. So, as things usually went at that time, I
found myself assigned to the Air Corps. In October, 1943, I re-
ceived the break for which I had been hoping. I had the oppor-
tunity to volunteer, and was accepted, with the First Air Com-
mando Group under the famous Colonel Phillip Cochran, better
known to some, perhaps, as “Flip Corkin” in the comic strip
“Terry and the Pirates.” Then followed twenty-one months in
India and Burma (the last place in this world I wished to go).

That was probably the most interesting and exciting period in
my life. I was the oldest man in the outfit and, I must say, it
was probably the grandest bunch of fellows I have ever met.
They worked hard, fought hard, and played hard. Real typical
American youngsters from all over the United States.

I had been brought up in an ardent church-going family, but
I never knew what religion was or what it meant until that so-
journ in southeast Asia. I guess combat missions against the Japs
brought the real significance of religion to me more clearly and
strongly than anything else could have done.

Upon my discharge from the Army Air Force in July, 1945, I
returned to my old job with the American Can Company, and
was made assistant in the general sales department | in New York
in October, 1947.

This latter move was made just one month after my marriage
to Jeannette Lawrence Osborn, a perfect wife and pal. On our
honeymoon we had the good fortune to take a cruise to Curagao,

[ 34]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the West Indies, Venezuela, and Colombia, a beautiful trip and
one worth taking. It gives one a slight insight into our Latin
American friends. That is certainly most worth while, particu-
larly in these times.

My pet hobby is duck hunting, but unfortunately I have had
entirely too little time to devote to it during the last two years.

WALTER RAY BAYLIES an

HOME aApprEss: 48 Williams St., Taunton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 307, State House, Boston, Mass. -

BoRN: April 28, 1902, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Walter Cabot Baylies, ’84,
Charlotte Upham.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Robinson Allen, Oct. 14, 1927, Washington, D. C. (died
Feb. 20, 1949). CHILDREN: Winthrop Allen, Nov. 1, 1930; Natalie Eliza-
beth, June 2, 1935.

HARVARD SON: Winthrop Allen Baylies, "52.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Lincoln Baylies, ’15; George Upham Baylies, ’24, Ed-
mund Baylies, Sp.

occupation; Deputy Commissioner of Administration, Commonwealth of
Massachusetts.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, Military Government, 1943-46.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Massachusetts House of Representatives, 1935-44;
president, Taunton Chamber of Commerce, 1933-36; trustee-director,
Morton Hospital, Taunton, Taunton Boys’ Club, Boy Scouts of
America.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club of Taunton.

IN 1926 I went to work with the B. F. Goodrich Rubber Com-
pany in Akron, Ohio, and, in the fall of that year, was transferred
to their Albany, New York, office, where I worked on the sales
end until May, 1928.

Between 1928 and 1934 I engaged in farming in Taunton,
Massachusetts. .

Having always been a staunch Republican, and being birten
by the political bug, I first ran for public office in 1934, aspiring
to a seat as representative in the Massachusetts Hlouse of Repre-
sentatives, I was elected and served continuously until I lett to
enter the armed services in 1943. I enjoyed the work as a legisla-
tor tremendously, but we Republicans certainly sutfered some
heartaches during the lean years. I remember, after the Roosevelt

C35]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

landslide of 1936, getting a letter from our good friend and class-

mate, Corliss Lamont, in which he suggested that his party and
mine, the two minority parties, should Teally get together. When
I entered the Army, I made up my mind that I was through with
politics. However, a year or so after returning to civilian life,
I ran for mayor of Taunton. The citizens of that fair metropolis
agreed with my earlier decision and said “No” in no uncertain
terms. For the past year, I served as legislative secretary to Gov-
ernor Robert Bradford, ’23, of Massachusetts. I am now serving
as deputy commissioner of administration for the Commonwealth
of Massachusetts.

My son is now a freshman at Harvard and trying to get on the
right dean’s list, and my daughter is studying at the Cambridge
School in Weston, Massachusetts.

+ LOUIS BEAN, JR.

BORN: Oct. 24, 1903, Kharkoff, Russia. parents: Louis Bean, Agnes Adnoff.

PREPARED AT: Manning High School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; LL.B., 1927 (29).

MaRRIED: Sylvia Gerst, March ro, 1931, Los Angeles, Calif. crmpren: Eliot
David, Aug. 28, 1939; Deborah, Nov. 8, 1945.

DIED: June 7, 1947, Los Angeles, Calif.

wipow: Mrs. Louis Bean, Jr., 139 N. Flores St., Los Angeles, Calif.

LOUIS BEAN, JR., prepared at Manning High School before
entering Harvard with the Class. In college he was a member of
the Pierian Sodality during 1922-1923 and the Glee Club from
1923 to 1924. Receiving his A.B. degree with the Class, he entered
Harvard Law School and was granted an LL.B. degree in 1929,
as of 1927.

He was admitted to the Massachusetts Bar in April, 1928, and
became associated with Frederick J. Daggett in law practice in
Boston. At the time of the Twentieth Anniversary Report, he
reported having his own law practice in California.

HENRY WALTER BECK

HOME AND OFFICE appress: Gray, Maine.
Born: April 24, 1894, Lawrence, Mass. PARENTS: Paul Oswald Beck, Emma
Antonia Arold.

[ 36 ]

ai ceed a cae aha RAN Nhat lange neha aU ARRAN RIOT CARLTON REN 0 LE RIE NAN

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1921. DEGREE: M.D. (Univ. of Vermont), 1927.

MarrigD: Annie Mae Scruton, Sept. 24, 1927, Newbury, Vt. cumpren: Henry
Walter, Jr., 1930; Dorothy Ann, 1932.

occuPATION: Medicine.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served one and one-half years as a private in
World War I.

OFFICES HELD: Member, School Committee, Gray, Maine, 1930-36.

I HAVE practised general medicine at Gray, Maine, since 1928.

JOHN BECKER

apprEsS: 20 Renfrew PI., Staten Island, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 12, 1901, Chicago, Ill. parents: Benjamin V. Becker, Elizabeth
N. Loeb.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

OCCUPATION: Theatre.

OFFICES HELD: Executive, Brattleboro Theatre of Brooklyn, New York, and
Brattleboro, Vermont.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles published in Theatre Arts, 1931, and Creative Art,
1932; co-author of a play produced in Brooklyn.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary's files.
Becker did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

JOHN MURRAY BEGG

HOME aAppRESS: “Roedown,” Davidsonville, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Department of State, Washington, D. C.

BORN: Jan. 5, 1903, San José, Costa Rica. PARENTs: John William Begg,
Blanche Eugenie Bowns.

PREPARED AT: Clifton School, Clifton, England. ,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924(23); B.A. (Univ.
of Oxford), 1925.

MARRIED: Jeanne F. van den Bosch, June 27, 1940, New York, N. Y.

OccUPATION: International Information and Educational Exchange Activities,
Department of State.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chief, Division of International Information,
Department of State.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman, United States delegation, International High
Frequency Broadcasting Conference, Atlantic City, 1947; expert con-
sultant, United States delegation, Preparatory Commission of UNESCO,

‘London, 1946; alternate United States representative, Subcommittee on
Education, Committee for Strengthening Democratic Processes, Far

[37]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Eastern Commission, 1945; Department of State representative, Office
of Inter-American Affairs Radio Conference, Lima, Peru, 1943.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Metropolitan Club of Washing-
ton; Gibson Island Club, Maryland.

THE years between college days and the outbreak of World
War II were mostly occupied with motion picture and radio
work and, also, with having probably more than my fair share
of fun out of life as a bachelor.

As an editor of Fox Movietone News, and later of the Trans-
Lux Theatres and Pathé News, my headquarters were in New
York, but special jobs often took me far afield: to China and
Japan to direct the first sound pictures (travelogues) in the Far
East; to Mount Vernon to make an historical short film; to the
Middle West to cover Candidate Landon’s campaign; and to
Hopewell for the Hauptmann trial.

Turning to radio after ten years in motion picture work, I
produced a semi-weekly news program and was busy learning
about coast-to-coast broadcasts as a program supervisor for a
radio producer when the war broke out in Europe.

Because it looked as if, inevitably, we would be drawn into the
conflict, I began to think about what we could do, and were not
doing as a nation, to maintain better relationships with other
countries through the use of radio, motion pictures, and publica-
tions. And so I joined the Department of State, where during
the war, I organized and headed the International Information
Division, operating in daily contact with the Office of War In-
formation and the Office of Inter-American Affairs.

In the meantime, | married. My wife, who was from the
Netherlands and is an Oxford graduate, served with the Office
of Strategic Services and was rewarded for her efforts by being
made a Knight of the Order of Orange and Nassau by Queen
Wilhelmina. Our life together has been full of interest and
companionship, including leisure-time hours spent driving tractors
and raising tobacco and livestock on our farm in Maryland where
we are following Louis Bromfield’s well-publicized theories by
trying to develop our own “Pleasant Valley.”

After the end of the war, I was assigned by the Department of
State to visit our United States Information offices in eleven coun-
tries in Europe. I came back more than ever convinced that the

[ 38]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

United States had a real job on its hands to counteract mis-
understandings and misrepresentations of our foreign policy and
way of life. Unfortunately the job being done was far from ade-
quate. Although the State Department had fallen heir to the
responsibilities of the Office of War Information and the Office
of Inter-American Affairs, we had to operate on insufficient funds
for over a year.

As assistant director of the new office of International Informa-
tion and Educational Exchange, my job was to work with the
international motion picture, press and publications, and “Voice
of America” radio programs. By law, the programs are now part
and parcel of our foreign relations, and the need for them seems
to be daily more evident.

However, government can do only so much towards winning
the “cold” war. Private enterprise and individual citizens can do
far more if they will, and if they fully realize their responsibilities.
Because of this conviction, my work has recently shifted to the
job of trying, through the Advertising Council and other organi-
zations, to enlist the codperation of private enterprise and par-
ticularly industrial concerns to do their part in helping to win
the worldwide struggle against the spread of totalitarianism and
to fight to contain the communist ideologies at least within their
present sphere of influence and control. It is a deadly serious
struggle — as deadly serious as war. It is a great challenge to our
generation, and I firmly believe that the character of our gov-
ernmental, social, and economic organization and the lives of all
Americans will be affected by the outcome.

GEORGE FISHER BEMIS

HOME ApprEss: 232 Highland St., Milton 86, Mass.

OFFICE ADDREss: 50 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: April 17, 1899, Boston, Mass. parents: John Wheeler Bemis, Leslie
Lepington Fisher.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922.

MARRIED: Jean W. Wilmot, Sept. 8, 1926, Milton, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Investment counsel.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New York; Har-
vard Travellers’ Club.

[39]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

AFTER leaving college in 1922, I went abroad for a few months
and then went to work in the Pacific Mills. Two years later |
took a trip around the world and, on my return, started in
the brokerage business, In 1930 I was one of four men who
started a small investment counsel firm. This became, in 1936,
the Boston Fiduciary & Research Associates — the counsel for
Keystone Custodian Funds.

’

GROSVENOR BEMIS

HOME appREss: 26 Oxford Rd., Longmeadow 6, Mass.
oFFice appress: White, Weld & Co., 1387 Main St., Springfield, Mass.

BorN: March 17, 1902, Newton, Mass. parents: Harry Haskell Bemis, ’87,
Esther Glenny.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1925. DEGREE: AB., 1924(25).

MARRIED: Susan Welles Clymer, Jan. 26, 1929, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Ben
Grosvenor, Oct. 28, 1931; Susan Welles, March 12, 1933.

OccUPATION: Investments, selling.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned captain directly from civilian
life, June, 1942. Stationed at Springfield Ordnance District for dura-
tion as civilian personnel officer, and released as lieutenant colonel in
June, 1946.

MEMBER OF: Malta Lodge #641, F. & A. M., Atlanta, Ga.; Harvard

Club of Springfield, Colony Club, Springfield, Longmeadow Country
Club. .

THIS is the story, fairly typical, of a boy who was anxious to
try out other climes, but finally realized that true happiness for
him lay in his native New England.

In the fall of 1925, I took a trainee job in a Georgia cotton
mill. While in this cotton mill town, I met some Atlanta people,
and after completing my stipulated training period, I moved to
the city of Atlanta. Here I found an opportunity in the Macy
affiliate, Davison-Paxon Company, a fast-growing department
store at that time. The boom to 1929 was of little moment to
me, as I was only a trainee at that time, and the subsequent bust
had very little effect too, as our store grew in spite of it.

During this period, in 1929, I married, and both our children
were born in Atlanta during the depression.

In 1934 we moved to New York, where I put in an interesting
and strenuous two years at R. H. Macy & Company, New Eng-

[40]

‘

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

land proved too strong a magnet from such a short distance, how-
ever, and we moved to Springfield, Massachusetts, in 1936, and
there we have remained ever since. Even the war and a four-year
stretch in the Army failed to change this pattern, as I was com-
missioned by, and remained stationed at, the Springfield Ordnance
District during that whole period.

Always having wanted to try the investment business, I had the
chance to join a good firm, White, Weld & Company, as their
representative in the western part of Massachusetts, and so that
is my present occupation, with plenty of room in which to grow
and enough territory to keep me moving around in a New
England sort of way.

CHARLES DAVIS BENT

HOME ADDRESS: 269 Merriam Ave., Leominster, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 12 Main St., Leominster, Mass; 470 Main St., Fitchburg,

Mass.

BORN: Nov. 4, 1902,. Gardner, Mass. parents: George Barnhill Bent, Edith
Louise Davis.

PREPARED AT: Gardner High School, Gardner, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; LLB., 1927.

MarRIED: Dorothy Howe, July 2, 1927, Norfolk, "Mass. CHILD: Barbara
Louise, Oct. 7, 1934.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chairman, Draft Advisory Board.

OFFICES HELD: City Solicitor, 1936-37; director or officer: Leominster Recrea-
tion Center, Community Chest, Chamber of Commerce, Rotary Club,
Salvation Army, Fitchburg Art Center, Leominster Hospital, Leom-
inster Savings Bank, Leominster Federal Savings and Loan Associa-

tion.
MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Worcester County Bar Association;
Fitchburg Bar Association.

IMMEDIATELY after graduating from the Law School, I started
to practise law in Leominster, in the office of J. Ward Healey. I
soon found that the life of a professional man in a small city in-
volved more than mere attention to day-to-day duties in the
office, and became active in the work of the local Congregational
church and various charitable and civic organizations. ‘After a
few years of practice I found that my professional duties brought
me increasingly into touch with local bank and corporate work,

[4]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

In 1934 we opened an additional office in Fitchburg, to which |
have given a good deal of my time and attention ever since. In
1946 I took over the ownership of both offices, which I now
conduct. My interest in various community projects continues,
and I have been active in the financial aspects of the work of the
church throughout New England. My plans call for a continu-
ance of my present work, which I find both satisfying and re-

warding.

CHARLES EDWIN BENTON

HOME apprEss: 7 Monroe St., Northboro, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Needham, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 29, 1900, Waterbury, Conn. parents: Jesse Clark Benton, Clara
Jones.

PREPARED AT: Bristol High School, Bristol, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1924; LL.B. (North-
eastern Univ.), 1931; LL.M. (Boston Univ.), 1933.

MARRIED: Gladys Johnson, Feb. 11, 1942, Needham, Mass.

OccUPATION: Teacher, Lawyer, Chemist. .

MEMBER OF: New England Association of Chemistry Teachers, National
Education Association; Eastern Association of Physics Teachers.

SINCE graduation, my energies have been directed, in the main,

towards teaching chemistry, physics, and mathematics in second-

ary schools in Massachusetts and Connecticut. Although pedagogy

is a satisfying field, the financial returns, as is generally well

known, are’not great. It has been necessary, therefore, to engage
in the sidelines of law and industrial research. ‘The former takes
up spare time during the school year and is confined to counsel-
ling service. The latter fills up summers and includes both chemi-
cal and electronic research. During the war it took the form of
radar development for the United States Navy. My chemical
work has been mostly in the abrasives fields and includes vitrefied,
resinoid, and powder metallurgy bonds.

All of the above have kept me both busy and interested. I do
feel that these other activities have served to make my teaching
more effective because they have brought me face to face with
people and their troubles and industry and its problems. Thus I
feel I know at first hand the kind of world into which my students
are to enter and can better prepare them for it. Whenever I find

[ 42 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

opportunity, I urge all teachers to make these outside contacts in
order to sharpen their wits and teaching.

MAX MARTIN BERGAD

HOME ApprEss: Penglyn, Irwin, Pa.

OFFICE appREss: Irwin, Pa.; Greensburg, Pa.

BorN: March 29, 1901, Kudrinka, Poland. parents: Abraham Aaron Bergad,
Sadie Schwetz.

PREPARED AT: Norwin High School, Irwin, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: 8.B., 1924; LL.B. (Univ. of Pittsburgh),

1927.

MARRIED: Florence Lillian Fink, Nov. 26, 1931, Pittsburgh, Pa. CHILDREN:
Joseph Richard, Dec. 6, 1932; Barbara Jean, Feb. 22, 1936.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Charter member, director, first president, Irwin Public Library
Association, 1938-46, solicitor, Township of North Huntingdon School
District, since 1939, First National Bank of Irwin, since 1934.

MEMBER OF: Pennsylvania Bar Association, Westmoreland County Bar Asso-
ciation; Lincoln Hills Country Club; Harvard Club of Western Pennsyl-

vania.

AS I look back upon 1924, it is hard to realize that so much has
happened in the succeeding twenty-five years—law school,
graduation, State Bar examinations, practitioner, counselor, mar-
riage, planning a home, babies, grade school, prep school, chil-
dren growing up, events crowding events— that completely
overshadows the years of my life prior to 1924. The fleeting
years since graduation have left me with little hair ( gray ish),
glasses (bifocal), good posture, with practically no “corpora-
tion.”

The only period since 1924 that seemed never to end was
World War II when the authorities concluded that the Army and
Navy had too many lawyers forty years plus. Never having taken
R.O.T.C., I was unable to lay a Reserve commission on the line.
Although not in 4F, my age, family status, and lack of specific
training for war marked “finis” to enlisting or being drafted. I
remained on the side lines, a civilian, a member of that great
body of Americans, the aged, infirm, overage (forty to fifty),
and those with children under sixteen. This may sound a little
harsh but can be better understood in the light of World War I,
when I was too young.

[ 43 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

The years have been filled with fun, joy, satisfaction, and some
disappointments here and there. Helping the weak, championing
the rights of the poor and needy, have afforded much pleasure,
sometimes mingled with sadness, Where the service was greatest
the reward was the least.

Living in a small community bordering the great Lincoln High-
way at the terminus of the all-weather famous Pennsylvania Turn-
pike Road, near Pittsburgh, had its advantages and presented
opportunities to help organize the first “public library” in the
community, the Little Theatre group, the Community Chest, and
other civic projects.

The past several years have brought me new joy and pleasure.
Dick is now a junior at Valley Forge Military Academy (his own
choice), where we visit with him as frequently as time allows.
Having missed Army training, I am thrilled with their ma-
noeuvres, knowledge of guns, tanks, planes, etc. There the talk
centers about Annapolis and West Point. Dick, however, puts in
a plug for Harvard where he intends to enroll. He will be more
convinced of the wisdom of his choice after attending his Dad’s

Twenty-fifth at Cambridge.

HYMAN IRVING BERLYN

HOME ADDRESS: 22 N. Woodford St. Worcester 4, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: New England Electric System, 441 Stuart St., Boston 16,
Mass.

BORN: June 21, 1902, London, England. parents: Barnett Berlyn, Annie
Swidler.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922. DEGREE: B.c.s. (Northeastern Univ.), 1927.

MARRIED: Dorothy Hurwitz, Nov. 20, 1926, New Haven, Conn. CHILDREN:
Sheldon, Sept. 6, 1929; Gerald Elliot, Oct. 28, 1932.

OCCUPATION: Treasury assistant in treasury department of New England
Electric System, a public utility holding company.

A SUMMATION of my activities since leaving Harvard is actu-

ally ordinary and unpretentious. The mechanics of reaching my

present humble station may sound less so. —

Upon leaving Harvard, I launched my commercial career in
the treasury department of the New England Electric System, a
holding company. In the fall of that year I enrolled in the evening

[44]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

accounting and business administration course at Northeastern
University. Four years later I received my Bachelor of Commer-
cial Science degree and speedily left New England to do income
tax field work in the capacity of senior auditor for the Internal
Revenue Bureau in Detroit. A year of this and back to the New
England Electric System. Six years later, prohibition ended in the
United States and my family had launched a wholesale liquor
business, so in I plunged to acquire spiritual and financial inde-
pendence. This break from my former employers lasted five
years, and, just ten years ago, I went back to the treasury depart-
ment of the New England Electric System and I expect to spend
the rest of my working years compiling prospectuses and filing
applications to the Securities and Exchange Commission in re-
gard to securities issues and corporate reorganizations and mer-
ers.
. The past twenty-five years have not let me devote too much
time to matters that did not involve my work or family. I have
enjoyed bringing up two sons and readying them for a world
that seems more troubled than the one I had to face. I hope their
generation does a better job than ours. But despite the economic
and political upheavals and the resultant wars, I have enjoyed
this period of my life. I have learned a lot about people and am
happy in the company of most. In these few but important re-
spects I have been very fortunate and for this I am indeed grate-

ful.

HERBERT ALVIN BERMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 422 Fenimore St., Brooklyn, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Levy & Berman, 37 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: April 30, 1902, Savannah, Ga. PARENTS: Mayer Berman, Julia Hal-

ert.

PREPARED at: Central High School, Scranton, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1918-1919, 1920-1921, 1922-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 71@gna Cctmt
laude, 1924; LL.B. cum laude, 1927.

MARRIED: Ruth Newman, April 6, 1930 (divorced 1944); Katrina Voorhees,
April 1, 1945. CHILDREN: Daniel, Dec. 14, 1934; Julia, March 9, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Berman, ’15; Edgar Henry Berman, ’23.

occuPaTION: Lawyer.

I HAVE led a busy and hectic life since graduating from the Law
School, but, like other people, wonder whether it has been a

C45]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

particularly useful one. At times I have thought I would have
had a more interesting time if I had been true to my first love,
chemistry, and had spent my time washing test tubes and beakers
in a laboratory. | _

Five years with a conservative Wall Street law firm converted
me into an early recruit for the New Deal. My first job in Wash-
ington was as chief counsel and assistant director of the Housing
Division for the Public Works Administration. There I helped
pioneer the first governmental ventures in the field of low-cost
housing and slum clearance. Then came a stint as counsel to the
Senate Committee on Civil Liberties (LaFollette Committee).

In 1939 I joined the Department of Justice as a special assistant
to the Attorney General. For the next seven years, I helped en-
force the anti-trust laws as chief of the Patent and Cartel Section,
that portion of the work involving either misuse of patents or
international restraints of trade. I spent May and June of 1945 in
Germany quizzing German industrialists and gathering evidence
for the Department. : |

In March, 1946, I resigned and returned to private practice in
New York and am still at it. In 1947 I was retained by the gov-
ernment as special counsel and prosecuted and convicted the Gen-
eral Electric Company and certain of its subsidiaries of criminally
violating the anti-trust laws. .

That in a nutshell describes my professional activities since
leaving law school. . |

As for my social, political, and economic views, I cannot be
so concise. Long governmental service and a clinical examination
of our economic system in action required in the prosecution of
many anti-trust cases has left me skeptical of all generalized politi-
cal and economic theories.

I have been in general sympathy with the welfare measures of
the New Deal and the current Fair Deal. I dislike the ever-
increasing concentration of economic power. I find it hard to
accept as a fact what I am convinced is true, namely, that the
welfare and prosperity of all of us still remains dependent on
forces we do not understand and cannot control. Beyond that
I refuse to commit myself.

My wife 1s presently studying for a Ph.D. in the field of eco-
nomics and is developing her own theories, At the moment ]

[ 46 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

am, my wife informs me, a neoclassicist, which sounds much
more reactionary to me than being called a Republican. In the
future I expect to be a faithful follower of Bermanism.

JAMES LLOYD BERRALL

HOME ADDRESS: 30 Edgecliff Rd., Montclair, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 6 S. Fullerton Ave., Montclair, N. J.

BORN: Aug. 22, 1903, Montclair, N. J. parents: James Berrall, Gertrude
Jenkins.

PREPARED AT: Western High School, Washington, D. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920~1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; M.ARCH., 1927.

MARRIED: Julia Smith, May 11, 1929, Montclair, N. J. cumpren: James, June

4, 1934; Peter, Jan. 4, 1938.

occupation: Architect. .

OFFICES HELD; Chairman, Professional Practice Committee, Suburban Society
of Architects, 1948; Committee for Revision of Montclair Building
Code; Citizens Advisory Committee, Montclair Planning Board; chair-
man, Achitects Advisory Committee, Montclair Development Board.

MEMBER OF: Lake Valhalla Country Club.

IN 1932, when nobody wanted buildings or had the money to
construct them, I opened an office for the practice of architecture.
The going was very tough at first but improved as the years
passed, so that I was doing pretty well by the time the war put
a stop to all private building. My part in the war effort consisted
in designing camouflage for a few airfields and T.N.T. plants in
the New York office of Parsons, Clapp, Brinckerhoff & Douglas.

Then followed a period as Town Planner for Montclair, and a
return to architectural practice shortly after V-J Day. My first
job was a sixty-five-family garden apartment for veterans, which
we expected would cost $350,000. I took eighty per cent of my
fee in capital stock of the owning corporation, and so became
one of those landlords you have read about who tried to fatten
themselves at the expense of the veteran. The only flaw in the
setup was that, as a stockholder, I had to share in the losses as
_ well as the profits. The project cost nearly $600,000. We had to

sell at a loss, and so, without any previous intention to do so, I
found I had made a very real contribution to at least sixty-five
veterans and their families.

I don’t know how often this experience has been repeated, but

[47]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

I am sure we are not the only ones who have given veterans good,
substantial housing for less than cost.

In these days of unprecedented construction costs, I note with
some dismay that the building industry catches a lot of criticism
from the editors and politicians. You often read that we are
building with boards and brick and mortar, even as they did in
the time of George the Third. This is a canard and a fallacy.
The art of building is evolving all the time, and those who prac-
tise it are taking every possible advantage of new developments.
To date, the assembly-line method of building a house, although
introducing imaginative and progressive techniques of construc-
tion, has failed to produce a noticeably cheaper house or one that
is especially attractive to the public,

I believe that the cost of building will be high as long as the
labor unions are very strong. The unions are very strong today.
They have something to sell that the public must have, and they
intend to make the public pay the maximum price for it. You
and I do the same thing. It’s just Professor Taussig’s law of
supply and demand,

Now, having aired a few of my views, I can report that I
am blessed with a particularly nice family, and manage to enjoy
the business of living happily ever after.

HENRY NEWHALL BERRY, JR.

HOME ApDpREsS: Baldpate Road, Boxford, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 29, 1901, Lynn, Mass. parents: Henry Newhall Berry, ’93, Mabel
Lavinia Breed.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922.

marriep: Margaret Scott, South Orange, N. J. cup: Henry Newhall, 3d,
Sept. 25, 1930 (by previous marriage).

OCCUPATION: Real estate; farming (horticulture and floriculture).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Twenty months with Seabees, Pacific Islands,
World War Il.

IN 1922 I became an insurance agent. From 1936 to 1938 I was
in the retail paint business, and from 1939 to 1942 I was engaged
in the manufacture of sheet metal, I joined the Navy in 1942
and I served until 1944. Since 1945 I have been in real estate and
am now developing a commercial farm.

[ 48 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALFRED DEXTER BEST

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Tunbridge, Vt.

BORN: Sept. 21, 1903, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Alfred MacGhilton Best,
Constance Stewart Copeland.

PREPARED AT: Adelphi Academy, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MarrieD: Mary Woodward Hart, Dec. 26, 1934, Brooklyn, N. Y. cHmpren:
William Dexter, Jan. 4, 1936; Robins Woodward, Jan. 5, 1938; Stew-
art Copeland, Feb. 29, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Farmer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Local aircraft warning post.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director till 1940, Alfred M. Best Com-
pany, New York.

MEMBER OF: Drug & Chemical Club, New York; Knickerbocker Tennis
Club; Brooklyn Society of Artists.

I CAN report nothing out of the ordinary. Life here is very
quiet. The hunting and skiing are excellent, the fishing is fair.
It is a good place for three boys, if a bit on the quiet side for
their parents.

ARNOLD PIERSON BEVERIDGE

HOME ADDRESS: 7 S. Pleasant St., Sharon, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Foxboro Co., Foxboro, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 23, 1903, Dorchester, Mass. parents: Orris Lyford Beverage,
Rose Emma Pierson.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920—1924. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1924.

MaRRIED: Priscilla DeLano, Sept. 4, 1926, Rockville Center, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Irene, July 9, 1928, Frank DeLano, Dec. 12, 1934.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Lyford Pierson Beveridge, ’22; Lowell Pierson Beveridge,
’25; Eliot Pierson Beveridge, ’30; Norwood Pierson Beveridge, 732.
occuPATION: Certified Public Accountant; assistant treasurer, Foxboro Com-

pany, manufacturers of industrial instruments.

I FIND it difficult to break down my life-time habits to the ex-
tent of writing about myself, as to date my literary efforts have
consisted principally of financial reports, operating statements, tax
returns, and other equally necessary, but necessarily factual and
objective works.

As this is hardly the background or training for presenting an
interesting “Class Life,” let’s just settle for my assurance that I

[49 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

have never regretted my choice of profession, even if it has left
me in a spot like this after twenty-five years.

Although I was born in Massachusetts, I have always con-
sidered Maine my native state, and take every opportunity to en-
joy its scenery, boating, fishing, etc., to the extent that my wife
and family have practically given up hope of my taking the time
to travel with them in any other direction.

As to my politics, you might appreciate the following excerpt
from an English paper which my young son (aged eleven at the
time) brought home from school a few years ago: “Democratic
(dem-d-krat’-ik), of a democracy, like a democracy, treating all
classes of people as one’s equal. My father is not democratic.”

+ DOMINICK BIANCHI

BORN: May 26, 1901, Glen Carbon, Ill. parents: Steve Bianchi, Virginia
Magnagni.

PREPARED AT: Clayton High School, Clayton, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1919-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

MarRieD: Edith Tarozzi, Aug. 23, 1922, Minotola, N. J. curip: John Robert,
July 25, 1931.

piep: April 16, 1934, Vineland, N. J.

DOMINICK BIANCHI entered Harvard after completing pre-
paratory work at Clayton High School. In college he was a mem-
ber of the Italian Club. Receiving an A.B, degree with the Class
in 1924, he studied law at the University of Pennsylvania. He

settled in Vineland, New Jersey, and practised law there up to
the time of his death.

ALBERT CONDE BICKFORD

HOME abprEss: Ardsley-on-Hudson, N. Y.

oFFicg appress: Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett, 120 Broadway, N
N. Y.

BoRN: Dec. 18, 1go1, Staten Island, N. Y. parents: Herbert John Bickford,
Elizabeth Condé Judson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; LL.B, 1927,

marrigp: Esther Horan, Jan. 16, 1932, New York, N. Y. cuirpren: Albert

Condé, Jr, May 20, 1934 (died May 21, 1934); Robert Condé, Oct.
28, 1935; Nathaniel J., Jan. 6, 1940.

[50]

ew York,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Choate Bickford, ’27.

occuPATION: Lawyer, member of the firm of Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Member, Local Draft Board, New York, N. Y.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman of admissions committee, 1943—44, member of execu-
tive committee, 1944-48, Association of the Bar of the City of New
York.

MEMBER OF: Down Town Association, New York; Ardsley Curling Club;
Ardsley Country Club (governor); Harvard Club of New York; Sheno-
rock Shore Club, Rye, N. Y.

AFTER graduation, I spent the summer in a bank trying to find
out whether I would like banking as a career. Deciding that I
would not, I returned to my original purpose and entered the
Harvard Law School. (One of the men who worked with me
at the bank, but stayed on, is now the president!) At law school
Schwarz and DuBois and I roomed with John Sherburne, whose
brilliantly started career was so abruptly ended and whose loss
we all still feel keenly. Finishing law school without endanger-
ing any of the records previously made, I came to New York
and, with Kernan, started practice with Simpson, Thacher &
Bartlett in the fall of 1927. I am still there, having become a
partner at the end of 1938, and I don’t miss the banking business
at all. During the past several years I have been active in the
Anti-Trust field in a number of cases involving such things as the
movies, farm tractors and implements, electric lamps, equip-
ment, etc., as well as having had a pretty general practice in a
number of other branches ‘of the law — with the emphasis on
litigation.

I’m an ardent and confirmed commuter, having bought a house
in suburban Ardsley-on-Hudson a few years ago, and I have
given up “cliff-dwelling” in the city.

I have attended all reunions except the Tenth which I had to
miss, and I certainly expect to attend this one and enjoy it as
much or even more than all the others. Further, affiane saveth
not.

CHARLES FREDERICK BICKFORD

HOME AppRESS: Templeton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: E. R. Squibb & Sons, Brooklyn, N. Y.

BoRN: April 4, 1903, Templeton, Mass. Parents: Charles Frederick Bick-
ford, Nellie I. Brooks.

C51]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

PREPARED AT: Templeton High School, Baldwinville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1924; A.M., 19273 PH.D., 1933.
OCCUPATION: Chemist.

PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous papers in chemical journals.

FOLLOWING graduation I spent several years working and
getting the extra degrees. Most of my postgraduate educational
effort was in chemistry.

I have been with E. R. Squibb & Sons, as chemist, continuously
since 1933. During World War II, I did essential work in chem-
istry with this firm, Otherwise, my career has been wholly un-
eventful.

I remain uninitiated as regards extended tours and vacations in
other lands. However, I do hope to travel more in the future.
Photography gives me a lot of fun and exercise out-of-doors.
Occasionally, my camera and I win a prize in a photograph con-
test.

Democracy, the traditional New England variety, still appeals
to me most. Communism, which has grown greatly in our time,
must wane in the future. However, it is necessary to use ear-
nestly and fully our modern means (airplane, radio, production,
possibly energy from splitting atoms, etc.) to meet the needs of
all the people on a worldwide basis.

Although I have been in the “wrong” camp most of the time,
I consider myself a Republican. The proffering of a more attrac-
tive parcel of “socialism” to the public may be the only way to
defeat the Democrats. .

My scientific work tends to make me irreligious in the
usual sense, but I do designate myself a “Congregationalist.” It
does not appear too unwise, in an intensely and preponderantly
scientific age, to accept most easily and readily religious view-
points if there is a strong support in science for them.

IRVIN GRUEN BIESER

HOME aAppreEss: 447 Kramer Rd., Oakwood, Dayton 9, Ohio.

OFFICE appREsS: Landis, Ferguson, Bieser & Greer, 8th Floor, 11 W. Monu-
ment Bldg., Dayton 2, Ohio.

BORN: June 15, 1902, Dayton, Ohio. parents: Charles William Bieser, Flora
Sophia Gruen.

PREPARED aT: Steele High School, Dayton, Ohio.

[52]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1924; LL.B., 1927.

marrieD: Catharine Mary French, April 14, 1936, Piqua, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Catharine Rockwell, Sept. 14, 1937; Irvin Gruen, Jr., June 17, 1941.

occuPaTION: Attorney-at-law; partner in law firm of Landis, Ferguson,
Bieser & Greer, successor to McMahon, Corwin, Landis & Markham.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member, Selective Service System Board and
United States Citizens’ Defense Corps.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1934-48, president, 1948-49, board of trustees, Miami
Valley Hospital, Dayton; organizer and member of board of trustees,
Hospital Care Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, 1939-48, president,
1932-37, member of scholarship committee, 1932-48, Harvard Club of
Dayton.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association, Ohio State Bar Association; Mont-
gomery County Bar Association; Lawyers Club; Discussion Club of
Dayton; Dayton Country Club, Harvard Club of Dayton.

SINCE my graduation from law school in 1927, professional prac-
tice has been the guiding star of life’s course. Starting in the main
stream of general practice, it has not always been easy to avoid
the side currents of specialization in the era of directives, regu-
lations, and mandates, but the efforts of those years have been
full of satisfactions, though they may not have been spectacular.

Interlarding the law, travel has whetted the appetite for more
travel and the study of other peoples — their habits, desires, and
aspirations. Through this impulse, and with kindred spirits, I
have travelled, tramped, and seen much of Europe, North Africa,
Asia Minor, and North, South, and Central America, together
with the islands of the West Indies. To observe the accomplish-
ments, both material and intellectual, of the ancients and the
moderns, whether it be in Egypt, Athens, Rome, or Chichen Itza,
serves to deepen one’s appreciation for the past far more than
books alone and to quicken one’s belief in the common aspira-
tion of all mankind for peace and the works of peace.

It was on one of these periodic peregrinations near the Arctic
Circle — in Alaska — that I chanced to meet a graduate of Welles-
ley, Class of 1923, who most pleasantly altered the course of
- future travel but gave great encouragement to its continuation.
Since 1936, by auto, mule, horse, and on foot, we have covered
much of the Quiché, Mayan, Navajo, Hopi, and other Indian
country. Lately, our two children, now aged seven and eleven,
have taken to the mountains, canyons, plains, and deserts on horse-
back with us.

[53]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

When you become wearied by the talk of international crises,
inflation, recession, strikes, and the impact of it all upon daily
living, take to the Navajo country in our magnificent Southwest,
where the grandeur of nature and the serenity and peace of un- |
hurried living will restore the spirit and impress one with the
transitoriness of life and its momentary burden of cares in this
vale of man-created sorrow.

CHANDLER BIGELOW

HOME ADDRESS: 844 Hale St., Beverly Farms, Mass. _

OFFICE ADDRESS: Old Colony Trust Co., 1 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 21, 1900, Milton, Mass. parents: Henry Forbes Bigelow,,. Eliza
Frothingham Davis.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.; Santa Barbara School,
Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923.

MarRIED: Margaret Dewar Porter, Jan. 10, 1942, Boston, Mass. cxiLp: Allen
Porter, July 30, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Henry Forbes Bigelow, '20; Edward Livingston Bigelow,

* 721; Eugene Thayer Bigelow, ’35.

occupaTION: Banking; assistant vice-president, Old Colony Trust Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Reserve Officers’ Training Corps, Williams Col-
lege, summer, 1918; Businessmen’s Citizens’ Military Training Corps,
Fort Devens, summer, 1940, commissioned captain, United States Army
Air Forces, Jan. 13, 1942; awarded eight campaign stars, Bronze Star
Medal, and Croix de Guerre; reverted to inactive status as lieutenant
colonel, February, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: President, Board of Aldermen, Beverly, 1936, 1937; associ-
ate county commissioner of Essex County, 1936-38, state. senator,
Massachusetts Second Essex District, 1939-40; secretary, Massachusetts
Committee on Public Safety, 1940-41; former president, North Shore
Babies Hospital, trustee, since 1933, president, since 1946, Wells
Memorial Association; vestryman, since 1935, treasurer, since 1946,
St. John’s Church, Beverly Farms, trustee and clerk, St. Mark’s School,
since 1946; board member, Church Home Society, since 1946.

MEMBER OF: Myopia Hunt Club; Somerset Club; Tavern Club.

THE span of years since graduation (one of the extra-curricular
activities in which I regret to say I did not engage) has been
good to me. My first venture out in the world found me in a
huge loft in the Pacific Mills in Lawrence where I learned the
various types and sorts of wool. Soon this business started to
slip, so I turned to another ficld, this time to investment banking

[54]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

where I worked with Smith Barney’s predecessors in Boston for
over ten years.

After the depression, like many others, | was fed up with many
of our government’s actions and methods so I decided to enter
politics myself. I was elected to the Board of Aldermen in
Beverly and became its president. Later I held a county office
for several years and then was elected to the Massachusetts Sen-
ate.

By this time the clouds of war were definitely thickening and
I strongly felt the urge for active service in the war that seemed
so imminent. My commission in the Army Air Forces arrived
shortly before Pearl Harbor was attacked and my orders to report
at Wright Field soon followed. Meanwhile, I was married and
Captain and Lady honeymooned en route to Dayton where the
groom took up his duties as administrative officer of civilian per-
sonnel in the materiel command at that large experimental field
of our Army Air Forces.

My service was interesting for the most part, but like every-
one else’s it had many long dull periods of hurrying up only to
wait. In the fall of 1942 I was assigned to an outfit which was in
the B party of the North African invasion. After Tunis fell, I was
given command of the 46th Air Service Squadron whose function
was to provide third echelon maintenance for battle and other-
wise damaged aircraft of all types. We moved many times
during that year and a half on various air fields in Africa,
Sicily, Italy, and France. It was a lonely life being the “old man”
of an outfit of such young men, but it was an enlightening
experience.

The resourcefulness of the G.I.’s was a revelation to me. They
could make almost anything and their ability to improvise was
unbounding. This gave me an insight into young Americans that
I'd not seen before even in politics and it made me realize as
never before that it was the men who made things tick.

The last year of the war was a refreshing change as I was
transferred to the 6th Army Group, a large ground force head-
quarters where I enjoyed serving with our Chief Marshal, Cab
Lodge, and Prince Aly Khan.

Slipping back into the happy ways of civilian life and catching
up on my long-neglected family was a pleasant interlude and

[55] ;

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

one which I continue to enjoy as I pursue my duties as a middle-
aged banker. Yes, the span of years has been good to me.

HORATIO BIGELOW, JR.

HOME appress: “Glen Burnie,” Palmyra, Va.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Snead & Co., Orange, Va.

BORN: July 20, 1902, Seattle, Wash. PARENTS: Horatio Bigelow, ’ 99, Mary
Riese.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922.

MARRIED: Mimi Eskridge Boos, Jan. 27, 1938, Boston, Mass. cup: Horatio
Anthony Eskridge, Oct. 8, 1945.
OCCUPATION: Structural Engineer.

[HAVE worked at a variety of jobs, without doubt too great a
variety. But they had their moments. I remember stepping out
of the office to drive a gasoline truck during a strike and having
a rock smash the windshield, and the elegance of my position as
tutor to two dumb kids on a yacht in Florida. Then there was
the time I cooked on a schooner from Norfolk to Portland,
Maine, and the crew based their demand for more money on
the fact that they did not have a proper cook. I helped build a
dam at Skowhegan, Maine, and killed my first buck back in the
woods there one Saturday with a borrowed rifle. I sold washing
machines at home demonstrations — that is when the salesman
washes everything in the house and is told that perhaps the cus-
tomer can buy in three or four months. I remember the hostile
looks I got when I was a time-study man in a factory and had to
count the production of each machine and its operator.

Then ten years ago I found what I liked. I worked in an air-
plane plant, a tobacco machinery factory, and a steel partition and
book-stack plant as production control clerk, inspector, assistant
superintendent, draftsman, and now I am rated as an engineer in
the last-named plant. I managed to finish a course in drafting and
machine design with the International Correspondence Schools.

We expect another child in February. Right now Christmas
for our three- -year- -old son is the main event. I hope I can get up
to Cambridge in June.

[56]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANCIS BIRCH

HOME ADDRESS: Kensington, N. H.; 74 Avon Hill St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Dunbar Laboratory, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 22, 1903, Washington, D. C. parents: George Albert Birch,
Mary Clayton Hemmick.

PREPARED AT: Western High School, Washington, D. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: S.B. IN E.E. magna cum laude, 1924;
A.M., 1929; PH.D., 1932.

MARRIED: Mary Grace Ahlstrom, Oct. 1, 1926, Fontainebleu, France (di-
vorced 1932); Barbara Channing, July 15, 1933, Kensington, N. H.
CHILDREN: Anne Campaspe, Jan. 29, 1935; Francis Sylvanus, Dec. 24,
1936; Mary Narcissa, Sept. 1, 1942.

occuPATION: Professor of geology, Harvard University.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant commander and commander, United
States Naval Reserve, 1942-45; stationed at Bureau of Ships, 1942-43,
Los Alamos, N. M., 1943-45; awarded BuShips Letter of Commenda-
tion and Legion of Merit.

MEMBER OF: American Physical Society; Geological Society of America;
Seismological Society of America; American Geophysical Union;
American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Sigma Xi; Harvard Club of
New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Papers on topics in physics and geophysics.

JOHN BIRD

HOME ADpRESS: 30 Cooper St., Ottawa, Ont., Canada.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Parliamentary Press Gallery, Ottawa, Ont., Canada.

BORN: March 3, 1902, Pietermaritzburg, Natal, British South Africa. PARENTS:
Christopher John Bird, Edith Mary Armstrong.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Trinity College, Oxford University, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Florence Bayard Kane Rhein, Nov. 14, 1928, Wilmington, Del.

OCCUPATION: Newspaperman.

OFFICES HELD: Editor-in-chief, Winnipeg Tribune, 1938-46, chairman,
Southam News Services, since 1946; president, Canadian Club, Winni-
peg, 1942; vice-president, Canadian Institute of International Affairs,
Winnipeg, 1945.

MEMBER OF: Rideau Club, Ottawa; Manitoba Club, Winnipeg; Canadian
Institute of International Affairs, Ottawa; Parliamentary Press Gallery,
Ottawa.

RECALLING the Eli jibe that Harvard is midway out in the
Atlantic, anyway, and wishing to see something of the United
States, I got a job coaching a lad for Harvard entrance and raised
the dough to go West. T had been offered a job on the Kunsas

[57]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

City Star. Meanwhile, William Allen White, father of classmate
William Lindsay White, had come out against the Ku Klux Klan
in Kansas and was running for Governor. I joined Mr. White at
Kansas City, Kansas, and rode with him and Mrs. White through
about two thousand miles of Kansas in the celebrated “Campaign
Dodge.” The other occupant of the back seat was a young oil
man from Independence, Alfred Landon. My job was political
bellhop, distributing campaign buttons with the legend, “White
is Right,” and answering miscellaneous political correspondence.
At the end of the campaign, White offered me a job as reporter
on the Emporia Gazette, where I spent the most formative and
stimulating year of my life.

Before returning to London, I put in three months as a re-
porter and columnist on Henry Allen’s Wichita Beacon, followed
by more kid-herding (to raise dough) in Wyoming. Thence,
with Young Bill, via the White’s place at Este’s Park to Montreal
and London. I got a job with the Sunday Express, fell into bed
with eight abscesses in one ear, fell out of bed and into a job
with the British Foreign Office at the British Library of Informa-
tion in New York, where I remained from 1926 to 1929.

In 1928 I married Florence Bayard Rhein, cousin of Frank
Kane, whom I met through her other cousin, Oliver La Farge.
It was quite inevitable, since I had come down to sail Inky La
Farge’s sloop and she, the cousin, had dismasted it the day before,
leaving La Farge and myself no other occupation than inspecting
local beauty. My wife, boasting that she had never been west of
West Philadelphia, was soon hauled by me (speechmaking) to
Little Long Lac, Calgary, Vancouver, Prince Rupert, and Ed-
monton.

In 1929 I reverted to newspaper type as assistant editor of the
Washington Weekly News Review. | joined the Montreal Siar
as a reporter in 1930, later becoming editorial writer and in 1933
associate editor. I joined the Southam newspapers as associate
editor of the Winnipeg Tribune in 1937. I was made editor in
1938.

"Tn February, 1941, I covered Senatorial hearings on Lease-Lend
(Willkie, Lindbergh, etc.) in Washington for our papers, before
proceeding overseas to report the spring blitz in London and
the air attack on west coast ports in 1941. During this period

[58 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I did much broadcasting from Washington, London, and Winni-
peg for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.

_In 1946 I was appointed chairman of the Southam News Serv-
ices in charge of the Ottawa, Washington, and London bureaus
of our seven papers, supervising special correspondence, war
correspondents, etc. Our papers comprise the Vancouver Prov-
ince, Calgary Herald, Edmonton Journal, Medicine Hat Nets,
Winnipeg Tribune, Hamilton Spectator, and Ottawa Citizen.

In Ottawa, I divide my time about evenly between Parliamen-
tary writing and administrative work, and do some broadcasting
on the national network of the Canadian Broadcasting Corpora-
tion. My wife, under her. professional name, Anne Francis, is a
well-known C.B.C. commentator.

A nine-acre woodlot and shack on a small lake in Quebec
Province, just north of Ottawa, permit us to indulge our hobbies
of bass-fishing, bird-watching, and the study of batrachodes
(frog songs to you, Bishop Hubbard). I expect to spend an
honourable old age finishing my life work, Bird on Birds, or
Venery in the Wrennery.

Proximity to New England also permits us annual visits to
Saunderstown, Rhode Island, where my wife, with her brothers,
has a summer place. We customarily proceed via Lincoln to visit
my college roommate, classmate John Peabody Monks, and his
family. Saunderstown is happily infested by such Harvards as
the Kanes, Copes, La Farges, Lockwoods, Whartons, and Wisters.

HERMAN BLACK

HOME ADDRESS: 2863 Montgomery Rd., Shaker Heights, Cleveland, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: C, P. Wright Co., 4300 Carnegie Ave., Cleveland, Ohio.

BoRN: Sept. 1, 1900, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Morris Alfred Black, ‘90,
Lenore Ella Schwab.

PREPARED AT: University School, Cleveland, Ohio; Berkshire School, Shef-
field, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923.

MARRIED: Julia Warren, Aug. 20, 1931, Cleveland, Ohio. cuitpRen: Warren
Morris, April 8, 1933; James Holbrook, Aug. 19, 1939.

occupaTION: Engineer and salesman for the C. P. Wright Company, heat-
ing, power piping, and plumbing; president, Hellman Realty Company.

MEMBER OF: Cleveland Engineering Society; Mentor Harbor Yachang
Club.

[59]

et

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

DURING the first year out of college I worked as a power plant
engineer for a steel company in Cleveland. I enjoyed the work
very much, but felt that it was an occupation that was on the
decline due to the fact that most users of power were buying it
from large central stations rather than having their own generat-
ing equipment.

In 1924 I went to work for a Cleveland department store and,
in 1927, became superintendent. [ held that position until 1934,
when I left to go back to engineering work. The store business
is highly profitable and I was well paid, but I never really enjoyed
the work.

Since 1934 I have been selling industrial heating and power
equipment and since the war have been in the contracting branch
of that occupation. 1 enjoy the work tremendously and get well
paid for doing it, which is an ideal arrangement. In 1938 I be-
came president of a real estate company which owns a com-
mercial building in downtown Cleveland. This is a “side-line”
that requires comparatively little time.

As shown elsewhere in the report, I got married in 1931, and
have two sons. We went to Russia on our honeymoon and have
made no long journeys since then other than two-week vacation
trips in this country or Canada. We went to Russia to satisfy
our curiosity and are convinced that it is no place for us.

Our first family hobby was farming which we worked at very
hard until three years ago when we became interested in sailing.
We live on the farm in the summer, but spend most of our time
on Lake Erie. My wife and boys sail in a “thistle” class sloop
and I am part of the crew of a “New York 32.”

We belong to and attend a Congregational Church but do not
appear in church much during the sailing season.

I have always voted for the Republican candidates, although
I do not feel that the GOP and its policies are ultimate answers
to all our problems. However, I do feel that the Republican
party has the highest “batting average,” and therefore deserves
my support.

We are trying to teach our sons that if they can grow up to be
proficient at a useful and productive occupation, they will al-
ways live well under any political party or any form of govern-
ment. :

[ 60 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IVAN BLACK

HOME ADDRESS: 12 E. 63rd St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE appRESS: Ivan Black Associates, goo Madison Ave., New York, N. Y.

BORN: May 14, 1903, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Isaac Maurice Black, Paul-
ine Greenfield.

PREPARED AT: Trenton High School, Trenton, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924, 1927-1928.

MARRIED: Jennie Waylen, Dec. 6, 1948, New York, N. Y.

occupation: Public relations, publicity, press representative.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Received U.S. Treasury Award for Liberty
Bond sales during World War I, in charge of production for more than
soo GI. benefit shows during World War II. |

OFFICES HELD: President, American Writers Union, 1935-38, national direc-
tor of information, Federal Theatre Radio Division, 1936-39, pro-
prietor, Ivan Black Agency (public relations), since 1938; press repre-
sentative, Radio Executives Guild, 1944.

MEMBER OF: The Lambs Club; Woodstock Art Association; Association of
Theatrical Press Agents and Managers (A. F. of L.); Municipal Art
Society, New York; Actors’ Fund; Woodstock Craftsmen’s Guild,
Radio Executives Guild, League of American Writers.

PUBLICATIONS: Leaves of Spring (book of poems), 1928; reviews and feature
articles in International Studio Magazine, 1929, Theatre Guild Maga-
zine, 1931, Verse Magazine, 1936, Radio Guide Magazine, 1937, Pub-
lisher’s Weekly, 1939, Trenton Times, Boston Transcript, Philadelphia
Record, Philadelphia Ledger, New York Sunday Mirror, New York
Herald Tribune; poem published in Transition, Paris, 1933; weekly
by-line column, Woodstock Window, 1948.

ANY fairly competent psychoanalyst can tell you that a chap
who bulls his way into the institution of marriage at the early
age of forty-five must have had what is humorously described
as a “colorful life.” Since the days of that other world — the un-
dergraduate world —I have found myself at one time a tutor in
fine arts to such future museum officials as Edward M. M. War-
burg and at another a master of ceremonies in a cheap Green-
wich Village dive; one day in a Brooklyn jail for picketing a de-
partment store where salesgirls were docked for going to the
ladies’ room and the next day retained as public relations consult-
ant for corporations; et cetera, to an absurd infinitum. The strug-
gle in the world has been in me, too.

A blood-clot in my right leg kept me from attending our grad-
uation exercises in 1924. From my bed in Stillman Infirmary, as
I lay close to death, I could hear the cheering at the Harvard-

[ 61 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I924

Yale baseball game across the Charles River. That was a poign-
ant moment. The late A. Lawrence Lowell, President of Har-
vard, stopped at my bed one day while making the rounds. That
was nice of him. He felt an obligation to be charming and told
me an old broken-down joke. It almost killed me.

In the montage of twenty-five years, myriad things stand out.
My first job I got while still on crutches, recovering from the
phlebitis (blood-cot) — it was as physical director at Montessori
Children’s Village, Wycombe, Pennsylvania. I shall always ad-
mire Mrs, Anna Paist Ryan, the directress, for hiring me without
even asking “How come a physical director is on crutches?” I
was recommended by a professor whom she respected, and that
was that. It worked out O.K. I learned that children liked me,
maybe because I not only liked them but talked to them as per-
sons. By the end of the summer I was in good health again.

After a stint as a senior draughtsman at the New Jersey State
Department of Architecture, I joined the boom in Florida in
July, 1925. From 1925 to 1927 I had a kind of fleeting fame as
an architectural designer, a sort of boy wonder, an Orson Welles
of the T-square and triangle. My eyes went bad and I had to
give up architecture. : .

A slight talent for writing led me to the newspaper business.
Writing by-line features on the lamented Boston Transcript, and
covering three police stations and four morgues for the milk-
maid’s paper, the Boston Post, kept me overworked and under-
paid during the fall and winter of 1927 and the spring of 1928.
That summer I came to New York and got my first publicity job
— with the Portrait Painters’ Gallery and Pack Brothers, photog-
raphers. Then I spent a few years in bucolic Philadelphia, my
native village, on the Philadelphia Record, and did book reviews
for the lamented Public Ledger.

The depression was my teacher. When the Ship of State begins
to rock convulsively, you don’t fall upward. In Harlan, Ken-
tucky, my eyes were opened. In hunger marches on state capi-
tols, my eyes were opened. My mind balked at starvation in the
world’s richest, most mechanically advanced country. Why?
Wherefore? My lot has been with the People ever since. I voted
for F.D.R. four times, ’'m proud to say. I was on a committee
‘with Heywood Broun, Elmer Rice, and others who proposed

[ 62 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Writers’ Projects to Harry Hopkins. We got jobs for 6,000 un-
employed newspapermen and writers, myself among them, and
we produced, among myriad contributions to American culture,
the finest set of guide books of any country in the world.

Since the WPA Arts Projects were wiped out by Congress in
1939, I have been in business for myself. I have prospered. .I
was chosen “Number One Star Maker” in the United States by
600 editors in 1943. I have a formidable art collection; an estate
in Woodstock, New York; an apartment in the East 60’s; and
- an Office, a suite, at goo Madison Avenue. I have been written up
in Colliers, et al., for the publicity jobs Pve done and the clients
I’ve brought to fame. Now my bride and I shall go into the de-
lights of having children. | earnestly hope that whatever strug-
gles are in the world will be in them, too.

KNOX CHARLTON BLACK _

HOME ADDRESS: 62 Tower Hill Rd., Mountain Lakes, N. J.

OFFICE appress: Air Associates, Inc., Teterboro, N. J.

BorN: April 23, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Ebenezer Charlton Black,
Agnes Jean Knox.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1924; A.M.,
1926; PH.D. 1927.

MARRIED: Margaret Kirkley Henely, Sept. 5, 1926, Grinnell, Iowa. (died
Sept. 21, 1945); Magda Kretschmann, Oct. 18, 1946, Williamsburg, Va.
CHILDREN: Eugene Charlton, Dec. 15, 1927; John Gavin, July 31, 1935;
Margaret Anne, Aug. 25, 1937.

OCCUPATION: Chief engineer, Air Associates, Inc., engaged in the manufac-
ture of electronic, electrical, hydraulic and mechanical devices primarily
for use in aircraft.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member, Divisions 13 and 15, National Defense
Research Committee (a part of the Office of Scientific Research and
Development); scientific consultant to the Secretary of War.

OFFICES HELD: Member since 1946, president, Mountain Lakes Library Board;
manager, Field Engineering and Sales Division, Aircraft Radio Cor-
poration, Boonton, N. J., 1945-47.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Physical Society; American Acousti-
cal Society; Institute of Radio Engineers.

PUBLICATIONS: Technical articles and patent publications.

THE difficulty with most autobiographies is that they describe
a life which, from the point of view of the author, appears to be

[ 63 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

tions of the Research and Development Board, which is part of
the National Military Establishment. °

My first wife died in 1945 after an extended illness. On Octo- .
ber 18, 1946, I married Magda Kretschmann who had just com-
pleted a tour of duty in Europe as a War Department employee
in the American Military Government in Germany.

My three children are all growing up very rapidly. My elder
son, Eugene, now twenty, was just too young to be drafted dur-
ing the war. However, with the threat of the draft over him, he
managed to get through William and Mary College in three
years and was graduated with an A.B. degree in June, 1948. He
has since enlisted in the Air Force and is now (July, 1948) com-
plaining of the heat in Texas. The younger son, John, is now
almost thirteen and is a violent devotee of all standard American
sports. The daughter, Margaret Anne, almost eleven, is at times
embarrassingly intelligent, but can cook a meal and wash clothes
and do other standard domestic tasks qualifying her for a con-
ventional future life.

Except for the war years, my travels have been confined to the
United States and Canada. However, with the exception of the
southeastern part of the country, I have toured these United
States quite thoroughly and enjoyed myself by gentle mountain
climbing in many different places. Except for this last rather un-
usual hobby, I have happily engaged in all standard suburban
activities such as swimming, sailing, tennis, golf, and the like,
and, as age creeps on, I find that a tremendous amount of “after
work” is devoted just to being gregarious. |

The above remarks cover the story of my postgraduate exist-
ence, but I gather that a few general philosophical comments are
in order. For what they are worth, I list the following:

1. Internal convictions, political, religious, and social, are very
often suppressed in an attempt to conform to the state of society
or business in which one finds oneself, |

2. Any hope that one can reform the world subsides as time
goes by, and one rationalizes this by feeling that evolution over
thousand-year periods is generally in the right direction. This
permits one to feel that a single lifetime is triflingly short, and
that random fluctuations, for either good or bad, have very little
to do with a thousand-year trend.

[ 66 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

3. As time goes on, one gradually loses any very well-defined
objective in life. One works hard at a job because one likes to
see a job well done, but a serious personal goal seems to disap-
pear, to be replaced by a vague desire for economic or material
security.

4. War or violence, or both, begin to appear as the inevitable
lot of mankind and one tends to accept this as a foregone conclu-
sion. This is opposed to a more youthful feeling of twenty-five
years ago when one was convinced that reason, tolerance, and
logic can ultimately be controlling.

DALLAS BLAIR-SMITH

HOME apprEss: Nearwater Lane, Noroton, Conn.

OFFicE appREss: Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery, 90 Broad St. New
York, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 26, 1902, Nashville, Tenn. parents: Hugh Blair-Smith, Trevania
Dallas. .

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1924(26).

marriep: Elisabeth Mathesius, Aug. 28, 1937, Stamford, Conn. cHILDREN:
Christopher, Nov. 14, 1938; Juliana, July 29, 1946 (adopted).

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert McPhail Blair-Smith, ’28.

occupation: Certified public accountant, specializing in taxes.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary of associated members, Down Town Glee Club,
1926-31; treasurer, Planned Parenthood Federation of America, 1944-45;
assistant treasurer, Transcontinental & Western Air, Inc., 1945-45.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; American Institute of Account-

- ants; New York State Society of Certified Public Accountants (Com-
mittee on Federal Taxation); Federal Tax Forum.

PUBLICATIONS: Edited Montgomery’s books on corporation taxes, 1040-453
various articles on federal taxes.

IT IS an interesting life, but not an easy one, being a public ac-
countant — tax specialist or not. First there was night school, to
supplement that liberal education, the Certified Public Account-
ant exam, and the overtime work at night, all in addition to the
eight-hour day. Then there was the necessity of getting along
without much help during the war, when the younger, and
maybe better, men had gone off to save our country and our
skins. When civilian life got tough, I kepr telling myself that
anyway no one was shooting at me. I was working so many
nights that it was my wife who did the air raid warden duty in

[ 67 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

our block, tin helmet, flashlight, gas mask and all. We were New

York apartment dwellers, under the impression that commuting

would be the last straw — and maybe it would have been. Be-

sides, Central Park was right around the corner, Connecticut
was handy for summers, and we'd found a good school for
Christy.

Then, in 1945, came the great upheaval. A friend persuaded

me to sign on as assistant treasurer of T.W.A. I flew out to Kan-
sas City to start my job and find a place to live. None was avail-
able. Never mind, I was to work in New York after all for the
new international division. First, join a group to make a survey
trip over the new route — Dublin, London, Paris, Geneva, Lis-
bon, Madrid, Rome, Athens, Cairo, and Jerusalem to start with.
So my travels were slightly postwar and consisted of an air-
borne trip for a commercial airline, to arrange a little matter of
foreign exchange. Well, I never do know much about an assign-
ment before I start it, and I thought: “This ought to be interest-
ing.” It was. With some exceptions the nations of the world
were very nice about the dollar exchange, because at the time
there was no commercial shipping and they needed air transport
desperately. No, what was permanently interesting to me is more
personal. I got a look at the world and a world point of view. I
don’t mean a Willkie one-world point of view; I mean I under-
stood for the first time what our own country is like and where
it stands among the nations. Before 1945, I cringed with boredom
before the booster who asserted that the United States of Amer-
ica is the biggest, best, and finest country in the world. Alas, it’s
true, and no more boosting will be necessary in our lifetime.
Everybody insists we are the only solvent country, too (except
Russia, which doesn’t find solvency necessary), and it looks as
though we'll have to pay for that privilege. None of this is news
at this late date, but I think there is nothing like a trip to see for
yourself.

The Class Secretary says you want to know about my political
convictions. Well, I believe in democracy, that is, representative
government. That would have been a silly statement twenty
years ago, wouldn’t it? Yet I think it is now obvious that the
system we've always known and believed in has got to be
preached and taught to the rest of the world. A lot of Europeans

[ 68 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and Asiatics dislike it and mistrust it. It looks bad when it doesn’t

work, as here in a depression, or in France any time. Now that

we have a very clear idea what the threatened alternative is, we

and our children and grandchildren have got to support actively

before the world a way of life which we have long taken for
ranted.

That fellow-alumnus of ours was a great man, after all. As a
political independent, I always voted a straight Republican ticket,
and feared the New Deal would wreck the country. I still think
it would have, if wrecking were possible. But now, with a 250-
billion-dollar debt we are the richest, most powerful nation, and
the hope of all free men the world over. So that man got around
me in the end — after he died, I guess. Like many great men be-
fore him, he got his country both out of and into great trouble.
But as a nation we appear to be unharmed, and I don’t think his
successor can do much harm either. I think [Il continue to vote
Republican, but [’m afraid it won’t do much good until Lodge
gets the party reorganized.

Now I am back at Lybrand’s practising taxes again, not having
found it too difficult to shake off the airline business. While mak-
ing that change (in 1947), I thought I might as well see some
more of the world, so my wife and son and I drove out to Ari-
zona for a visit. The country west of the Hudson was right in-
teresting, too. The desert sun was marvelous in February, and
the Grand Canyon was quite a sight. In fact, 1947 was a good
year. We adopted a baby girl and acquired a new house in the
country and are now coping with commuting, sitters, and snow
removal. Having a baby in the house is quite enlivening. You
grandfathers have forgotten what it’s like.

WALTER ORVILLE BLANCHARD

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 465 Centre St., Newton, Mass.

BORN: June 30, 1902, Somerville, Mass. parents: Orville Fletcher Blanchard,
Margaret Kelly.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1924; MD.
1928.

MARRIED: Mary Agnes Bowen, June 27, 1931, Watertown, Mass. CHILDREN:
Mary Eileen, May 6, 1932; Patricia Anne, May 7, 1935; Margaret Eliza-
beth, June 29, 1939; Carolyn Lee, Dec. 18, 1936.

[ 69 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

occuPATION: Physician.
mempBer oF: American Medical Association, Massachusetts Medical Asso.
ciation; Newton Medical Club.

FOLLOWING college, I spent four more years at Harvard, get-
ting an M.D. in 1928. From June, 1928, to June, 1929, I was at
the University Hospital in Ann Arbor, Michigan, as a medical
intern. It was a good training but as I had become engaged to
the present Mrs. Blanchard, I was unhappy at the great distance
from Boston. So, in 1929 I moved to the New Haven General
Hospital where I took a two-year residency in medicine and did
a little teaching at Yale. |
After our marriage in 1931, we settled in Newton, where |
hopefully opened an office for the practice of medicine while
doing some part-time teaching at the Medical School. Although
1931 was not the best time in which to build a practice, at least
we survived. About 1938 I gave up the association with the
Medical School to join the Hygiene Department under Dr. Bock,
spending two years at the Law School Clinic and two years at
the College Clinic, |
In 1941 I joined the medical staff of the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology where, at the present time, I still am serving in a
part-time capacity as chief of medicine. My private practice has
grown, at least, to the point where it can support us. With pri-
vate practice, my duties as senior physician at the Newton Hos-
pital, and my medical work at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, my time seems to be so taken up that there is none,
unfortunately, for maintaining old associations. While I some-
times wonder if there ought not to be an easier way of earning
a living, in general the years since graduation have been a great
adventure filled with a lot of fun, Along the way we begot four
daughters, and while we know we were beaten by Eddie Can-
tor and Ralph Daffinee, we wonder if anyone else beat us. __
Now an impending Twenty-fifth Reunion, a daughter about
to enter college, and an increasing degree of tiredness reminds
me all too forcefully of the advancing years.

LOUIS COTTINGTON BLATT

HOME ADDRESS: QI Bay Strate Rd., Boston 16, Mass.
OFFice appress: Atlas Distributors, 1024 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

[70 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: July 19, 1902, Maynard, Mass. parents: Morris Max Blatt, Dora
Belinsky.

PREPARED AT: Maynard High School, Maynard, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

MaRRIED: Marion Louise Van Arsdale, April 7, 1948, Boston, Mass.

occupaTion:, Manufacturers’ distributor.

MANY people find pleasure in day-dreaming, but “wool-gather-
ing” was my business. In the fall of 1924, sheepskin in hand, I
entered the wool trade. The next four years were the kind I had
always dreamed about. However, by 1929, my nights were no
longer spent in dreaming but in counting sheep. Came the dawn,
the lamb had been shorn!

The year 1930-31: the pause that refreshes!

In 1931, a year older and (?) wiser, I started anew in the com-
mercial phonograph field as New England distributor for the
J. P. Seeburg Corporation. It has been a wonderful experience
watching this business grow during the past seventeen years.
During its development I took time out each year to do a bit of
travelling; and although fascinated by the wonders of Mexico,
the Indies, and other travelogue places, New England always
looked mighty good to me when I returned.

These trips and my business convinced me more and more
that music had become and will continue to be one of the basic
necessities of life and will make an ever-increasing contribution
to human happiness.

With a song in my heart, after many years of bachelorhood,
came the day of all days for me, April 7, 1948. That was the day
I married the girl of my dreams.

Looking forward to doing many things I had not found time
to do in the past, in the fall of 1948 I decided to liquidate my
business.

I always knew that when the time came I’d figure out some
way to rest up for the 25th Reunion!

ARTHUR CHAMBERLAIN BLISS

HOME ADpRESS: 47 Fletcher Rd., Belmont, Mass.
OFFICE apprEss: Boston Mutual Life Insurance Con 160 Congress St., Boston,
Mass.
BORN: May 23, 1902, North Attleboro, Mass. parents: Chester Merton Bliss,
Anne Amelia Codding.

[71]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B, 1924; GL.U. (American College
of Life Underwriters), 1937.

-magrigD: Isabel Kingsbury Hall, Oct. 16, 1929, Belmont, Mass. cuttprey:

Martha Hall, Jan. 3, 1933; Susan Everett, Dec. 24, 1935.
OCCUPATION: Insurance.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Naval Aviation, World War II —com-
missioned lieutenant, A-V (S), U.S.N.R. May 19, 1942; indoctrina-
tion, Quonset Point, R. I, Aug. 18, 1942; assigned to Anti-submarine
Warfare; various Operations duties with Gulf Sea Frontier; Air Con-
troller and Administrative Staff Fleet Air Wing 12; lieutenant com-
mander, October, 1944; released from active duty on V-J Day.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Belmont Defense Police.

SEVERAL turns in the Navy as executive officer gave me such
a liking for expediting the work at hand that on my return I was
guided accordingly and started business life all over again. I am
now an executive officer in the Boston Mutual Life Insurance
Company and find that my choice of occupation has proved to
be a happy one. October 1, 1945, was my first day with the Bos-
ton Mutual and on that same date I received a letter from my
former employer, the John Hancock, congratulating me on hav-
ing completed twenty years as a salesman in their Boston agency.
During this long stretch, I found that the profession of creating
estates for others was a most satisfying one. I especially enjoyed
the extra duty conferred on me of representing the John Han-
cock as insurance counselor to the employees of the New Eng-
land Telephone and Telegraph Company.

Recently my only extracurricular activities have been to serve
on the Veterans Housing Committee in my home town and on
the Executive Board of the Boston Chapter, Chartered Life Un-
derwriters. A year ago I headed up the Division of Life Insur-
ance Companies and their Agencies for Boston’s Salvation Army
Campaign.

Since the war I find myself leading a very provincial life and
cannot deny that my greatest enjoyment comes from puttering
around my acre of ground and spending every minute possible
with my Wellesley wife and our two charming daughters. Inci-

dentally, my younger daughter is going to be very unhappy if
not allowed to attend the Reunion because of an age limit. In-

stead of getting my exercise on the golf course I now prefer to
get it playing baseball with the kids or even in raking leaves.

[72]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Instead of staying in town for an evening dinner meeting, I find
I prefer to go home and teach my family the fine points of gin
rummy or even help with the school homework. Vacations are
also taken as a family as much as possible. Summers are spent
at our own camp on the Cape or fishing in Maine, and New
England winters, of course, offer all the skiing we are able to
take.

It has been my good fortune to be physically close to Harvard
all my life and I have tried not to be too close to the forest to see
the trees. Having been brought up half a mile from the College
Yard, I was able as a boy to earn money selling score cards in the
Stadium and witness the play of such stalwarts as Eddie Mahan
and Eddie Casey. After high school, I often had a job delivering
Dean’s notices and working in Widener. When Class Day came
some of the older boys were dismissed from school to help hang
the Japanese lanterns which are now a thing of the past. I have
kept up these associations with the Harvard Yard by belonging
to the Faculty Club rather than the Harvard Club because my
family gets more enjoyment out of it.

Under sometimes difficult conditions, I have always stood up
for my Alma Mater by maintaining that the so-called indiffer-
ence was in reality just rugged individualism and that the so-
called Harvard accent was actually not hers but belonged to
Back Bay, Boston. On the subject of a Harvard pattern or type,
I was sadly fooled one night when J had the mid-watch in Mi-
ami and about 0300 found it necessary to phone the Duty Officer
at Naval Air Station, Corpus Christi. After stating my mission
over a command line in official terminology, this complete
stranger had the audacity to ask what my year at Harvard was.
So maybe I am wrong about an accent after all.

My 1924 classmates have greatly added to my enjoyment of
life. Fencing Master Everett Lane is my immediate company
superior, Dick Gerould taught me all I know about skiing, Henry
Spencer about trout fishing, and Bill Collins how to be a good
defense policeman. Back in 1937, when I made the blue prints
for my home in Belmont, I found that I could throw a stone and
almost hit the homes of four of our classmates — Henry Wood,
Charles Gushee, Parker Hamilton, and Fred Carpenter. Fred is
the only one who has moved away and I am sure it had nothing

[73]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

to do with my coming but rather a love of the California sun-
shine.

WILFRED BLOOMBERG

HOME ADDRESS: 16 Farrar St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cushing V.A. Hospital, Framingham, Mass.

BorN: March 25, 1905, Pittsburgh, Pa. PARENTS: Senior S. Bloomberg, Sadie
Klebansky.

PREPARED AT: Schenley High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude, 1924; M.D.,
cum laude, 1928.

MarrigeD: Mary Richmond, July 3, 1935, New Hampshire. cxitp: Phebe
Ann Campbell, June 2, 1937. ,

HARVARD BROTHER: Allan Ellia Bloomberg, ’29.

occupation: Neuropsychiatrist; chief of Neuropsychiatric Service, Cushing
Veterans Administration Hospital.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcoRD: Entered active duty, Army Medical Corps, July
10, 1942; served as NP consultant to First Service Command, Boston;
brief period overseas in Pacific Theatre towards end of war; returned
to previous position at First Service Command; discharged as colonel,
July 12, 1946; awarded Legion of Merit, January, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant, 1930, instructor, associate, since 1946, Department
of Neurology, Harvard Medical School; visiting neurologist, Boston
City Hospital; president, 1947-48, member, board of directors, Massa-
chusetts Society for Mental Hygiene; president, July, 1947, to January,
1949, member, board of directors, Washingtonian Hospital; honorary
consultant to the Surgeon General of the Army.

MEMBER OF: American Psychiatric Association (fellow); American Neuro-
logical Association; American Medical Association (fellow); Boston
Society of Neurology and Psychiatry; Massachusetts Psychiatric So-
ciety; New England Society of Psychiatry; Harvard Club of Boston.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous brief papers in medical journals on neurological
and psychiatric subjects.

WHEN I left college, I knew I wanted to go into medicine and
psychiatry, but I thought that I had better work longer in
psychology first. 1 was all set to return to Professor Mac-
Dougall’s department in the Graduate School the fall after grad-
uation, when I suddenly found myself admitted to the Harvard
Medical School. Therefore I registered there instead, After
graduation from the Medical School, I had a series of internships
and residencies that included a year in a German medical clinic
as an exchange assistant. After my training was completed, I took

[74]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

an assignment at the newly-developing model prison in Massa-
chusetts, the Norfolk State Prison Colony. The idea was to see
what psychiatry and good medical service could contribute to-
wards the rehabilitation of prisoners. ‘This was an interesting ex-
perience because one of the things that I had to do was to build
and equip a model seventy-five-bed hospital. I knew nothing
about it when I started, but I learned. There were two other
long-term results of this prison experience which were quite in-
teresting. In the first place, I met my wife there. She was work-
ing in the Research Department. In the second place, just
recently I found myself involved in the Van Waters ouster pro-
ceedings here in Massachusetts as a member of the Legislative
Commission to investigate the Women’s Reformatory, presum-
ably because of my prison experience.

After a couple of years there, I went into private practice,
working in hospitals in Boston and practising neurology and psy-
chiatry. We acquired a house in Cambridge and a daughter dur-
ing this period, and later a house in Truro on the Cape. Towards
the end of this time we began to get steamed up about what was
going on in Germany and the prospects for the probable coming
war. Both my wife and I had been in Germany as students and
were quite aware of what the possibilities were. The result was
that I got involved as a civilian in the induction procedure and
from that went on duty dealing with the same problem, and fi-
nally to the Service Command consultant assignment.

The war period was reasonably kind to me. I was assigned
most of the time right in the Boston area. Towards the end I had
a brief assignment in Manila. The chief interest in that assign-
ment was that, combined with an inspection trip to Iceland made
earlier, I had succeeded in getting from cold and snow to terrific
heat, thousands of miles apart, within a comparatively short tme.

When I came back, I undertook to organize a teaching-train-
ing program at the newly-opened Veterans Hospital in Framing-
ham, and here I am still. The program is developing, and I'm
having a fine time.

We haven’t done much travelling in recent years, but it is
something to which we look forward for the future. My wife is
interested in many things, chiefly lirerature and psychology and
the relationship between them. Even at my relatively advanced

[75]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

age, I am now completing training in psychoanalysis, and any-
body who knows about that knows that I can’t predict what I
shall want to do when that’s over until I find out the things about
myself that the process will teach me.

SAWYER BOLAN

HOME ApbREss: 1 9. Flagg St., Worcester 2, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 5 Norwich St., Worcester 8, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 3, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Louis Wolf Bolonsky, Sarah B.
Lewitsky.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; M.B.A., 1926; LL.B. (Boston
Univ.), 1930.

mMarRiED: Esta Goldman, June 17, 1930, Brookline, Mass. cHtLpreN: Ruth,
Sept. 22, 1932; Lewis Wolf, May 30, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Treasurer, Protective Union.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant, Quartermaster Reserve Corps, 1929-

MEMbER oF: Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity; Harvard Club of Worcester.
AFTER being admitted to the Massachusetts Bar in 1929, I prac-
ised in Boston until 1938. My Business School training proved
valuable, and I did some work in public accounting. During this
deriod I lived in Brighton and Brookline and spent my summers
ut Marshfield.

In 1938 I went to Worcester in connection with a corporate
‘eorganization. A temporary assignment proved interesting, and
n the summer of 1939 I gave up the practice of law, and moved
o Worcester to join the company I had helped reorganize. I am
iow treasurer of the Protective Union, a retail food store pat-
erned on a small scale after the S. 5. Pierce Company of Boston.

For recreation I have played some tennis (almost none in the
ast few years) and have gone to the theatre quite frequently.
Ay greatest interests have been my family and home, and I get
great kick out of watching my two youngsters grow up. Some
ay I hope my son will be entering Harvard as a freshman.

MARSHALL GRANT BOLSTER

OME AppREss: 10 Lanark Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass,
SFICE ADDRESS: 50 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

[76]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Jan. 31, 1903, Ashmont, Mass. parents: Stanley Marshall Bolster, ’97,
Lucy Catherine Daniell.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1924; LL.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Catherine Welles Steane, Feb. 9, 1929, Hartford, Conn. cHitpren:
Alice Louise, May 15, 1931; Anne Gardiner, March 31, 1933; Marcia
Catherine, Oct. 25, 1936; Marshall Grant, Jr., March 19, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Daniell Bolster, ’28.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

_ MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Wellesley Country Club.

FOUR years in college were followed by three years in the Law
School, and in the fall of 1927 I started practice in Boston in my
father’s office, an association which still continues. My practice
has been principally probate and trust work, with a generous
sprinkling of conveyancing, and as I look back, I have no cause
to regret my choice of the profession, albeit the financial returns
from other lines of endeavor are doubtless greater.

I was married in February, 1929, and we came back to live on
the banks of the Charles, in Barrington Court. But neither of us
was cut out to be an apartment-dweller, so in December, 1930,
we pulled stakes and moved to Wellesley Hills, where we live
still. Participation in the usual suburban community activities
has brought me my nearest approach to the political arena, in that
I have served as moderator of the Wellesley Town Meeting for
the past four years. The experience has been both interesting
and instructive and has afforded the opportunity of seeing de-
mocracy at work at the town government level. It has not, how-
ever, caused me to entertain any aspiration for higher office.

Life has been both pleasant and, on the whole, uneventful, and
the demands of a busy office, plus those of a growing family, the
eldest of whom hopes to enter Smith in the fall, have kept me
close to home except for occasional winter vacations to the
Canadian Laurentians and more recently to Florida. Travel, in
any way worthy of that name, has consisted of a trip to Europe
in 1929 and one, via the ranch country, to the West Coast, with
another to California in prospect as this is written.

ARTHUR MORRIS BON

HOME aApprREss: 121 Edgewater Drive, Waltham 54, Mass.
OFFICE AppREss: Bon-MacQuarrie Co., 581 Boylston St., Boston, Mass.

[77]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

BORN: June 12, 1903, Winthrop, Mass. parents: Josiah Bon, Rachel Sondon,

preparED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1925.

marriED: Laura Benvie, April 16, 1937, Newton, Mass.

occuPaTION: Food Broker; treasurer of Bon-MacQuarrie Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, 1947, vice-president, 1948, president, 1949, Boston
Food Brokers Association, .

AFTER a five-year span of selling insurance and stocks and
bonds, I finally entered the food brokerage business where I have
since remained. Though it has sometimes been known as “Ulcer
Row,” it has been a completely satisfactory life for me, and I
shall undoubtedly continue to peddle Hunt Club Dog Food and
other food products fit for man and beast.

Advancing age has decreased my interest in golf and left me
with less fatiguing hobbies — dog-training and fishing. Most of

my travels have been in pursuit of the latter.

JOHAN BOSTAD

ApprEss: Storgaten, Lillehammer, Norway.

BorN: Aug. 3, 1899. FATHER: Johan Arvet Bostad.
PREPARED AT: University of Christiania, Oslo, Norway.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Bostad did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

KENNETH RODNEY BOURN

HOME appress: 16 Ridgemoor Rd., Baltimore 21, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Glenn L. Martin Co., Baltimore 20, Md.

BoRN: Nov. 23, 1900, Templeton, Mass. parents: Robert Turnbull Bourn,
Carrie Estella Cummings.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE; S.B. IN MECH, ENGIN, 1924.

MARRIED: Frances Philippa Gipson, June 20, 1928, Brandon, Vt. CHILDREN:
Robert Carlos, Oct. 8, 1929; Kenneth Rodney, June 1, 1931.

occupation: Tool engineer, with Glenn L, Martin Company, aircraft manu-
facturers.

INSTRUCTIONS from the Class Secretary state that the ac-
count of my life should be informal. It could be nothing else,
with a subject so devoid of pattern. In twenty-five years, I have

[78]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

been a furniture manufacturer, a thermodynamicist with a steel
company, a janitor, dairyman, tool designer, and winder of the
town clock. At present, I am still, or should I say again, design-
ing tools.

For four years after graduation I lived in Massachusetts, until,
filled with fervor for Harvard, my firm supplied the furniture
for the college dormitories at a figure that ruined us, with the
help of the great depression. I lived a while in Pittsburgh, and for
five years in the deep Dutch country of southern Pennsylvania,
returned to Massachusetts, and then came to Baltimore early in
1941. Only once have I gone to live in a town where I knew a
single person. I can recommend the system to anyone who
wishes to deflate his ego, and it certainly has kept me from the
boredom of the same old faces at the same old parties that af-
flicts those who gather moss as stationary stones. To break in a
new suit of friends, to use Dr. Holmes’ expression, every five
years, keeps one from boredom as surely as it keeps one from
gathering any moss, but it is certainly exciting.

In Pennsylvania I met the Dutch. In Baltimore I met the boy
from the deep South, and for neither was I prepared by my
courses at the Engineering School, or by six generations of Yan-
kee forebears. The first Dutchman I met at work told me his
“keel was all,” and it took three days for me to learn that his
trouble was not that his tail was dragging, but that he wanted
some lumber crayon. Far more quickly I understood the South-
ern boy who asked how many eighths were in an inch, and the
one who could read reading but couldn’t read writing. But the
Dutch taught me about Lebanon bologna and shoo-fly pie; the
Southerners about collards and black-eyed peas, and I have an
excellent recipe for possum with goobers and sorghum that waits
only for the ingredients before I try it.

“Let’s skip that,” I hear Schwarz saying, “and get on with
religious and political convictions.” I never was convicted of
religion, though I attend the Episcopal church with surprising
frequency. Being totally deaf, I hear neither hymns nor prayers
for dough for the needy, but can enjoy a quiet hour for com-
munion with my conscience and the digestion of the news in the
Sunday paper.

My social convictions include a holiday on science. For twen-

[79]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

ty-five years, I have ridden on the coat-tails of science, and am
still baffled by the zipper. Though I can calculate the stresses in
a gantry crane, I cannot calculate them in the mind of my neigh-
bor. I believe there are more important things to pursue than

nuclear fission. Alexander Pope was right on the proper study of
mankind.

_ My political convictions are a secret, as I work daily on the
little bundles for Moscow that science has thoughtfully con-
ceived. But the Army secret service and the F.B.I. have them,
and they must be pure. Come to think of it, the F.B.I. must have
quite a biography of me. If further details of my checkered past

are desired, I suggest you write your Congressman. That is one
government report ’'d li siteo ~ -ayself.

RICHARD STEWART BOWERS

HOME AppRESS: 357 Clinton Rd., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 80 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 18, 1900, Boston, Mass. parents: Leon Andrew Bowers, Helen
F. Wetherbee.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREES: A.B., 19245 LL.B., 1926.

MarRRIED: Doris E. Rich, June 26, 1941, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Jean
Wetherbee, June 15, 1944; Richard Stewart, Jr., Jan. 9, 1946.

occupation: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: State senator, Massachusetts, 1941-46, selectman, Town of
Brookline, 1939-41; Massachusetts Commission on Interstate Coopera-
tion; vice-president, Massachusetts Bar Association, since 1948; council,
Boston Bar Association, since 1945; past president, Norfolk County Bar
Association, 1943-44, president, Massachusetts Civic League, 1947-48;
president, Boston Auto Club, since 1946; vice-president, Travelers’ Aid
Society of Boston, since 1947, trustee, West Hill School, since 1944;
director, City Missionary Society, since 1944; director, Protestant Guild
for the Blind, since 1948, president, Brookline Chamber of Commerce,
1940-46, Brookline Kiwanis Club, 1940-41; president, Wetherbee-Rich,
Inc., since 1946.

MEMBER OF: Mason, 32nd degree, Aleppo Temple; Seventy-Six Club of
Boston. .

PUBLICATIONS: Business Law, 1932.

THE practice of law has occupied most of my time since gradua-
tion, with just enough diversions to make me appreciate the force
of the old law school maxim that law is a jealous mistress.

[ 80 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

While still at law school, I had a glorious time touring Europe
during the summers of 1925 and 1926 with my college bands,
performing on the Aquitania and the Berengaria, at the Lido,
Venice, San Sebastian, Spain, and Geneva, among other places.
Those were the days of the Charleston and The Blue Room —
and of kings.

In 1929, after three years with a Boston law firm, I opened my
own offices for the general practice of law and have continued
the practice to this time.

From 1929 to 1936, I also lectured on business law, and in
1932 I wrote a textbook on business law, which is widely used.

By 1939 I felt sufficiently gers in my profession to af-
ford a more active particip:’ ‘"~ ABlic affairs, and served as
selectman of the Town of Brooke for three years, and as
Massachusetts state senator for six years beginning in 1941. This
experience with politics resulted in a strong conviction that es-
sential conditions to sound government are a wide participation
in public affairs by all of us, and active work — not merely vot-
ing — for qualified candidates and the sound side of public iS-
sues.

By 1946 I realized that the pressures of conducting a busy law
practice and properly attending to senatorial duties were too
great, and J retired from the Senate. Except for a course of lec-
tures I am giving this year at Northeastern University Law
School in probate and estate planning, I am now devoting full
time to the practice.

One of the causes for which I have worked hard through the
years is the preservation of world peace by an international ‘police
force. Ever since we won our debate with Oxford in 1923, con-
tending that the United States should not enter the League of Na-
tions, I was convinced that we had supported the wrong side, and
that enduring peace would come only through an international
organization equipped to suppress aggressors. In the early years
of the second world war, when the people were internationally
minded, but politicians were still two to one isolationists, I did
considerable writing and speaking on this subject.

When I count the few jewels of my twenty-five years, none
exceeds in brilliance my children, little Richie, ‘aged two, and hit-
tle Jeannie, aged four. “They are my fountain of perpetual yourh

[ 81 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF [924

when classmates who are grandfathers toll the passing of a quar-
ter of a century since 1924.

RALPH HARTT BOWLES

HOME apprEss: Devoe Place, Chappaqua, N. Y.

OFFICE apprEss: New York Life Insurance Co., 51 Madison Ave., New York
10, N. Y.

Born: May 1, 1903, Exeter, N. H. parents: Ralph Hartt Bowles, Namee
Clopton Henderson. .

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

marrigD: Mary Harrison, Sept. 25, 1926, Cambridge, Mass. (divorced 1936),
Zara Burnett, Sept. 16, 1938, New York, N. Y. camp: Margery, July
17, 1927 (m. Lt. Rees Jones, U.S.A. [(U.S.M.A., 48], Dec. 22, 1948).

HARVARD BROTHER: Donald Henderson Bowles, ’27.

occuUPATION: Member, Insurance Committee of the New York Life In-
surance Company.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Lieutenant, New Castle Auxiliary Police,
Civilian Defense, 1942-46.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Art Career School, New York, N. Y..

MEMBER OF: Home Office Life Underwriters Association.

TO RELATE your life history from the deeply serious days of
graduation to the carefree, rollicking ones of your Twenty-fifth
Anniversary is a pretty dangerous task to require of a man for-
tunate enough to survive the wild roller coaster ride from 1924 to
1949. It stirs the mind and memory —and that is good! As my
favorite commuting bridge partner plaintively remarks so often,
“Stop thinking before you mess up the hand.”

Those of us who have two feet will naturally put the better
one forward, if any. I, therefore, advise the Class of 1950 to
have its members write their Twenty-fifth Anniversary story at
graduation for publication at their festive reunion, with an ac- '
companying apology from the wife, padre, or favorite bartender,
as you will. It should provide far more entertainment and nearly
as much information.

Frankly, the years have treated me well since June, 1924. |
get my quota of fun both within and without business hours and
have had more than an average share of good health. While I am
in a business which fatuously advertises the superior joys of a
retired life at age sixty-five on a guaranteed income of one hun-

[ 82 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

dred dollars a month, I steadfastly refuse to ingest our propa-
ganda. By trying to maintain a reasonable middle ground be-
tween the grasshopper and the ant, I take life as I find it from
day to day.

_ Towards that end, Mrs. Bowles and I comfortably rusticate on
two acres of hill-top woodland in Westchester. In addition to
providing real enjoyment, it pays off in health and fresh vege-
tables. While I continually object that my wife’s flower beds
creep further into my lawn each year, my grass has a commend-
able habit of reappearing in greater quantities in her territory.
That evens things up and stimulates Anglo-Saxon conversation.
So all of you are earnestly invited to stop in when passing our
way to join our open-air forum. Besides, the happiest farmer is
he who raises an elbow as well as a crop.

FRANCIS EZRA BOWMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 1503 Alabama Ave., Durham, N. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Department of English, Duke University, Durham, N. C.

BORN: Sept. 18, 1902, Cleveland, Ohio. ParENTs: Owen John Bowman, Naomi
Langford. .

PREPARED AT: Glenville High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1924; A.M., 1926;
PH.D., 1934.

MARRIED: Eleanor Elizabeth Wilson, Aug. 15, 1930, Pelham, N. Y. cnx:
Barbara Anne, July 17, 1937.

OCCUPATION: Education.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Instructor, pre-flight school, Chapel Hill, N. C..
United States Navy, World War II.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Bowman did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

STANDISH BRADFORD

HOME ApprREss: Hamilton, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Ropes, Gray, Best, Coolidge & Rugg, 50 Federal St., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1900, East Orange, N. J. parents: Harold Standish Brad-
ford, Mary Frances McCullagh.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., [9243 LL.B. 1927.

MarkieD: Dorothy Winthrop, Aug. 29, 1931, Hamilton, Mass. crivorrs:

[ 83]

te a EEE EOE LE OER ta ma iF . ,
Se enn aaeannnmtmeneen

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

MarRIED: Mabel Hanson, Sept. 29, 1933, Oyster Bay, Long Island, N. Y,

occupation: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S, Naval Reserve, November, 1941~November,
1945. Present permanent rank, commander (inactive).

OFFICES HELD: Assistant corporation counsel, City of New York, 1935—qr.

MEMBER OF: State Bar of New York; State Bar of California; New York
County Lawyers Association; Harvard Club of New York; Pan Africa
Society of America, Ltd.; Naval Order of the United States; Military
Order of World Wars; New York County Republican Committee.

JULIAN BRODY

HOME ADDRESS: 1 Lincoln Place Drive, Des Moines, Iowa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: F, Brody & Sons Co., 312 Court Ave., Des Moines, Iowa.

BorN: Nov. 27, 1901, Des Moines, Iowa. parents: Abraham Brody, Lena
Friedman.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924, DEGREE: A.B., 1924.
MARRIED: Irma Levy, Aug. 19, 1930, Rochester, N. Y. camp: Stephen, Jan.

8, 1934.

HARVARD BROTHER: Sidney Franklin Brody, ’ 37.

occupaTion: Manufacturer, wholesaler, and retailer of men’s wear.

OFFICES HELD: President, F. Brody & Sons Company, Des Moines, Iowa
State Retail Clothiers’ Association; president and owner, Bremers
Clothing Company, Iowa City; member board of directors, Inter-
national Association of Garment Manufacturers; secretary, Central
West Garment Association; chairman, Nile Kinnick Scholarship Fund,
University of Iowa, 1945-47, Boy Scout Council, 1943-47.

MEMBER OF: Kiwanis Club, Iowa City; Rotary Club of Des Moines; Des
Moines Club; Fine Arts Association of Des Moines.

AFTER graduation in 1924, I went to Europe with two others
and travelled for four months. Then I got a job in Chemnitz,
Germany, in order to learn the hosiery business (but never did).

I came back to Des Moines in 1925, and worked in my father’s
business, F. Brody & Sons Company, from 1925 to 1937. I re-
signed in 1937 and was in the investment business from 1937 to
1941. What a nightmare that was— successful financially, but
it was the hard way —peddling stocks and bonds to poor
widows.

I bought Bremer’s, a men’s clothing store in lowa City, in 1941
and moved there. It was a swell life in a college town (the Uni-
versity of Iowa), and I met a Jot of interesting and worthwhile
people. I became interested in the Nile Kinnick Scholarship

[86]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Fund, on which I worked for two years, and in Boy Scout work.
I came back to Des Moines as president of my father’s business,
and am now commuting between Des Moines and lowa City. I
do a lot of travelling, and get to New York about four to six
times a year (and that’s plenty).

In 1930 I married a girl from Rochester, and we have one son,
aged fourteen, who is now at Phillips Exeter. I plan to bring him
to the Twenty-fifth Reunion.

ARTHUR BRONSON

HOME ADDRESS: 425 E. sist St., New York 22, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: c/o Variety, 154 W. 46th St., New York 19, N. Y.

BorN: Aug. 13, 1902, Baltimore, Md. parents: Max Solomon Bronstein,
Rosa Leibow.

PREPARED AT: Baltimore City College, Baltimore, Md.; Brookline High
School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

MarRIED: Doris Zimmerman, March 1, 1948, Miami, Fla.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Aaron Jacob Bronstein, ° 25; Morris Bronstein, ’31; Al-
_ bert Bronson, °33.

OCCUPATION: Journalist; drama reporter and copy editor for Variety, theatri-
cal trade paper.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant drama and music critic, Philadelphia Record, 1937-44;
drama critic, Variety, since 1944.

PUBLICATIONS: Free-lance articles in American Mercury, Cosmopolitan,
Pageant, Toronto Star Weekly, and others.

I’M NOT very proud of the twenty-five polyglot, aimless (until
recently) years I’ve passed since graduation. I was a wool mer-
chant in Boston, a textile manufacturer in Maine, and a maker of
mayonnaise and mustard in Philadelphia. There were interim
bad years, and I knocked around like a lot of others, jobless for
one year, trying odd jobs for another (a summer amusement
park manager, a suburban lot salesman, a department store clerk),
and the like.

Then, in 1937, at the age of thirty-five, when most men quit it
for less hectic, more lucrative fields, I went into newspaper work
—as a $20-a-week cub. That didn’t last long, it’s true. In three
months I was assistant drama and music critic on the Philadel-
phia Record by sheer accident and held that post seven years.
In my spare time I began elaborating on features I had done for

[ 87 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

the paper and wrote personality pieces on important theatre and
concert people for the American Mercury, Cosmopolitan, Pag-
eant, Vogue, Woman, Magazine Digest, Coronet and Toronto
Star Weekly. I still do this sort of stuff desultorily.

Somewhere along the line, as much because the by-line looked
nicer and more Nordic, as because someone else had latched onto
the tag of Mark Twain first, I switched my name from Bronstein
to Bronson and it’s been a nuisance since.

In 1944 I came to New York, to the theatrical trade weekly,
Variety, where I’ve been for the past five years as drama and mu-
sic reporter and critic and copy editor. Last year, when I was
forty-five, I got married, thereby pulling a fast one on my sister
who was my partner at the junior prom and who tells me she
had secretly been nourishing an ambition for twenty-four years
to accompany me to my twenty-fifth class reunion — to be balked
in the stretch by a wife.

The entertainment field is a gay one and a full one. Sometimes
you go from theatre to concert hall, from film to night club,
catching a radio or video (television to youse guys) program on
the way, apparently oblivious to the world without. But if you'll
permit me to get a little bitter for the moment, it isn’t such a
pleasant place when you do look out. Two wars in my lifetime
and a third possible (as I write), racial discriminations, class ha-
treds, a striking indictment of our Christian civilization of the
past two thousand years, and, yes, of the educated men we 1924-
ers are supposed to be.

So, to duck back into my ivory tower again — I’m looking for-
ward to the class reunion. Arrant sentimentalist that I am (in
secret), I hold a warm regard for my school, my classmates, but
nothing like the feeling my vain father has, running around
bragging boldly of the fact that he (like the sainted Franklin
Delano Roosevelt) had four sons graduating from Harvard. If
there are any grads of like dubious distinction, I wish they’d let
me know, to put Dad in his place.

EARL LOUIS BROWN

HOME apprEss: 745 St. Nicholas Ave. New York, N. Y.
orrice appkess: Life Magazine, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y,

[ 88 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: July 24, 1902, Charlottesville, Va. parents: Edward Brown, Fannie
Barber.

PREPARED AT: Howard Academy, Washington, D. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: S.B., 1924; A.M. (Boston Univ.), 1930.

MaRRIED: Emma Lenore Moseley, June 27, 1927, New York, N. Y.

OCCUPATION: Writer.

PuBLicaTions: Articles in Life, Harper's, The New Yorker, Survey Graphic,
and other publications.

SINCE graduation I have edited a weekly newspaper in Harlem,

taught political science and economics in a small college i in Louis-

ville, Kentucky, reported politics for the New York Herald-Tri-
bune, and reported labor and politics for Life magazine, my pres-
ent position. I have been a staff member of Life magazine for
eight years. In addition to reporting labor and politics, I have
written numerous text pieces, among them the following: Joe
Louis; The Racing Racket; The Boxing Racket.

I am a Democrat and was a delegate to the Democratic Na-
tional Convention in 1944.

HAROLD FREDERICK BROWN

HOME AppREsS: 37 Nathan Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 37 Nathan Rd.,. Newton Center 59, Mass.; 1101 Beacon St.
Brookline 48, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 4, 1902, Hillsboro, N. H. parents: Rev. Irving Charles Brown,
Alice Violet Noyes.

PREPARED AT: Woodsville High School, Woodsville, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: S.B. cu72 laude, 1924; M.D., 1928.

MARRIED: Constance Helen Davis, June 28, 1930, Medford, Afass. CHILDREN:
Harold Frederick, Jr., Jan. 11, 1935; Roger Davis, May 15, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Marcellus Noyes Brown, ’25.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Examining Physician, Selective Service, since
1941,

OFFICES HELD: Affiliated with Newton-Wellesley Hospital, Waltham Elos-
pital, Brooks Hospital in Brookline; Director of Massachusetts
Academy of General Practitioners; President, New England Collie
Club, 1945-48.

MEMBER OF: National Board (Diplomate); American Academy of General
Practitioners; American Medical Association; Newton Afedical Chib;
Boston Skating Club.

PuBLicaTions: “Why I Prefer the Collie,” Dog World, May, 1943.

[ 89 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

too. I still have some beautiful equipment. Figure skating, after
a lapse of three decades, has recently become an absorbing affair,
and I have surely absorbed a few bruises. As one of the “Ballet
Girls” in “Ice Chips” at the Boston Skating Club a year ago, |
nearly brought an untimely end to my hard-earned career,

Thus my practice, my family, and my hobbies (don’t minimize
these!) have yielded their full share of happiness and content-
ment to me during the past twenty-five years.

When I work with my patients, I come more and more to
realize that each person, when evaluated as an individual, is
potentially a pretty grand fellow.

May each one of us of the Class of 1924 execute our respon-
sibilities as men in this chaotic world, with the vision and under-

standing that would make us worthy of the title we bear — “Sons
of Harvard.”

é

x JOHN JAMES BROWN

HOME ADDRESS: 2312 Delaware Drive, Cleveland 6, Ohio.

OFFICE Apress: Office of Housing Expediter, Region III, 1510 Euclid Ave. _
Cleveland 15, Ohio.

BORN: April 24, 1904, Olivet, Mich. parents: Lemuel Ransom Brown, Grace
Elizabeth James.

PREPARED AT: Glenville High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: 5.8. cum laude, 1924; LL.B. (Cleveland
Law School), 1930.

MARRIED: Helen Bronson Bennett, June 16, 1928, Woodbury, Conn. CHIL-
DREN: Susan Jessica, Nov. 13, 1931; Margaret Bronson, January 11, 1933-

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Edward Brown, '27.

occupation: Government service, with Office of Housing Expediter; lawyer,
with firm of McCarron, Miner & Weiner, Cleveland.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Lawyer, War Labor Board, Cleveland.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, board of trustees, Cleveland Women’s Orchestra,
since 1947; treasurer, Ten Thirty Gallery of Modern Art, since 1948;
president, Cleveland Local, United Federal Workers of America, CIO,
1946-47; Vice-director, Brotherhood of St. Andrew, Trinity Episcopal
Church, since 1948; superintendent, Sunday School, St. Albans Epis-
copal Church, since 1948, member of executive committee, Cleveland
Chapter, National Lawyers Guild, 1945-47; delegate to Cleveland CIO
Council, 1945-46; leader, University of Chicago “Great Books” dis-
cussions, since 1946.

MY MUSE started life with a reaction time well below the na-
tional average and has not been speeded by association with an

[92]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

errant disposition. Beyond that I have @ personal situation which
required delay.. You know I am a government civil servant. In
accord with a phase of our political development, the Attorney
General has blacklisted certain groups reviving the old procedure
which was known in Rome as “the proscriptions of Sulla.” I have
continued since college as a sort of gang boy, liking to take part in
‘‘purpose groups.” Two of my clubs turned up on the list: the
Lawyers Guild and the CIO Government Union. As a result,
the earnest young men of the Department of Justice (still picked
for their work on the basis of their detective skills and Con-
gressional recommendations) have been carefully sifting my
neighbors during the past months to determine my associates,
point of view, and probable reading matter. I got my clearance
certificate only last month. The conclusion was apparently as
follows: that the minority group to whose opinions I subscribe
has a membership of one, and that while many of my thoughts
— like the proverbial Irishman’s — are against the reigning gov-
ernment, the angular way of thinking does not fit in a com-
munist mold. You understand now how I read your pink re-
minder cards in privacy and blushed in secret. I was honestly
afraid to submit any writing for a CRIMSON publication.

This tendency of mine to be taken in by friends and in-
fluenced by people could be shown by a Freudian to follow from
my earliest experience. The doctor states that I was born alone
with no Esau clutching at my heels. My first formative months
were apparently spent in extreme solitude and I have been react-
ing against loneliness ever since. This birth took place at a time
which must appear to us remote and simple, before the five
Dionnes or the five young Argentines, before the two world
wars, and before the increased range of subdivision afforded by
atomic fission.

My parents were strong-minded New Englanders, Phi Beta
Kappa from Middlebury, Vermont. The ‘Old Man” took his
Master’s under Kittredge, and taught English here in Cleveland.
His students considered him along with Sterne’s Uncle Toby as
one of The Great Gentlemen of Literature, and with the possible
exception of Sir John Falstaff, as the only sober man in the lot.
Both parents believed that public education would solve the
world’s most pressing problems. My mother managed her house-

[93]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

in the country and earns its living by supplying milk. The im-
mediate means is an educational campaign among the seventy-
five per cent of the public living in the cities, teaching them to
eat their margarine white. As an incident of the movement we
may be able to relieve Congress of a difficult choice and to divert
some funds now appropriated towards payment of the national
debt. Contributions in any amount will be received with thanks
and will be used in the same spirit in which they are offered, but
I might suggest that sums under ten dollars make difficulties in
handling for the bank and bookkeeper.

SAMUEL BROWN

HOME AppRESS: 682 Rock St., Fall River, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 130 Rock St., Fall River, Mass.

BORN: March 26, 1902, Russia. PARENTS: Monase Brown, Minnie Kapitanoff.

PREPARED AT: B.M.C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923, DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude, 19233; M.D., 1927-

marrieD: Kathryn Evelyn Borden, June 30, 1938, Westport, Mass. CHILDREN:
Borden, May 24, 1939; Blair, May 11, 1941.

occuPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Visiting physician, Union Hospital, Fall River.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; American Medical Association, Massa-
chusetts Medical Society; Bristol County Medical Society.

AFTER graduation I was fortunate in being accepted at Harvard
Medical School, where I spent the next four, rather happy, years.
Then followed a short trip to Paris and Vienna, more for relaxa-
tion than for further study — the latter served as excuse — and
on my return: to the States, internship, and beginning in 1929,
medical practice in my home town. Since then, except for a
brief interval of a year spent as a Harvard Research Fellow at the
Beth Israel Hospital in Boston during 1932 to 1933, I have been
practising internal medicine here in Fall River continuously. It
has been a busy and, on the whole, a satisfying life, rounded out
by marriage to a small-town girl and the arrival on the scene
within the next few years of two potential Harvard greats.
Personal and social contacts in a city this size (circa 115,000),
though provincial, are apt to be very pleasant and the intimate
relation to the patient is bound to be gratifying to the practi-
tioner of the art of medicine. At times, one gets too busy, yet

[98]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

even that carries its compensation of delivery from futile soul-
searching and unnecessary worry. But occasionally, especially
during the summer-time vacation in Hyannis, I do get the
opportunity to indulge in various sports with my two boys and to
enjoy with them the quiet, simple pleasures of life on the Cape.

STANLEY NOEL BROWN

HOME appREss: P.O. Box 387, Leesburg, Va.

BORN: Dec. 25, 1901, New York, N. Y. parents: Addison Brown, ’52, Helen
Carpenter Gaskin.

PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1924.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Fitzhugh Rust, May 23, 1925, Pittsburgh, Pa. cHILpREN:
Henry Bedinger Rust, Feb. 13, 1926; Stanley Noél, Jr., April 21, 1928;
Fitzhugh Lee, May 12, 1932.

HARVARD sons: Henry Bedinger Rust Brown, ’47; Stanley Noél Brown, Jr., ’s50.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ralph Gascoigne Brown, ’18.

OCCUPATION: Farmer; consultant.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Visiting expert on economic and industrial
affairs to the commanding general in Vienna, Austria, for four months
during the fall of 1948.

OFFICES HELD: Director, since 1937, vice-president (finance), 1939-47,
Koppers Company, Inc.; director, Alan Wood Steel Company, 1945-
47, Montreal Coke & Manufacturing Company, 1944-47, Brooklyn
Borough Gas Company, 1935-41, Maryland Drydock Company, 1939-
41, Virginia Corporation, 1937-46; vestry, 1940-46, treasurer, 1945-46,
Calvary Episcopal Church; trustee, Shadyside Academy, 1935-47.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Engineers Society of Western
Pennsylvania; American Iron & Steel Institute; Duquesne Club; Pitts-
burgh Golf Club.

AFTER graduation, I started my business activities by taking a
job as a stillman’s helper in the byproduct Coke Plant of Jones
and Laughlin Steel Company in Pittsburgh. For about a year I
continued doing this and similar jobs in the coke plant, being
finally advanced to a “heater” of one of the batteries. This fiftv-
six-hour-a-week job on eight-hour shifts, working closely with
all kinds of labor, I look upon as one of my most valuable ex-
periences. (You get to know a fellow better during the long
hours of the night shift than you do on the golf course, or even
when bending an elbow after a day in the office.) The actual
performance of the varied plant operations gave me a background

[99]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

and understanding which proved invaluable when working later
with figures and estimates. ] am convinced that most youngsters
out of college need such experience to learn the difference be-
tween theory and practice. My two eldest boys are starting out
much the same way. One is a timekeeper for Turner Construc-
tion Company and the other is a weighman in a Bethlehem Steel
Company sheet mill. The third is too young for that sort of
thing, but he worked on the farm this summer and took over when
I went to Austria.

In 1925 I married, having obtained the promise of my bride a
year before the end of college. Except for that one defection,
her brains were matched only by her beauty. I then left Jones
and Laughlin Steel and went with Koppers Company, starting as
a tracer in the draughting room. During the next ten years I
advanced through such jobs as draughtsman, checker, project en-
gineer, and estimator. In 1936 I became assistant to the president
of Koppers Coal and Transportation Company and in a few years
was elected a vice-president of Koppers Company, in charge of
finance, and served on the boards of a number of its subsidiaries,
as well as on the top board.

When the war descended upon us, I inquired about going into
the armed forces, but was advised by the military and others not
to do so, They said I should stay on because Koppers was so
vitally engaged in production for the war effort — coal, coke,
coke plants, chemical plants, butadiene, styrene, benzol, toluol,
naphthalene, gun carriages, catapults, piston rings, etc.

After the war, 1947, I decided to change my occupation and
become a farmer. For ten years my bride and I owned a farm
near Leesburg, Virginia, on which my father-in-law was born
and brought up. Absentee farming whetted my appetite to try it
first hand, and 1 wanted to know my own family (heretofore,
business had always come first). Also I wanted to experiment,
travel, and play a little.

The only trouble with my new occupation is time. If we could
only stretch this fourth dimension! I thought I'd have lots of it,
time to putter, to go places, to carry out all kinds of ideas. But
what with doing a bit of consulting work on the side, it seems
as though there’s enough to do back on the farm to keep me more
than busy until 1994.

[ 100 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I had just begun to see light through weeds and needed fences
when the Army came along and asked me to go to Vienna as an
economic and industrial adviser to Lieutenant General Keyes,
Commanding General of the United States Forces in Austria.
So here I am now in Vienna (December, 1948) doing my bit to
help straighten out the war’s mess. And I thought I was going
to quit absentee farming! As soon as I can, though, I’m going

back to the farm, and I’]] be at the Reunion, D.V.

WILLIAM OTTO BRUCKNER

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 60 Holdsworth Court, Passaic, N. J.

BoRN: Dec. 9, 1901, Passaic, N. J. PARENTS: Carl Otto Gotthelf Bruckner,
Thekla Olga Resch.

PREPARED AT: Passaic High School, Passaic, N. J.,; Central High School,
Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B. magna cum laude, 1924.

MarRIED: Margaretha Anna Marie Rothe, May 25, 1927, Philadelphia, Pa.
CHILDREN: Margaretha Olga, March 24, 1928, Barbara Ann, Oct. 1, 1930,
Edna Dorothea, Feb. 7, 1936.

occupation: Clergyman; pastor of St. John’s Evangelical Lutheran Church,
Passaic.

OFFICES HELD: President of local ministerial associations in Bridgeport, Conn.,
and Passaic; president, New England Conference, 1932-37; member
of executive committee, 1932-37, secretary of examining committee,
since 1937, United Lutheran Synod of New York; chairman, Williams-
burgh Larger Parish, Brooklyn, N. Y., 1939-43; member of the official
board, Lutheran Welfare Association of New Jersey, member of
advisory committee, Board of Education, Passaic.

PUBLICATIONS: Sermons published in The Lutheran and the Christian Cen-
tury Pulpit.

NAMES have always been a problem to us Bruckners. The

bole

family name used to have an umlaut over the “u” in Bruckner.
In English the name became Brueckner but the “e” soon died
in New England. Previously my father forgot all about the
“Carl” and “Gotthelf” and called himself Otto, while my mother
preferred Olga to the ““Thekla.” Now we are constantly being
thanked by daughter Margaretha for her name, since she is regu-
larly called Margaret, Peggy, Marguerite, Margarita, and every-
thing else but Margaretha. Edna tends to prefer Dorothea. Only
Barbara Ann, for whose name we went outside of family tradi-
tions, seems satisfied. To make matters worse we insist on pro-

[ ror ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

nouncing the family name as if it were Brookner and look

askance at any who make the “Bruck” rhyme with luck — though

we don’t mind having luck otherwise.
I have served the following parishes: First English Lutheran

Church, Bridgeport, Connecticut, from 1928 to 1937; St. Paul’s

Lutheran Church, Williamsburgh, Brooklyn, New York, from

1937 to 1943; and St. John’s German Lutheran Church, Passaic,

since 1943. In Bridgeport we had to publicize Lutheranism and

explain that Lutherans are not Lithuanians and therefore could
not put on folk-dances for a civic celebration. In Brooklyn we

managed to preserve and strengthen a church founded in 1853

that found itself in an almost entirely Jewish and Roman Catholic

neighborhood.’ Coming to Passaic to the church in which I was
baptized and confirmed presented some ticklish problems, but the
fact that I had been out of contact with the parish for twenty-five
years and that practically all of my best friends had scattered all
over the map of the United States of America helped matters
along. We were able to lead the parish in liquidating a fifty-
year-old mortgage of $15,000 and start out on a parish house
project for which $39,500 is now on hand. Our support of the
church beyond the local parish had increased almost 400% and
we ended 1948 with a balance of $4,500 in the current fund.
These figures are indicative of the health and strength of this
congregation of roughly 1,250 members in all the spheres of its
life. Naturally, we look with fine scorn upon those who imagine
that a forty-eight-hour week is all too long and that forty-eight
hours of work, or less, is plenty of time in which to earn big
salaries. A big salary is something we haven’t seen anything of
and strangely enough haven’t missed — much!

The daughters all seem determined to become nurses. Mar-
garetha is in training at the Passaic General Hospital, and Bar-
bara at the Mountainside Hospital in Montclair, New Jersey.
Edna, doing well after a siege of rheumatic fever, may have to
find something that is still nursing, yet is less strenuous than the
usual duties of a registered nurse. Maybe if we had a son there
would be a future minister in our family, but talk about ‘the
slings of outrageous fortune!” We wanted and needed a son for
two chief reasons; one, to take care of the large parsonage
grounds and gardens (too late for that now), and two, so that

[ 102 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

he could be the recipient of an electric train, something I never
had as a boy. So I gave the electric train to our second daughter
and enjoy it very much, -

Daughter Peggy just called up to remind me to include the
fact that she is engaged to Robert Bartelt, a boy of the parish.
Barbara is headed in that direction, too. But Edna has just had
her first jam session for seven boys and seven girls followed by a
slumber party for— well, I should hope! —the girls only.

BRIGGS WHEELER BUCHANAN

HOME ADDRESS: 1220 Park Ave., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADpREss: H. L. Buchanan & Co., 120 Greenwich St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1904, Jersey City, N. J. parents: Harry Lush Buchanan,
Myrtle Adele Wheeler.

PREPARED AT: Dickinson High School, Jersey City, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Florence Reynaud, May 25, 1936, Hollywood, Calif. cHtLpREN:
Briggs Wheeler, Jr.. Aug. 15, 1937; David George, Jan. 27, 1939.

occupaTion: Archeologist; still retaining interest in stock brokerage firm
and seat on the New York Curb Exchange.

MEMBER OF: Asia Institute (treasurer, 1945-47); Metropolitan Museum of
Art (life fellow); American Oriental Society (membership chairman,
1946-47, resources chairman, 1947-48); American Schools of Oriental
Research (Baghdad fellow, 1947-48); Corpus of Ancient Near Eastern
Seals (treasurer of committee).

PUBLICATIONS: Corpus of Ancient Near Eastern Seals, Vol. I, 1948, col-
laborator.

AT COLLEGE I was drawn to the study of art history, but I
could not consider it a serious vocation. So after graduation I
went to Wall Street and worked in the securities department of
Brown, Harriman & Company from 1925 to 1929. In the spring
of 1929 I joined my father’s New York Curb Exchange firm, just
in time. By the following spring, like everyone else, we were
busted. When my father cracked up in 1931, his firm fell into my
lap — what was left of it. During the depression years, while
slowly getting the business on its feet again, I became more and
more concerned with the problem of how our society got that
way. To most of my associates the depression was an act of God,
and That Man a demon sent to taunt us in our misfortune. I voted
for Roosevelt, though I must confess I choked a lot on the third

[ 103 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

term, partly because he was what we most needed, an adroit poli.
tician who could balance the urgencies of the moment against a
program for the future; but mostly because I am by conviction
a Wilsonian Democrat, internationally minded and in favor of
state control or at least regulation of enterprise. Meanwhile, my
reading in search of causes and cures had become increasingly
unsatisfactory. I found that I lacked historical perspective.
This discovery led, from 1937 on, to a ten-year period of study
of history and anthropology in the course of which my interest
gradually fixed on the earliest stages of civilization. Strangely
enough, while my studies were taking this slant, I began to collect
contemporary painting. No doubt I felt an urge to balance the
very dead with the very much alive. However, I discovered that
I lack the real collecting instinct, for soon the paintings that I
owned began to find their way into various museums. During
this period my business prospered, and in the forties I bought a
seat on the New York Stock Exchange. But before much could
be done to develop the business further, an opportunity presented
itself to participate actively in archeological research. This ac-
tivity so expanded, as can be seen in the record listed under mem-
berships, that by 1946 it was taking up the greater part of my
time, so much so that in 1947 J sold my seat on the Stock Ex-
change and drastically curtailed my participation in business.
What the future holds for me is as yet uncertain. It may be that
the exigencies of inflation and consequently the melting away of
my capital will force me back to the market place. In any case
my story must end like an episode in a movie serial, Perhaps it
will have a denouement by the time our Fiftieth Reunion rolls

around, or maybe by then I shall be in the midst of something
quite different.

JOHN CARROLL BUCHANAN

HOME avpress: 4077 W. Third St., Los Angeles 5, Calif,

OFFICE apprEss: John C. Buchanan, Securities, First National Bank 561 S
Spring St., Los Angeles 13, Calif. ’

BORN: Sept. 3, 1901, Providence, R. 1. parents: John Brownlee Buchanan
Julia Carroll.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1925. DEGREE! A.B, 1924(25),

[ 104 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Finance.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California, Harvard Club of Boston.

AFTER a pleasant association of several years on both coasts with
the sales department of General Foods (with a short interval as
merchandise specialist with the Southern California Edison Com-
pany), I finally decided that a change to another line of sales
activity might be just the thing to give a much-needed boost to
my morale,

Before I realized it, however, World War II came along, and,
much to my regret, the closest contact that I was able to make
with the military services in any capacity whatsoever was a job as
traffic inspector at the California Shipbuilding Corporation, at
Terminal Island (Wilmington). This shipyard, one mile long with
fourteen ways and ten outfitting docks, was under the supervision
of the United States Maritime Commission and at its peak em-
ployed over 30,000 people. My job was concerned entirely with
transportation, and, in collaboration with the expediting depart-
ment, it was my responsibility to see that every manner of ship-
building material being shipped by rail and air from all parts of
the United States to Calship was not delayed in transit. This job
turned out to be a most exciting, if rather exacting, one. Indus-
trial traffic, especially during wartime, proved quite interesting
and was a most welcome change from the type of work in which
I had been previously engaged.

It was a source of real gratification to me that I was able to take
an active, though rather small, part in the outstanding record that
was achieved at Calship. The record consisted of building 336
Liberty ships, 101 Victory ships, and thirty transports (APA’s),
the last-named built under a Navy contract, making a grand total
of 467 ships. This record was second only to that of one other
shipyard in the United States because of the fact that they (Ore-
gon Shipbuilding) started several months ahead of us.

Since my return from a visit to Boston during the past year, I
have been investigating the possibilities relative to entering the
real estate field here in Southern California, but as yet have arrived
at no definite decision.

[ 105 ]

|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

MASON BULL

HOME AppRESS: 644 Genesee Ave. Morrison, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 212 N. Genesee St. Morrison, Ill.

porN: March 7, 1go1, Redfield, S. Dak. parents: Roy Taylor Bull, Ida
M. Mason.

PREPARED AT: Staunton Military Academy, Staunton, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREES: A.B., 1924(26); J.p. (Northwestern
Univ.), 1929. “of

marriep: Katheryn Doyle, June 3, 1933, Chicago, Ill. cumpren: Mason,
April 24, 1934; Jane Ann, April 12, 1936, David, March 31, 1943; Nicho-
las, June 13, 1945.

occupation: Lawyer, member of firm of Bull, Yost & Lundens.

OFFICES HELD: Master in chancery, Circuit Court, since 1940.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Chicago; University Club of Chicago.

AFTER graduation from law school, I spent six years in Chicago
as a lawyer for the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul & Pacific Rail-
road. In 1935 I retired to the country as it is the best place to

relax and raise children. In the ensuing thirteen years, I haven't

yet relaxed — but I have raised the children.

ROBERT PAUL BULLARD

HOME ADDRESS: 250 Locust St., San Francisco, Calif,
orrice ADDRESS Eaton & Howard, Inc.,, 333 Montgomery St., San Francisco,
alif,

BorN: Aug. 31, 1901, Circleville, Ohio. parents: Frederic Lauriston Bullard,
Clara Elizabeth Keil.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924,

marriED: Adelaide Rose Sutro, Jan. 23, 1932, San Francisco, Calif. (died
Dec. 31, 1942); Frances Lee (Anderson) May, Feb. 19, 1946, San Fran-
cisco, Calif. cuitpren: Robert Lauriston, Jan. 1, 1934, Adelaide and
Margaret (twins), June 19, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederic Keil Bullard, ’20,

OccuPATION: Investment management,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Private first class, California State Guard, 1940-
42. al

oFFices HELD: Treasurer, San Francisco Young Men’s Christian Associati
since 1946; commissioner, San Francisco Housing Authorit  loseean
trustee, Church Divinity School of the Pacific, vice-pr th 945-493
& Howard, Inc. president, Eaton

MEMBER oF: Bohemian Club.

[ 106 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT ~

THIS year completes eighteen years since I became a resident of
San Francisco. During the summer of 1930, a little matter of
business (very little I can still remember) sent me here from
Boston, in or near which I had lived since 1924. Here the good
fortune of having Harrison Dibblee, Jr., as a business partner has
also helped keep Harvard memories warm.

Life has been good on balance I am sure. I trust I have deserved
at least some of the better things it has brought to me, and hope
we all may have more of them.

Twin daughters and a son — however ornery they are at times
—do really help make life worth while, don’t they? But par-
ticularly it is my blessing to be mate to a wife who brought life
back to us four after she and I each had lived some four years
alone as a widow and a widower. We met February 1, 1946. We
married February 19, 1946, and haven’t yet been able to figure
out why we delayed so long!

Music, I guess, continues to be my hobby. There is a great
deal of it here and I have kept fairly active in church choirs and
Bohemian Club Jinks. Though those of you, particularly Bos-
tonians and New Yorkers, who make a mistake and read this,
may smile inwardly at it, let me assure you: San Francisco is
a fine city in which to live. And you don’t have to take just my
word, either. Just ask DuBois, Crosby, Wells, Pfaffmann, Dwight,
Hubbard, Pratt, Frothingham, Hinckley, Sprague, Gardner, Rey-
nal, Schwarz, Hamilton, Kimball, Lamont, Kernan, Gordon, etc.,
who, believe it or not, have been here in recent years. Where
else, pray, except in Boston or New York, have you seen a similar
number of classmates?

I could go on but I still feel that an older man made a good
observation when he said some years ago: “You know, Bob, the
_ Native Californian is really delightful and our Eastern friends
would know it if only us transplanted people would (could)
keep quiet about how wonderful it is here!”

HENRY ALBERT BULTMAN

HOME apprEss: Cove Neck Road, Oyster Bay, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE appREsS: Sterling Grace & Co., 50 Broad St. New York, N. Y.

BORN: June 26, 1902, Monsey, N. Y. Parents: George John Bulunan, Ma-
thilde M. S. Rinckhoff.

[ 107 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

prePARED AT: Browning School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREE: A.B, 1924.

marrieD: Virginia Fox, May 14, 1927, New York, N. Y. cniwpren: Peter
Anthony, Noy. 6, 1928 (died Sept. 16, 1933); Henry Patteson, April 25,

1930 (died Sept. 16, 1933); Seymour Van Ault, Feb. 9, 19333; Richard
Patteson, April 9, 1935.

occupation: Stock broker.
MEMBER OF: Badminton Club of the City of New York.

] WORKED in the First National Bank of New York City from
September 1, 1923, to December 31, 1929. I was vice-president of
the Empire Trust Company, New York City, from January 1,

1940, to December 31, 1947. Since June 30, 1938, I have been at
Sterling Grace & Company.

RAYMOND THAYER BUNKER

HOME ADDRESS: Quarters 0-21, Fort Meade, Md.
OFFICE appress: Headquarters Second Army, Fort Meade, Md.

BorN: April 5, 1901, Wellesley, Mass, parents: Clarence Alfred Bunker,
Mary Hawthorne White.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1924, S.B. IN CE.
magna cum laude, 1926.

MarkigD: Harriet Bates, Nov. 4, 1933, Wellesley Hills, Mass. CHILDREN:
Robert Monroe, Feb. 4, 1936; Roger Eliot, Aug. 2, 1941-
HARVARD BROTHER: Laurence Eliot Bunker, 726.

occupation: Lieutenant colonel, Field Artillery, Regular Army.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Assistant professor, Military Science and Tac-
tics, Yale, 1940-42; Artillery Staff Officer, I Corps, Australia, New

Guinea, Luzon, 1942-45. Awarded Bronze Star Medal, Distinguished
Unit Citation.

OFFICES HELD: Scoutmaster, troop committeeman, Boy Scouts of America.
MEMBER OF: Wellesley Club; Appalachian Mountain Club.

GRADUATION did not mark the end of my stay in Cambridge.
I entered the Engineering School and got an S.B. in Civil Engi-

neering in 1926, supplemented by a year as assistant to several
rofessors.

In the fall of 1927 I started twelve years with the Metropolitan
District Water Supply Commission, building a new water sup-
ply for Boston. Starting in a field office with hydraulic and real
estate surveys, then driving the Coldbrook-Swift Tunnel, I fin-
ished as senior civil engincer on the huge Winsor Dam of the

{ 108 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Quabbin Reservoir. The work was soul-satisfying in a way no
office work can be. Whether working underground in the tunnel
or out in the open on the big hydraulic fill of the dam there
was always the feeling of something being created.

During this period I married Harriet Bates of Belmont. Al-
though our homes were only ten miles apart and we both went
to school in Cambridge, we met in a small town in western
Massachusetts. We lived in Hardwick, Ware, where our elder
son was born, and West Brookfield, all places where we could
enjoy the community life of the small town. We spent our spare
time mountain climbing and skiing in the White Mountains and
the Laurentians of Canada.

While in college I had taken the Reserve Officers Training
Corps course and had kept my commission alive by occasional
summer camps and by teaching gunnery at winter inactive train-
ing meetings. When the probability of war became evident, I
volunteered for active duty as an engineer with the Constructing
Quartermaster. However, the chief of Field Artillery refused to
release a trained artillery captain and I was ordered to duty
enlightening the heathen by teaching gunnery to the Yale Re-
serve Officers Training Corps. Thus I wore the only known
United States Army insignia with a Hebrew inscription, the seal
of Yale. They were extremely busy years during which my wife
and I enjoyed the academic and urban life of New Haven while
our small group of Army and Navy officers converted snap
courses into popular tough ones. Our second son arrived in New
Haven a few hours before his dad could get back from summer
training camp in Vermont.

One Friday in the summer of 1942, after I had been told that
I would stay put indefinitely, I received orders to join I Corps at
Fort Jackson, South Carolina, the following Wednesday. Arriv-
ing there I found that General Eichelberger and the key members
of his staff had already left for Australia | by air. After a sev enty-
two-hour leave to break the news to my wife and to arrange
for her to move to Wellesley near my dad, I was off by troop
train across the country and unconvoyed transport across the
Pacific to Rockhampton in tropical Queensland,

It was three years before I got home again, all spent in the
tropics with the artillery of I Corps. The east coast of Australia

[ 109 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

and New Guinea with its strange peoples, wild landscapes, and
tenacious Japs became familiar from Port Moresby, Milne Bay,
and Buna, north and west through Lae, Finschhafen, Aitape, and
Hollandia to Biak and Sansapor in the far Vogelkopt. For four
months I was liaison officer with the famed Ninth Australian
Division, the “Rats of Tobruk,” while they drove the Japs out
of the Huon Peninsula. Never was I with a finer group of men
or one that could do more with less. On Christmas in 1944 I
had dinner with my brother, Laurence, at General Headquarters
in Hollandia, Netherlands East Indies, and then sailed, combat-
loaded, for Luzon. Two weeks later, after meeting Jap subs,
planes, and a destroyer, we landed at Lingayen Gulf to spend six
months routing out the Japs from the hot central plain and the
mountains to Baguio, Ville Verde, Balete and beyond. With I
Corps finally withdrawn from action, I came home, landing in
San Francisco on V-J Day.

Then came leave and my family again, a few. months in
the hospital, now a chicken colonel, and deciding what to do
next, looking for an engineering job and getting a good one,
and then the offer of a major’s commission in the regular Army
with fifteen years of Army life and travel, a chance at jobs that
need good men so badly if our way of life is to be enjoyed by our
children. My wife and I decided to pull up our roots and convert
our boys to “Army brats.” Theirs will be a varied childhood and
schooling, but they will be the better for it.

Our first station was Headquarters, Second Army in Baltimore.
We moved to Fort George G. Meade about a year ago. Now
a permanent lieutenant colonel, my education still continues:
eighteen months of intelligence work, a short course at the Air
University, duty in the Post Headquarters and now in the
Logistical or G-g section of the Army Headquarters. It is a full
life and a satisfying one where there is always need for the
best a man can give. Within a year we expect to go overseas

and the boys will start to see strange lands and to learn how the
rest of the world lives.

| 110 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LOUIS ELLIOTT BURKE

HOME ADDRESS: 80 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: §40 FE. St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: Nov. 7, 1902, Providence, R. I. parents: Antin Burke, Pearl Kritz.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Providence, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922, 1927-1930. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1924(30);
M.B.A., 1932.

MarriED: Fredda Rosenthal, July 15, 1944, Brookline, Mass. cump: Karen
Diane, Oct. 14, 1947.

occuPATION: Credit manager.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Approximately eleven months in the Army,

1942-43.
MEMBER OF: Everett C. Benton Lodge, AF. & A.M.; Temple Ohabei
Shalom Brotherhood.

ILLNESS kept me out of college for six years, 1921-27. In
September, 1927, I returned to complete my work and received
my degree in 1930 and my Business School M.B.A. in 1932. The
business world accepted me about the time the political world
accepted Roosevelt as President.

In 1942 President Roosevelt sent me his “greetings” and had me
fitted with a complete set of G.I. clothes so that I would learn
the rudiments of an M.P. (nothing to do with the English Par-
liament). So clothed, I was accepted as a student at the Camp
Custer Military Government School, whence I was recalled to
attend Officers Training School at Abilene, Texas. From there
I was returned to Camp Custer and discharged because of the old
illness. October, 1943, found me back in the mercantile field.
All this time I had believed in and lived a life of single blessedness.

In 1944 I had the best of reasons to change my belief and was
married in July. The succeeding few years are constantly prov-
ing how wrong my first belief had been. A gorgeous female
bundle — Karen Diane — came from heaven in 1947, and since
then every day has been fuller than the day before, with the
next day a promise of more to come.

Our vacations have consisted of visits to the South Shore and
a memorable trip to Canada — something we hope to repeat. We
have our own religious and political beliefs and views and we sin-
cerely respect the views of others and do not interfere with them.

Our social life is centered about a small group of friends whose
sincerity we value more than glamour,

[ri]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

My wife is a gifted singer who hopes to see her own talents
reflected in our daughter for her own enjoyment.

BRADFORD HINCKLEY BURNHAM

HOME Appress: 20 Hawthorne Ave., Troy, N. Y.

OFFICE AppRESS: St. John’s Church, 146 First St.. Trov, N. Y.

BorN: Oct. 31, 1901, New Haven, Conn. parents: Frederic Lyndon Burn-
ham, Elizabeth Judkins Hinckley.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1924; B.D. (Union Theological
Seminary), 1927.

marriep: Anna Scovel Gorrell, July 24, 1928, Chicago, Ill. cumoren: Anna
Demia, Sept. 28, 1929 (m. Robert Denel Larsen, June 15, 1948); Eliza-
beth Hinckley, July 23, 1934; Frederic Bradford, July 21, 1938.

occupation: Clergyman; rector, St. John’s Episcopal Church.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Civil Air Patrol.

OFFIcES HELD: Member, Religious Education Department, Diocese of Massa-
chusetts, 1936-44, executive committee, Troy Council of Churches,
since 1946; president, Troy Ministerial Association, 1945-46; chaplain,
Troy Citizens’ Corps, Troy Police Department, New York State Fire-
man’s Association.

MEMBER OF: Troy Club; Troy Rotary Club; Troy Business and Professional
Men’s Club; Albany Clericy,; Harvard Club of Albany.

SINCE my ordination to the Protestant Episcopal Church in 1928,
_T have held three positions. For a period of nearly six years |
was vicar of the Church of the Ascension in Boston. Then for a
decade I was rector of St. John’s Church, Beverly Farms, Massa-
chusetts. And since 1944 I have been the rector of St. John’s
Church in Troy. For me this has been the most satisfactory kind
of life. I would not nor could not have been anything else. The
ministry deals with fundamentals.

RANDAL CAYFORD BURRELL

AppREss: % Ginn & Co., Statler Bldg., Boston 11, Mass.

BORN: July 17, 1901, Boston, Mass. parents: Herbert Leslie Burrell, Caroline
White Cayford.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREB: A.B, 1924.

Makriep: Dorothy Howard, Sept. 20, 1924, Cambridge, Mass. cum: Randal.
Jan. 6, 1930.

occupATION: Publishing.

[112 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Burrell did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

ALBERTO JACKSON BYINGTON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Rua Pinheiro Machado 56, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rua Pedro Lessa 35, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

BorN: May 18, 1902, S40 Paulo, Brazil. parents: Albert Jackson Byington,
Pearl Ellis McIntyre.

PREPARED AT: Gilman Country Day School, Baltimore, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREES: A.B. 1924; LL.B. (Sao Paulo Law
School), 1928.

MARRIED: Elisa de Arruda Botelho, Feb. 28, 1930, Séo Paulo, Brazil. cum-
DREN: Maria Elisa, Feb. 7, 1931; Alberto Jackson, 3d, Jan. 9, 1932; Carlos
Amadeu Botelho, March 13, 1933; Brasilia Botelho, May 21, 1935;
Maria Lucia Botelho, July 27, 1938.

occupation: General manager, Byington & Company, manufacturing, engi-
neering, exports, and imports.

SPEAKING of his company, Byington writes: “If it interests
Brazil, it interests Byington & Company.”

PERCY AUSTIN BYRON, JR.

HOME appREss: Rowayton, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Johnson & Wood, 120 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 31, 1903, South Orange, N. J. parenrs: Percy Austin Byron,
Therese Josephine Pugh.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923.

MARRIED: Harriet Wadsworth, Feb. 11, 1933, New Yerk, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Gay, April 18, 1934, Marcy, Jan. 8, 1946.

occupation: Member, New York Stock Exchange.

MEMBER OF: Wee Burn Country Club, Darien, Conn.

I AM still working in Wall Street as a member of the Stock Ex-
change and a partner in the firm of Johnson & Wood.

We haven’t done too much in the last couple of years, but we
have just returned from quite a comprehensive pleasure trip to
the Southwest.

Much to our surprise we had another little girl about twelve
years after our first. If she had been a boy I probably would have
tripped over my beard at Father and Son Day. Incidentally, our
elder child, Gay, is quite an equestrienne at the Madeira School in
Washington.

[113]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Golf is still my sporting passion but I always get too low a
handicap. I have been a member of the board of governors of our
club and a member of the County Golf Association, as well as
being an officer of our beach club.

I have almost daily laughs with Jim Merrill about our freshman
track team.

NELSON CABOT

HOME appreEss: Fieldston Farm, Little Compton, R. 1.
BORN: Jan. 18, rgot, Milton, Mass. parents: F, Elliot Cabot, ’80, Ethel Cun-
ningham.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924(26).

MARRIED: Elisabeth A. Newton, Oct. 10, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Cabot, ’20.

occuPATION: Dairy farming.

OFFICES HELD: Representative, Town Committee; director, Red Cross (local)
and Farm Bureau (local).

AFTER graduation I was in statistical work, first in a private
company and later in the New England Power Company until
the late twenties. In the early thirties I worked for the street
railway in Providence, remaining there until 1938, when I started
dairy farming, an occupation in which I am still engaged.

My only hobbies are fishing and hunting to which I allot more
time than I should.

KENT CAMPBELL

HOME ADDRESS: 1116 Vinetta Drive, St. Louis 22, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Moody’s Investors Service, 320 N. Fourth St., St. Louis 2,
Mo.

BorN: Aug. 5, 1901, Boston, Mass. parents: John Ray Campbell, Mary
Gibbons.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MarRiED: Mrs. Verne Robbel Hopkins, June 12, 1945, Boston, Mass. "CHILD:
Judith Anne, April 16, 1946. stepcHitpreN: Ross Robbel Hopkins,
April 16, 1937; Thomas Richard Hopkins, May 30, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Ray Campbell, 18; Michael Anthony Campbell,
"22,

[114]

SIREN EEE Sage aa BESS

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Representative for St. Louis, Moody’s Investors Service.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: United States Naval Reserve, 1942-45; instructor
in aerology and air navigation; operational duty in aerology, Naval
Air Navigation School, Florida and Oklahoma.

OFFICES HELD: ‘Treasurer and tutor, 1941~42, 1945-47, St. John’s College,
Annapolis, Md.; treasurer and director, 1947-48, Liberal Arts, Inc.,
Stockbridge, Mass.

MULLING over twenty-five years of life since graduation, |
was struck by the disparity between ambitions and accomplish-
ments, between ideals and events. It must be unique; yet, on
reflection, probably not, and, in fact, just average.

What I mean is this: On leaving college I thought quite loftily
that I should endow the teaching profession with my talents, but
then there was no money to be made in just teaching, and since
I had no money and wanted it, or thought I did, I decided to
forego teaching and endow business—and myself. Seventeen
years after leaving college, I entered the teaching profession
quite humbly and without having notably endowed business or
myself.

Again, it seemed to me on graduation that to be married soon
was a proper objective. I liked kids and family life. Two or three
years should provide the essential economic security. Twenty-
one years later, a young attractive widow of great courage and
with two fine boys agreed with me that marriage was a proper
objective, and we have achieved it —a little belatedly for me.

Or again, before entering Harvard, I spent one year at the
Naval Academy, resigning for reasons of health and with no
burning desire to reénter naval service. Eighteen years later, I
was back in the Navy, where betimes I would muse on the extra
stripes that I might have had on my sleeve had the fates been less
whimsical years ago.

Enough of this —— the point is made — belabored! Simply that
the course set was not followed. Still the landmarks seen were
interesting if not as exciting as hoped: the new era in Wall
Street and its eclipse; the terrible, toilsome thirties, so relieved
by discovering skiing and abandoning it in time; the mental

strain involved in undertaking an intensive study of the so- -called
“too Great Books” and in trying to teach from them, and with
this, the satisfaction of learning again; the wasted years of war;
the return to business.

[115 ]

ti aad OY SA a 7 .
Pur neers. at tents. Aci fhitbadphlandabitatnamnices taint nncoriileeaiannannadakiinibitimeeiaes antic anininentia linet aainaiaueannatiamniey, sie,

HARVARD CLASS OF [924

Looking around now, we view the recent election, the re-
current international crises, the atomic age. Should we be fearful
for our children in the future? Certainly not. Fundamental
truths are unchanged, but the tempo of life has been accelerated.
The kids should be conditioned for that by the mechanical age.

And for us oldsters — why it’s the twenty-fifth reunion year, so
soon.

THOMAS CAMPBELL

HOME Appress: 270 Blue Hills Pkwy., Milton, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Roxbury Memorial (Boys) High School, Boston, Mass.

gorN: April 7, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: Patrick Thomas Campbell, 93,
Edith Hayes.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1924; A.M. (Boston Coll.), 1925.

MARRIED: Maxine McKinley, June 24, 1928, Ashmont, Mass. CHILDREN:
Maxine McKinley, March 20, 1929; Jean, April 18, 1932; Brenda, Sept.
22, 1933; Lhomas, Dec. 13, 1937; David, March 27, 1940; Bruce, Sept.
22, 1942; Donald, Nov. 6, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Teacher-coach.

MINE are the usual trials and tribulations of the average family

man trying to keep the wolf from the door. So far, Pm still half
a jump ahead.

GEORGE HERBERT CAREY

HOME ADDRESS: Edgartown, Mass.

BORN: May 9, 1900, Tuxedo Park, N. Y. parents: Frederic Foster Carey,
Alice Madeleine Lewis.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MarrieD: Freda Frost, Nov. 23, 1928, Far Hills, N. J. (divorced 1940);
Virginia Melody, April 8, 1942, Jokake, Ariz, (divorced); Freda Frost,
1946. cHitp: Sheila de Peyster, Aug. 1, 1930. ’

Occupation: Retired.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Officers’ Training School, Miami Beach, Fla.,
August to September, 1942; 1st lieutenant, cadet tactical officer, October,
1942, to December, 1943; captain, squadron intelligence officer, attached
to 490th Bomb Group (Heavy) Eye, England, until close of hostilities.

MEMBER OF: Edgartown Reading Room.

EXCEPT for the thirty-six months spent in the Army Air Forces
during World War II, my time has been occupicd with stock

[116]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

brokerage activities and investments, with occasional sideline
activities, such as launching a tourist court and travel bureau, ex-
perimenting with the soilless culture of tomato plants, founding
a restaurant, editorial. writing, and photography. I am now going
to take up my reading where I left off after college graduation,
try writing some poetry, study hydroponics and soil culture, try
politics and city government, and chop wood. I am looking for-
ward to a busy life.

THOMAS MORRISON CARNEGIE, JR.

appress: P. O. Box 1493, St. Augustine, Fla.

BoRN: Dec. 24, 1900, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Thomas Morrison Carnegie,
Virginia Beggs.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922.

Marriep: Dorothy Duncan, June 26, 1922, New York, N. Y.; Blanche
Strebeigh Sloan, Oct. 19, 1930, Newport R. I. cuitprex: Thomas Morri-
son, 3d, April 7, 1923; Andrew, June 10, 1932.

OCCUPATION: Writer.

I HAVE been working hard on magazine articles and paintings
in St. Augustine. I keep close touch with all Harvard activities,
but my work has kept me in the South.

CHARLES CUMMINGS CARPENTER

HOME ApDpDRESS: 10 Brook Lane, Scarsdale, N. Y.

OFFICE appreEss: International Paper Sales Company, Inc. 2:0 E. g:nd St.
New York, N. Y.

BORN: July 7, 1902, Castine, Maine. pAreNtTs: Edward Heman Carpenter,
Lillian Saunders Cummings.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1024. DEGREES: A.B. 1924; M.BA., 1931.

MARRIED: Madeleine Mary MacKenzie, Oct. 3, 1934, New York, N. Y. cHit-
DREN: Charles Cummings, Jr., July 15, 1939 (died May 26, 1947); Susan,
Sept. 25, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Nathaniel Carpenter, ’21,

OCCUPATION: Newsprint paper sales,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York: Whippoorwill Club; Scarsdule
Town Club.

THE echo of President Lowell’s Commencement Day words, “I
welcome you to the ranks of educated men,” had hardly died

[117]

a a2 FP eee poem eee ceneene nennnenmee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

before Bud Coburn and I were off for a summer tour of Europe
during which we had the pleasure of running across several of
our classmates making similar jaunts.

Upon my return to Boston at the end of the summer, I went to
the Harvard Alumni Appointment Office in search of a job. The
office, it seemed, was on the list of several companies who wanted
the privilege of being able to hire Harvard men. As I left the
office, contemplating my good fortune at being able to select my
work so easily, I met an old grad whom I had known for some

years and asked his advice on "the names of companies given me
for interviewing,

He suggested that the International Paper Company might be
a good place to try as a friend of his had just gone in as president
and he thought his friend would make a great success of the
company. He also offered to phone him in New York and make
a date for an interview, an offer I gratefully accepted.

The first thing I was asked during my interview was how I
happened to think of International. When I told the president
I obtained it from the list at the Alumni Appointment Office, he
buzzed his secretary, told her to call Boston and tell the office
to remove the name from the list.

Most of my first year with International was spent in working
in various departments of several mills familiarizing myself with
the manufacturing process. After that I served several months’
apprenticeship in the sales offices at Chicago, Boston, and New
York, and then back to Boston in the fall of 1927.

By the summer of 1929 I was thoroughly discontented with
my lot, particularly so when I heard of the riches being amassed
by some of our classmates who had gone to the Business School,
and who were associated with Wall Street activities. I convinced
my boss that a course at the Business School, where I would

absorb some of this know-how, would make me more valuable to
the company and I obtained a leave of absence for two years to
get my M.B.A.

After graduation in June, 1931, I was glad to have a job waiting
for me in the head office of the company in New York, For the
next five years I was engaged in personnel and effi iciency work as
assistant to the sales manager. In 1936 1 went into newsprint
sales where I have been ever since.

[118 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In the fall of 1934 I had the good fortune to marry Madeleine
Mary MacKenzie and, after a honeymoon in Bermuda and Maine,
we moved to suburban Hartsdale. In 1939 our son was born and
a vear later we moved into our present home in Scarsdale. In
the fall of 1941 our daughter was born.

The war years found me glued to my post at home. My doc-
tor told me my blood pressure was such that I would be of no
interest to any of the armed forces. Asa result, my “war activi-
ties” consisted of being an auxiliary policeman and a Red Cross
blood donor.

We were a happy little family until tragedy struck us on
May 21, 1947. Our son was taken to the hospital for an emergency
appendix operation. Unusual complications arose during the
- operation which prevented his regaining consciousness and he
died five days later. It is difficult to have very positive religious
convictions, which the outline requests, when such an event takes -
place.

My travels have been rather limited in scope. For the past few
years I have made one or two trips a year to the wilds of Canada
for some trout fishing. Vacation time usually finds me returning
to my native Maine. Aside from that my travels are usually only
a hop and a straddle from home.

I have no particular hobbies, although I find gardening in-
creasingly more interesting and feel that I am getting old enough
to play golf. In fact, I am looking forward to developing 3
game for old age this coming summer.

As for my political views — well, I was born in Maine. What
else would you expect but a rock-ribbed Republican? That's no
joke, son — and I don’t mean a New Deal Republican either. I
think the Jast election proved conclusively that this country is
headed for state socialism but if there is any way I can retard it
I shall try to do so.

FREDERIC IVES CARPENTER

HOME appress: 1111 Park Hills Rd., Berkeley 8, Calif.

OFFICE AppREss: University of California, Berkeley 4, Calif.

BORN: Feb. 1, 1903, Chicago, Hl, parents: Frederic Ives Carpenter, ‘8s.
Emma Cook.

PREPARED AT; Thacher School, Ojai, Calif.

[119 ]

cdr AAI I anT tC AEE LR,
ae oe

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. magna cuit laude, 1924; A.M.
1927; PH.D. (Univ. of Chicago), 1929.

marrieD: Lillian Moore Cook, Feb. 6, 1926, Evanston, Ill. cuitpren: Barbara
Breckenridge, Dec. 21, 19:8; Alan Frederic, March 21, 1930; Anne
Elizabeth, July 18, 1933; John Randell, April 14, 1936.

occupaTION: Teacher and writer; with the English Department, University
of California, specializing in American Literature.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, University of Chicago, 1924-26, 1927-28; instructor
and tutor, Harvard, 1929-34; editor, New England Quarterly, 1929-36;
lecturer, University of California, since 1946.

MEMBER OF: Faculty Club, University of California.

PUBLICATIONS: Emerson and Asia, Harvard, 1930, Emerson, American Book
Co., 1934; numerous articles in New England Quarterly, Pacific Spec-
tator, Southwest Review, College English.

SINCE graduation, my life has been mostly academic. Besides
college teaching, which has been somewhat irregular, I have
mostly been writing books and essays on the general subject of
American literature and ideas. These have been partly scholarly,
but (to me, at least) they have been an attempt to figure out
what our “American Experiment” is all about — in other words,
what is the purpose or meaning of these lives that all of us are
writing now. So far, | have only succeeded in casting out tenta-
tive suggestions, and the “great book” remains to be written.
Perhaps it never will be, but like Robert Bruce’s spider, I keep
spinning out threads of thought and jumping off into empty
space; and I still hope that some day 1 may reach the other side.

Meanwhile, I have married and have done my best to increase
the Harvard birthrate. My elder daughter is a sophomore at the
University of California, and my elder son is struggling to solve
the problem of a college education and the draft.

As to hobbies, I played squash racquets strenuously (was west-
ern champion once), until a sacroiliac put an end to such fool-
ishness. More recently I have played the less strenuous, if equally
foolish, game of tournament contract bridge, and attained the
rank of “national master.”

Three years ago I moved from Massachusetts to California,
and now live in the Berkeley hills, where I hope to entertain Har-
vard friends who still remain young enough to go West.

[ 120 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE BENJAMIN CARPENTER

HOME apprEss: 311 Belden Ave., Chicago 14, Ill.

OFFicE ApprEss: Medill Welding & Engineering Co. 2934 Medill Ave.,
Chicago 47, Ill.

BorN: Nov. 11, 1901, Chicago, Ill. parents: George Albert Carpenter, °88,
Harriet Isham.

PREPARED AT: Chicago Latin School, Chicago, Ill.; Morristown School, Mor-
ristown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920—1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MarRIED: Beatrice Barclay Chard, June 20, 1938, Cazenovia, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Thornton Chard, April 29, 1941; George Benjamin, Jr., April 4, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Isham Carpenter, ’29 (deceased).

OccUPATION: Operating a contract welding business.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Zone captain, Civilian Defense.

OFFICES HELD: Past director and secretary, George B. Carpenter & Company,
Chicago, Carpenter Realty Company, Chicago, National Coffer Paint
Corporation, Chicago; past assistant treasurer and vice-president, First
Factoring Corporation of Chicago; past director and secretary-treasurer,
Duck Slough Hunting Club of Beardstown, Ill; director, president,
and treasurer, Medill Welding and Engineering Company, Chicago,
director and treasurer, Shakespeare Building Corporation, Chicago.

TINKER, tailor, etc., etc. etc.” Remember the old rhyme?
Well, it fits me perfectly! Twelve years in a hundred-year-old
family wholesale business, selling cotton goods, cordage, and mill
supplies. Five years in the commercial finance business, during
which time we financed the manufacture of a very sizable part of
those one-piece coveralls that the Army wore, also radar parts
and other hush-hush things that we had to take on faith.

For the last three and a half years I have owned a two-thirds
share of a welding business. We do contract welding for manu-
facturers, making everything from radios to steam shovels.

And there is always something on the side —a company very
busy liquidating family real estate holdings; a faucet manufactur-
ing firm; and just recently, a codperative building company own-
ing the building in which we live.

On the lighter side, as always, I still find a bit of time for trout
fishing. I wish it were still worth while to drive one hundred and
eighty miles for a couple of days of duck shooting. But the days
when the limit was thirty ducks a day have gone, I fear, forever.
Now I try for a day or so of pheasant shooting nearer home, and
hope to get my two birds a day.

[ 121 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Back in the twenties, I spent several summers exploring the
nooks and crannies of Lake Michigan on my cousin’s sloop. But
that, I find, takes more time than a married man can afford to
spend, so now I am strictly a landlubber!

And speaking of marriage! Having avoided it until a little over
ten years ago, I am now convinced that it is here to stay. And I]
firmly believe that I have an advantage over the many classmates
who married earlier. I am now enjoying the antics of two sons
under ten years of age.

MAURICE LEO CARROLL, JR.

HOME aApprEss: 6 Seaborn St., Dorchester 24, Mass.

OFFicE ApprEss: U. S. Dept. of Commerce, 1800 Custom House, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 21, 1903, Boston, Mass, parents: Maurice Leo Carroll, Catherine
Josephine Gibbons.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: AB., 1924; A.M. (Univ. of Michigan),
1927.

MARRIED: Dorothy Margaret Hodgens, Sept. 7, 1927, Boston, Mass. cHIL-
DREN: Joan, July 14, 1928; Richard Paul, Aug. 27, 1933.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Thompson Carroll, ’28 (deceased).

occuPATION: Business specialist in foreign trade, United States Department
of Commerce.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Special agent, Federal Bureau of Investigation,
in constant travel status, 1943~47.

MEMBER OF: Phi Kappa; Omicron Delta Kappa; Department of Commerce
Associates (secretary).

HOW well I remember that June day when I was graduated
from Harvard with a major in Romance languages. I remember
especially my utter inability at the time to decide whether I
should surrender to a sordid ambition to enter the business world
and become enormously wealthy, or give in to an irresistible de-
sire to spend the rest of my life enjoying the study and use of for-
eign languages — an objective which apparently could best be
attained by becoming a member of the teaching profession.

I thought I had that problem solved once and for all when,
after a year’s dull experience divided between a New England
concern manufacturing rubber and one manufacturing soap, I
accepted a position as instructor of modern languages at the Uni-
versity of Michigan, where I remained for two years, And what

[122 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a shock it was for me, a Bostonian, to find that west of Massachu-
setts there were also brilliant people and excellent institutions of
learning!

From 1927 to 1943 I taught French and Spanish, first as instruc-
tor and later as assistant professor, at the Carnegie Institute of Tech-
nology in Pittsburgh. During my free time I took an active part
in amateur dramatics with various groups such as the Stage and
Play Society, the Alliance Frangais and the Foyer Frangais. I also
was a proud member of one of the greatest “live-wire” aggre-
gations of sons of Harvard that exists anywhere — the Harvard
Club of Western Pennsylvania.

When World War II came along, I sought an opportunity to
be more useful in the war effort and found jit in an appointment
as special agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It was
during the period I spent in this work — 1943 to 1947 — that I
experienced the immense satisfaction of witnessing the complete
vindication of one of my most cherished beliefs — that the study
of foreign languages is not something to be undertaken merely
by those who aspire only to be dilettanti, to loll in lazy idleness
reading literary gems in foreign tongues, while the world of
reality indifferently passes them by. On the contrary, it has
worth-while and, at times, deadly-serious objectives. What as-
tounds me no end these days is the complete ignorance and
apathy of our citizenry vis-a-vis the history, language, customs,
and geography of Soviet Russia and the Latin American countries
in particular. For example, we talk about our Good Neighbor
Policy, yet not one in a hundred among us can name the Great
Liberator of South America!

For some two years now I have been a business specialist in
foreign trade with the United States Department of Commerce.
My office atop the Custom House in Boston affords a beautiful
view of the city and harbor, both dear to the heart of ev ery Bos-
tonian. Much of my leisure time ts devoted to playing piano
duets with my talented wife and young son for the enjoyment
of our friends and for our own amusement; a good bit is devoted
to the observation of the intriguing and reassuring metamorpho-
sis of my bobby-sox daughter. into a charming young lady.

What do I owe most to Harvard? These things, I chink: a juse
appreciation of the real values in life, an unwillingness to take all

[ 123 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

things at their face value, and a deep regard for the dignity of

man.

EDWARD NATHAN CARSON

HOME Abpress: 9 W. Tenth St., New York, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1 Wall St., New York, N. Y.
BoRN: Nov. 2, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: Edward Carson, Helen

Isabel Bonn.
PREPARED AT: New Rochelle High School, New Rochelle, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

marriepD: Anita Louise Sharp, June, 1931 (died 1932); Emily Abercrombie
Snow, 1934. cHILD: Edward, March 5, 1932.

occupation: Vice-president, C. F, Childs Company.

HENRY T. CARTER

LAST KNOWN appreEss: Harvard Club, 27 W. qath St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 7, 1904, Montreal, P. Q., Canada. parents: Henry Goldmark,
'78, Mary Carter Thompkins.

PREPARED AT: Massee Country School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

OccUPATION: Education.

CARTER has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since
September 7, 1944.

a

RANSOM FULLER CARVER

HOME AppRESS: 1215 La Canada Rd., Hillsborough, San Mateo, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Community Chests and Councils of America, Inc., Room
301, 333 Kearny St. San Francisco 8, Calif.

porN: April 15, 1902, Brookline, Mass. parents: Eugene Pendleton Carver,
Clara Thurston Porter.

PREPARED AT: Sanford School, Redding Ridge, Conn.; St. John’s School,
Manlius, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREES; A.B., 1924(25); A.M., 1931; B.D. (Mead-
ville Theological Seminary), 1928, m.s.w. (Univ. of Southern Cali-
fornia), 1940.

MARRIED: Amy Jeanette Hedrick, June 30, 1928, East Lansing, Mich. cutt-
DREN: John Pendleton, July 23, 1934; Carol Baker, Oct, 7, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: Eugene Pendleton Carver, Jr., ’13.

xoCUPATION: Social worker, Pacific arca representative of Community
Chests and Councils of America, Inc,

[124]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned captain in Army, May, 19433
graduated, School of Military Government, Charlottesville, Va. 1943;
overseas in Sicily, Italy, England, France, Germany, and Austria until
February, 1946, serving as Public Welfare Officer in Military Govern-
ment, released from active duty in May, 1946, as major.

OFFICES HELD: Pastor, First Parish Church, Billerica, Mass., 1928-31, Unitarian
Church of Santa Barbara, Calif., 1931-32; state field representative,
Michigan and California Emergency Relief Administrations, 1933-34;
executive director, Community Chest and Council of Social Agencies,
Santa Barbara, 1934-36, Pasadena, 1936-41, San Francisco, 1941-433
Pacific area representative, Community Chests and Councils of America,
Inc., since 1947.

MEMBER OF: Theta Delta Chi Fraternity; Alpha Kappa Psi Fraternity;
American Association of Social Workers; California Conference of
Social Work; National Conference of Social Work; International Con-
ference of Social Work; American Unitarian Association.

MOST men in college don’t know what they want to do when
they graduate. I was no exception. During my beefing about
what career to follow, the family minister suggested that I be-
come a Unitarian minister. The idea was so preposterous, since I
had never had inclinations along that line and no member of my
family ever wore the “cloth,” that it appealed to me more and
more as time passed. After stumbling around a bit, I graduated
from theological school, got married, and took my first church.
During my three years there, since it was near Cambridge, I
studied on the side under Dr. Richard Cabot and Dr. James Ford
and took a degree in Harvard’s social work courses. In my second
church, in California, I discovered that I was much more inter-
ested in my hobby, social work, than in the ministry, so I re-
signed, did more graduate study, and became a Social Worker —
which I’ve been ever since. But I look back upon my nearly five
years in the ministry as among the happiest in my life, though I
shudder to think of the sermons I preached to those kindly, pa-
tient, friendly people, who were so good to me.

The thing I liked least in social work was money raising, yet
I have been in the Community Chest field most of my career ever
since. Guess all of us find that we are successful (?) in things
at which we work hard because we don’t much care for them and
want to finish them quickly.

During the recent war, I was an army officer in the mulitary
governments of Italy and Austria, spending over three years

[125 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

abroad. I was always a Public Welfare Officer, so kept on being

a social worker.

My wife and two children and I have lived for many years
now in California, and love it here. Nothing appeals to us more
than California’s climate, and we never expect to move East
again. Of course, it has brought its conflicts into my personal
life, since “nobody” approves of carrying an umbrella and wear-
ing rubbers among the confirmed California males. Before en-
tering the Army, I still retained my New England tendencies,
and my umbrella and rubbers stood out in the California crowds.
Rain felt wet to me, even if it didn’t to my California friends!
But the Army stopped me from wearing rubbers and carrying an
umbrella, and upon returning to Californian civilian life, I found
myself disliking to return to my previous habits too completely.
A conflict arose! Now, of course, I could have gone to one of
those psychiatrist fellers and decided my conflict. But I am
tighter than the bark on a hickory tree, and was darned if I'd
waste money on medical fees when there was a cheaper way out.
So when this winter's rains come, if you are out San Francisco
way, you'll probably see your old classmate wearing one rubber
and carrying a half-opened umbrella in compromise. I’m a mid-
dle-of-the-roader, not too conservative, not too radical, you un-
derstand,

Many of my old friends, as middle age has grabbed them, are
worrying about their old-age security. Of course, my occupa-
tion is denied those social security cards that others carry, but I
haven't a worry in the world about my old age. When my wife
and I go “over the hill to the poorhouse,” it will be with serene
and confident hearts, despite our broken health and lack of fi-
nances. After all, a guy who runs a poorhouse is a member of my
trade, isn’t he? So I'll give him the social worker’s grip and de-
mand the “courtesy of the trade,” and get a room and bath, at
least.

In 1999, when our Class holds its 75th, I'll see you boys in
Cambridge. How’ll I finance it in the almshouse? Don’t worry
about that. All poorhouses have boards of directors, and those
boards are usually wealthy “do-gooders.” When I need to raise
the cash for the trip East, Pll get out my old tin begging-cup and

my Persian weeping rug, brush up on the old money-raising

[ 126 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

techniques of the professional money-raiser, go before the board,
and rattle my cup and rub my rug. I'll get the money all right.
See you in Cambridge, in 1999, as well as in 1949!

WILLIAM JAMES CASEY

HOME ADDRESS: 35-24 78th St, Jackson Heights, N. Y.

OFFICE ApDpREss: Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., 1 Madison Ave. New
York, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 13, 1902, Scranton, Pa. PARENTS: James Joseph Casey, Mary Agnes
Halpin.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Scranton, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1925. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1924(25).

MARRIED: Sarah Elizabeth MacMillan, Feb. 6, 1930, Scranton, Pa.

occupation: Insurance, actuarial work principally connected with group
annuity retirement plans.

MY CLASSMATES, if any of you has anything to do with group
annuity contracts which your companies may have or hold cer-
tificates under a retirement plan, you will have some idea of the
kind of work I do. I have a hand in producing such fearful and
wonderful documents.

For recreation I occasionally engage in such activities as golf,
contract bridge, checkers, billiards, bowling, and bicycling. Vo-
cally, provided I supply the words, I am the peer of any master
of these pursuits. However, on the field of performance,
especially if any expenditure of physical energy is involved, I
‘am one of the prize chumps of the ages. At least I never lack for
competitors. I like to think there is a lesson in this situation: in
a great many fields solid accomplishment is made by dealing with
those who dwell within the most probable areas of those queer
bell-shaped distributional curves, not with those who inhabit the
far reaches. Let this not be taken as a chant in praise of medi-
ocrity; it is not meant that way.

My hobby, if I have one, is an interest in American history, to
which, to my regret, I did not expose myself in college. All hob-
byists try to snare the other fellow; being no exception, I urge
all who have not already done so to read S. E. Morison’s Admiral
of the Ocean Sea and Beveridge’s Life of John Marshall. Sue me
if you are not sorry when you come to the end of each.

If any of you should poke fun at me for the products of my

[127 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

business labors because of their difficulty of comprehension, |
have a defense — read the philosophers. Sooner or later we all do
or at least produce our own. All that [ have read on the subject,
which isn’t much, I would boil down to this: man is either a
product of natural forces or that and something transcendent to
the neutral orders. The problem of conscience alone is sufficient
to convince one of the latter. The latter is the foundation of the
dignity, importance, and responsibility of the individual, the very
basis of our civilization. The professionals are, of course, much
better at this sort of thing than I. However, to my way of think-
ing, the point is that if the dwellers within the most probable
areas of the bell-shaped distributional curves reject the transcend-
ent view, our democratic way of life will face serious storms in

the future years. We are our brothers’ keepers and, just as im-
portant, they are ours.

ANTHONY BURNES CASSEDY

HOME apprEss: R.D. 2, Westport (Weston), Conn.
OFFICE appREss: 10 E. gqth St. New York, N. Y.

BORN: June 21, 1900, Woburn, Mass. parents: James Stephen Cassedy, Susan
Agnes Burnes.

PREPARED AT: Chauncy Hall School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924, DEGREE: S.B., 1924, |

marrieD: Caroline Whiting Finn, May 5, 1931, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Kevin Halsey, March 21, 1932; Sean, April 13, 1934; Treasa Jordan,

Dec. 15, 1938; Marcia Whiting, April 2, 1940; Paula Mills, Oct. 9, 19415
Judith Cook, Aug. 5, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Gerard Jordan Cassedy, °33.
OCCUPATION: Sales management.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Union Boat Club of Boston,
Stamford Yacht Club.

FROM the year I graduated until the present moment I have had
one single business interest —sales. Latterly this trade has ac-
quired a lot of new high-blown titles such as marketing and
merchandising, and there has grown an involved hierarchy of oc-
cupations and specialties under these headings. Among them, ap-
titude testing, consumer research, personnel counsel, point-of-sale,
product appraisal, copy testing, sales letters, incentive plans, sales
contests, premium offers, and on and on. The purpose of the
whole business is simply to sell a housewife a can of peas, a lip-

{128 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

stick, or a pressure cooker. The competitive situation has devel-
oped all these geniuses with the positive answer to your problems
in their field.

A professional sales manager is a good deal like the leading lady
in a musical. If the box office is good, she’s beautiful and sings
like a nightingale; if not, who hired the so and so. Actually the
‘failure of the show may be attributable to the book, the score,
the costumes, the set, or any of a dozen elements of production.
The leading lady is only a symbol of the whole idea.

So with selling. It is the codrdination of the right product, the
right advertising (and that means advertising which has some-
thing to say) and the right sales organization rather than empha-
sis on any one of these that makes a product go.

Contrary to all the prating about the free-enterprise system —
the benefits therefrom rarely extend to the sales force. Free
enterprise and the profit system are too often arrested at the ex-
ecutive, head office level. Top management fears that a salesman
will get above himself if he makes too much money and hence
the allowable sales cost is rarely given to the man who does the
selling, on the theory that he might make more money than his
boss and hence disrupt the organization. Humanly and naturally,
he is careful to sell only what he knows to be the required mini-
mum, since he cannot expect to be paid more even if he sells
more. This is not true of the house-to-house commission men,
but it is characteristic of the corporate attitude towards salesmen.

Conclusion: if the American corporation and the profit sys-
tem are to survive, we must get everybody on the team, the profit
motive must be spread and everybody concerned with the cor-
porate welfare should be cut in, somehow, somewhere along the
line, and be made profit conscious. When employees consider
themselves partners no matter how small their share, secretaries
and office boys will believe in and sell the enterprise system.
Then the board and management will not need to hire paid pub-
licity people to say things that their own employees do not
believe. Over these years I have travelled the country for the Sy-
racuse Washing Machine Corporation, National Distillers Prod-
ucts Corporation, and for the last six years have been marketing
aide to the president of Yale and Towne Manufacturing Com.
pany. His accidental drowning a year ago was a tremendous loss

[129]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

to the business community as he was one of the most brilliant
and far-seeing corporation presidents in the country as well as a
sincere spokesman for American business.

We live happily in the beautiful town of Weston, Connecticut.
Our six children constitute a sizable minority in the community,
a very great joy to their parents, and a big grindstone of their
father’s nose.

We sail our old New York Thirty from the Stamford Yacht
Club, and last summer cruised to Nantucket and back. When
Kevin, Sean, Caroline, and I become better sailors, we hope to
win the Vineyard Race. We captured one first at Larchmont
last summer, an accident I’m sure, but our enthusiastic crew needs
much more racing experience. |

The inflation of our grocery bill, etc., cosmic wrangling in in-
ternational politics, the bitterness of labor management relations,

and two boys approaching draft age — all trouble the Cassedys
as they do you.

MILTON BARNARD CASSON

HOME apprEss: 44 Longwood Ave., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jones, McDuffee & Stratton Corp., 640 Commonwealth Ave.,
Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 5, 1902, Hull, Mass. parents: Samuel K. Casson, Etta Barnard.
PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1025. DEGREE: AB., 1924(25).

MarRIED: Catherine Helene Buckley, Sept. 28, 1926, Brookline, Mass.

occupation: Officer of the corporation, Jones, McDuffee & Stratton, in
charge of various departments,

OFFICES HELD: President, Cavendish Club of Boston, 1947-48, New England
Food Service Equipment Industry, 1945.
MEMBER OF: Cavendish Club; Boston Chess Club.

I WAS a little late in receiving my degree from the College, tak-
ing it in 1925 instead of 1924, but 1 am still loyal to the Class with
which I entered, and am on the books as a member of the Class of
1924.

On leaving school, I went to work one year at A. C. Lawrence
Leather Tannery but found the life a little too rugged and the

prospects a little too dim for my liking. I entered the mercantile
field with Mitchell-Woodbury Company, an old Boston import-

[ 130]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing house. This firm eventually merged with Jones, McDuffee &
Stratton, and I merged along with them. My present firm is one
of the oldest businesses in Boston, although, naturally, through
the last one hundred forty-odd years both the ownership and the
nature of the business have changed. We are now engaged prin-
cipally in supplying hotels and institutions, and in addition to the
china for which the name of Jones has always been famous, we
also supply kitchen equipment:and institutional, furniture.

I have no Harvard relatives, my only brother being the be-
nighted heathen who went to Pennsylvania. However, I am in
hopes that one of my nephews will matriculate at Harvard, prob-
ably next fall.

I have always been a registered Republican, although not an ar-
dent one (I voted for Roosevelt). In fact, the only time I ever
remember voting a straight Republican ticket was in the recent
débacle. Although I have no respect for the Democratic party,
either locally or nationally, I find my views are somewhat to the
left of the old guard Republican. |

I was born in the Jewish faith, and now find myself with abso-
lutely no religious convictions or belief in a personal God.
Maybe this is a result of Economics 8 under Professor Carver,
because I have always been willing to settle for a telic universe.

During the war my efforts were limited to contributing a few
quarts of blood and buying bonds.

_ My hobby has always been bridge. In this field I have achieved

some success, since at various times I have won all of the New
England titles, although the best I have ever done is finish third
in the 1947 Open Pairs. I am Life Master #6117.

HARRY GREER CAYLEY

HOME apprEss: Apt. 5S, 41-30 46th St., Long Island 4, N. Y.

OFFICE appRESS: Room 31, Press Bldg., New York University, School of Edu-
cation, Washington Sq. E., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 11, 1902, Orillia, Ont., Canada. parents: John Joseph Cavley,
Lela Maude MacDonald.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mfass.; Berkeley Preparatory
School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: S.B., 1924; ED.M., 1932; Ep.p. (Columbia
Univ.), 1937.

[130]

L_-

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

marriep: Camille Kereszturi, June 15, 1929, Newark, N. J. (divorced 1947);
Marv Beyer, Dec. 19, 1947. New Brunswick, N. J. ciuo: Paul, June 29,
1933.

cca rtON: Assistant professor of English education.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Committee on Comparative Literature, College Sec.
tion, National Council of Teachers of English, since 1944.

MEMBER OF: National Council of Teachers of English; College English As-
sociation; American Society for Aesthetics, American Federation of

Arts; Museum of Modern Art, New York, Modern Language As-
sociation.

IS THERE,” asks Fritz, “a skeleton in your closet, that you do
not write your biography for us?” No. Unfortunately, no. My
skeletons all are public.

A professor lives by the exhibition of the bones, joints, and
articulations of his mind. However, I have thus far refrained
from the ultimate immodesty of publishing at large to any but
my classes. I’ve written no books; and, until lack of critical sense
ensues, shall probably write none.

Indeed, in my field—the humanities conceived as an integral
whole —a conscientious book must be the postscript to a life-
time rather than the preliminary or even a middle. Meanwhile,
however, one teaches, and in teaching, learns; that is the chief
compensation of our profession, if not of life itself.

My work, to describe it in another way, has been the constant
pursuit of the liberal education which, in the Harvard of 1920-
24, I, and you, failed to get. Primarily, I have been concerned
with the newer programs of general education in colleges; and,
within these, the program in the humanities.

You and I were in the hands of specialists, of which no insti-
tution at our time could show, more than did ours, a distinguished
collection of specimens. I honor our professors for the rigorous-
ness of their standards, but, in the end, must praise them largely
for having done the wrong things perfectly.

Scholars, as we've said, there were in plenty; but educators, al-
most none. Subjects had divided and subdivided endlessly into
smaller and more isolated compartments, and the liberal was de-
fined paradoxically, as sixteen units of the specialized,

The chief merits in the Harvard of our day were the Widener
Library, far better than any classes, and the stimulation of the
many, faculty and students alike, who, in a larger propor

tion
[132]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

than I have seen elsewhere, were genuinely interested in learning.

But the curriculum with its multitude of isolated course-parts
was no more than an amorphous mess of separate kidneys, livers,
etc., a group of organs without organic connection, without,
therefore, a physiology; in short, thoroughly dead.

Literature, to mention but a single example, had become separated
from philosophy, and philosophy from literature. In conse-
quence, the latter had lost an instrument of interpretation which
it cannot do without, and philosophy was deprived of a concrete-
ness of illustration which too often renders it both unread and
unreadable.

The problem of scholarship then, as now, was simply this: to
recognize that after a long period of analytic splitting of subjects
into more and more minute specialties, we were in need of the
corrective of an opposite process — broad-fields synthesis.

In broad-fields synthesis lies also the key to liberal education.
The liberal is distinguished from the specialized by the fact that
its relations are not primarily within the subject itself but within
important aspects of experience-in-the-large. This is the meaning
of the word /iberal unless, as we’ve said, it is to be defined as no
more than the sum of the specialized.

Particularly is this true in my own field of the humanities. The
latter by their very nature touch existence as a unified whole.
Taught largely in terms of relations within a particular subject,
the humanities are not liberal but specialized, and in becoming so,
lack emphasis upon the very qualities which are central to their
meaning. Indeed, taught as narrow specialties, and too commonly
they are taught that way, the humanities are not humane but dis-
tinctly inhuman.

Harvard’s new courses in general education — courses cutting
across departmental boundaries — offer the beginnings of an es-
sential corrective. In providing a broad context of interrelations,
they promote the broad-fields synthesis which, fundamentally,
defines the liberal.

My particular job is in the area just mentioned, with the addi-
tion that my work includes programs for the training of college
teachers for general education, and, hence, a new type of broad-
fields doctorate on the humanities as a unit.

The need is obvious. Thus far, we've trained our professors

[ 133]

=

HARVARD CLASS OF 192 4

I approve, if only on the ground that in it selfishness is Most
widely diffused. For religion, I have some respect; but for or-
ganized churches, almost none. In recent times, the only im-
portant Christian has been a Hindu — Gandhi.

From all these remarks, you may properly conclude that your
classmate has not been characterized by any conspicuous regard
for the benefits of conformity. On the other hand, though he
believes in reform, he is not easily able, except at a distance, to
tolerate most reformers. The one-track mind misses too much,
including humor. And the driving force within reform is so often
the product of extreme frustration that the individual is thor-
oughly warped. Indeed, something of this is not unknown in the
academic profession, where frustrations, economic and other, are
so often extreme.

On the whole, you'd probably describe your classmate’s gen-
eral attitude as one of disillusionment, even, I hope, of genial dis-
illusionment. His most immediate personal problem is how to

live on an aesthetic level, in a capitalist society, on a proletarian
salary. Any suggestions?

ALBERT JAMES CHAFE

HOME Appress: 89 N. Common St., Lynn, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: St. Stephen’s Memorial Church, Lynn, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 30, 1901, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Nathaniel James Chafe,
Elizabeth Upshall.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; B.D. (Episcopal
Theological School), 1928,

MARRIED: Nathalie Amback, Sept. 13, 1926, Boston, Mass. cuitp: Wallace
LeSeur, Sept. 3, 1927.

occupation: Clergyman, rector, St. Stephen’s Episcopal Church.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Lynn.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional articles; hundreds of sermons.

THE Twenty-fifth Reunion of the Class of 1924 finds me just
completing twenty years in the active ministry of the Episcopal
Church. I entered college with the ministry in mind, but the
economic pressures were too great for the son of a working man
and I was diverted temporarily into the field of economics and
business. Fortunately it took only a year to convince me that I

[ 136]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

was misplaced. I therefore entered the Episcopal Theological
School, and graduated in 1928. Since then I have been trying to
give spiritual leadership in the two industrial communities to
which I have been assigned. With boom, depression, war, and
inflation following one another in too rapid succession, and in
communities where their effects have been quickly felt, it has
been a help to have the economics background that Harvard
gave, though I doubt that the average Harvardian of the 1920's
would ever have predicted or understood some of the develop-
ments in our economy that are now taken for granted (or are
they?). The problem of spiritual guidance and interpretation
of life through these years has been equally difficult. It is all
right for the average man to read his paper and make his com-
ments in his own little group, but to face, Sunday after Sunday,
a congregation which is baffled by events and looks to you to
tell it just what the Lord means by depressions, unemployment,
war and destruction, boom and bust, is one of the most severe
tests of faith I know. It has not been easy, and I am still looking
for the answers along with the rest of you. At the same time,
if this be Life, with a capital letter, we do bear witness to the
courage, fortitude, patience, faith, and, yes, love even unto death,
that lies latent in the human personality and is revealed, some-
times in the least expected places and in no small measure, at
times of greatest crisis. Just at present I am wondering if the
hardest thing to spiritualize may not be prosperity and success.
It seems that there must be a felt need to keep people close to
God. Hence, looking back, the depression and war eras were to
me spiritually more satisfying and fruitful than today, just be-
cause people knew then, at least, that they were hungry and in
need of clothing. (See Isaiah 55.)

Wouldn’t you know that this is a preacher’s writing? This
particular preacher’s life has not been in any sense extensive, geo-
graphically, socially, or experientially, But it has been more than
ordinarily intensive, plumbing the depths. We bear our humble
witness that life is good and men are fine in the deepest places.
It is hard sometimes to believe that “AII’s well on earth,” but we
are still naive and simple enough to continue to believe that
““God’s in His heaven.” If not, how could we carry on? If so,
what more do we need?

[137]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

O yes, my family. A preacher may have one, you know. Well,
I want you to know that mine is the best that comes. Again we
have gone in for quality rather than quantity. “She” balances the
difficult role of preacher's wife by an increasing interest in paint-
ing. “He,” the son, follows his mother by an increasing interest

in the arts also. Just at present it is architecture. He is quite
certain it is not the ministry!

RICHARD SPRAGUE CHAMBERLAIN

HOME ADDRESS: 32 Seaward Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Price, Waterhouse & Co., 75 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 26, 1904, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Frank Clifford Chamberlain,
92, Gertrude Dudley Sprague.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. ¢U7 laude, 1924; M.B.A. cum
laude, 1926.

MarrieD: Hazel Harvey, Sept. 15, 1928, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN: Richard

Sprague, Jr., May 14, 1931; Susan, Aug. 28, 1935 (died Aug. 28, 1935).
HARVARD BROTHER: Geoffrey Chamberlain, ’22.
occupation: Public accounting.

OFFICES HELD: Member of executive committee, 1943-46, 1947-49, treasurer,
since 1947, Massachusetts Society of Certified Public Accountants, treas-
urer, since 1946, Unitarian Society of Wellesley Hills; member of execu-
tive committee, since 1945, Boston Club, Harvard Business School
Alumni Association; instructor in accounting, 1931-32, Northeastern
University Evening School of Business.

MEMBER oF: American Institute of Accountants; Massachusetts Society of
Certified Public Accountants; National Association of Cost Account-
ants; Wellesley Country Club; The Seventy-Six Club.

IN MY last year of college, I developed more than a passing inter-
est in the subject of accounting. This was the result of exposing
myself to Economics 1b, the half-year course in accounting
which I undertook to round out my field of concentration or
distribution, I have forgotten which. Mathematics had always
been the least terrifying phase of my academic struggles, and I
suppose that I turned to one of its practical applications more or
less as a last resort.

The further pursuit of this new interest called for two years
at the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration be-
ginning in the fall of 1924. Ours was the last Business School
class to graduate prior to the erection of Mr. Baker's impressive

[138]

Lo

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

layout across the river, completed, I recall, in the spring of 1927.
Like our immediate predecessors, we raced back and forth be-
tween such basement and top-floor “classrooms,” scattered far
and wide over the Cambridge landscape, as could be spared from
other university activities. My professional accounting educa-
tion was obtained, so to speak, “on the run,” and with a generous
aroma of law, engineering, and public health thrown in for good
measure.

Two years at the Business School satisfied me that my future
lay in the public accounting field. In September, 1926, I joined
the staff of the firm of Price, Waterhouse & Company as a ju-
nior accountant, and have remained in the firm’s Boston office to
the present time. My work has entailed some travel, especially
during the earlier years. On occasion I have spent brief periods
of time in the firm’s New York and Los Angeles offices, but
have always seemed to gravitate back to the old stamping
prounds. Born, reared, educated, and married in Cambridge, my
only heresy seems to have been my eventual “migration” to
Newton, across the river, and thence to Wellesley.

During the course of my labors I have seen a little of the inner
workings of a variety of American industrial life. It has been my
privilege, among other things, to participate from time to time
in matters involving the public service and interest where ac-
counting services have been required. During the recent period
of hostilities, our firm, in common with other public accounting
firms, engaged in many important activities directly related to
the war effort: renegotiation and termination of war contracts,
transportation subsidies, taxes, etc. The entire experience has
been interesting, instructive, and, in many ways, gratifying.

I have found some leisure time to engage in a mild way in
church and other community activities. Politics I have left to
the distaff side of the family, an active member of the League of
Women Voters, and to better qualified members of the Class. I
play golf, the Civil War kind, out in sixty-one and back in
sixty-five. I have done some hiking in the New England hills and
have recently developed an amateurish enthusiasm for picture
taking,.a sure sign of approaching senility, they tell me.

Aside from my efforts to make an honest living » my principal
interest has been my family and their many diverse and interest-

[139]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

ing projects. At the present time my son is attending Governor
Dummer Academy in Byfield, Massachusetts. All in all, life has
been kind and generous. A great many things have been left
undone, some of which, at least, I hope to find time to tackle
during the next twenty-five years.

TUNG LIANG CHANG

LAST KNOWN apprEss: China & South Sea Bank, Shanghai, China.

BORN: Sept. 29, 1900, China. parents: Wu Chang, Yuen Liang.
preparep at: T.A.C.C,, Tientsin, China.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B. 1924(25).

CHANG has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since
October 8, 1947.

THOMAS BARNABAS CHANN

HOME ADDRESS: 1161 S. Windsor Blvd., Los Angeles 6, Calif. 7
OFFICE appREss: Communications Engineering Div., Planning Sect. Civil

Aeronautics Adm, Commerce Dept, Eighth Region, Anchorage,
Alaska.

BORN: Nov. 11, 1898, Wailuku, Maui, T. H. parents: Chanam Chann,
Susee Lee.

PREPARED AT: Honolulu High School, Honolulu, Hawaii.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922, 1923-1924. DEGREE: S.B. IN E.E., 1924.
MARRIED: Lillie James, New York, N. Y.

occupation: Airways engineer; radio communications engineering; planning

of V.HF. Stations in Alaska for Civil Aeronautics Administration,
Commerce Department, Region Eight.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: On active duty from Sept. 30, 1942, to July 30,

1943; transferred to reserve status, July 30, 1943; discharged honorably,
Nov. 10, 1944; attached to 807 Bombardment Squadron (H).

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Inspector, aircraft instruments, Army Air Force
Material Command, Fastern District.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Electrical Engineers.
PUBLICATIONS: Three patents issued by United States Patent Office.

SINCE graduation, I have been associated with the following
companies or agencies at various times: General Electric Com-
pany at Schenectady, New York, and in the field for General
Electric at Cedars, Quebec; Westinghouse Electric and Manu-
facturing Company at South Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in field
at Camden, New Jersey; Radio Corporation of America at New
York City, in field at Chicopee Falls, Massachusetts, Consolidated

[140 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Edison of New York at Manhattan, New York, Wah Mai Impor-
ters of New York, at New York City; Consolidated Aircraft
Corporation at Lindbergh Field, San Diego, California, and Fort
Worth, Texas; North American Aviation, Inc., at Municipal Air-
port, Inglewood, Los Angeles, California; Stone and Webster,
Inc., at Vernon, Gardenia, and Long Beach, California, con-
tracting engineers for Southern California Edison’s Frequency
Change as ordered by the Railroad Commission; Inspection Divi-
sion of the United States Air Forces; and the Civil Aeronautics
Administration of the Department of Commerce at Anchorage,
Alaska.

There is nothing like seeing the country and getting acquainted
with the various places by staying long enough to know the likes
and dislikes of your neighbors. Speaking from experience, I
found that California, especially in Los Angeles, which is the
largest city west of Chicago, has discriminatory laws against
color and creed and the Supreme Court of the state of California
upholds these nineteenth-century laws which our President
Harry S. Truman had the courage to outlaw. That is national
history. Now that the law is outlawed the people of the state of
California still try to undermine the country by trying to band
together with real estate agents to exclude people like us. Fight-
ing one unjust war against a nation as I did in World War II was
easy compared to fighting for the right to live in any place in Cali-
fornia. We had to live in an open store for eight months in the
city of Los Angeles, until we got federal housing. We wrote
to the Congressmen, the Senators, and the governor of the state of
California, all of whom replied graciously but passed the buck to
someone else. After a couple of months an application for fed-
eral housing was sent to us with a note stating that we might have
to wait three months after receiving the application before they
could consider our case. Since this was the same application
that we had made out eight months before and since they were
filling vacancies with applications three months old, you can
imagine that I got action after they received my reply.

From this you can understand my troubles in living in Cali-
fornia, But this was just the beginning, for we decided to buv
and own our home under the G. I. bill. All the places we liked
were restriced by race prejudice, and for the places we could

[141 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

buy, the banks would not lend us the money because the risk was
too great even under the G. I. bill. We then started looking for
lots and we ran into the same difficulties; always discrimination,
We even bought a lot in a new development from a salesman who
came from New York, but the new sub-division contained the
same discriminating covenant, dated A.D. 1948 in the city of
Los Angeles, California. However, while looking at a lot in the
Wilshire district, the broker informed us that the lot had the
restrictions and in the same breath he said he had one with the
restrictions expired but with a storm drain running diagonally
across the lot which was twenty feet wide by ten feet deep. We
bought it at the prevailing high prices and now we have the city to
fight as well as our neighbors. We had to give the contractors a
break by staying away from the place until the foundation forms
were set before we did any checking. 1 was working for Stone and
Webster at that time and because they had civil engineers, ]
could cope with the city as they threw the book at me and
wanted my plans signed by a registered civil engineer. From now
on I am a registered professional engineer of the state of Califor-
nia. 1 got my house built in the Wilshire district. It is a Cape
Cod cottage at 1611 South Windsor Boulevard, Los Angeles,
California.

My undergraduate courses at Harvard on various subjects
other than that of the regular curriculum stood me in good
stead; therefore, I could switch from one profession to another
with the least difficulty. I was an erection engineer with General
Electric, a test engineer with Westinghouse, a service engineer
with R.C.A., a commercial engineer with Wah Mai Exporters, 4
relay engineer with Consolidated Edison, an aerodynamicist with
North American Aviation, a flight mechanic with Consolidated
Aircraft, an electrical engineer with Stone and Webster and
Southern California Edison, an aircraft instrument inspector for
the United States Air Force, an airways engincer for the Depart-
ment of Commerce. In my latest endeavor, I plan radio transmit-
ting stations, receiving stations and control stations for the very
high frequency networks consisting of automatic repeater sta-
tions using audio repeat or radio frequency repeating. The re-
peater stations consist of one telephone sct and a teletype for
monitoring. The control stations and terminal stations consist

[142 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of three to seven telephone circuits and three to nine telegraph
circuits, all of which are transmitted into the air on one radio
transmitting frequency. The telegraph circuits can be either hand
keys or diplex teletype. Here in Alaska we are setting up the
prototype and proving that very high frequency can be depended
upon consistently.

As an aerodynamicist, I compiled pilots’ handbooks for both
United States Army and Navy aeroplanes and at one time I esti-
mated what a bomber carrying 16,000 pounds jet thrust could do.
I am waiting for the Army to install six jet engines in the present
B36 bomber, then we shall have a plane that will really go places
and do things unthinkable before this date. This story will only
be written after this report is published, as the United States Army
will have bigger and better things including aircraft.

CHANLER ARMSTRONG CHAPMAN

HOME AppRESS: Barrytown, Dutchess County, N. Y.

Born: April 27, 1901, New York, N. Y. Parents: John Jay Chapman, ’84,
Elizabeth Winthrop Chanler.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924(25).

MaRRIED: Olivia James, Dec. 6, 1924, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1948); Helen
Riesenfeld, Aug. 9, 1948. CHILDREN: John Jay, 2d, May 30, 1926; Robert
Robertson, April 30, 1929; Maria Weston, March 26, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: Conrad Chapman, ’19.

OCCUPATION: Writer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Ambulance driver, American Field Service,
Libya and Tunisia, 1942-43, Burma, 1945.

MEMBER oF: Tavern Club, Boston; Coffee House and Knickerbocker Clubs,
New York, N. Y.

puBLications: The Wrong Attitude, The Story of a Bad Boy in a Good
School, G. P. Putnam’s Sons, New York, 1940; magazine articles in
Town & Country and Life.

IN ORDER to fit myself for life after leaving Harvard, I decided
to get married and become a newspaper reporter. I was a reporter
on the Springfield, Massachusetts, Union from October, 1924,
until June, 1926. I did house-to-house canvassing for the circula-
tion department of the New York Herald-Tribune from October
to November, 1926, when I became a police reporter for the
New York Times. I graduated to inside work after one year, did

[ 143 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

a six-month stint as sixth under-skenker in the Society Depart-
ment, and was then advanced to general city assignments. In
June, 1929, I quit the Times, and went to work as manufacturin
man and general utility for Minton, Balch, book publishers of
New York City. We were merged into G. P. Putnam’s Sons,
publishers, in 1931. I quit Putnam’s in September, 1932, and went
to Rome, Italy, for five months that winter. I returned in April,
1933, to see what I could do on a farm in Barrytown, pitching
hay, shovelling manure, selling milk, apples, and young pigs.
Farming is more of a heartache than the manufacturing side of
the book business. Financially it was sterile. I made a trip to St.
Pierre-Miquelon off Newfoundland in July, August, and Septem-
ber, 1940, to see how the French were making out and I found
they were doing splendidly until Admiral Muselier upset the ap-
ple cart on Christmas Eve that year. We got torpedoed on the
British freighter, Empire Arnold, 600 miles east of Trinidad, on
August 4, 1942, Among other things we carried 1900 tons of
cordite but they hit us in the boilers. Loss was nine men out of
fifty-seven, not including the captain, Fred Tate, who was taken
prisoner. I spent a week in a lifeboat, which I enjoyed.

I tipped a tractor over on top of myself early in September,
1947. There were no apparent injuries except that I got a clot
in my right leg which put me in hospitals for three months, fi-
nally getting operated on and becoming as white as celery and
weak as water. I went to St. Croix in the Virgin Islands to re-
cover. I became very sunburned and met my present wife there.

Having done odd jobs like book reviewing when I was on
newspapers, I have decided to take advantage of this good begin-
ning and make writing my work. I still do farm work for exer-
cise. Only the financial side of agriculture is lugubrious. Among
the various jobs I have tried are selling imitation jewelry, self-
liquidating premiums, war surplus, proxy-chasing, which is fun,
and political organization, which is safe as long as you do not in-
vest life and money in it. I forgot to mention that I was ship-
wrecked with F. Jay Wells, Harvard ’23, fifteen miles south of
Canso, Nova Scotia, on August 28, 1924, after crossing the At-
lantic in the forty-seven-foot ketch, Shanghai. Also forgot to
mention a short connection with Time magazine in the movie de-
partment for seven weeks in 1944.

[144]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARRY CHAPPERON

HOME ADDRESS: 55 Pennsylvania Ave., Mount Vernon, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Storm & Klein, Inc., 50 E. 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y.

BorN: July 20, 1902, Chelsea, Mass. ParENTs: Oscar Chapperon, Molly Gold.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921~1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

MarRRiED: Sylvia Ravden, Nov. 12, 1933, Boston, Mass. cHmpreN: Matthew,
May 20, 1935; Cynthia, Feb. 19, 1940.

occupaTION: Advertising executive.

PVE become so accustomed to looking forward that it’s some-
thing of an effort for me to look back. I suppose I'd feel differ-
ently if I felt old or if I’d done anything worthy of attention.

I do recall shifting around quite a bit in the years immediately
following my graduation. I had no burning ambition beyond
enjoying my stay on the planet as much as possible and, simul-
taneously, doing what I could to leave the world a little better
after my departure than it was upon my arrival.

Until eleven years ago my work included selling at the various
levels (direct-to-the-consumer, department store, and managing
a sales crew), newspaper reporting, and trade publication editing.
Since 1937 I have been with the present concern, and its prede-
cessor, as a vice-president, publicity and research director, ac-
count executive, and copy writer.

Back in 1937 I made a short trip to France and fell in love with
the Paris of that period — who didn’t?

I suppose I could dig up a few more items out of the past in
which a classmate or two might find some interest, but my heart
isn’t in the task. I’m still too busy looking ahead — and doing
what I can to make the forward road worth travelling.

FREDERIC HATHAWAY CHASE, JR.

HOME aAppREss: Great Meadows Road, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: St. John’s Seminary, Brighton 35, Mass.

BORN: June 11, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Frederic Hathaway Chase, ’92,
Theodora Kyle.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; S.B, IN C.ENGIN., 19253 S.T.B.
(Pontifical Athenaeum Urbanum, Rome) 1932; s.r. (Gregorian Univ,
Rome) 1934; sc. ECCL. or. D. (Pontifical Oriental Inst., Rome) 1938.

[145 ]

en anne

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924
HARVARD BROTHER: Theodore Chase, °34.
occuPATION: Priest.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcoRD: Chaplain, U. S. Army, American Pacific and
Mediterranean Theatres, 1943-47.

FOR a year after graduation I continued on at the Engineering
School and for the following five years worked as a civil engineer
in various parts of the country. From 1929 to 1931 I studied
philosophy at St. John’s Seminary in Brighton, Massachusetts,
and from 1931 to 1938 I studied theology in Rome, where I was
ordained a priest in December, 1934. Having taken my doctorate
in 1938, I returned to Boston, worked as an assistant in various
parishes of the Archdiocese of Boston, and finally entered the
Army as a chaplain in 1943.

I was discharged from the Army in August, 1948, and during
that same month was appointed to the faculty of St. John’s
Seminary in Brighton, where I am at present. I am supposed to
be professor of Oriental theology, but actually I teach Greek
and patristic. My only comment on the last twenty-five years
is that I hope that the next twenty-five do not go quite so rapidly.

FREDERICK COLLINGWOOD CHENEY

HOME appress: 735 Main St., Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stone & Webster Engineering Corp., 49 Federal St., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: July 1, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: Frederick Edward Cheney, Grace
Cartwright.

PREPARED AT: Santa Barbara School, Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B. IN EE., 1924.

MARRIED: Evelyn Louise Crawford, June 30, 1928, Baltimore, Md. CHILDREN:
Frederick Edward, July 9, 1931; Peter C., Feb. 4, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Cartwright Cheney, 716.

occupaTION: Electrical engineer.

OFFICES HELD: Member of executive committee, Boston section, American In-
stitute of Electrical Engineering, 1948-49, New England section, Har-

vard Engineering Society, 1948-49, New England editor, Harvar d
Engineering Society Bulletin, 1947~49.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Electrical Engineers; Massachusetts So-

ciety of Professional Engineers, Harvard Engineering Society; United
World Federalists.

TWO weeks after Commencement, which I did not attend, I
went to work for Stone & Webster as an apprentice draftsman.

[ 146 ]

.25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT |

After a couple of years “on the board” I took off, landing as an
electrician’s helper at the Conowingo Dam job on the Susque-
hanna River, midway between Baltimore and Philadelphia. In
the course of two or three years on this project I managed to ad-
vance my professional knowledge and standing somewhat,
learned to climb poles, walk high steel, and chew tobacco, and
thoroughly enjoyed myself. On my own time I got around a bit,
and in the fall of 1927 met a lovely Baltimore girl with a southern
accent. We were married in June, and in September of 1928
moved to Virginia for six months on another Stone & Webster
job, this time a fertilizer factory. We spent weekends motoring
up and down the tidewater area, searching out old and beautiful
houses, some restored, some in ruins, all speaking silently of the
gracious life before the war! Old houses are still a family interest.

Deciding for family life, instead of the nomadic existence of a
construction worker, I returned to the Boston office, and we
started apartment dwelling in Cambridge, progressing after a
couple of years to Beacon Hill. In 1931 the lean years caught
up with Stone & Webster, and I was laid off, just in time to learn
at first hand about the care and feeding of infants. I was on the
beach for a year, with some door-to-door selling (the toughest
game in the world, for me) and a lot of spare time. Then I went
to work for Sears Roebuck, on mail order inspection and statis-
tical surveys. About 1937 engineering once more began to raise
its head, and I returned to Stone & Webster. My work consists
largely of engineering the electrical end of power stations, and is
varied, interesting, and enjoyable. Spare time is spent in pleasant
puttering about house and garden, fixing this and building that.

In 1934 we moved to Hingham, to provide more elbow room
for the youngster. We are now confirmed country people, enjoy
square dancing, and spend an evening in the city only rarely.
My wife’s southern accent has long since vanished, and her hob-
bies are work in the very active local Red Cross Motor Corps,
and in her flower garden.

Like most engineers, I am a pessimist and a conservative, though
I hope not a die-hard reactionary. I think that the world is
rapidly going Socialist, and I regard Socialism as a highly impracti-
cal and idealistic philosophy, but we have, after all, survived
other “noble experiments.” I suspect that sooner or Jater!we shall

[147]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

have another war, but I am a hopeful supporter of the World
Federalist movement. I enjoy my work and my family, find life

interesting and amusing, worry very little, and have no trouble
with insomnia.

HSIANGHUNG LIN CHENG

HOME ApprEss: 6 Paoking Rd., Shanghai 18, China.

oFFice appress: The World Encyclopedia Institute, 1836 Lingsen Rd., Shang-
hai 18, China.

BoRN: Sept. 3, 1901, Chaoyang District, Kwangtung Province, China.
PARENTS: You-soong Cheng, Yeh Chou.

PREPARED AT: Y.M.C.A. School, St. John’s Middle School, Shanghai, China.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924, DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Clara Tsao, 1927, Shanghai, China (divorced 1940). CHILDREN:
Ching-son (son), Aug. 19, 1928; Ching-yuen (daughter), Oct. 5, 1929.

HARVARD BROTHER: Chung Cheng, Gr. Med. 1946-47.

occupation; Publisher and author.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: World War II: Member, National Military
Affairs Commission, National Resources Commission, Government
South-west Transportation Commission.

OFFICES HELD: Professor, National Tsing-Hua University, Peking; secretary,
Foreign Affairs Commission, Canton; counsellor, Ministry of Railways,
Nanking; special commissioner to inspect Chinese consulates in South-
east Asia; adviser, Sino-British Boundary Demarcation Commission,
adviser, Yunnan Provincial Government; member, National Military
Affairs Commission; member, National Resources Commission; director,
World Book Company, Shanghai; editor, World Encyclopedia.

pusications: The Chinese Railways, Past & Present; The Study of Ancient
Chinese Classics, A New Approach; The Art of War; Prince Dan of

Yann; Chinese Wisdom; The Four Books; The Works of Juang Jou;
The Works of Lao Tzyy.

IT WOULD be contrary to Oriental modesty and rather presump-
tuous of me to think that my life history during the past quarter
of a century could be anything but a matter of personal interest.
To avoid any possible misunderstanding, I hasten to explain that
I can only refer, not to wealth, but to dearth of achievements. It
is worth writing only because it shows a pattern of life peculiar
to that “privileged” class of people known in China as “the re-
turned students.” It is marked by interruptions, frustrations, and
disappointments. Balked by almost insurmountable obstacles,
tossed between high hopes and low accomplishments, one has been
like flotsam in the wide sea of Chinese politics,

[ 148 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Immediately after graduation from Harvard, I went to England
and entered Pembroke College, Oxford, to do post-graduate work
in modern history. I found myself very much at home in this
ancient seat of learning. There, the time-worn, ivy-covered build-
ings, the quiet leisurely manner of life, the ceremonious conduct
of the people, their earnestness in the pursuit of learning — these
and other aspects impressed most favorably my Oriental mind.
There and then I made a secret vow that some day I would build
another Oxford in China, just as I thought that I would emulate
the example of President Eliot.

I had a most enjoyable time during my three terms at Oxford.
There was no compulsory class-work, I was free to read what

leased me, and I read voraciously. I learned to smoke a pipe
before the large open fireplace at the Oxford Union. I was a
regular visitor to the numerous bookshops, and every evening I
carried armfuls of books to my “digs.” These lucky finds formed
the nucleus of my present collection of Western books, and in
those days they afforded me happiness and contentment. During
the long vacations I travelled extensively on the Continent and
visited the principal cities of interest.

Indeed, I thought then that I would like to remain indefinitely
at Oxford. Everything seemed so congenial and pleasant that I
became quite oblivious of the fact that I was a student and a
foreigner. Then came the shocking news from Shanghai about
the May 3oth Incident in which a number of Chinese students
were shot to death by order of some English municipal officers.
This shooting affair brought about a nationwide boycott against
everything British, and caused me to return to China. When ina
reminiscent mood, and in view of so many unhappy “incidents”
which occurred after that date, I have often reproached myself
for yielding to the impulse of patriotism, thereby cutting short my
stay at Oxford.

J returned by the overland route, visiting those European
countries which I had not covered in my previous itineraries.
During this trip I had as travelling companions two Chinese
officials who were on an investigation mission, and they gave me
many facilities and opportunities which I could not have had if
I had travelled alone. The three weeks in Moscow were mem-
orable in that I had the opportunity to see many of the results

[ 149 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

to Yunnan Province which, until the opening of air transport,
was considered a most inaccessible country. I also became politi-
cal adviser to the Yunnan Provincial Government. The contact
and acquaintance with the people of this province proved to be
most useful, and paved the way for my work on my two sub-
sequent Visits.

At the opening of the Sino-Japanese war in 1937, I was in
Nanking and served on the National Military Affairs Commission
with President Chiang as chairman. Later I was assigned to do
some special work in Hongkong, and I actively participated in
the war effort.

In the autumn of 1939 I resigned from my commission and
went to Yunnan Province. There I organized an investigation
expedition with the object of studying the possibilities of de-
veloping its natural resources. This expedition was the largest of
its kind, taking me to many places which were then unknown to
outsiders. Though it was a great expense and a great hardship
to me, I regard it as a most interesting adventure in my life. A
small colony was left behind, and the people continued to do
plantation and social work until the place was invaded and de-
stroyed by Japanese bombs in 1943.

In 1940, because of my interest and knowledge of Yunnan
Province, I was made manager of a leading commercial bank in
Kunming. The four years of banking work, in the hub of military
activities during the most critical period of World War II were
filled with excitements, anxieties, fears, and adventures. But the
experiences gained through contact with all classes of people
were most valuable, and they more than offset other considera-
tions.

However, my natural inclinations and scholastic training caused
me to regard with distaste the administrative and social duties
connected with the position of a bank manager. I found that I
could not shed my mental habits formed at Harvard and Oxford
as easily as one could an old suit. This idiosyncrasy of preferring
dusty tomes to crisp banknotes became burdensome, Tucked
away in the depth of mountain ranges and cut off from the rest
of the world, there was in Kunming no supply of books which
one could use to fill the hours of leisure, In order to allay my
burning thirst for knowledge, I had to read whatever books

were
[152]

——

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

available. And the ancient Chinese classics were obtainable even in
this hinterland. So there I began to study them seriously and in-
tensively. As I became more absorbed in my study, I became
more irked with my office work. In 1944 I made up my mind to
resign from the bank so that I could devote my entire time to
study and writing. I left Kunming and moved to Chungking,
China’s wartime capital, where I made my abode close to a public
library.

In 1945, shortly after the armistice, I left Chungking for Shang-
hai, and since then I have been editing and translating ancient
Chinese classics. A half-dozen titles have already been printed,
but the finished manuscripts awaiting publication are several
times that number. With China spinning in the whirlwind of
currency inflation, with the livelihood of the people endangered
by the holocaust of civil war, I do not know how much longer I
shall be able to abide by my determination to complete the
Ancient Chinese Classics Series.

During one-quarter of a century I have wandered in and tra-
versed the paths of China’s four traditional classes — official,
farmer, craftsman, merchant, besides that of the explorer. After
this long odyssey, seeking an anchorage wherein I could find
myself, I hope that in the years to come there will be no more
interruption, though I am fully prepared to meet new frustra-
tions and disappointments.

CURTIS WINFIELD CHILDS

HOME AppREsS: 37 Old Farm Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: First National Bank of Boston, 67 Milk St., Boston, Mfass.

BORN: June 4, 1902, Roslindale, Mass. parents: Fred Lincoln Childs, Natalic
M. Roberts.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; M.B.A., 1926.

MarriED: Elizabeth N. Leffingwell, Sept. 28, 1931, London, England. cumn-
DREN: N. Winfield, July 7, 1934; John Curtis, Aug. 15, 1935.

OccUPATION: Assistant vice-president, First National Bank of Boston.

OFFicEs HELD: London representative, 1930-35, manager training department,
1936-38, First Boston Corporation, assistant vice-president, First Na-
tional Bank of Boston, since 1938.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club; Harvard Business School Club, Wellesley Club;
Wellesley Country Club; Mangus Club,

[153]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

AFTER graduation from the Harvard Business School, I was in-
vited by the late Professor Roorbach to join him on a trip to the
Far East. We spent a year travelling in Japan, China, the Philippines,
India, Malaya, and the Dutch East Indies, studying the produc-
tion, marketing, and financing of the principal raw products
of that part of the world.

A background of the economic and political conditions of each
country was, of course, essential and, under the guidance of
Professor Roorbach, I received my first practical lessons in mak-
ing such appraisals, |

With my newly acquired background, I continued my travels
through Europe and South America for another year. The world
opened up a fascinating picture and I decided to devote myself
to a foreign career.

In 1928 I joined what is now the First Boston Corporation and
two years later was sent abroad as a European representative. At
first, I travelled widely over Europe. The highlight of these

travels was a visit to Russia where I was the guest at the homes
of several of the party leaders. With uncanny accuracy they
forecast the economic and political changes that were sweep-
ing the world and in great detail outlined the long-range plans
for world domination, I only wish that the late President Roose-
velt had listened a little more carefully and perhaps we would be
better off today.

In the fall of 1931, 1 returned to London to marry Elizabeth
Leffingwell of San Francisco, who was studying at the Royal
Academy of Dramatic Art. After a honeymoon in Paris and
Berlin, we settled in London and I gave up my travelling in ex-
change for a more domestic life.

In 1935 we moved back to New York, where I ran a joint
trading position for the Euorpean offices of the corporation,
but as the Furopean political situation became more tense,
it was increasingly obvious that international finance had poor
prospects. I reluctantly decided that I had better make a change.

I joined the First National Bank of Boston in 1938 and decided
to confine my activities to the domestic side. Ever since, I have
sat at a desk in Boston, probing over the problems of the bank’s
investment portfolio. Since the advent of the war, my time has
been devoted primarily to government finance, Treasury and

[154]

LE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Federal Reserve policies and their effect on government bond
prices, interest rates, and business conditions. I had one faint
hope of participating in the war when the Navy sought me out
for a military government post in the Far East, but my eyes did
not pass the test.

My greatest interest still lies in the international political situa-
tion. I believe that we are in for a long testing period with
Russia which will call upon our greatest perspicacity and judg-
ment, but each year I realize more and more how humble is the
individual in the face of the great political forces let loose in a
disorganized world.

I have two sons at Noble and Greenough School, and both are
headed for Harvard (they hope). My greatest desire is to give
them the best equipment to face the future, whatever it may be.

EDWARD RAYMOND CHILDS

HOME ApprEss: Tidewater Farm, Dover, N. H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Veterans Administration, Post Office Bldg., Portsmouth,
N. H.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1903, Butler, Mo. parents: Edward Brugler Childs, Gertrude
Cary Clay.

PREPARED AT: Westport High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MaRRIED: Sarah Webster Rollins, Oct. 5, 1925, Chestnut Hull, Mass. cum-
DREN: Edward Raymond, Jr., Sept. 21, 1926; Ellen West, April 14, 1931;
Montgomery Rollins, Jan. 15, 1933.

OccUPATION: Manager, Veterans Administration Office.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U.S.N.R., March,
1942; lieutenant commander, U.S.N.R., April, 1944. Duty with Super-
visor of Shipbuilding, U.S.N., Bath, Maine; Bureau of Ships, Washing-
ton, D. C.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chairman, Civilian Defense, Dover, N. H., to
March, 1942.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Club of Worcester, 1935-37.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of Worcester; Ameri-
can Rose Society.

THE year 1940 was intended to be a milestone of importance
in our lives. Married in 1925, we had led a pretty conventional
sort of life — first in Boston and later in Worcester, Massachusetts
— selling bonds, Community Chest activity, Dutch colonial type
suburban house, country club golf tournaments and weekly dinner

[155]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

dances, frantic and erratic squash playing to keep down the ex-
panding waist line, 1927 to 1929 inflation prosperity and subse-
quent economies, and three babies spaced at proper intervals along
the line — a pattern of life well known to most people who have
ever lived in a small city. But, through the years we kept a
longing eye on the attractions of life in the country, and the year
1940 was marked off on our calendar as the year when we could
conveniently pull up our stakes in the city (any and all cities)
forever, and make our permanent year around home in the coun-
try, near Dover, New Hampshire. Our eldest child was ready
for boarding school in 1940, and the other two were too young
to suffer any serious effects to their roots by the transfer from
city to country. ,

To be sure, when the summer of 1940 came around, and it was
time to make the move, there was a war on in Europe — but that
seemed far away at the time. So the move was made, and we
started our new rural existence in the place of our choice, and
without the slightest doubt that either or both of us could run
a farm and possibly even make it pay. I would like to make a
good sort of Egg and I yarn out of this, but so far it hasn’t been
like that. This move represented no retirement from business on
my part, as we needed more income to help pay for the farm;
so it was necessary for my wife to take over the actual manage-
ment of the place while I disseminated the gospel of investment
counsel throughout New Hampshire. My part in the farming
operation was largely limited to sage comment and to figuring out
income deductions. Actually, though, we were making what
might be considered a fair start towards getting the place con-
verted from its status of a summer residence to a bona fide dairy.
farm when Pearl Harbor occurred.

At first, I worked actively with the civilian defense organiza-
tion in Dover, serving as city chairman until March, 1942, when I
went on active duty with the Navy. 1 was in the Navy until
November, 1945, and during those years had duty as.an adminis-
trative officer in the supervisory construction branch of that
service, At the war’s end I was naturally eager to return to my
family and to resume life where it had been rudely interrupted
some four years before. But like countless others, I found that
this was not the simple process for which I had hoped. M y elder

[156 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

son was still in the Army in Japan, and the other two children
were away at school when I got home, so I sort of eased back
into the domestic picture gradually, and it wasn’t long before I
could shake off the feeling of strangeness that came with being
home again, and could reéstablish with my family my right to be
there. For the tactful handling of these maneuvers I must give
full credit to a long-suffering wife who had done a yeoman job of
running a farm and a family in my absence, and who was now
quite ready to be the recipient of a little looking after herself.

So now, as I write this in the early fall of 1948, we are once
more a reunited family living contentedly at Tidewater Farm.
We have a barn full of good cows, pastures and hay fields of
which we are proud, and flower gardens whose beauty justifies
the hard work that goes into them. Our house teems with chil-
dren in the summer and during vacations.

I have rather forgotten the definition of “security,” which, in
1924, I probably considered to be one of the most important goals
to be achieved by the time of our Twenty-fifth Reunion. Years
of inflation, depression, and war which have marked our first
twenty-five years as “educated men” have given many a rude
jolt to youthful aims and ambitions. Values have been reas-
signed to such an extent that we have lost many of the 1924
estimates on many standard intangibles (and probably a good
thing, too). To what extent any of us has attained any or all
of our youthful ambitions, or how far along the road to attain-
ment we may be, is, of course, a matter for individual evaluation.
And being individuals those values will vary widely. I am quite
sure that I have not, nor ever shall have, the security which I an-
ticipated twenty-five years ago. But I think that I have learned
what the important things in life are to me now, and what they
will continue to be for the remaining years of my life. This
conclusion I dare to make in spite of the radio’s blatting out the
latest disquieting news from the United Nations conference.

RALPH pe SOMERI CHILDS

HOME ADDRESS: 3902 Spuyten Duyvil Pkwy., New York 63, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Cooper Union, Cooper Square, New York 3, N. Y.

BORN: Nov, §, 1900, Kansas City, Mo. parents: Albert Walter Childs, Eliza-
beth Lydia Bradlee.

[157]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.
MarRIED: Sally Burwell McAll, Aug. 1, 1925, New York, N. Y. cutcoren:
Sarah Burwell and Elizabeth Bradlee (twins), Feb. 24, 1929.

HARVARD BROTHERS: David Bradlee Childs, "10; Paul Dudley Childs, *14.
occuPaTIoN: Education.

MILITARY OR NavYaL RecorD: U. S. Coast Guard Reserve (coastal patrol),
commander, U. S. Coast Guard Auxiliary, 1945-46.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, Smith College, 1924-25; imstructor and assistant
professor, Bowdoin College, 1929-35; instructor, Columbia University,
1935-39; instructor and assistant professor, Cooper Union School of
Engineering, since 1939; visiting lecturer, Stevens Institute of Technol-
ogy, since 1944; president, Riverdale Codperative Society, New York
City, 1944-46; member, Board of Governors, Inter-Collegiate Yacht
Racing Association, since 1948.

MEMBER OF: English Graduate Union of Columbia; Kappa Delta Pi; Ameri-
can Association of University Professors; Speech Association of Amer-

ica; Duck Island Yacht Club; U. S. Coast Guard Auxiliary.
puBLIcaTions: Articles for learned publications.

FOR the first year out of college I taught at Smith College
where I found my wife. Then back to Boston where I made an
excursion into finance and sold securities for a year. That con-
vinced me that I should go back to graduate school, which I did
—one year at Harvard, one at Columbia, and one on a Franco-
American fellowship, spent mostly at the University of Toulouse.
During that year my twin daughters were born in the American
hospital in Neuilly-sur-Seine. On my return to this country
I went to teach at Bowdoin College. From there I moved to
Columbia University where I stayed until 1939. Then I came to
teach at The Cooper Union Engineering School, where I now am.

Just in case anyone gets the wrong idea, let me hasten to ex-
plain that I know nothing about engineering. My function is to
teach the non-engineering courses in the so-called Department
of Humanities. Late in the war I was asked to teach some Navy
units English and naval correspondence at Stevens Institute of
Technology in Hoboken. I have stayed on there as a part-time
member of their faculty.

Sailing is still my favorite sport. I generally get in one cruise
a year (on someone else’s boat) and as soon as this is typed I am
leaving for Boothbay Harbor for a month afloat going to Saint
John and back. I have sailed 8-meters at Marblehead and Stars in

[158]

=

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

international regattas. I encourage the student yacht club at both
The Cooper Union and Stevens and officiate at inter-collegiate
contests.

My community interests led me to help form a coéperative
in our neighborhood which has now grown to a volume of
$5000 sales per week. Also I have just succeeded in organizing
a chapter of the Association of University Professors here at The
Cooper Union.

My wife is remedial consultant at Miss Hewitt’s school and on
the faculty of the Child Education Foundation here in New York.
One of my daughters is a student there, earning her degree in
education. The other daughter is at the Bouvé-Boston School
of Physical Education. We have an old house (1750) in Clinton,
Connecticut, where we go for as many vacations and weekends
as we can and sail on and swim in Long Island Sound. I think
we have made ourselves a part of that community also since I was
asked to give the commencement address at the high school last
June, and have been asked to address the Historical Society next
September.

To cover the last items on the suggestion at the top of this
questionnaire: politically I consider myself a liberal, which means
to me that people are more important than property. At the

resent time I am, perforce, a man without a party. Socially |
think that Plato had a good idea in his Republic when he set
forth that he would not allow any man to have an income more
than four times that of the poorest man. Although I am not a
church-going man, I try to follow the Golden Rule to the best
of my ability.

EDWIN METCALF CLAPP

HOME apprEss: P. O. Box 197, Essex Sta., Boston 12, Mass.

BORN: June 5, 1902, Greenfield, Mass. parents: Charles Wellington Clapp,
Evelyn Atwell Metcalf.

PREPARED AT: Greenfield High School, Greenfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923.

occuPATION: Employed by Sears Roebuck & Company.

Lis9]

HARVARD CLASS OF I924

WINTHROP SAYLES CLAPP

HOME appRESS: 12 Proctor St.. Newtonville 60, Mass.
OFFICE apDRESS: Edmund S. Whitten, Inc, 216 Tremont Sr., Boston 16, Mass

sorN: March 27, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: Frederic Walter Clapp, Annie
Fliza Sayles.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923, 1924-1926.

marriep: Eleanor Leighton, May 14, 1927, Newtonville, Mass. cHitp: Jocelyn,
June 9, 1931.

occupation: Advertising agency account executive, vice-president, Edmund

S. Whittier, Inc. in charge of sales, client contact, account supervision,
and copy.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Harvard Reserve Officers’ Training Corps, 1920-
25; commissioned 2d lieutenant, August, 1925; Massachusetts National
Guard, First Corps Cadets, 1920-24. World War II: Entered extended
active duty as captain, Field Artillery, July 11, 1940; assistant recruiting
officer for Massachusetts, Army Recruiting Service, July to September,
1940; chief of staff, Public Relations Bureau, War Department, Wash-
ington, D. C, September, 1940-April, 1941; qth Armored Division,
April, ig41-July, 1942; 10th Armored Division, April, 1942-January,
1943; assistant director and supervisor of instruction, Communication
Department, Armored School, Fort Knox, January, 1943-May, 1944
January, 1945-June, 1946; Public Relations Section, SHAEF, London,

England, May to November, 1944; retired to inactive duty with rank of
colonel, November, 1947-

MEMBER OF: Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity; Model Railroad Association;
Advertising Club of Boston; Radio Executives Club.

PusLications: Collaborations in military training and technical manuals dur-
ing war.

AFTER graduation, went into advertising agency work (same
one I’m with now). Left there in 1931 to become managing editor
of small weekly newspaper. Unfortunately it folded almost be-
fore I could hang up my hat. Went next with a large Boston
printer as assistant to art director. In 1933, 1934, and 1937 spent
considerable time as company commander of various CCC in-
stallations. Back with the agency after 1937 until spring of 1940
when I attended maneuvers of First Army in Louisiana. The
storm showed undoubted signs of breaking soon, so entered ex-
tended active duty in July of that year. Stayed on duty until
November, 1944, when I started on terminal leave (via Fort Dix).
Got myself located with an electronic manufacturing company
with good prospects. A few days before terminal Icave expired,

[ 160 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

was called back to duty, where I stayed until late in October of
1947. In November, 1947, rejoined the agency, where I am at this
writing. As to hobbies, guess my principal ones are model rail-
roading, radio writing, acting and direction, watching or listen-
ing to football games. Have most fun with model railroading,
particularly in building “real estate” and “scenery” for the layout.

With regard to religious convictions, never talk about the sub-
ject; each man to his own thoughts — and we'll all meet some-
where sometime, so why worry about which route we take to
get there? As to political convictions, no, ma’am, sirs and brothers,
you don’t catch me sticking my neck out (again that is!). ‘Travels:
most of the United States (some on foot) and parts of the
European Theatre of Operations. Family: I’m happy, have usual
worries (mostly small), and a lovely wife (Skidmore ’25) and a
ditto daughter (Mt. Holyoke ’52).

What else? A small matter of a million dollars would help!
Tm also looking for more. business (but who isn’t?). Hope
you're all as happy as I!

i PIERCE CLARK

BORN: Oct. 18, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: Leon Pierce Clark, Eliza-
beth Hough Holt.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

DIED: June 30, 1928, off Fire Island, New York, N. Y.

PIERCE CLARK entered Harvard after completing preparatory
studies at the Hotchkiss School, and was granted his S.B. degree
with the Class. Greatly interested in medicine, he was studying
at the College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, when he
was drowned off Fire Island, New York.

FRANCIS CHARLES CLEARY

HOME AppREss: 67 Tennyson St., West Roxbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 12, 1902, Charlestown, Mass. parents: John Henry Cleary,
Margaret Anna Gunn.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; ED.M., 1929; A.M. (Boston
Coll.), 1925.

[ 161 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924
marrieD: Esther Lillian McColough, June 28, 1930, Lowell, Mass. cut:
Francis Charles, Oct. 10, 1932.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Arthur Edmund Cleary, °33; Robert Vincent Cleary, ’35.
occuPATION: Education; guidance counselor.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Civilian defense lecturer to air raid wardens,

Boston; supervisor of victory gardens, Boston; identification officer,
Massachusetts Committee on Public Safety.

IN THE fall of 1925 I began teaching at the Public Latin School
in Boston and I have remained there ever since as a teacher and
in later years as guidance counselor. The work is interesting
and stimulating, because it is impossible to deal with so many
bright boys without getting a yearly refresher course in human
nature. Long ago, I learned that there is always a new angle, but |
have become an optimist regarding the future of this country
largely because of my contacts with young men and my knowl-
edge of their abilities, ambitions, and ideals.

During the war years, I spent a great deal of time lecturing
on air raids and supervising air raid work for both the city and
state committees of public safety. I also supervised a victory
garden project for Boston and put to practical use some of the
knowledge I had acquired from a hobby.

Now that the war is over, I find time to work in my own gar-
den occasionally, but the spirit has changed. It is so much easier
to tell someone or anyone else how to transplant bushes or plants.
Maybe we are all getting a bit older. My interest in schoolboy
athletics has not diminished, however, and I still find time to at-
tend practically every contest in which our school participates.
At present my main outside activity is trying to keep abreast of
my son who hopes to be a freshman at Harvard this fall.

JESSE CLIMENKO

HOME AppREss: 28 FE. Tenth St. New York, N. Y.

orFice appress: Gallop, Climenko, Gould & Lynton, 30 Broad St., New
York, N. Y.

BoRN: April 3, 1904. New York, N. Y. PAREN
Nabarski.

PREPARED AT: DeWitt Clinton High School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. Magna cum laude, 19243 LL.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Pearl Siegel, July 3, 1929, Buffalo, N. Y. cum; Jane, Aug. 23, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

ts: Hyman Climenko, Rose

[ 162 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Special assistant to the Attorney General of the
United States.

MEMBER OF: Bankers Club of America; Association of the Bar, City of New
York; County Lawyers Association, New York City.

I BEGAN the private practice of law in 1927. ‘There has been no
break in that continuity since, except for a period of service to
the Attorney General during the war. This sounds like a narrow
life, but in an age of specialization, it is probably no worse than
the common lot. Certainly it has not been dull, if only for the
reason that I have been, for the most part, a trial and appellate
lawyer.

WALLACE BONDURANT CLORE, JR.

appress: Northbrook, Ill.

Born: Aug. 1, 1900, Crescent City, Fla. parents: Wallace Boudurant Clore,
Margaret Edith Ward.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1919-1921.

marriep: Grace Lucille Maddock, Aug. 16, 1923, Wilmette, Ill. crpren:
Grace Lucille, April 27, 1924; Margaret Harrison, March 9, 1926; Eliza-
beth Ann, Aug. 8, 1931.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Clore did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

ROBERT MORRILL CLOUGH

HOME ApprRESS: 125 E. soth St., New York 22, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Shell Oil Co., Inc., 50 W. soth St., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Dec. 31, 1901, Reading, Mass. parents: George Hatch Clough, Grace
Badger Parker.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

MaRRIED: Marian M. Burditt, June 19, 1926, Reading, Mass. cmp: Donald
Robert, June 20, 1927.

OCCUPATION: Manager, automotive department, Shell Oil Company, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Central Automotive Committee of Ameri-
can Petroleum Institute, Highway Safety Committee, National Council
of Private Motor Truck Owners.

ARTHUR LESLIE COBURN, JR.

HOME appress: Winsor Way, Weston 93, Mass.
OFFICE Appress: Old Colony Trust Co., 1 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

[ 163 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

porn: Dec, 13, 1903, Weston, Mass, parexts: Arthur Leslie Coburn, Helen
Haines.

preparep AT: Weston High School, Weston, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MaRRIED: Priscilla Niebuhr Rhodes, April 27, 1929, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN;

Frederick Rhodes, Dec. 14, 1929; Arthur Leslie, 3d, Feb. 20, 1933;
Laurence Haines, April 3, 1935.

HARVARD SON: Frederick Rhodes Coburn, ’51.

occupation: Trust banking.

OFFICES HELD: Security analyst, First National Corporation, 1925-29; vice-
president, First of Boston Investment Management Corporation, 1929-
30; assistant vice-president, 1930-41, vice-president, since 1941, chief of
investment division, since 1946, director, since 1947, Old Colony Trust
Company; trustee, Boston Five Cents Savings Bank, since 1942; con-
sulrant to investment department, General Electric Company, since
1937; director, Boston Insurance Company; planning board, 1937-38, E
finance committee, 1938-42, school committee, 1944-47, Town of Wes- -
ton; treasurer, First Parish Church in Weston, 1935-43, Weston Golf

Club, since 1936; finance committee, American Unitarian Association,
since 1947.

MEMBER OF: Weston Golf Club; Boston Economic Club.

 

AN OPPORTUNITY to work for the then First National Cor-
poration (now First Boston Corporation) led to a late decision not
to return for the second year at the Business School in the fall of
1925. Ever since then, I have been connected with one or another
affiliate of the First National Bank of Boston — since 1930 with
Old Colony Trust Company, “Worthy of Your Trust.” My
duties have evolved to the point of primary responsibility for
supervision of investments in some 3,700 trust and agency ac-
counts, large and small, recently aggregating over $650,000,000 of
market value. In this work, I have the able assistance of Harvard
men of both older and younger classes, as well as men of Tufts,
Bowdoin, Williams, and Dartmouth. In the past few years, my
associates and I have enjoyed the inspiring leadership of that
greatest of human dynamos, our president, Robert (Bobby) Cut-
ler, Harvard 1916,

I often wonder if there be any field of endeavor that teaches
better the lessons of tolerance and avoidance of excesses than
does that of investing the funds of others. To tell “the market”
where it is going is folly; to be always in a position to do as it
tells one to do is wise. Often I yearn for the Utopia of having

[ 164]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

only one customer, one portfolio to manage, especially at the end
of a hectic day of visitations by both rampant bulls. “Why do you
sell on a scale up; why not wait and do all your selling at the
stock market top before buying bonds?”, and die-hard bears,
“We don’t want to cut the income at all, but ‘they’ will probably
pull the peg on governments and slap on a confiscatory profits
tax, so what do you think we had better do?” Fortunately, with
some sense of humor and with the oft-repeated admonition to
customers, “If we disregarded sound principles of diversification,
plunged first here and then there, and were always right, I cer-
tainly would be out playing golf today,” it becomes a reasonable
but exciting way of life!

Through long association with the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology endowment funds, I sometimes wonder if it was not
this institution rather than Harvard that I left twenty-five years
ago. Many pleasant friendships have been mine because of this
contact. Similar cordial relationships have resulted from my work
with General Electric through the past decade.

Away from the office I have often found myself with too little
time for family or travel because of being enmeshed in town
affairs or during a part of the war period, in sporadic activity
with the Massachusetts War Finance Committee. Now that our
eldest son is an upper classman at Harvard, I feel once more that
I have a speaking acquaintance with the College, but at the same
time, a great futility in assisting in the selection of a course of
study.

As this autobiography i is written, the great adventure of build-
ing a new home is under way — the framework is in place. Its
location is the “Home Address” given above (within sight of our
present abode) and we can only hope it will be a finished product
in time to welcome any classmates and their families at reunion
time. It will at best be nip and tuck, but if we are not at the new
stand, the latch-string will be out at the old.

JOHN INSLEY CODDINGTON

HOME apprEss: 3932 N. Fourth St., Arlington, Va,

OFFICE appress: Department of State, Washington, D. C,

BORN: June 30, 1903, Nice, France. parents: Andrew Comstock Coddington,
Elizabeth Mageoney.

[ 165 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

preparep aT: Carlton Academy.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; A.M., 1929.
occupation: Government service.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Coddington did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

JOSEPH ABRAHAM COHEN

HOME AppRESS: 476 Locust St. Fall River, Mass.

oFFice appress: J. & J. Corrugated Box Corp. 81 Ferry St., Fall River, Mass.;
57 Main St., Fall River, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 5, 1903, Fall River, Mass. parents: Benjamin Cohen, Elizabeth
Lash.

PREPARED AT: B. M. C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. suntma cum laude, 1924; LLB.
1928(31).

marrieD: Esther Beserosky, Feb. 26, 1943, Fall River, Mass. (divorced 1947).

occupation; Lawyer; executive and legal counsel, J. & J. Corrugated Box
Corporation.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: United States Army, October, 1942, to January,
1943.

oFFIces HELD: Chairman, Fall River Planning Board; counsel, Fall River
Housing Authority; member of board and trustee, Fall River Five Cents
Savings Bank; director and past president, Fall River Rotary Club;
officer and director, Y. M. H. A., Y. M. C. A., Fall River Community
Fund and American Red Cross.

PusLicaTions: Articles relating to public administration in periodicals, news-
papers, and bulletins.

AFTER receiving my college degree and travelling and study-
ing in the field of public administration for a year in western
Europe on a Harvard Fellowship, I studied Jaw at Harvard. I
began practising in Fall River, Massachusetts, in the fall of 1928,
conducting my own office. At the end of 1942, following a few
months’ service in the United States Army, I was discharged and
came out of the service to accept a position as executive and
counsel with a manufacturing company. To this position 1 now
give most of my time and walk in and out of my Jaw office at odd
moments of the day as my fancy dictates.

Throughout my long life I have maintained my interest in
matters of public administration, trying to dance on my toes
so as not to become unduly mixed up with local party politics.
This distinction may seem a little nebulous to some but observing

[ 166 |

. anenreneenteste essen
cone RTP EPEAT eM

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

it has given me personal comfort. My interest in public admin-
istration accounts for my present association with city planning,
housing, and matters of that kind, and has kept me in close touch
with political personalities and developments in my part of the
country.

My luck at poker continued pretty good but my experience
with gin rummy has been indifferent. My being unmarried at
this time permits me a certain latitude.

I own a set of golf clubs, including a dynamiter. When I was
at school I played handball. Now I find that a squash racquet
helps me reach the ball. My game is not bad, however.

In spite of certain doubts, I must be essentially a softie because
I always find myself a director or other officer of several chari-
table and civic organizations at the same time.

For any further particulars, please address your questions to
me at Post Office Box 149, Fall River, Massachusetts.

JOSEPH GERBER COHEN

HOME apprEss: 51 Algonquin Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Nathan Yamins Theatres, 100 Boylston St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 15, 1903, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Julius Jacob Cohen, Anna
Gerber.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MarRieD: Evelyn Holland, Jan. 12, 1941, Boston, Mass. cHiLp: Leslie Hol-
land, June 17, 1945.

occupation: Motion picture theatres.

MEMBER OF: Variety Club of New England, Tent 23.

MERLE ESTES COLBY

HOME ApprEss: Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE Appress: Arthur Newmyer & Associates, Suite 600, Evans Bldg.,
1420 New York Ave., N.W., Washington, D. C.

BORN: Dec. 3, 1902, Lodi, Wis. PARENTS: Charles Chivers Colby, Ethel Alvira
Barnhart. |

PREPARED AT: Evanston High School, Evanston, Il.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1024. DEGREE! A.B., 1924.

MarRiED: Dorothy Hanfling, December, 1930, Toulouse, France. CHILDREN:
James, Oct. 7, 19313 Joan, April 5, 1933; Joy, Dec. 17, 1934.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harold Irwin Colby, ’27.

[ 167 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

occupation: Letters; government; public relations.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chief of news and reports, Office of War
Mobilization and Reconversion, director of information, War Man-
power Commission; chief, News Writers Division, Office of War
Information.

puBLications: The Big Secret (novel), Viking Press, 1949, Hawaii, A Pro-
file; The Virgin Islands, A Profile; Puerta Rico, A Profile; Alaska, A
Profile (picture books), Duell, Sloane & Pearce, 1940-41, Handbook
for Youth, Duell, Sloane & Pearce, 1940; Alaska, A Guide, Macmillan,
1939; New Road (novel), Viking Press, 1933, All Ye People (novel),
Viking Press, 1931; various pamphlets published by the Army and
distributed to all branches of the service, 1944-45.

WRITE in narrative style,” admonishes the Class Secretary.
Wise words, would that they could be emblazoned on the type-
writer of every bureaucrat, public relations man, and free-lance
writer. The subject of the present memoir is, or has been, a
member of each of those three peculiar professions.

Merle Colby is a chunky forty-six-year-old who is used to

being middle-aged because his hair turned gray at the age of
twenty-seven. This occurrence probably was the result of his
realizing at about that age that he was going to have to earn his
living from the written word. Colby successfully conceals the
fact that his middle name is Estes (given him after the head of a
theological seminary by his father, who was a Baptist clergyman
like bis father) from everybody but the omniscient Class Secre-
tary, the F.B.L, and the cataloguers at the Library of Congress.
After an obscure four years at Harvard, Colby got a job in a
bookstore because he was fascinated by the idea of being paid
for reading, and six years later, in 1930, was manager of N. J.
Bartlett & Company, a firm of dealers in rare editions and fine
bindings on Cornhill in Boston, He then got the idea that there
might be someone who would pay him for writing as well as
reading, and sure enough, he signed a contract with Viking Press
in the spring of 1930 to go abroad and write novels. This he did,
acquiring in the process a wife (Dorothy), a son (James, born
in Paris), a daughter (Joan, born in Palma, Majorca, Spain), and
another daughter (Joy, born in Boston). Two of his novels
were published by Viking in the depths of the depression, and
let’s not talk about them any more, please,

The bottom dropped out of the American dollar, and Colby

[ 168 ]

a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

hurried home from dolce far expatriate to find a job. He wound
up as principal editor of the Works Projects Administration,
supervising the preparation of W.P.A. guidebooks. Government
work was very interesting, because instead of getting paid for
reading or writing, he got paid for bossing other people who
were reading and writing. A grateful government sent him to
Alaska, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands, and over a large part
of the continental United States (note that he now got paid for
travelling, too). He somehow found time to publish more books:
A Guide to Alaska, a set of picture-books about the territories,
and a manual called Handbook for Youth, ‘There was something
called a Youth Movement in 1940 — remember?

Came the war, and Colby went to the Office of War Informa-
tion as chief of the News Writers Division, a group of top-notch
writers who turned out reports on various phases of World War
II. He also wrote some pamphlets published by the Army and
distributed to servicemen in codperation with the American
Historical Association: Servicemen’s Guide to Alaska; Why
Social Security; Postwar Pioneers; and so on. In 1945 he became
director of information for the War Manpower Commission,
and shortly after V-J Day transferred to the Office of Recon-
version, whose director was John Wesley Snyder, now Secretary
of the Treasury. There he had a wonderful time translating the
jargon of government economists into the approximate English
of reports to Congress, speeches, and press releases. After every-
thing got nicely reconverted (!), Colby transferred to the White
House, where he was a member of the staff of John R. Steelman,
the assistant to the President. He resigned in December, 1947, to
write the novel which about the time this Class Report is pub-
lished should be enjoying its well-deserved success. Title: The
Big Secret (advt.).

Colby plays the recorder (a mediaeval end-blown flute) and is
a good cook of any dish to which can be accommodated saffron,
olive oil, garlic, and pifiones. He enjoys sailing boats, digging
quahaugs, and translating the jargon of government statisticians
and economists into readable English. Some of his finest prose
masterpieces must go forever unclaimed, alas, since they were
uttered by the lips of or published over the signatures of certain
high officials in Washington. He has been twice investigated

[ 169 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

and twice cleared of subversive taint, and although he freely ad-
mits liberal and even New Dealish tendencies, has never had the
honor of being hauled up before a Congressional committee,
To make up for this, he put the hero of his current novel through
that uncomfortable experience. At present he is one of the

associates in the Washington public relations firm of Arthur
Newmyer.

HENRY LEIGHTON COLE

HOME ADDRESS: 863 Park Ave., New York 21, N. Y.
OFFICE aADpRESS: §. D. Warren Co., 2 Park Ave., New York 16, N. Y.

BorN: May 6, 1903, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: John Appleton Cole, Martha
Preble Leighton.

PREPARED AT: Massee Country Day School, Bronxville, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; M.B.A., 1927.

. MARRIED: Josephine Warren, May 6, 1925, Boston, Mass. cHILDREN: Janette
Warren, March 15, 1926; Caroline Warren, May 19, 1928.

occupation: Director of publication sales, S.D. Warren Company.

OFFicEs HELD: Member of City Council, Westbrook, Maine, 1933-35; presi-
dent, Harvard Club of Maine, 1938-39.

AFTER graduating in January, 1924, I returned to Chicago and
worked in the bond department of the Northern Trust Com-
pany until June. This interlude was followed by a return to
Cambridge to the Law School, at the request of my father, where
I spent only part of one year.

In May, 1925, I married, and in the fall of that year entered
Harvard Business School, We lived in Cambridge during those
two years, and after graduating, 1 went to work for the S. D.
Warren Company at their mills just outside Portland, Maine. At
the time this move was looked upon by some as being within the
lunatic fringe, inasmuch as Wall Street was doing fabulous things
practically every day.

We look back over those years in Maine with many fond
remembrances of bringing up our two daughters and leading
an active community life — participation in the City Council,
regional Harvard Club activities, a lot of fun in amateur dramat-
ics, and Junior League benefits. There is an excellent school in
Portland to which our girls went. We had a beautiful golf course
at the Country Club which borders Casco Bay and which

[170]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

strangely resembles the Mid-Ocean Club course in Bermuda.

It is certainly an unusual location, with the ocean and lakes at

hand and the mountains within an hour or two. It was here
that we were able to realize our hobby of remodelling houses, one
in Portland, the other, which we still own, at Waites Landing on
Casco Bay. We did most of the work ourselves, deriving from this
a great deal of satisfaction.

The year 1939 found us living in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts,
ind of course, wrestling with the conversion of an old house.
Che girls went to the Beaver Country Day School. We all en-
oyed the life in Boston and we regretted having to leave there
> move to New York in 1942.

During the first year in New York, we lived in a house over-

oking the East River. For the past five years, however, we have

en living in an apartment where the major physical activity
volves around an agreeable cocker spaniel with a deadly ac-

‘ate walking schedule.

Ne are leading a more ordered and perhaps self-centered life

n heretofore, but are fully enjoying the many advantages of
great city with time left over for more reading than before,
with church-going taking a real place in our lives.

ur daughters have graduated from Chapin School (where ts
Harvard son? ), made their debuts, taken a number of courses
and there, and are working (fairly steadily) towards a trip
ope. | |
hough a Republican class, I think many of us feel that our
ion lies in positive, constructive action, a cleaner break from
id guard,” and a fairer evaluation of a program which has
he choice of the majority for the past sixteen years.

business, the manufacture and sale of paper used in books,
nes, promotional, and advertising pieces, still holds my
nterest after twenty-two years. With many signs now
¢ to a recession or readjustment, we are relieved that our
id products are ready to meet these changed conditions,
= hope.
report recounts family life at the expense of career notes,
ye because of the measure of contentment and happiness
we enjoyed with my family, and I hope that it may so

[170]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

LOUIS MILAN COLE

HOME ADDRESS: 908 S. Catalina St., Los Angeles, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 520 Chamber of Commerce Bldg., Los Angeles, Calif.

BoRN: June 16, 1899, Raab, Austria Hungary. PAaRENTs: Jacob Kolo, An-
tonia Ferlin.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1924.
MARRIED: Eliza Smiley Pollock, June 16, 1930, Cleveland, Ohio.
occupation: Oil production.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Cole did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

TEXAS JAY COLE

HOME ADDRESS: 6108 DeLoache Ave., Dallas, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2013 Elm St., Dallas, Texas.

BorN: April 24, 1897, Savannah, Ga. parents: Mark Cohen, Bessie Schulman.

PREPARED AT: Waco High School, Waco, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: A.A., 1924.

MARRIED: Belle Truda Bornstein, June 30, 1933, Weirton, W. Va. CHILDREN: _
Jerry Sam, April 13, 1936; Stephen Nisson, April 27, 1938; Martha Pearl, -
May 31, 1941; Marshall Bert, May 9, 1943.

occuUPATION: Merchant, chain of retail stores.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: First World War, buck private, Company A,

1ogth Engineers, 34th Division, served in France approximately one
year.

OFFICES HELD: Commander, American Legion Post, Waco, Texas, 1938.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Dallas, Karem Temple; A.A.O.N.M.S., Waco,

Texas.

MY YEARS at Harvard were all very interesting, and undoubt-
edly have shaped my life more than any other influence. I spent
one more year in the Graduate School, leaving Harvard in 1925.
I drifted into business of one kind or another in various parts
of the United States: real estate in Florida, banking with the
Bancamerica-Blair corporation in New York and Chicago, etc.
The 1929 fiasco came and took its toll. The vaunted ability and
leadership of American bankers became a bankrupt myth. Then
the serious economic collapse began, Finally 1 was married in
1933.
"Then I went back to Texas in the company of a wife, a mort-
gaged automobile, and an uncompanionable depression, The de-

[172]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pression grew more and more unfriendly. The dust bowl began
to frown and encroach upon the fertile green sections of central
Texas; everything and everyone was uneasy and threatening ex-
cept my good, loyal wife. So we went to work. Hard work, good
provisions and babies brought us, as well as our section, into
prosperity.

We have four children ranging from thirteen down to six years
of age. ‘They all have promises of one thing or another. We live
comfortably in a large house. We get away with the kids in the
summertime, when the heat is terrific, and Belle and I get down
to Mexico, Cuba, or Florida when the Northerners hit Texas.

I have few hobbies except my business. I play golf occasionally,
swim quite a bit, and indulge in the conservative social activities of
business folk. What little reading I am able to do is devoted to
current social and political periodicals and occasionally some
works on geography and history.

I am not sure of my political or religious convictions. Religion,
I shall dismiss by saying that I believe in God, although I can
hear George Foote Moore as he used to say in his History of

Religion, “There has been questionable progress.”

My political convictions are submerged by international politi-_
cal and social movements. ‘To say that I am liberal is begging the
question and laughably humorous. I am not sure of the definition
of a liberal, a laborite, a conservative, or even of a communist.
For under the latter apology, we have seen Russia fight on two
differerit sides, Frenchmen kill Frenchmen, Chinese fight Chinese,
native Malayans rise up, and Hindus stir. Czechoslovakians have
changed their government, Tito controls a semi-peasant Yugo-
slavia, and Greece is now bleeding — all because of a definition,
not because of a word.

I am sure that all of the uncertainties in political definitions
today are a manifestation of the same movement. The Indian
in Mexico has an awareness of his rights — new rights — not just
the right to vote, or the right of freedom of speech or religion.
You cannot arouse his interest any more when you talk about
these commonplace rights, as precious as they are. He wants
more and he gets more. It might be the charlatanism of cheap
politicians who arouse these wants, or it might be the vague de-
mands for these rights that make the charlatans possible. Never-

[173],

——— Lo

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924
+ WILLIAM GREGORY COLE

Born: Feb. 1, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: Lewis Gregory Cole, Marion
Herring.
preparED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; M.D. (College of Physicians
and Surgeons), 1928.

marrieD: Afargot Cochrane, Sept. 10, 1925, Brooklyn, N. Y. cuitp: Lois
Gregory, Sept. 20, 1926.

piep: April 15, 1948, Hamilton, Bermuda.

wipow: A{rs. William G. Cole, Pittsfield, Mass.

WILLIAM GREGORY COLE entered Harvard after com-
pleting preparatory studies at the Hackley School. In college
he was active as a member of the Wrestling Squad (1922, 1923),
as captain of the Freshman Wrestling Team, and as a member of
the 1924 Class Fund Committee and the Hackley School Club.
After receiving an A.B. degree with the Class, he entered the
College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, and
in 1928 was awarded an M.D. degree. Following graduation he
was put in charge of the X-ray department at the French Hos-
pital, New York, and remained there until 1936 when he accepted
a similar type of position at the St. Agnes Hospital, White Plains.
Four years later, he was appointed chief of the department of
roentgenology at the House of Mercy Hospital, Pittsfield, Massa-
chusetts, and was serving in this capacity at the time of his death.
He was also associated with Hillcrest Hospital, Pittsfield, and
Fairview Hospital, at Great Barrington.

A member of the American Medical Association, the Berkshire
medical societies and the Rotary Club, he was a fellow of the
American College of Roentgenologists.

WILTON DONALD COLE

HOME aApprEss: 37 Lake Drive, Mountain Lakes, N. J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1900 Woolworth Bldg., 233 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 23, 1903, St. Paul, Minn, parents: Wilton Francis Cole, Elizabeth
L. McMahon.

PREPARED AT: St. Thomas Military Academy, St. Paul, Minn,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923, DEGREFS: A.B, Magna cum laude, 1924 (23), BA
(Univ. of Oxford), 1926; L.8. (Fordham Univ.), 1929.

[176]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Gloria M. Hernandez, Dec. 24, 1943, San Diego, Calif. cro:
Patricia Scott, March 20, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Theodore Cole, ’30.

occuPATION: Counsel, Union Bag and Paper Corporation.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant, United States Naval Reserve; air
liaison officer, Kiska Operation, air support control officer, Tarawa and
Kwajalein Operations; instructor, Air Support Control School, San
Diego; in service from December, 1942, to December, 1945.

I ACKNOWLEDGE receipt of Goad No. 3. You are more per-

sistent than my wife. You have finally struck blood. Here it is:

I was a bachelor for too many years. The war, a few months
in the Aleutians, a happy reunion in San Diego with the girl I
left behind me, and all my prejudices against marriage crumbled.
Gloria and I were married Christmas Eve, 1943.

Gloria is half-Cuban, half-Irish, and half-educated in accord-
ance with the best traditions of our progressive schools. This is
a fine recipe for a wife and my only regret is that I didn’t dis-
cover it sooner.

Patricia was born March. 20, 1948. At eleven months, it is obvi-
ous to my not unprejudiced eye that she will be as charming and
beautiful as her mother. She is, in any event, living proof that
some doctors may be wrong.

Five days a week I rise at an ungodly hour, rush to the local
Lackawanna station, play several rubbers of train bridge (not to
be confused with contract) between Mountain Lakes and Hobo-
ken, stand a short fifteen-minute ferry watch between Hoboken
and Barclay Street, take a short stroll to the Woolworth Build-
ing, and reverse the trip at night. Time: three hours per day,
equal to thirty days per year. This is equivalent to more bridge
than one twenty-eight-day cruise to Rio.

At the end of the war, Gloria and I spent three months climb-
ing up and down Mexico by car and in 1947 we revisited Cuba.

I read Holiday avidly. ,

Hobbies: My daughter, Patricia; golf; square dancing; answer-
ing insulting communications from the Class Secretary.

Social, political, and religious convictions: I can recall the time
when, as a result of a Harvard education, I had a complete set
of convictions on things social, political, and religious, hide-
bound like Dr. Eliot’s five- foot book shelf. Time, how ever, dealt
with them unkindly. Their stuffiness gradually became apparent,

[177]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

even to me. Three vears in the war and a wife knocked many
of them into a cocked hat. Today I am examining their remains,
endeavoring to distinguish between what are convictions and
what are merely habits. My wife, of course, considers my con-
victions rock-like. In dealing with women it is necessary to give
this impression. The point is, Fritz, your question is premature.
If you want a final answer, I suggest you write me again before
our Fiftieth Reunion. By that time they won’t matter.

CYRIL COLEMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 133 Hawthorn St. Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Day, Berry & Howard, 750 Main St., Hartford, Conn.

BORN: Sept. 1, 1902, Meriden, Conn. parents: John Lawrence Coleman,
Dora Cosgrove.

PREPARED AT: Meriden High School, Meriden, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1924; LL.B., 1927-

MARRIED: Katherine Alexander, June 4, 1931, Meriden, Conn, cHtLpren: Mary,
July 14, 1933; John, July 11, 1935; Marcia, Feb. 18, 1941; Dora, Feb. 18,
1944.

occupation: Lawyer, mayor of Hartford.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Appeal agent, Draft Board 1-B, Hartford.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Zoning Board of Appeals, Meriden, 1930-31, Board
of Police Commissioners, Hartford, 1935-37, Metropolitan District
Commission, Hartford, 1940-47, Board of Park Commissioners, Hart-
ford, 1943-47, Charter Revision Commission, Hartford, 1945-46, Judicial
Council, State of Connecticut, since 1947, director, Hartford Public

Library, since 1941; state delegate, American Bar Association, since
1948, mayor of Hartford, since 1948.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Hartford; Hartford Club; Graduate Club
of New Haven.

AFTER graduation from law school, I entered the office of Day,
Berry & Reynolds (now Day, Berry & Howard) in Hartford
and began to try cases in the City Courts of Hartford and sur-
rounding cities — mostly the defense of negligence cases.

I was admitted to partnership in 1932 and shortly after that
took over as one phase of my trial practice the defense of suits
brought against physicians, surgeons, and hospitals for negligence.
By arrangement with the State Medical Association, the State
Dental Association, and the insurer, the Aetna Casualty and
Surety Company, I handled and still do handle this interesting

[ 178]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

work throughout the State of Connecticut. My work is still
that of a trial lawyer for the most part.

We now have four children ranging in age from fifteen down
to four. It marked the end of an era for us when Mary, the
eldest, left for boarding school.

Like most lawyers, I have taken an interest in politics but was
not deeply involved personally until last year. I had served as a
Democrat on various municipal boards and commissions in a
rather amateurish way until I joined the Charter Revision Com-
mission in 1946 which drafted a new charter for Hartford based
on the council-manager form of government. Although both
parties opposed the new charter, it was first approved by a popu-
lar referendum and then enacted into law by action of the state
legislature and signature of the governor. At the non-partisan
popular election held November 7, 1947, I was elected the first
mayor of Hartford under the new charter for a term of two
years. I have found it an interesting and stimulating experience.
The day-to-day administrative work is handled by the city mana-
ger, Charleton Sharpe. When the manager knows his job, as ours
does, the mayor can function as he should under the council-
manager form of government, that is, as chairman of the board
of directors—the other directors being the remaining eight
members of the city council, the policy making body for the
city. Besides, I have the fun of meeting and greeting, when they
come to town, all sorts of interesting people, from Lily Pons to
the President of the United States.

I think that when we get in the forties we are all likely to feel
that we are getting into a rut. I recommend a flier into politics to
put a little savor in life and, without being stuffy about it or
taking themselves too seriously, people of our age who have ex-
perience but are not yet too tired to enjoy the fun that goes with
such a venture, can accomplish some good.

A wise and understanding wife and tolerant partners who are
willing to continue an association with one who, to their amaze-
ment, voted four times for F.D.R., have made life most pleasant.

[179]

°

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

WILLIAM EDWARD COLLINS, JR.

HOME appreEss: 311 Cross St., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: 49 Federal St, Boston, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 13, 1902, Dorchester, Mass. parents: William Edward Collins,
"97, Dorothy Veronica Kinney.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; M.B.A., 1926.

MaRRIED: Margaret Vahey, June 30, 19:8, Falmouth, Mass. cHILDREN: Ann,
July 7, 1929; Sally, July 29, 1933; William Edward, 3d, June 11, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Kinney Collins, ’25.

OCCUPATION: Insurance.

THE twenty-five years have flown. Since my marriage to Mar-
garet Vahey i in 1928, we have led the lives of ordinary, suburban-
ites. We have three children, one of whom is a junior in Smith
College, the other two all too fast approaching the college age.
My son, Billy, as is quite natural, has a leaning towards Harvard.
He and ], and sometimes his mother, see all of the Harvard foot-
ball games from the top of the Stadium. We consider ourselves
experts, but are dumbfounded when we read the real stuff to
find out what actually happened. We have great hopes for
Harvard’s football future.

- My business life has been wholly in the insurance field. I have
specialized in group insurance, pensions, and life insurance. I was
directly instrumental in the establishment of the group life and
pension plans for the non-teaching staff of the employees of
Harvard University, St. Mark’s School, the Episcopal Theologi-
cal School, and for the teaching staff of Milton Academy, and
several commercial corporations.

It has been a great pleasure to keep up the friendships made
in college and I am looking forward to seeing those classmates
whom I have not seen for so long.

CHARLES CARY COLT

HOME AppRESS: 90 MacDougal St, New York, N. Y.; Taunton Lane, New-
town, Conn.

oFFice appress: Ebasco Services, Inc. 2 Rector St. New York, N. Y.

Bors: Nov. 27, 1901, Fort Dodge, lowa. parents: James Wood Colt, Frances
Sweet Bacon.

[ 180 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.; Lycée Louis Le Grand,
Paris, France.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923.

MarRiED: Amy Lee, Dec. 1, 1923, Brookline, Mass. cHiLpREN: Charles Cary,
Jr., Nov. 7, 1924 (m. Virginia Fuller, Sept. 10, 1946); Margaret Cabot,
June 7, 1926; Sylvia, July 28, 1927; Joseph Lee, Aug. 1, 1929; Timothy
Pickering, Dec. 28, 1930; Patrick Tracy, Sept. 7, 1933; Susan Mary,

Oct. 3, 1937; Amy Lee, Oct. 3, 1937 (died Feb. 21, 1938).

HARVARD SONS: Charles Cary Colt, Jr., ’46; Joseph Lee Colt, ’51.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Francis Colt, ’22.

OCCUPATION: Assistant manager, Corporate Finance Department, Ebasco
Services, Inc.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served as air combat intelligence officer in
United States Naval Reserve, February, 1942-November, 1945; held
ranks of lieutenant and lieutenant commander, with squadrons and on
staffs in Pacific. Bronze Star; Commendation Ribbon, Presidential
Unit Citation.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Vocational Advisory Service for Juniors of New
York, Morosini Boys Club of New York, Electric Bond and Share
Company, 1938-39.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: 28 Days — A History of the Banking Panic, with N. S. Keith;
numerous unsigned and signed newspaper articles for the Boston Eve-
ning Transcript, Louisville Courier Journal, Louisville Times, and Wall
Street Journal.

THE first and most important and, by long odds, most intelli-

gent thing I ever did in my life was my marriage in December,

1923. I was then on the Boston Evening Transcript where I

worked until 1925. From 1925 until June, 1929, I was fortunate

enough to work for the Louisville Courier Journal, a liberal cru-
sading newspaper for which I wrote all kinds of news from
murders to politics.

I started in on the Wall Street Journal on August 1, 1929 (mv
fourth child was born on the same day). The financial commu-
nity had quite a baptism of fire shortly thereafter, and I spent
many hours writing headlines and stories on the stock market
débacle.. For two years I wrote the market column in the Tall
Street Journal called “Abreast of the Market,” and I actually was
co-author of a book (circulation about eighteen hundred copics)
at some time during this period. In 1934 I went to Washington
and was there almost two years on the Wall Street Journal's stat.

I found newspapering a great profession, It gives one responsi-
bility at an early age and a wide variety and depth of experience.

[ 181 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Best of all, it puts one in personal contact with individuals of
stature and gives one personal knowledge of events as they
happen, not as someone else portrays them, My experience in
newspapering was an extraordinarily happy one, particularly the
three and one-half years [ spent in Kentucky with the Bingham
newspapers.

In business I have been with the Electric Bond and Share Com-
pany and its wholly owned subsidiary, Ebasco Services, Inc.,
since early in 1936, with the exception of almost four years I
spent in the United States Naval Reserve. My specialty, if I
have one, is finance. I have dealt exhaustingly and exhaustively
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, investment bank-
ers, insurance companies, and others. Since the war, the broad-
ening of the scope of operations of Ebasco has taken me to South
America to confer on the finances of the City of Quito, capital of
Ecuador, and to other locales in the United States to advise on
the corporate and financial problems and the general business
affairs of a wide variety of companies. It has been varied and
interesting work.

Though it was certainly no favor to my wife, who was left
with seven children and a good many problems on her hands,
I joined the United States Navy in January, 1942, attending the
first indoctrination class at Quonset Point, Rhode Island, and
then the Air Combat Intelligence School. I found myself all
too soon in what appeared to be, on close examination, a shoot-
ing war. .

I was overseas for more than two years, all of it in the Pacific.
I was most fortunate in the kind of work — combat intelligence
—I was doing, in the active areas in which I served, and in the
men under whom I served. 1 was busy at deeply interesting work
virtually the entire time throughout my years of service. Through
the kindness of my last commanding officer, Rear Admiral John
Perry, U.S.N., I was sent to Tokyo Bay for the Japanese sur-
render and to set up Fleet Air Wing One's seaplane search of
the Japanese Islands for the initial stages of the occupation. Our
ship, the seaplane tender Cumberland Sound ( AV-17) was the
third big ship in Tokyo Bay (far ahead of the Mf issouri).

The wartime association, particularly with the younger men
in the Army, Navy, and Marine Corps, under varied conditions

[ 182 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

vastly different from home life, was greatly rewarding and
broadening. It is hardly necessary to add that it was also a con-
vincing argument for the necessity of working towards a goal
of world union, to avert future wars.

My wife and I have raised a large family in New York, though
for the past twelve years, except for the war period, we have
gone every weekend in winter to, and spent our summers on, our
place near Newtown, Connecticut. We are impassioned gar-
deners, though still none too skillful.

Four of our children are now through or in college and we
look forward to the not too distant date when we expect to
participate in the upbringing of another generation. When one
is conditioned to having not less than four or five children on
hand at all times, it is quite surprising to be reduced to one or
two. .

HURST WATERMAN CONANT

HOME appress: R.F.D. #1, Delano Park, Cape Elizabeth, Maine.
BorN: Feb. 22, 1900, Portland, Maine. parents: Cheever Gage Conant,
- Maude Gertrude Hayes.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922.

MARRIED: Gertrude Owen, Sept. 16, 1931 (divorced 1944; died December,
1945); Agnes Crawford Wyllie, Feb. 22, 1945, Montreal, P.Q., Canada.
CHILD: Barbara Ann, June 7, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Retired.

OFFICES HELD: President, Conant Company, Ltd.

MEMBER OF: Royal Montreal Yacht Club; Portland Yacht Club.

IN 1924 I joined my family business and started to learn the
paint and varnish industry. In 1927 I was placed in charge of our
Export Department and became interested in Canada. In 1929
I went to Montreal where I established a branch factory. Here
I made my home from 1929 to 1946, during which time I learned
to ski in the Laurentian Mountains and in the summer months
lived on board my boat at the Royal St. Lawrence Yacht Club
at Dorval, Quebec, until the war years restricted these activities.

In 1946 I disposed of my business interests in Canada and
in the United States, and on October 22 my wife and I boarded
our cruiser at Dorval and cast off for Florida, changing our domi-
cile back to the United States,

[ 183 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

For two vears we have cruised each fall to Florida, making
our headquarters at Palm Beach, and come spring, we have
cruised up the Atlantic Coast to Portland, Maine, our r headquar-
ters at Cape Elizabeth.

It is my studied opinion that retirement from the frantic busi-
ness world while one has the physical strength to enjoy an active
life, is not so bad as depicted by my contemporaries. These two
sabbatical years have proved to be the best years of my life,
during w hich time my health has improved and my perspective
of life has changed considerably. I no longer think in terms of
synthetics, carload orders, gross profits, etc.

I am now about to start a new phase of life. I intend to make
my home on an old plantation near Charleston, South Carolina,
raising Aberdeen Angus and returning to a “way of life” not
possible in a large industrial center. Here I intend to try to be-

come as self-sufficient as possible, anticipating the next holocaust
—away from atomic bombs.

No honors or distinctions have come my way, but the funda-
mental economics of life have been taken care of by dint of
hard work, and perhaps I have a few years ahead of me for

creative work in other directions during the next stretch from
middle to old age.

PATRICIO VALENZUELA CONFESOR

HOME AppREss: Cabatuan, Tloilo, P. I.

BoRN: March 17, 1900, Cabatuan, Iloilo, P. 1. parents: Julian Confesor,
Prospera Valenzuela.

TRANSFERRED FROM: University of California.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

MARRIED: Jovita Villafuerte, Dec. 26, 1928, Antique, P. 1. crmpreNn: Patricio,
Jr., Oct. 9, 1929; Valentin, May 24, 1931; Teresa Prospera, Aug. 25,
1933; Andres Bonifacio, Nov. 30, 1935; Victoria, Oct. 13, 1944.

occuPATION: Farming, business.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RecoRD: Captain, Philippine (Guerilla) Army, 1942-445
executive secretary, Free Government of Panay (underground resist-
ance), to December, 1944; acting governor, Resistance Government of
Free Panay, Jan. 1 to March 18, 1945.

ovFices HELD: Governor, Hoilo Province (postwar-liberation period), March

21, 1945, to Feb. 15, 1946; vice-chairman, Provincial Committee, Na-
tionalist Party of the Philippines.

[ 184 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I HAVE not gone on very far in life; success in a material way
seems to be out of reach. When the last war broke out and drew
us into it, I put everything into it. It was my own fight, I felt,
not to save my life or that of my country, but to save the lives of
my children and their children in the future. It was a terrible
ordeal for me. The only joy I derived from facing it came from
the thought that perhaps what little I could do, and did, would
save the children of the world from going through the same
sufferings when they grew up to manhood. I do not know yet
whether victory will hasten the reign of peace and securi
Many people are doubtful about the future. I do not blame them
—so much confusion still troubles men’s minds. I become pessi-
mistic sometimes. But I still have faith that better times are
coming. If so many people could and did give up so much that
was dear to them to achieve victory in the last war, I believe so
many more could and would give up so much more to achieve
the peace and security that we all need to have.

4 THOMAS ROSCOE CONKLIN

BorN: June 15, 1900, Lockport, Ill. parents: Edward Roscoe Conklin, Addie
Mae Kelly. |

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1921.

MARRIED: Jane Elizabeth Waters, June 28, 1923, Aurora, Ill. cx1tp: Thomas
Roscoe, Jr., May 5, 1924.

DIED: Jan. 23, 1926, Aurora, Ill.

THOMAS ROSCOE CONKLIN entered Harvard after com-
pleting preparatory study at Phillips Exeter Academy. After a
year’s attendance at the College, he transferred to the University
of Illinois. He became associated with the Lyon Metal Products,
Incorporated, and for a time acted as assistant credit manager
before becoming a salesman with the company.

CHRISTOPHER PAUL CONLIN

ADDRESS: 258 Eighth St., S.E., Washington, D. C.

BORN: July 19, 1903, Fast Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Francis Joseph Conlin, ’ot,
Ellen Mariah Murphy.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

[ 185 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924(25).
occUPATION: Education.

_ THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Conlin did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

GORDON SOUTHWORTH COOK
HOME ApprEsS: 1126 S.E. Fourth St., Fort Lauderdale, Fla. (winter), Skyland,
N. C. (summer).

OFFICE appRESSs: Encyclopaedia Britannica Films, Inc., 1126 S.E. Fourth St.,
Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

BORN: Oct. 28, 1901, Oshkosh, Wis. parents: William Grant Cook, Jean-
nette Bacon,

TRANSFERRED FROM: University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924. ,

marrizp: Pauline Bredemeier, Nov. 14, 1925, Chicago, Tl. cHiprEN: Jean
St. George, Sept. 2, 1926 (m. Ronald A. Trumble, July 28, 1947); Lois
Southworth, April 15, 1929; Gordon Southworth, Jr., March 1, 1943.

occupation: District manager in Alabama and Florida for Encyclopaedia
Britannica Films, Inc. |

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Miami; Fort Lauderdale Yacht Club; Bilt-
more Forest Country Club, Asheville, N.C. .

BY CUTTING this short I may avoid Goad No. 6 from Fred
A. O.! To be brief — after the depression, which I certainly like
to forget, I made one of my hobbies, motion picture photography,
my life work. At least it has taken up most of my time since
1936. Bell & Howell Company then offered me the State of
Florida, and I moved my family to Fort Lauderdale in 1937. |
did a good deal of pioneering in visual education, selling their
sound motion picture projectors all over the state, and through
the other company I represented, E.R.P.I. Classroom Films, I
sold many county school systems on organizing their own edu-
cational film libraries. Through the war years I did some service
work on projection equipment for the armed forces, distributed
films in this area for the Office of War Information, set up the
visual-aids departments in the training schools of our new ship-
yards, aircraft plants, etc. 1 was special representative in Florida
for Bell & Howell Company until about the spring of 1947.
During these later years, 1 was also exclusive sales agent for
E.R.P.I. Classroom Films in Alabama, Georgia, and Florida, and

[ 186 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

aided in the establishment of educational film libraries in all three

states.

In 1946 the University of Chicago acquired E.R-P.I. Class-
room Films and changed the name of the organization to Ency-
clopaedia Britannica Films, Inc., and since April, 1947, I have
spent my full time as district manager for them, covering Ala-
bama, Georgia, and Florida.

I have travelled well over 400,000 miles on business through
my extensive “Deep South” territory. I have not felt the need,
nor had the time, for more than a few trips to New York and one
to San Francisco and the Rockies to get some altitude. In 1947
we bought a summer home in the mountains of North Carolina,
near Asheville, and we are so delighted with that country and
climate that we shall spend more and more of each year there.

In Florida I have a little cruiser, my wife, and one youngster
who is at home. I spend most of the weekends deep-sea fishing
with friends, In the summer I try to be a real pal to the son I
waited so long for! Right now it is model railroading with a very
realistic and extensive layout, H.O. gauge, to you fellow-model-

lers. (My married daughter has moved to Asheville, so eventually
we shall have a grandson to help break them!)

At present I am developing a system which will make the
darkening of rooms unnecessary when films are shown. I am
adapting it for classroom use. This will extend the use and
effectiveness of visual education tremendously. It is especially
important in the South with the dual problems of darkening and
ventilation.

Being a Republican down here, I feel quite helpless. Yes, I
was one of the millions who didn’t think it necessary to vote for
Dewey! But when Lodge goes in for the presidency, I'll be one
down here pitching.

With improvement of educational methods in this fast-moving
age so necessary, I feel I am doing something well worth while
in carrying on my work in this special field. I have a fine family,
am in excellent health, living out-of-doors most of the year.
What more can one ask!

[ 187 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

WILLIAM APPLETON COOLIDGE
HOME appress: Topsfield, Mass.
OFFICE aDpREsS: 84 State St. Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Oct. 22, 1901, Boston, Mass. parents: Thomas Jefferson Coolidge, Jr,
Clara Amory.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; M.A. (Univ. of
Oxford), 1933; LLB. cum laude (Harvard Univ.), 1936.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Thomas Jefferson Coolidge, ’15,; Amory Coolidge, ’17.

occupation: Head of a small group interested in backing unseasoned com-

anies.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chief of Finance Division, Material Division,
Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Navy.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, St. Mark's School, 1933, Episcopal Theological
School, 1934, Boston Lying-In Hospital, 1935; vestry, Trinity Church,
Boston, 1931-45, Christ Church, Hamilton, Mass., 1948; director, Nopco
Chemical Company, 1928; chairman of board, National Research Corpo-
ration; president, New Enterprises, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club; Myopia Hunt Club; The Brook; River Club;
Tennis and Racquet Club.

ON LEAVING college, I spent three very enjoyable years at
Balliol College, Oxford University. They were useful in teaching
me a little more about how to use my mind properly. In our day
American education was much too much tied to learning the
facts and opinions of the teacher. I understand there has been
some advance since. . |

That was followed by a few years in a broker’s office, bore-
dom, and a return to Harvard, this time to the Law School. That
I took to like a duck to water, even though I was nine years out
of college when I entered. I started the practice of law at thirty-
five, but left for Washington in January, 1941. When I returned
in 1946, it was just too much of a good thing to try to begin
practising law all over again, and I hadn’t been at it long enough
before the war to count for much. So | took up having a fling
at trying to develop new enterprises that looked as if they might
make a contribution to the American economy and my own. It
hasn’t been long enough yet to have had many go completely
sour, nor to have proved themselves as undoubtedly successful.
However, if you ever come across “Minute Maid” orange juice,
“Infra-Roast Coffee” or a “Kaman” helicopter, be sure and get
your pocketbook out, for your own sake as well as*mine.

[ 188 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES BAGG COOPER

HOME ADDRESS: 1055 Amsterdam Ave., Atlanta, Ga.

OFFICE AppREss: Atlanta Regional Blood Center, 81 Walton St., Atlanta, Ga.

BorN: March 28, 1902, Syracuse, N. Y. PARENTS: Henry Roberts Cooper,
Jessie Marian Bagg.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE! A.B., 1924(25).

HARVARD BROTHERS: James Cooper, ’18; Joseph Morgan Cooper, 23.

occupaTion: Director, Atlanta Regional Blood Center, American Red Cross.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: American Red Cross: Club director, Mediter-
ranean theatre of operations; served in Oran, North Africa, May, 1944-
January, 1945, Naples, January, 1945-February, 1945, Florence and Leg-
horn, February, 1945-November, 1945; returned to U.S.A., Decem-
ber, 1945.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Syracuse.

THE questionnaire which the Class Secretary has so kindly pro-

vided as a framework for displaying one’s accomplishments

makes me realize that I may well be a man of distinction in one

respect at least. I have never married. Happily, there is no place

to record the near misses or the ones which got away.

Marriages have provided me with some vicarious pleasures,
however. Not the least of these was a trip to Honolulu with Bill
Gates in 1927 to help Ben Rice get married. One could do such
things in 1927 without causing even the lifting of an eyebrow.

The same lush psychology of the gilded ’20’s caused me to
picture myself as a merchant prince and prompted me to join
my brother, Joseph Morgan Cooper, in becoming manufacturers’
representatives in Syracuse. The firm of J. M. & C. B. Cooper,
Incorporated, marched confidently into the open jaws of the
depression with more determination than good sense. Pearl Har-
bor finally rang down the curtain on this pleasant, but not other-
wise profitable, partnership.

The dislocation of war has uprooted me completely and brought
me many thrilling and satisfactory experiences. In January, 1942,
I left Syracuse to go with the American Red Cross as a member
of the National Disaster Staff with headquarters in Washington.
After almost two years overseas, I returned to the States having
decided that in Red Cross I had found the ideal calling for a
middle-aged bachelor. My next assignment was to the South-
eastern Area Headquarters of Red Cross in Atlanta and not long

[ 189 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

thereafter I found myself in the newly organized National Blood
Program.

I am now the director of the Atlanta Regional Blood Center,
the second of a few pioneer centers which hope to develop the
techniques and procedures eventually to be employed in a vast
network of Red Cross Blood Centers which will cover the nation

MELVILLE PARKHURST CORDINGLEY

HOME ADDRESS: 38 Lake Ave., Newton Center 59, Mass.

BORN: July 5, 1902, Newton Center, Mass. parENTs: Joseph Sykes Cording-
ley, Ruth Parkhurst.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924.

WARREN HOLMES CORNING
HOME Appress: R.D. 2, Mentor, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1263 Union Commerce Bldg. Cleveland, Ohio.

BORN: Feb. 25, 1902, Cleveland, Ohio, parents: Henry Wick Corning, ’91,
Edith Warden.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Maud Stager Fells, Sept. 22, 1928, Cleveland, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Edith Warden,. April 6, 1930; Nathan Eells, Nov. 9, 19313 Alison
Trabue, May 6, 1935; Ellen Howard, Sept. 21, 1940; Henry Howard,
Sept. 3, 1943.

occupaTioN: Real estate and investments. ©

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned captain, April 6, 1942; discharged

major, May 26, 1945. Served in Army Air Forces, Central Flying
Training Command.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Holden Arboretum, since 1945; president, Civilian
Exchange, since 1945, Karamu House, since 1946, treasurer, Citizens

League, since 1946, trustee, American Foundation, Garden Center,
since 1945.

MEMBER OF; Union Club; Tavern Club, Kirtland Country Club, Cleveland
Skating Club.

I HAVE been interested in outdoor activities, particularly those
relating to cultural and scientific work. In the years that we were
not adding to our family, my wife and I went on scientific expedi-
tions in the country and to Cuba and New Zealand. The war
interrupted our expeditions and with a “full house” and increas-

ing local obligations, we are settling more and more towards the
armchair explorer type of life.

[190]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PHILLIP COWIN

HOME ADDRESS: 36 Summit Ave., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fox & Orlov, 11 Pemberton Sq., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 1, 1903, East Boston, Mass. parents: Abraham Cohen, Ida Mil-
dred Fine.

PREPARED AT: East Boston High School, East Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; LL.B., 1927.

MaRRIED: Ruth A. (Sheinwald) Gerofski, Nov. 18, 1947, Brookline, Mass.
cHiLtp: William Irvin, April 18, 1938 (stepson).

occuPATION: Lawyer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chief attorney, Territory of Hawaii; associate
price attorney, New England Regional Office, Office of Price Adminis-
tration.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Jewish Big Brother Association, since 1948; direc-
tor, Brookline- -Brighton-Newton Jewish Community Center, since 1947;

“member, executive committee, East Boston and Winthrop Bar Associa-
tion; president, Boston Junior Unit, American Jewish Congress, 1936-
38; American delegate to World Jewish Congress at Geneva, Switzer-
land, 1936; high potentate, 1924-27, New England district council
superior, 1928, Harvard Chapter, Sigma Omega Psi Fraternity.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association, Newton Squash and Tennis Club;
Massachusetts Civil Liberties Union.

WHILE at college I heard it rumored about that the Harvard
Law School produces top-notch lawyers — accordingly, I at-
tended the Harvard Law School. Shortly after graduation I was
admitted to the Massachusetts Bar. I became associated with the
firm of Fox & Orlov, of which I am now a member.

Although I had promised myself a trip to Europe in the summer
of 1924, working my way on a passenger liner or cattle boat, I was
unable to accomplish this because most of the boats travelling to
Europe at that time were British, and American consular officials
were complaining about the number of men who “skipped” the
ship and became stranded in Europe. The trip, therefore, was
postponed until the summer of 1936 when I travelled in much
greater comfort, to wit, tourist class, visiting England, France,
and Switzerland. A few years before, I took a Caribbean cruise.

Early in 1942 I joined the legal staff of the New England Re-
gional Office of the Office of Price Administration as price
attorney. I was the expert for this region, interpreting the
plethora of regulations governing prices of foods and consumer
durable goods, I also organized the legal division of the Rhode

[191]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Island State Office of the Office of Price Administration at Provi-
dence. Appreciating the widespread misunderstanding of the
price regulations by the public and merchants, I was a member
of a team which was sent on a barnstorming tour of the New
England states, explaining and answering questions at public
meetings concerning “General Max” and other price regulations.
The lure of Hawaii, inspired in part by Matson Line advertising,
found me next year ensconced on the Iolani Palace grounds in
Honolulu as chief enforcement attorney for the Office of Price
Administration, and later as chief attorney. I visited all the
islands in the Hawaiian group. Among my many interesting ex-
periences on the Islands, I acted as the local reception committee
for many members of the armed forces coming from Boston and
vicinity who passed through the Islands into the Pacific war
theatre. After taking a four-day Bar examination — it was quite
an experience after being out of law school for seventeen years
— I was admitted to the Bar of the Territory.

Fearing that I might succumb to the leisurely charm and easy
informality of living in the Islands, and anticipating’ V-E Day,
I resigned to return to private law practice. I almost stayed on
the West Coast. While at San Francisco, en route to Boston, the
War Labor Board requested me to take the position of regional
attorney. After spending some time in the West and beyond,
I was impressed by the rapid growth and progress of communities
on the West Coast in contrast to the comparative stagnation of
New England.

Like most lawyers, | am still waiting and hoping for the case
which will produce a huge fee that will give me financial security.

I finally married and settled down in the latter part of 1947.
My wife expresses a vehement dislike for bachelors.

My experience as an official and administrative agent of the
federal government for over three years has made me fearful
of our expanding bureaucracy, particularly where it involves
the application of price and rationing controls. A bureau is al-
ways looking for more power and money. Zealous administra-
tors tend to abuse the powers granted by the Legislature. The
program itself may be maintained much longer than necessary
by the pressure of job holders whose security is threatened by
jts termination. In consequence, our system of free enterprise

[192]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and business naturally suffers. In my opinion, such controls are
justified only in cases of great national emergency. As for my

political convictions — they were greatly upset by the last
Presidential election.

JOHN HUBERT CRAIGIE

HOME ADDRESS: 479 Kensington Ave., Ottawa, Ont., Canada.

OFFICE appREss: Division of Botany & Plant Pathology, Central Experimental
Farm, Ottawa, Ont., Canada.

BORN: Dec. 8, 1887, Mergomish, N. S., Canada. parents: John Yorston
Craigie, Elizabeth Mary Pollock.

PREPARED. AT: Pictou Academy, Pictou County, N. S., Canada.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1020-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; s.mM. (Univ. of
Minnesota), 1925; DR. PHIL. (Univ. of Manitoba), 1930; psc. (Univ. of
British Columbia), 1946; LL». (Univ. of Saskatchewan), 1948.

MARRIED: Miriam Louise Morash, Oct. 4, 1926, Lunenburg, N. S., Canada.

OCCUPATION: Plant pathology and administration.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Canadian Service overseas, private, Infantry,
November, 1914~October, 1916, sergeant, October, 1916-November,
1917, cadet, Household Brigade School, November, 1917-June, 1918;

British Army in India, 2nd lieutenant, June, 1918-June, 1919, Leutenant,
June, 1919-February, 1920.

OFFICES HELD: Plant pathologist, 1925-27, senior plant pathologist, 1927-28,
officer-in-charge, 1928-45, Dominion Laboratory of Plant Pathology,
Winnipeg; associate director of science service and dominion botanist,
since 1945, Dominion Department of Agriculture, Ottawa; vice-presi-

dent, 1934, president, 1935, Canadian Phytopathological Society; vice-
president, 1945, president, 1946, American Phytopathological Society.

4EMBER OF: Royal Society of Canada; Agricultural Institute of Canada;
A.A.A.S.; American Phytopathological Society; American Society of

Plant Taxonomists: Arctic Institute of North America; Professional

Institute of the Civil Service of Canada. ‘

JBLICATIONS: “Discovery of the function of the pycnia in the rust fungi”;

“An experimental investigation of sex in the rust fungi”; “Union of

pycniospores and haploid hyphae in Puccinia Helianthi Schw.”; “Epi-

demiology of stem rust in Western Canada”; “Heterothallism in the rust
fungi and its significance.”

“ING an exemplary civil servant, I must delay no longer to

mplete the questionnaire, and so J begin where I am instructed
begin.

One day late in F ebruary, 1924, I wrote my last examination at
arvard and took the train that evening for St. Paul, where I

d already arranged to take up graduate work in the Division

[193 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

of Botany and Plant Pathology, University of Minnesota. Why
the hurry — when life begins at forty?

The vital statistics given above may be of no interest to any-
one, but they show that on the day in question less than four
years stood between me and forty. I felt that I had much to do
in the interim. One's perspective, I am told, improves with age
— but the personal factor is significantly involved. At any rate,
I wanted to wind up a romance that seemed to be interminably
long-standing, and, in the fall of 1925, I took a position as plant
pathologist at the Dominion Laboratory of Plant Pathology, just
then being established at Winnipeg, Canada. A year later, I got
married,

The major assignment of the laboratory was to produce wheat
and oat varieties that would be resistant to the diseases known as
rusts, particularly to stem rust. Later, the scope of the work was
extended to other diseases, but, for the first few years, the main
job was “to solve the rust problem.” A solution was urgent for,
to a critical extent, the economic life of the Prairie Provinces
depended on it. After the disastrous rust outbreak in 1916, a
suspense, all but physically palpable, held country, town, and
city in its grip every year from seeding to harvest time. “Are we
going to have rust?” All too often the rusts came during the
next dozen or so years. For the last ten years, however, the “rust
problem” has been little more than a memory to the prairie
farmers. |

In 1928 I found myself in charge of the laboratory, and, in
the summer of 1930, I went over to Britain and spent most of
the next twelve months at Cambridge University, ending my trip
overseas by visiting some of the plant pathological institutions on
the Continent. Returning to Canada in late summer, 1931, I found
the country fast slipping into the grip of the economic depression. —
Funds shrank, and hopes did also. Scarcely had the country be-
gun to shake itself free from the depression when it was caught
in World War II, and the economies had to continue. Only the
most urgent lines of work could be given attention.

Before the war ended, I was transferred to Ottawa to take
over my present dutics. During the depression and the war, a
huge back-log of wants had piled up, When the war was over,
the need for building up the whole Division and of overtaking

[194]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

lost ground was pressing. I am pleased to say that some progress
has been made towards that end. As the benefits from research
become recognized, it is strange how many become the problems
on which investigation is demanded.

And now, to end this short but uneventful history, I may re-
trace my steps a bit. Two months after I registered as a fresh-
man at Harvard, I entered my thirty-third year. Rather late in
the day, some may think, to go to college. I am glad I did; at
least, 1 would not have been satisfied if I had not. I mention this
fact for whatever encouragement it may give any veteran of
World War II who may have belatedly undertaken college
work — if by any unlikely chance he may happen to read the last
two or three sentences.

Within less than four years, I shall have reached the age at
which, in Canada, civil servants retire. I became a servant of the
state, not because of any political or ideological bias, but because,
in part, I could not abide the thought of being hired or “fired”
by a boss, and in part— the much greater part — because I felt
that whatever small contribution I could make to my day and
generation should be made for the benefit of all rather than of a
few. And, again, I have no regret that I did. There has been
a good deal of satisfaction in the work, not the least part of
which has been personal contact with colleagues at home and
abroad. After I retire, when my time will be more my own
than it has been for some years past, I hope to do many of the
things that I have not yet had time to do, or perhaps only thought
I did not have time for.

‘WILLIAM MERRIAM CRANE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 10 Second Ave., Waterbury 20, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Brass Co., Waterbury, Conn.

BORN: June 22, 1903, Cambridge, Mass. PAaRENTs: William Merriam Crane,
’o2, Eleanor Winslow Runkle.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; S.B. (Massachusetts Inst. of
Technology), 1927; 8.B. IN GE. (ibid.), 1937.

MarRieD: Mildred Bullitt Barbour, Oct. 24, 1931, Richmond, Afass. CHILD:
Barbara Payson, Dec. 20, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: Chilton Crane, M.D., '38.

[195]

_ L

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924
occupation: Manager, Market Research Department, American Brass Com-
pany.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.
I ENTERED life as the Class Baby of both the Harvard and

Radcliffe Classes of r902 and have been trying to live up to that
distinction ever since.

GRAHAM CRANSTON

HOME aAporess: P. O. Box 747, Auburn, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1900, Sacramento, Calif. parents: Robert Edward Cranston,
Mary Courtney Pope.

PREPARED AT: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

marRIED: Marcia K. Dobbas, Jan. 1, 1938, Auburn, Calif. cHmpreN: Robert
G., Aug. 29, 1938; Marcia H., July 9, 1940.
occupaTIoN: Cattle rancher.

OFFICES HELD: President, Auburn Rotary Club, 1943-44; president, 1942-44,

director, 1941-48, Placer County Farm Bureau; secretary, Tri-County
Marketing Association, 1945-48.

MEMBER OF: Auburn Rotary Club; Tahoe Club; Placer County Farm Bureau.

LIKE so many of our classmates in the middle ’20’s, I got my
first job in the fall of 1924 in the stock and bond business. Be-
fore that I had made the “Grand Tour” of Europe during the
summer, and then had spent a few months trying not to find a
job in New York. My father wanted me there but I preferred
California. I returned to California about Christmas time to find
a job all ready for me with Bond & Goodwin & Tucker in San
Francisco. Two years there on the mail desk and turret board con-
vinced one and all that I was not destined to be a bond salesman.
I next spent a year and a half as membership and insurance sales-
man with the California State Automobile Association, In 1928
I left them to spend a few months in New York with my parents.
During that trip Harvest Harkness and I visited Cambridge for
a week during the Olympic Games try-outs and had quite a time
for ourselves. On the way back to San Francisco I had a short
visit with Kel Gary in Chicago.

I spent 1929 in Petaluma, California, operating a fertilizer plant.
We were going to make a lot of moncy, but in the fall, along
with many another enterprise, we folded up, but good. The

[ 196 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

next year I became an independent salesman with the Fidelity &
Casualty Company of the “America Fore” group and stayed with
them until 1936.

In that year I made the really big change. I had for some
years spent considerable time at the Hollister ranch (J. J. Hollis-
ter, Jr., 25) near Santa Barbara, and found myself more and more
interested in cattle-raising. So I decided to have a try at it myself.
After several months’ search I finally bought a ranch in Placer
County near Auburn. Here I finally have found the kind of life
and work that I like. I am my own boss. I have 4500 acres of
land and 300 head of Hereford cattle to look after. I spend most
days in the open, about half the time on horseback. We are faced
with something new almost every day. The rapid changes in the
beef industry in the past ten years make us keep on our toes to
learn the new methods and apply them to our operations. For
that I read the trade publications and attend county and state
meetings of the Farm Bureau and Extension Service. In the
summer we pasture our cattle in the Tahoe National Forest
some fifty miles east of the home ranch, and the annual drives
to and from the summer range are exciting changes from the regu-
lar routine.

In 1938 I married an Auburn girl and we now have two chil-
dren, a boy ten and a girl eight. Both children have their own
horses, and, so far, the boy hopes to be a cattleman someday. In
1943, as president of the Auburn Rotary Club, I with my wife
attended the Rotary International convention at St. Louis, and
paid a short visit to New Orleans on the way home. We are
active in our local school activities. The tremendous growth of
California, and with it of our own community, has brought great
problems to all of us, and we endeavor to understand them and
help our elected representatives solve them. Here I feel a part of
the community, something I never did in the big city. I hope to
stay here.

JOSIAH PAUL CRAWFORD

LAST KNOWN apprEss: 107 Ellery St., Cambridge, Mass.
BORN: Aug. 21, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: Wentworth Crawford, Mar-
garet Gannon

[ 197 ]

I  aeeneennemeneiaa iid ialoaiaeamaanenannasaletlantttaL

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

PREPARED aT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: $.B. magna cum laude, 1924.

CRAWFORD has been carried as a “lost” man on our records
since the Decennial Report.

VICTOR ARTHUR CRECCO

HOME AppRESS: 22 Betts Rd. Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Clear Weave Hosiery Stores, Inc. Jamaica Plain 30, Mass.

porw: April 17, 1902, Avellino, Italy. parents: Fortunato Crecco, Maria
Teresa Cappuccio.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: $.B. cum laude, 1924; M.B.A. 1926.

Marriep: Mary Margaret Crowley, Sept. 23, 1942, Jamaica Plain, Mass.
cuiLp: Steven Anthony, Oct. 29, 1945-

occupation: Controller, retail women’s apparel chain.

OFFICES HELD: Factory cost accountant, Cluett, Peabody & Company, Inc.,
Troy, N. Y., 1928-30; instructor in finance, University of Notre Dame,
Notre Dame, Ind., 1930-32; head, Department of Business Administra-
tion, St. Edward’s University, Austin, Texas, 1932-34; instructor in

social statistics and labor problems, Boston College School of Social
Work, 1937.

AFTER graduating from the Business School in 1926, I began
my business career in the routine divisions of a large commercial
bank. I found progress discouraging, but carried off invaluable
experience in methods of handling mass detail within prescribed
time limits. As cost accountant in a large shirt and collar factory,
I came in intimate touch with many of the problems of manu-
facture. During the depression years I tried college teaching.
The first few years were very enjoyable. I obtained considerable
satisfaction developing the subject matter of each course and
watching the effect of different pedagogic stunts. Partly because
of a natural aversion to repeating courses over and over again,
partly because of definite limits to earning power of the pro-
fession, I finally decided to return to the more turbulent life of
the business world.

I have been with the same company since 1934. Besides occupy-
ing the position of controller, in the early years I bought hosiery

and even women’s corsets, My position is no sinecure, yet I enjoy
the work immensely, The controller must be both a driver and
a diplomat: on the one hand, he must be critical and firm in apply-

[ 198 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing established norms; on the other hand, he must keep a cordial
working relationship with his associates. In addition, he is ex-
pected to obtain a satisfactory measure of efficiency from the run
of office help obtainable today.

I devote my leisure time to my wife and family and to a small
circle of friends. Whether from age or from experience, I have
abandoned the restlessness of youth, I have found peace of mind
and enjoyment with what I actually possess, while striving for
better things.

THOMAS EDWARD CROSBY

HOME ADDRESS: 12 Regina Rd., Auburndale, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 30 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 22, 1900, Boston, Mass. parENTS: Joseph Patrick Crosby, Nellie
Josephine Cotter.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922—1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; M.B.A., 1926.

mMarrieD: Margaret Buck, April 19, 1937, Boston, Mass. camp: David Buck,
Aug. 10, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Patrick Crosby, ’28.

OccUPATION: Investment banking; security salesman with Bond & Goodwin,
Inc.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered Navy, December, 1942; training class
(AVS), Quonset Point, R. I, to February, 1943; assigned to Naval Air
Training Base at Pensacola, Fla. (Ellyson Field) to October, 1945, serv-
ing mainly as permanent officer-of-the-day. Discharged with rank of
lieutenant commander.

MEMBER OF: Union Boat Club, Boston.

AFTER finishing Business School in 1926, I became a member of
that traditional Harvard and once prolific profession — bond
selling. Prior to 1929 it was a career sought after by many college
men but the years have wrought many changes, with the result
that few if any fathers are now willing to encourage their sons
to follow in the same footsteps. At first, a few of our class-
mates almost became millionaires as a result of the lessons we
had learned at Business School, but then came 1929 and an oppor-
tunity to begin again. I stayed on in the same line of endeavor,
managed to make several trips to Bermuda — once for a honey-
moon — settled down in Newton, and became the sedate com-
muter that I am today. I am neither famous nor infamous, de-

[ 199 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

spite the deprecatory remarks hurled by all demagogues against

anyone connected with Wall Street — remote though that con-
nection may be.

Now with years of peace and the best years of my life ahead,
I've gained by experience. I’m sure that by the time my Fiftieth

Anniversary Report is written I'll be able to give a much more
interesting account — or shall I?

WILLIAM EDGAR CROSBY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Dudley St., Brookline, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Kidder, Peabody & Co., 115 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.

porN: March 25, 1902, West Medford, Mass. PARENTS: William Edgar Crosby,
Grace Greene. .

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: 8.B., 1024.

marrigpD: Sabina Adamson Dwinnell, June 5, 1926, Duxbury, Mass. CHIL-
prEN: Clifton Dwinnell, Sept. 4, 1928; William Edgar, 3d, Feb. 21, 19343

Nancy Lee, April 23, 1935; Robert Stevens, Sept. 4, 1937-
" HARVARD SON: Clifton Dwinnell Crosby, ’50.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Henry Greene Crosby, ’29; Wilson Hill Crosby, ’32.

OCCUPATION: Investment banking.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, Army Specialist Corps; major, Army of
the United States; executive officer, Military Planning Division, chief,

Field Observation Requirement Branch Office of the Quartermaster
General; Army Commendation Ribbon.

OFFICES HELD: Corporation member, Children’s Hospital, since 1946; trustee,
Muhlenberg Hospital, 1934-42, Walnut Hill School, since 1947; director,
Children’s Aid Society, since 1946, Brookline Savings Bank, since 1946.

MEMBER OF: Duxbury Yacht Club, Duxbury, Mass.; Plainfield Country Club,
Plainfield, N. J

PuBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous articles in Harvard Business School Review,
and hospital and banking publications.

MY LATE father-in-law, having made a marked success by start-_
ing at the bottom of the banking profession and working to the
top, strongly urged that, to be successful, I should do likewise.
But an inquisitive nature and some stubbornness ruled otherwise.
The past twenty-five years have, accordingly, been rich in happi-
ness and in stimulating problems. Life seems to be just starting.
After six years of manufacturing in a New England silverware
plant, I spent the early nineteen-thirties with the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York as an assistant to the agent (now designated

[ 200 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

as the president) working on a wide variety of problems, par-
ticularly those dealing with the regulation and control of the
security credit generated by banks and brokers registered with
security exchanges and others. This was followed by five years
with the Central Hanover Bank in New York City with a tiresome
commute to the New Jersey hills. These fruitful and energetic
years were interrupted by World War IL.

Over four years spent in Washington, D. C., first assisting in
establishing the Army Specialist Corps, and later with the Quar-
termaster General as Chief of a Field Observation and Develop-
ment group, afforded a wide variety of satisfactions. The battle
of Washington and Buzzards Point (the OQMG’s headquarters)
was largely a tornado of paper, jagged nerves and Army ineffi-
ciency, but somehow the Army was fed, clothed, and equipped
more effectively than in World War I. The night we spent
celebrating the war’s end in front of the White House must
have matched the March on the Bastille — at least we knew it was
a long time coming.

The readjustment years after the war have been spent master-
ing the investment banking business with Kidder, Peabody &
Company. We have settled our family in Brookline, have elim-
inated a distasteful commute to and from work, and have been
close by our children’s schools. The calm after the storm
has been delightful. Somehow there has come a realization
that the future will hold the best rewards, interests, and re-
munerations.

The catastrophic advent of Pearl Harbor tested the resource-
fulness and resiliency of our family, along with many other such
groups. We were somewhat different in that our little band was
promptly and formally incorporated as a going business. While °
each member became at least a vice-president, he knew his re-
sponsibilities, and his funds were carefully budgeted. Our young-
€st son, as the vice-president in charge of Animal Protection, did
a masterful job in bringing our Great Dane through those “war
years.” The family became a closely-knit unit, completely or-
ganized for the reconversion years after the war.

With two grand pianos in the living room, and with a “Bing”
and a “Bob”? Crosby to spark our band, we have found relaxation
and enjoyment in family music. A wide variety of instruments

[ 201 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

_ is gradually being mastered, at the neighbors’ expense. Our only

daughter, Nancy Lee, carries the torch in a losing battle with
three jazz-happy brothers, but she’s sure she is Hollywood bound.

The pillar in our domestic happiness is one who has loved,
planned, and managed much, our President and Mother. She
won the war single-handed, and is working diligently on the
peace. The periphery of her varied interests and energies seems
to be boundless. Attendance at three athletic contests in: one
day holds no terrors for her, if the boys are laying it on the line.

We have some class distinction of a sort in Cliff, our oldest.
He won two major H’s in his sophomore year, including the
Barrett Wendell Bat in baseball. We admit we overemphasize
athletics with our youngsters—and love it. Few fathers have
a preview of heaven when a son’s home run salts away a close
ball game. Our real problem would be a bonus player for the
big leagues.

We try to balance our family life with some of the good things
of life. At a tender age, much satisfaction came in working out
a reorganization of a defunct New England church and its mar-
riage with a neighboring institution. Religion has had a real
place in our way of life. Choir singing has taught the youngsters
how to appreciate good music. Nearly fifteen years of active
hospital work has afforded a real insight into the values of sound
personal health and the urgent need for better public health pro-
grams. We have known Europe, Bermuda beaches, and some of
the ski resorts, but our real travelling lies ahead.

The changing importance of one’s life interests must always
be given close scrutiny. Peace of mind in our varying economy

seems to have come with an active family and an intensely ab-
sorbing occupation.

JOSEPH BENEDICT CROSSLEY

HOME appREss: 1511 Broadway, Little Rock, Ark.
oFFIce appress: Arkansas Democrat, Little Rock, Ark.

BORN: Feb. 28, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: Holden Brierley Crossley, Julia
Callahan.

PREPARED AT: St. John’s Preparatory School, Danvers, Mass,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

[ 202 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Madonna Burnett, Dec. 17, 1926, Little Rock, Ark. CHILDREN:
Joseph Benedict, Jr., Nov. 11, 1927; Julia Ellen, Oct. 26, 1929; Margaret
Ann, May 24, 1931.

occuPATION: News editor, Arkansas Democrat.

I'VE been in newspaper work since 1926, and on the Arkansas

Democrat since 1938, after a ten-year hitch with the Associated

Press in the Little Rock, New Orleans, and Washington bureaus.

My boy, now twenty-one, just finished three years in the Army

and is now enrolled as a freshman at the University of Arkansas.

My elder girl, Julia, aged nineteen, is a sophomore at State Teach-
ers’ College, Conway, Arkansas, and my younger daughter, Mar-
garet Ann, aged seventeen, finishes high school this June. Down-
town is out-of-bounds for me after six p.m., and although I belt a
little bourbon around occasionally, even this pleasure is about to
take inflationary wing. At the present prices, sin is too expensive
for a newspaperman’s purse. I’m looking forward to an un-

settled, but sainted old age.

RAYMOND JOSEPH CROWLEY

HOME ADDRESS: 2021 Lanier Drive, Silver Spring, Md.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Associated Press, Evening Star Bldg., Washington, D. C.
porN: March 10, 1902, Lowell, Mass. PARENTS: Fred Joseph Crowley, Mary

Kennedy.
DREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.
MARRIED: Mary Connolly, July 9, 1928, Lowell, Mass. cuitpren: Brian,

Jan. 29, 1933; Sue Ann, Jan. 29, 1937.
cCUPATION: Night editor, Associated Press.
"HE quarter-century since that spring day when I got my Har-
ard degree has gone by very fast — like a flash, almost.

That is because I’m a newspaperman, and those twenty-five
ears have been so crammed with news that I’ve practically
ever been bored.

After learning the ropes on the Lowell, Massachusetts, Sun and
owell Currier-Citizen, I joined the Associated Press in New
ork in 1928. Since 1934 I’ve been with the Associated Press in
’ashington, most of that time as night editor. The night editor
s charge of gathering, preparing, and distributing the news of
‘ashington to morning papers, hundreds of them.

[ 203 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

What with the depression, the New Deal, the war and now the
Truman Deal, the job has been interesting, exciting and, I like
to think, rather important. For the people of a democracy must
have unbiased, thorough, understandable news if they are to
function properly.

My wife is a journalist too, in the time she can spare from
housekeeping. She is assistant editor of The Record, a Mont-
gomery County, Maryland, weekly. She’s a real mixer and is
better at picking up social notes and personality features than I
ever was when I was a reporter.

My son, Brian, sixteen, and my daughter, Sue Ann, twelve,
both have the same birthday, January 29. At first glance this
looks like a convenience, enabling us to dispose of all birthday
festivities in one day. But if you've ever had two birthday
parties going full blast under one roof, you'd know it has its
drawbacks.

The fifth member of the family is Wheatie, a two-year-old
Border terrier, whose grandparents came from England, near the
Scottish border.

For relaxation, I dabble a bit in genetics, hybridizing Hemero-
callis (Daylilies) and breeding Birmingham Rollers. The last-
named are a peculiar variety of pigeon, which do back somer-
saults in mid air. They formerly belonged to my son but he
lost interest in them and magnanimously turned them over to

me. So far I have been unable to determine why they perform
their antics. If Harvard, which has contributed so much to the
world’s knowledge, would solve this mystery for me, I should

be deeply grateful.

ROBERT RONAYNE CULBERT

HOME ADDRESS: 373 S. Huntington Ave. Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 2, 1899. PARENTS: Robert Ronayne Culbert, Elizabeth Ann
O'Neil.

prepareD AT: Boston College High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1921. DEGREES: §.B. IN MARINE ENGIN, (institution not

given); Chief Engincer’s License for Steam and Motor Vessels (U. S.
Naval Inst.).

occupation: Retired.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted in Navy during World War I; served

[ 204 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

on various ships and yards; last assignment as engineer and materiel
officer on staff of Comdr. Minecraft Pacific; retired for physical dis-
ability with rank of captain, 1946.

MEMBER OF: Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers, Society of
Naval Engineers.

THERE is little to write about except that before the last war I
visited most of the world’s ports. During the war I was on a run
to Iceland, the various bases in the Atlantic, then to New Zealand,
Australia, and the Islands.

I am not a liberal and think it is about time that our schools
and universities were cleaned out of Reds, near Reds, and others
who see nothing worthwhile in this great nation of ours, for the
preservation of which so many young Americans have given
their lives, and who would substitute the diabolical philosophy of
atheistic Communism.

WILLIAM MUTCH CURTIS, JR.

HOME appREss: 88 Fairview Ave., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Chrysler Airtemp Sales Corp., 120 Boylston St., Boston 16,
Mass.

BORN: Sept. 7, 1902, Roxbury, Mass. parents: William Mutch Curtis, Alice
E. B. Dockham.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.; Public Latin School,
Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 10924.

MARRIED: Beatrice Ruth Frank, Feb. 22, 1930. CHILDREN: William Mutch, 3d,
Jan.'8, 1931; James Rhodes, July 18, 1933; Charles Brent, April 27, 1940.

OCCUPATION: District representative, Chrysler Airtemp Sales Corporation,
for Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, and Massachusetts, north of
Boston.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active duty with United States Navy to 1946;
lieutenant commander, United States Naval Reserve, Branch B (do-
mestic), Branch F (foreign), and Operational Intelligence, Pacific
Ocean areas; commendation, March 10, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Commissioner of Sinking Fund, Town of Belmont, 1932-35;
member, executive committee, American Legion Post, No. 165, Bel-
mont, 1948-49.

MEMBER oF: F, & A. M. Beaver Lodge, Belmont; National Sojourners;
Heroes of ’76, Edward A. Rand Men’s Club of All Saints’ Episcopal
Church, American Legion, Veterans of F oreign Wars; United States
Naval Institute.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in various trade publications on merchandising and
analysis of operating statements,

[ 205 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

I RECALL that Benvenuto Cellini wrote that a man should be at
least forty before he undertakes so fine an enterprise as that of
setting down the story of his life. He pointed out, however, that
an autobiographer should have accomplished something of excel-
lence. On the first count I could furnish a birth certificate; on
the second count let me point out that you asked for it but you
don’t have to read it.

Fortunately, or unfortunately, other people’s troubles became
the “sailing directions” for my alleged career in business. The
Hoov er-Roosev elt depression caused me to shorten sail and
change course from casualty and surety underwriting to mer-
chandising and business engineering. This course was held until
active orders arrived from the Navy. Almost four years later the
real milk passed out by the Red Cross, when I landed at San Pedro,
was a very welcome libation—a stirrup cup in reverse. After
relocating my family in Belmont, I have again changed course
and speed and am now on a faster run in sales engineering and
specialty merchandising in the heating, air conditioning, and
commercial refrigeration business. (When my dear wife read
the rough draft of this and noted my statement of the “faster
run,” she hooted and suggested that it just seemed faster to me;
that I was so barnacled I needed a good overhaul and refit. All
of which I reject completely.) From here on out I’m looking for
rocks and shoals ahead and another change in course if the United
Nations and the State Department don’t come up with some
answers instead of questions.

With all of this, however, I find that the values that I learned
in school and college haven’t changed much. My faith, family,
and country have filled my thoughts and absorbed my energy
throughout these years. My béliefs, convictions, and satisfac-
tions have become surer and deeper.

These declarations do not preclude my screeching to the high
heavens when I feel it to be necessary; which is the same thing
that grandfather did when he “viewed with alarm.” I might de-
scribe my political belief as that of a liberal traditionalist which

is slightly left of Dewey and several compass points right of
McGrath.

It was ironical that an amateur politician had to become the
chief publicist and advocate of our “One World.” Where were

[ 206 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the great statesmen and religious leaders, if any? Here, surely, is
the great difference between the world into which we graduated
and the one in which we live today. I hope that our sons can do
a better job than we did with it — they'll have to.

RALPH WEIR DAFFINEE

HOME ADDRESS: 64 Prospect St., Melrose, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 8 Porter St., Melrose, Mass.

BORN: May 6, 1903, Barre, Vt. parents: Collins Ralph Daffinee, Nellie Irene
Allen.

PREPARED AT: Spaulding High School, Barre, Vt.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; M.D., 1928.

MARRIED: Jean Catherine Dalton, Feb. 14, 1932, Manchester, N. H. cni-
DREN: Susan Ellen, June 10, 1935; Joan Elizebeth, Aug. 18, 1937; Linda
Elaine, Oct. 28, 1939; Gail Elise, Sept. 4, 1941; Ann Eloise, Aug. 19, 1943.

occuPATION: Physician, specializing in pediatrics.

OFFICES HELD: President, Malden Hospital Staff, 1945-46, treasurer, Massa-
chusetts Chapter of the American Academy of Pediatrics, since 1948.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Pediatrics, American Medical Associa-
tion; Massachusetts Medical Society; New England Pediatric Society;
Boston Medical Library; Melrose Fish and Game Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Several medical articles and case reports.

THE Harvard Medical School accepted me as a disciple of Hip-
pocrates and I spent the four years following our graduation
from college learning medical lingo and technique. It was a
tough struggle, since my father died suddenly during my first
year in medical school, and I was on my own. Fortunately an
old gentleman in Wellesley was in need of a quasi-medical com-
panion and so I was able to finance my medical education while
living in his household. My marks suffered, however, and I
squeaked through with a laude deo degree. I didn’t know
_ whether I wanted to be a surgeon or a pediatrician, so I took a
rotating internship at the Albany Hospital in New York. That
convinced me of the disadvantages of surgery, and the next two
years were spent at the Massachusetts General Hospital learning
the fundamentals and finer points of pediatrics. Dr. Fritz Talbot
took me on as his assistant in 1931, and I remained with him un-
til I decided that the hinterlands were crying for pediatric at-
tention, and I moved my office to Melrose, Massachusetts, a
charming little city of 25,000 inhabitants. There I have stayed,

[ 207 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

in association with a group of specialists, and I have not re-
gretted the move.

I still retain my association with the Massachusetts General,
where I have moved up the ladder to the position of assistant
visiting physician; and I am an instructor at the Harvard Medi-
cal School. I am pediatrician at a couple of the local hospitals,
have courtesy privileges at several other hospitals, and am assist-
ant in pediatrics at the Tufts Medical School. I have long been
interested in the problem of polio, and am a state consultant in
poliomyelitis. They have also put me on the Advisory Commit-
tee in Contagious Disease for the State Department of Public
Health. I have passed my specialty board and am a certified li-
centiate (please don’t misconstrue this) in pediatrics. I was
elected to the American Academy of Pediatrics, and have to be-
long to many medical societies. There I am, and without frills,
it means that I am taking care of sick kids and supervising the
growth and development of healthy ones, and I still get a thrill
out of it. It doesn’t pay much, but we get along. ©

My family life is very happy, when I have the time to enjoy it.
I persuaded a swell girl to marry me, and we have five sterling
daughters. We don’t live a very exciting life, but we have a lot
of fine friends and we enjoy them. For recreation, I have taken
up target rifle shooting. Golf was impossible in my set-up, and
T have found shooting an excellent relaxation. I’m not a crack
shot, but I boil over occasionally and get a good score. My
medical training has made me more religious as I grow older, and
I am covinced of the existence and power of a hardworking
and often bewildered Deity. The world has sort of got out of
hand, it seems. In politics, 1 am an independent voter, registered
as a Republican. I do not approve of socialism in any of its pres-
ent forms, and am in favor of giving the government back to the
people. Socialized medicine is directly threatening my profes-
sion, and would, I think, lead to chaos. Education, tolerance, and
clear thinking are the weapons we must use in our struggle for a
new era in civilization.

[ 208 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LAWRENCE BARTON DAMON

HOME ADDRESS: 34 Old England Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Storer, Damon & Lund, Inc., 84 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 2, 1902, Brookline, Mass. parents: John Linfield Damon, Ida
Sherman.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MarRIED: Elisabeth Townsend Wheeler, April 17, 1937, Chestnut Hill,
Mass. CHILDREN: John Linfield, 2d, Oct. 20, 1938; Lawrence Barton, Jr.,
June 8, 1940; Peter Townsend, Dec. 15, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Sherman Damon, ’21.

occuUPATION: Insurance broker.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Coast Guard (Temporary) Reserve, Flotilla
1-600, Duxbury, Mass.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Lieutenant, Auxiliary Police in charge of Chest-
nut Hill area, Air Raid Precaution.

OFFICES HELD: Campaign chairman, 1945, president, 1946, member of budget
committee, 1947-49, Newton Community Chest (member of Boston
Community Fund); treasurer, 1945, president, since 1946, Chestnut Hill
School; trustee, 1945, member of- Executive Committee, since 1946,
Boston Lying-in Hospital; member, Executive Committee, Boy Scouts
of America, Norumbega Council, since 1947; secretary, Union Club of

Boston; second vice-president, Sons of the Revolution.

MEMBER OF: Society of Colonial Wars; Massachusetts Charitable Society,
Bostonian Society; Massachusetts Fish and Game Association.

RECOGNIZING that the acquisition of a Harvard degree in my
case merited a reward, my family waved me off to Europe for
the summer in the company of Curt Childs. We saw the sights
and places which might be expected and returned home with
miscellaneous information, fond recollections, and a pair of num-
ber ten binoculars that cost $73.50 to get through New York
customs.

That fall, in the belief that the law would assure my ascent up
the ladder of success, I attended Law School, but the class was
too large and I was not invited to return. That rather got my
dander up; so, spending the next year in a law office and at night
aw school, I returned to our Alma Mater the following year,
10w a class behind my illustrious college pals, only to discover
hat I didn’t like the law as much as the sociability of Lincoln
nn and so, turning the tables, I submitted my resignation. Such
vas my intention, at least, even before my report was received.

[ 209 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

So here I was at my first Reunion — the Triennial — listening
to the accomplishments of all you fellows, and as a result,
I thought it was time to get to work. I figured that the cotton
business, having been in the doldrums for many years, was on the
up and up and that I'd be the same if I got into it. My first week’s
pay check, $12.00, probably wouldn’t have excited a single class-
mate but it did me and I was off on my business career.

The cotton business wasn’t booming, however, in 1929, but,
you guessed it, investment banking was the field I should have
been in all along. It was fine except that by 1932 when it was
facts and figures that were wanted, I found statistical work very
dull. So dull in fact that when an offer came to take two years
off and sail around the world, I resigned immediately and agreed
to go unless I found a job I wanted in the meantime. Little did
I think then that there was a chance of this happening in the
depths of the depression, but came June, and I found myself
standing on the dock waving good-bye.

Now, two Reunions and eight years after, I started the work
in which I am still engaged, that of selling all kinds of insurance.
But eight years after my classmates had started buying, it was
too late to enroll you among my insurance clients. Fortunately,
however, whether due to the strength of Harvard ties or to the
inferior service of my Dartmouth, Yale, and Williams competi-
tors I don’t know, some of you have joined the select group of
Damon assureds. Anyone wish to have his name on my blotter
list?

Tt must be clear to anyone who has read this far that my efforts
to acquire a broad and varied training obviously precluded a wife
and family. Perhaps it should have, but the fact that it worked
that way was unpremeditated. As it does to all unsuspecting fel-
lows, the time finally came and I suddenly found myself married
and promptly, but not too promptly, the head of a family of
three children.

Now I really had to go to work, It was nearly wartime, the
business was growing slowly, the family, rapidly. Outside activi-
ties with the familiar “won’t be home for dinner, dear” pattern
set the tune which hasn't yet stopped playing. Patrolling the
Duxbury Beach, airplane spotting in the Coast Guard, auxiliary
police manoeuvers in test blackouts, have now, thank the Lord,

[ 210 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

given way to Community Fund, hospital, Boy Scout, and school

work. The constant pressures make one wonder what we did

with our time ten and fifteen years back. The satisfaction that

comes with the realization that as a group we are now in our
most productive period is a challenge to make every moment
count. We’re getting older and the loss we have already suffered
in the premature death of many of our classmates points to the
necessity for making the best of the future that may be allotted
to us. Our peace of mind will come from the assumption of our
full share of the responsibilities of our community, in the fuller
sense our American citizenship, and the ability we have to trans-
mit that responsibility to our children and watch them as they
prepare themselves for a world which beyond doubt will present
problems that may well make our lives a rich and rosy experi-
ence. 7

PAUL DAVIER

ADDRESS: 11 Rue Chasseloup-Laubat, Paris XV, France.

BORN: May 1, 1go1, St. Etienne, France. parents: John Davier, Claire Lardon.

PREPARED AT: Montclair High School, Montclair, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1924; LL.B., 1927.

MarRRiED: Helen Weeks Marsh, Nov. 19, 1937, Garrison-on-the-Hudson,
N., Y.

OCCUPATION: Law.

- WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Overseas branch, Office of War Information.

OFFICES HELD; Trial examiner, National Labor Relations Board, 1937, New
York State Labor Relations Board, 1938-41; adjudicator, New York
State Motor Vehicles Bureau, 1941-42.

MEMBER OF: American Civil Liberties Union, National Lawyers Guild;
Harvard Law School Association.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Da-
vier did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

STEDMAN CORY DAVIES

HOME appréss: 1 Dean St., St. Augustine, Trinidad, B. W. I.

OFFICE AppREss: Archer Coal Depot Co., Inc., 1 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 22, 1902, Port-of-Spain, Trinidad, B. W. I. parents: Albert
Cory Davies, Edith Stedman Archer.

PREPARED AT: Lodge School, St. John’s, Barbados, B. W. I.

[air ]

ae Le

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920~1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.
MARRIED: Juliana Antonia Cavada y Muniz, March 24, 1928, Havana, Cuba,

CHILDREN: Albert Cory, 2d, Sept. 7, 1929; Julian Frank, Feb. 1, 1932;
Marcelina Edith, Sept. 12, 1936.

occupation: Afanager, coal depot and shipping company.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Appointed by British Government to coordi-
nate the bunkering of coal-burning ships with the Ministry of War
Transport and the War Shipping Administration of Trinidad, 1939-45.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, 1926-38, treasurer, 1928-30, Victoria Fund of Havana,
Cuba; director Trinidad Lake Asphalt Operating Company.

MEMBER OF: St. Augustine Recreation Club; Union Club; Trinidad Country
Club; West India Club, London, England.

I SPENT the summer of 1924 as an apprentice in the West Vir-
ginia mines of the Berwind-White Coal Mining Company. This
was followed by three months’ vacation and six months in the
business school from January to June, 1925, when I returned to
West Virginia for furthering my training in the mines, power
plants, and chemical laboratory, and on Norfolk and Western en-
gines. In my free time I played at baseball, took a course in first
aid, and studied.

At the beginning of 1926 the job along the lines above was in
Pennsylvania, and in August of that year | went to Cuba on coal
sales service with the Havana Coal Company.

Along came the October 20, 1926, cyclone which, though
tragic for some, was a thrilling experience for me. It was fol-
lowed by salvage jobs of floating and other equipment in Havana
harbor and at our coal yards.

After two or three months in Cuba I could understand what
was being said in rapid-fire Spanish, and my company sent me
on a trip to most of the sugar mills with coal-burning locomo-
tives. This being done, and in the course of replacing our plant
which had been destroyed by the cyclone, I was appointed rivet
inspector on the new coaling bridge.

In 1928 1 was married and the management put me in charge
of the Havana transportation of coal by land and domestic yard
equipment as well as sales service for the Island.

For recreation, my wife and I did a bit of fishing and sailing.
Our first boy arrived in 1929 and we started him on sea excur-

sions when he was a month old. In June, 1930, my wife and the
boy went to Spain to visit with her family, and they and I were

[ 212 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

reunited in December, 1930, in Trinidad, where I had been trans-

ferred.

Our coaling business, consisting mainly of bunkers for ships,
was done with hulks which were previously sailing ships built
of wrought iron, some of them famous in their trades for speed
and beauty. The Ruthweill had the finest lines of these.

From 1930 to 1936 we had a long pull, followed by improve-
ment in 1937 to the outbreak of the war in 1939, a recession in
1940, and an increase in 1941 lasting until the end of the war.
Early in 1941, we had our coaling operations transferred from
hulks to shore. Trinidad was made the principal convoy port
in the West Indies as well as being the transfer port for bauxite
from the Guianas. This gave our coal trade a boost and we
also unloaded bauxite on small ships from the Guianas and stored
and reloaded it into northbound freighters. The wholehearted
codperation between the American and British Naval and Mari-
time authorities, and the A-1 job done by our stevedores, made

our work run smoothly.

Cory is at Wooster School, Danbury, Connecticut, and plans
to go in for marine engineering. Frank has just taken his college
entrance examinations and plans to be an electrical engineer.
With all going well, Cory will be at the New York State Mari-
time Academy and Frank at Harvard in September. Edith, our
youngest, has not stated since she was seven, what she wants to
do. At that time there was a question as to being a “ballerina or
just a plain housewife.”

We all enjoy tennis, boating, fishing, swimming, and books.
During the war Tonia worked for the Red Cross and at a Mer-
chant Marine convalescent hospital.

I go north about once every two years, and we have had two
visits to New York. In 1937 I had a perfectly marvellous trip to
San Francisco and up the West Coast to Vancouver and across
Canada to Montreal. Whenever I am north I have a chat with as
many of the old boys as time allows in New York and Boston.
By the same token, should your ship or plane touch Trinidad, do

drop in for we shall be delighted to see you and your families.

[ 213 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

ASA BARNES DAVIS

HOME ADDRESS: 26 EF. gist St., New York 28, N. Y.
orFice apprEss: J. P. Morgan & Co., Inc., 23 Wall St.. New York 8, N. Y,

BORN: June 3, 1902, Great Neck, Long Island, N. Y. parents: Asa Barnes
Davis, Alma Fisher.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.
marriep: Amelia van Cortlandt Rutledge, July 6, 1927, Fletcher, N. C.

CHILDREN: Eleanor Rutledge, Oct. 20, 1929, Asa Barnes, 3d, May 3, 1935.
occupation: Banking.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted Oct. 20, 1940, 7th Regiment, N.Y.G.,
as private; resigned Oct. 20, 1945, as rst lieutenant.
OFFICES HELD: Member Finance Committee, 7th Regiment Fund, treasurer,
Associate Vestry of Church of the Heavenly Rest, The Dug Out, Inc.
MEMBER OF: Municipal Bond Forum; Municipal Discussion Group.
THERE is one thing that this request for an autobiographical
sketch brings forcefully to mind: I am not yet old enough to
ease back in my favorite chair in the sun and roll the savor of
reminiscence around on my tongue. While one is still engaged in
breasting the tide of events, one is too lacking in objectivity.

I left college after graduation a book publisher in the bud.
Within two years the bud had withered on the vine. With
Charlton MacVeagh’s brother, Lincoln, it had been a happy ex-
periment, though ever increasingly obvious that it was not my
life’s work. In 1926 I reluctantly bid Lincoln and publishing
farewell, and joined the staff of J. P. Morgan & Company in its
most minor capacity — equivalent to the amoeba in animal life —
a runner. In June, 1949, I shall have completed twenty-three
years with them. Going back a bit, I got married in 1927 to the
girl mentioned above, and she has managed to put up with me
ever since. Bob Pell was my best man, and Jack Lincoln, one of
my ushers. (The untimely death of Jack Lincoln is a great loss
to our Class, Witty, gracious, and supremely intelligent, he was
a lovable friend.) Just after the storm broke in 1929, I acquired
a daughter, now a sophomore at Sweet Briar College. In 1935
we had a son, now in his first year at St. Paul’s School. In the
meanwhile, at the bank 1 was spending more than the usual
amount of time finding my particular niche. However, in 1939
we began to take a serious interest in the ficld of municipal fi-
nance, including the underwriting of security issues. I worked

[214]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

for several years thereafter exclusively on the statistical back-
ground of municipalities. With that knowledge as a foundation,
I have worked more and more into the underwriting end of this
field of finance, a field in which I am busily and happily engaged
at the present time. From where I sit I can look upon the back
of Del Dubois’ head and envy his hirsute cranium.

My travels have been within the Appalachians on the west and
the Atlantic Ocean on the east, and have consisted mostly of va-
cation trips. My hobbies are mild stamp-collecting with my son,
reading aloud with my daughter, bad tennis with my wife and
children, and digging in the earth whenever the opportunity af-
fords. I also indulge in that lowest form of literature — the de-
tective story — when no one is looking.

Briefly put, my social and political convictions are against the
present philosophy of props to bolster both individuals and
groups. I do not believe that the government owes me a living.
Likewise, I believe that the present apathy to religion among so
many is due to the fact that the church cannot and will not
promise social security and an old-age pension for the soul, etc.
One gets out of one’s religion just exactly as much as one puts
into it, and in addition one has to take the future on faith. Selah.

CHARLES THOMPSON DAVIS

HOME ADDRESS: 1103 Hillside Blvd., Wilmington 281, Del.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 5048 duPont Bldg., Wilmington, Del.

BORN: July 18, 1898, Monmouth Beach, N. J. Parents: Charles Harvey
Davis, Effie Errickson.

PREPARED AT: Chattle High School, Long Branch, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922, 1923-1924. DEGREE: S.B, IN IND.ENGIN., 1924.

MarRiED: Elvira Morton, June 21, 1926, Long Branch, N, J. cmp: Charles
Thompson, Jr., March 15, 1933.

OCCUPATION: Production manager, heavy chemicals and zinc, Grasselli
Chemicals Department, E. I. duPont de Nemours & Company, Inc.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: April 16, 1917, enlisted Company G, 7th N. Y.

Infantry; served in various grades from private to 1st lieutenant (pilot),
Air Service, both at home and abroad; discharged, August, 1919.
OFFICES HELD: President, Grasselli Athletic Association, 1940; trustee, 1940-
42, vice-president, Board of Trustees, 1943~45, Presbyterian Church.
MEMBER oF: Alpha Chi Sigma; Easton Lodge, No, 152, F. & A.M.; Standard
Chapter, No, 35, R.A.M.; Excelsior Consistory; Field Council, No. 12,

[215]

|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

R. & S.M.; Salaam Temple, AA.O.N.MS.; New Jersey State P.B.A.;
Harvard Club of Delaware; American Chemical Society.

ON LEAVING the relative peace and quiet of Cambridge, and
what I then thought the enslavement to hard work, I looked about
a bit and finally, through collective bargaining with the Grasselli
Chemical Company representatives, became employed at the
Grasselli New Jersey Works. Here I worked hard in an en-
deavor “to make my letter” in the chemical manufacturing in-
dustry. I got “in the rut” of hard work and made some progress.
I liked the work, the people, and the company and continued
with them when they became a part of duPont. In turn they,
the company, must have liked me as I have been well treated and
remembered over the past twenty-five years. Hard work with
_ no end is still in vogue and I look forward to the next twenty-
five years in great anticipation.

I have found time to marry, raise a very small family, and
delve into several hobbies. Since my vocational duties take me
about the country, I favor the home fireside when a choice is
given. I am quite content to spend my leisure at home with my
family; to shoot ducks at the opportune time; to collect antique
glassware; or to listen to good music.

With all my boyhood ambitions of becoming a locomotive en-
gineer shattered, I have now become resolved merely to being a
good citizen, a loved family head, a faithful and good contributor
to my employer, to do no undeserving malice to anyone but to
do a kindness here and there, and to leave behind no monuments

of stone but rather monuments of good works. And I'll still have
a lot of fun in doing that.

EDWARD KING DAVIS

HOME appress: Tuxedo Park, N. Y.

BORN: May 23, 1902, Bernardsville, N. J. parents: James Edward Davis,
Elizabeth Tompkins King.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1920-1923. DEGREES: A.B. 1924(23)3 LL.B. (Columbia Univ.),
1926.

MaRRIED: Virginia Waddill Shepherd, April 27, 1929, Richmond, Va. cHIL-
preN: John Alsop King, Aug. 15, 19305 Isabelle, Jan. 1, 1933.
HARVARD SON: John Alsop King Davis, ’52.

[ 216 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: Gerald Davis, 32.

occuPATION: Lawyer (retired).

MEMBER OF: Tuxedo Club; Harvard Club of New York; Holland Lodge,
No. 8, Lorillard Lodge, No. 858, F. & A.M.; Aurora Grata; Scottish
Rite Bodies.

HOBART WILLISTON DAVIS

HOME ADDRESS: 604 Euclid Ave., Syracuse 10, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New York Telephone Co., 219 S. State St., Syracuse, N. Y.

BorN: March 25, 1901, Boston, Mass. pareNTs: George Edward Davis, Fran-
ces Merrill Scarborough.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

MaRRIED: Florence Mary Follwell, Sept. 11, 1926, Brooklyn, N. Y. cum-
DREN: George Follwell, March 30, 1929; Edward Williston, May 29,

I I.
occursTION: Commercial engineer.
FROM this 1949 point of view it is evident that my life, since
graduation, has been unusually protected from the effects of
boom, depression, war and inflation. Interesting work and a de-
lightful family of strenuous individualists have occupied my at-
tention to the exclusion of outside activities. Doubtless there has
been a secret life similar to Walter Mitty’s but that must have
been some time ago and, unfortunately, it never got me into
trouble.

Florence still appears to enjoy her various roles essential to the
well-being of her three men, though she sometimes gets trained
down a little too fine. She is a graduate of Ohio Wesleyan, A.M.
at Columbia, and was well on her way to a career in the fatal vear
of 1926. My outstanding accomplishment was persuading her
to concentrate her efforts where they were most needed. She has
been active in the League of Women Voters and the Camp Fire
Girls and will talk on the cultivation and uses of herbs when
properly invited.

The boys have unaccountably grown to tower over me; thev
continue, generously, to fill gaps in my education. Their solici-
tude for my health, particularly in such matters as shovelling
snow, is sometimes disconcerting. George spent three seasons in
the Forest Service at Antelope Ranger Station in northern Idaho
and has managed to do quite a bit of travelling in this country.

[217 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

He is now a freshman at the Syracuse College of Business Ad-
ministration. Ed is a senior at Nottingham High School where
he is president of his Hi-Y chapter and a letter man in football,
basketball, and baseball. We are hoping that he finds time to
earn a diploma.

As a Republican who has never missed a chance to vote for a
losing candidate, my thoughts on social and political trends are
not always fit to express. It appears that the radicals are less dan-
gerous to the party than are some of our own members. What a
world this would be if the conservatives had always been up to
their responsibilities!

My interest in religion has increased. After reading The Per-
ennial Philosophy, 1 determined to undertake a real discipline,
after the householder stage of life had been completed. It’s a per-
fectly safe project, tucked away comfortably in the future. My
present efforts are still directed to keeping reasonably practical.

ROLAND CLARK DAVIS

HOME appress: 918 E, First St., Bloomington, Ind.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Indiana University, Bloomington, Ind.

Born: Dec. 20, 1902, Easton, Pa. PARENTS: William Chalmers Davis, ’o4,
Effie Estelle Clark.

PREPARED AT: Easton High School, Easton, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; PH.D. (Columbia
Univ.), 1930.

MARRIED: Frances Oliver Meacham, Sept. 12, 1927, Petersburg, Va. CHIL-

DREN: Susan Oliver, July 3, 1930; Christopher Meacham, May 7, 1933-
OCCUPATION: Professor of psychology, Indiana University.

MEMBER OF: American Psychological Association; Midwestern Psychological
Association; Sigma Xi. 7

PuBLications: About fifty articles, monographs, and chapters in books, the
most recent of which are: Methods of Measuring and Recording Action
in Methods of Psychology, edited by T. G. Andrews, Wiley, 1948;

“Motor Effects of Strong Auditory Stimuli,” Journal of Experimental
Psychology, Vol. 38, 1948, pp. 257-275.

SOMETIME during my last year in college I debated in which
of three rather new sciences I should work, though I had studied
little in any of them. My choice was psychology. It was neces-
sary to go on with study in the subject and at the same time earn
a living. So for the first year after graduation I taught English

[ 218 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in the high school at Greenville, Ohio. That was an enjoyable
experience, for it was the first time I had found people — the
students and people of the town— who seemed interested in
hearing about subjects I had studied.

The following summer I began study in psychology at
Columbia University, and in the fall I was engaged to do
psychological work of various kinds for the school system in
Petersburg, Virginia. My qualifications were slight indeed, but —
the need must have been desperate. Besides the practical experi-
ence, the two years I spent there gave time for a good deal of
reading.

In 1927 I married Frances Meacham of Petersburg and with
her went to New York where I took up study at Columbia. For
the next two years, time was divided between study and odd
jobs, sometimes professional in nature, sometimes selling neckties
—cravats, I suppose I should say—for John Wanamaker. It
was not a very efficient way to study, but subsidies were seem-
ingly less common then. In 1930 I was granted my degree of
Doctor of Philosophy.

In 1929, however, I had left Columbia to become research as-
sociate at the University of Virginia, where I carried out an in-
vestigation of biological race differences in relation to intelli-
gence. When this was completed in 1931, I was invited to Indi-
ana University as associate professor for one year. I have been
here ever since, being appointed professor in 1938.

My academic life is, I suppose, like many others. There are
six or eight lectures to be given each week; some to an audito-
rium full of beginning students, some to advanced graduate stu-
dents. Work on university committees which periodically try to
introduce improvements is not without interest. But the most
absorbing part of the work is carrying on experimental investi-
gations. There is the state of mind — at least when one is in good
spirits — of wondering what new thing may turn up in the lab-
oratory or in one’s own thinking this particular day. The expert-
mental work I have done has been chiefly in the field of physio-
logical psychology.

I cannot say that I cultivate any particular hobbies or sports.
I do not think they would be exciting enough. But the extra-
curricular intellectual and cultural affairs of the university are

[ 219 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

manifold, and the rather active social life here gives contact with
many old and new friends.

Looking backward seems premature with so much remaining
to be accomplished. I was told the other day that psychology
as a science did not exist until after 1930. This was disconcerting
for a moment, but I think I understand, and I hope to hear even-
tually that the science did not really begin until the years after
1950. And I hope I have a hand in it then. :

As a teacher, one cannot help reflecting on the changes in uni-
versity education here and in the whole country. During my
time in this university, the number of students has grown from
three thousand to fourteen thousand, and that number now seems
to be more than temporary. There are also strong reasons to be-
lieve that the quality of the students and the instruction offered
them has, at least here, improved a great deal. The numbers are
sometimes frightening, particularly to those in state universities,
which, as President Conant predicted some years ago, must teach
an increasing portion of all students. If the trend continues we
may willy-nilly reach the state of affairs favored by the recent
President’s commission, a situation which seems to Mr. Conant
beyond what we can manage. We might have to. The universi-
ties would need to change to cope with all the students, and so-
ciety would have to change to use all the graduates. I do not

think it impossible that the outcome may be a good one. Maybe
something can be done about it.

SHERLOCK DAVIS

HOME ADDRESS: 1300 30th St., N.W., Washington 7, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Economic Codperation Administration, 800 Connecticut
Ave. N.W., Washington, D. C.

BORN: Nov. 30, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: James Sherlock Davis,
Evelyn Herbert Adair.

PREPARED AT: Deep Springs High School, Deep Springs, Calif.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 19243 LL.B. 1927.
MarrieD: Dorothy Mondell, Oct. 20, 1941, Washington, D. C.

occupation: Lawyer; director, Guaranty Division, Economic Coéperation
Administration.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, January, 1941, major, January, 194I-
December, 1942, licutenant colonel, December, 1942-November, 1944;
colonel, November, 1944-February, 1946, G.S.C.(F.A.); aide to the

[ 220]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

commanding general, 27th Infantry Division, S-3, 52nd Field Artillery
Brigade; aide to the commanding general, Military District of Wash-
ington; and assistant military attaché, United States Embassy, Buenos
Aires, Argentina.

OFFICES HELD: President, Telluride Association.

MEMBER OF: Metropolitan Club, Washington, D. C.; Racquet & Tennis
Club, New York; Harvard Club of New York.

AFTER finishing college at midyears, I spent several months in | -
England, France, and Spain, and then returned to the Law School
from which I was graduated in 1927.

After association with a New York law firm until early in 1929,
I entered the investment banking business in Buffalo, New York,
as a member of the firm of Sidney S. Walcott & Company. There
I remained until September, 1934, when I was invited to join the
staff of the then newly formed United States Securities and Ex-
change Commission to assist in formulating a program for the
regulation of trading in over-the-counter markets. My service
with the Commission in this field lasted until October, 1940, first
as assistant director of the Trading and Exchange Division, and
later as technical adviser to the Commission. My work consisted
largely of formulating and drafting rules and regulations and leg-
islation, and establishing necessary administrative machinery.

Having been a member of the New York National Guard since
1928, I was called on active duty with the Headquarters of the
27th Infantry Division early i in October, 1940, and remained ac-
tively in the Army until July, 1946. For a substantial part of this
period I served as assistant military attaché at our embassy in
Buenos Aires, Argentina. This service gave me an opportunity to
see a considerable amount of the southern South American coun-
tries and to become thoroughly acquainted with Argentina. As
a result of this experience, I shall always retain a very active and
sympathetic interest in our Latin American neighbors.

After separation from active duty, I engaged in the export
business to South America for a year and then returned to the
practice of law in New York and Washington. On May 1, 1948,
I joined the staff of the Economic Coéperation Administration in
Washington as director of the Guaranty Division, where I am
still serving.

[ 221 ]

_____— L

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

JOHN ROBERTS DE COURCY

HOME appress; Atlantic Avenue, North Hampton, N. H.

Born: March 30, 1905, Lawrence, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Ambrose De
Courcy, Elizabeth May Roberts.

PREPARED AT: Newman School, Hackensack, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1928,

MARRIED: Frances Keniston Brewster, Jan. 19, 1927, Boston, Mass. (divorced
1947); Victoria Marie (Liedman) Hall, Dec. 16, 1947. CHILDREN: Joan,
May 18, 1931; Jennifer, Oct. 5, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harold De Courcy, '13.

occupaTION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Massachusetts State Guard, 1942.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant attorney general, Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
1941-42.

MEMBER OF: Boston Athenaeum; Union Boat Club.

FOR some reason I decided to become a lawyer. I did. Having

in mind that practice makes perfect, I practised for twenty years

in Boston, It hasn’t. After I had learned by rote certain prin-

ciples of constitutional interpretation, the Supreme Court of

these United States proceeded to reverse itself with such regular-

ity that the only advice I could honestly give a client was: “The

lousier your case, the more chance of success.’

Since last November I have been domiciled in New Hamp-
shire, where I shall probably practise law again if I can find out
what law is. The only rule that seems to be unchanged is thirty-
three and one-third per cent if you try the case and one-fourth
if you settle out of court. The only additional thing that occurs
to me is that if any member of the Class finds himself in this vicin-

ity, he may consider this a standing invitation to drop in for a
week or so.

1

FREDERICK PRIME DELAFIELD

HOME appress: 136 E. 7gth St., New York 21, N, Y.

BORN: Sept. 2, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: Frederick Prime Delafield,
Elsie Barber.

PREPARED AT: St, Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923, DEGREE: A.B., 1924(25).

Marriep: Katherine Sedgwick Colby, Dec. 19, 1927, New York, N. Y.
(divorced 1948). CHILDREN: Frederick Prime, Jr., Oct. 23, 19293 Stephen
S., Oct. 9, 1931-

HARVARD SON: Frederick Prime Delafield, Jr., ’52.

[222 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Barber Delafield, ’27.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of managers, Seamen’s Church Institute of
New York, admissions committee, Downtown Harvard Lunch Club,
New York; chairman, library committee, Harvard Club of New York.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

DeEVAUX ve LANCEY

HOME AND OFFICE AppRESS: Langdell Hall, Exeter, N. H.

BORN: Nov. 23, 1901, New York, N, Y. parents: Lorillard de Lancey, Grace
Heylman.

PREPARED AT: Yonkers High School, Yonkers, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREES: S.B. CU? laude, 1924; A.M. (Princeton
Univ.), 1927.

MARRIED: Louise Renée Bouvin, July 20, 1932, Paris, France. cuitp: Robert
Edmond, Oct. 2, 1938...

HARVARD BROTHER: Livingstone de Lancey, '23.

occupation: Instructor in French, Phillips Exeter Academy.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: R.O.T.C., Cornell University, September, 1919,
to February, 1921.

OFFICES HELD: Advanced fellow, Graduate College, Princeton University,
1928-29; lecturer in French, University of Wisconsin, 1929-32; in-
structor in French, since 1932, member, Committee on Counselling,
Committee on Aims and Practices, Scholarship Committee, Library
Committee, Schedule Committee, Commencement Committee, coach of
class football and baseball, director of touch football, Phillips Exeter
Academy.

MEMBER OF: Delta. Kappa Epsilon; Société des Bibliophiles Normands;
Société Rouennaise de Bibliophiles.

PUBLICATIONS: Le Premier Livre des Emblémes composé par Guillaume
Guéroult.

SINCE graduation my life has been devoted to education. After
three years as lecturer in French at the University of Wisconsin,
I was attracted to Phillips Exeter Academy where the Harkness
Plan was just getting under way. This offered me the opportu-
nity to participate in the conference method of instruction and to
discover that this ‘‘discussion” method with small groups of boys,
backed up by a wealth of material appropriate to a subject, defi-
nitely pays dividends. To see youth “grow up,” to see the dis-
interested become interested, the timid become confident, the in-
telligent gain in power, and to feel that I have a hand in all this
gives me tremendous satisfaction. In short, I am presumably one
of those rare persons who are content with their fates.

[ 223 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

HERBERT JACKSON DESHON

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Psychopathic Hospital, 74 Fenwood Rd.,
Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 13, 1901, Canton, Maine. parents: Herbert John DeShon, Alice
Cleora Bradford.

preparep aT: Deering High School, Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; M.D. (Columbia Univ.),
1930.

occupation: Neuropsychiatrist (diplomate in neurology and psychiatry of
the American Board of Neurology and Psychiatry); senior physician,
Boston Psychopathic Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Norfolk County Medical Society; Massachusetts Medical So-
ciety; Massachusetts Psychiatric Society; New England Society of

Psychiatry.
AFTER graduating from medical school, I spent a year at Al-
bany Hospital on a rotating service, and then two and a half years
at the Bellevue Hospital specializing in medicine and neurology.
I have been at the Boston Psychopathic Hospital since 1934.

It has been a pleasure to witness within my short time the rapid
advances in neuropsychiatry, both in the understanding of man
and in the treatment of nervous and mental illness. Mental illness,
especially of mild degree such as manifested in the psychoneu-
roses, is regarded by many as the number one problem of the
civilized world. Moreover, emotional motivation is basic in all
human endeavor and is obvious in any field involving the rela-
tionship of man to his fellows. Its broader implications in eco-
nomics, politics, and international affairs are evident. It has been
my particularly happy experience to see the forward strides in
the therapy of those mentally ill, too sick to remain in the com-
munity —and these have been numerous since the early 1930's.

Other than this comment, I have no particular thesis to present
here on life in general or any of its innumerable facets.

HARRISON DIBBLEE, JR.

HOME AppRESS: P, O. Box 493, Ross, Marin County, Calif.

OFFICE AppRESS: Eaton & Howard, Inc., 333 Montgomery St., San Francisco,
Calif.

porn: Dec. 7, 1899, Grass Valley, Calif. parents: Harrison Dibblee, ’96,
Adelia Halliday Davidson.

preparep at: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

[224]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MarRiED: Katherine Roberts Drury, Oct. 12, 1935, East Northfield, Mass.
CHILDREN: Katherine Drury, Jan. 2, 1937; Benjamin Harrison, 2d, June
25, 1940; Ian Eyler, May 19, 1946, Thomas Lorimer, July 17, 1948.

occuPATION: Investment management.

OFFICES HELD: Resident manager, San Francisco office, Eaton & Howard, Inc.,
since 1929; trustee, Katharine Barnson School, Ross, Calif.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of San Francisco; University Club of San
Francisco; Lagunitas Country Club; California Historical Society.

THERE is nothing fascinating, unusual, or spectacular for me to
report. Graduation found me, as I suspect it does some others,
with no particular predilection for any special type of business or
profession. I therefore took the course.of least resistance and en-
tered the investment field. It was popular at the time and I had
been offered a job.

After five years of experience in the investment banking busi-
ness, and at a time when I was questioning many of the practices
then prevalent, I was offered the opportunity to join an invest-
ment counsel firm and did so with enthusiasm. The industry was
then relatively new. I have found the development of this field
interesting and constructive and have made no further business
changes.

A long period of bachelorhood is not the best training for mat-
rimony. Fortunately for me, and in spite of this bad recom-
mendation, I was married in 1935. In the ensuing years, due to
the patience and understanding of my wife and ‘the determina-
tion of my children, many of my bad habits have been corrected,
resulting in a most happy, and perhaps too contented, life.

I had always thought that it would be nice to retire at the ripe
old age of fifty. I am almost there now but I don’t feel old and,
with the recent arrival of my fourth child, now see no prospect
of retiring until the time of my Fiftieth Reunion. I shall retire
at that time if I then feel old enough to relax.

ALEXANDER WATTERS DOLE

HOME ADDRESS: 50 Concord Ave., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 18, 1902, Bangor, Maine. parents: Charles Edmund Dole,
Florence Robertson Watters.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; M.B.A., 1927.

[225]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

MARRIED: Virginia Houghton, June 8, 1936, Milton, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Alden Dole, ’26.

occupation: Operating family land and investments.

THE first three years after graduation were spent in the Business
School and on a trip abroad, the one interrupting the other, but
both successfully concluded in the end. Then there followed
six or seven years, first ina New England public utility, then in
a Boston investment firm, as an assistant to an officer in each case
but hardly a vital cog. The depression and an over-extended
Swedish gentleman ended all of this except the acquired interest
in investments, which has continued as a fairly fruitful and enter-
taining part-time pursuit eyer since.

The depression also produced exigencies in the form of some
real estate, both urban and rural, that was developing an affinity
for red ink. Time, more than care, eventually salvaged the urban
part of this problem; but the rural part included, besides timber-
lands, a sizeable New Hampshire farm stocked with pure-bred
Guernseys, and this took great attention to the exclusion of most
other pursuits. It also took time, for the properties were directly
in the path of the fiercest winds of the 1938 hurricane, and later
met a further delay by fire. At this writing, however, all is calm,
the forests recovered to where they yield and overshadow the
farm, and there is some time for other activities, whatever they
may be.

The first World War found your classmate too young for any-
thing except some prep school R.O.T.C.; the second found him
useless for the duration with a smashed heel due to gravity,
not ammunition, and the third will perhaps find him too old, but
find him it doubtlessly will.

In recreation, nothing has compared with salmon fishing in
Canada, and nothing is so faithfully pursued.

KENNETH DOLE

HOME ADDRESS: 2940 Carlton Ave. N.E., Washington, D. C.
OFFice appress: Washington Post, 1337 E St.. N.W., Washington, D. C.

BORN: March 4, 1903, Melrose, Mass., parents: William Andrews Dole, ’83,
Grace Weld Soper.

prepared AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; A.M. (Univ.
of Wisconsin), 1924.

[ 226 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marriep: Evelyn Bumstead, Dec. 7, 1943, Washington, D. C. cHmpren:
Albert William, Feb. 3, 1945; Robert Newman Malcolm, April 30, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Soper Dole, ’18; William Andrews Dole, Jr., ’19;
Malcolm Dole, ’24.

occupaTION: Newspaperman.

I HAVE been a teacher, tutor, farm hand (in France), messboy,
machinist, reporter, editorial writer, editor of weeklies, news edi-
tor of a religious publication, and am now occupied as copy
reader and make-up editor on the Washington Post. In 1943 I
married Miss Evelyn Bumstead of Washington. Our two active
boys, Albert, four, and Robert, three, absorb our attention and
keep our minds off such serious matters as the decline of Ameri-
can incentive, the inability of religion to impart honesty, etc., etc.

I should hardly be a loyal Harvard man, however, if the fre-

quent mention of the University in last summer’s espionage hear-
ings had not led me to wonder why Harvard should have become
an apparent breeding place for spies, and how it could oppose the
influences beguiling its students and damaging its name. With
the hope that something a little on the solemn side may enhance
the felicity of the other biographies, I am setting my reflections
down here. ape

Of the witnesses who refused to answer the House Commie
tee’s questions for fear of self-incrimination, more came from
Harvard (its graduate schools) than from all other universities.
In carelessly awarding degrees to these, the University — hardly
Olympian enough to be impregnable to reproach — embraced
the risk of soiling its reputation with the discredit they might
bring upon it.

A Harvard degree, which once meant the best education pos-
sible to obtain, both from effectiveness in advancing a man ma-
terially and from the sense of public duty it gave him, has come
to mean nothing in particular — unless perhaps an excessive intel-
lectualism. Can the University afford to Jet it mean still less, or
worse?

The University’s carelessness with Communism is nowhere
better illustrated than with the Nieman Fellows, whose selection
seems predicated on a “liberal” belief (I have never known of a
Fellow who was politically conservative), and whose curator has
enounced, in the Atlantic Monthly, April, 1947, his Communistic

[227]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

MALCOLM DOLE

HOME ADDRESS: 2402 Isabella St., Evanston, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Department of Chemistry, Northwestern University,
Evanston, II].

BorN: March 4, 1903, Melrose, Mass. PARENTS: William Andrews Dole,
’83, Grace Weld Soper.

PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 19245 A.M., 1926; PH.D., 1928.

MarrieD: Frances Hibbard Page, Oct. 27, 1928, Melrose, Mass. CHILDREN:
Priscilla Page, June 3, 1930; Malcolm, Jr., April 24, 1935.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Soper Dole, ’18; William Andrews Dole, Jr., ’19;
Kenneth Dole, ’24.

occupation: Professor of physical chemistry.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Official investigator, National Defense Re-
search Committee, Northwestern University and Dugway Proving
Ground, Chemical Warfare Service, 1941-44; research physicist, Man-
hattan Project, University of California at Berkeley and Oak Ridge,
Tenn., 1944-45.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Electrochemical Society, 1940, member,
‘Chemistry Advisory Board, Office of Naval Research, since 1948.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical, Physical and Electrochemical Societies;

Atomic Scientists of Chicago; Chaos Club; University Club of Evans-
ton; Sheridan Shore Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Experimental and Theoretical Electrochemistry,” 19353
“The Glass Electrode,” 1941; a number of scientific papers. ©

AS I sit down to write of my life since graduation, I realize how
definitely it is divided from a professional standpoint into the pe-
riods before the war, during the war, and after the war. Before
the war the Chemistry Department at Northwestern was housed
in old quarters, in temporary quarters, in basements of buildings,
and in any other available space that could be secured from the
University. Teaching and research were carried on with diffi-
culty, but many things were accomplished nevertheless. During
the war my work for various branches of the government took
me from Suffield, Alberta, and Trail, B. C., in the North to the
Dry Tortugas Islands and Florida in the South, from Berkeley
and the Great Salt Desert in the West to Oak Ridge in the East.
In all these places I encountered new scientific and technical
equipment, new scientists, and new ideas which, if not all useful

in peacetime pursuits, nevertheless provide a new background for
work in Evanston.

[ 230 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Coming back in 1945, I resumed teaching and research in

Northwestern’s new. Technological Institute, built and endowed
with a magnificent gift and bequest from Walter P. Murphy.
Now our facilities and equipment are unsurpassed and with many
grants-in-aid for research from industry and from philanthropic
corporations, I feel that we have entered upon the golden era of
American science. Surely no country in the world can offer to
the prospective science student the opportunities now available
in America which has become the world leader in pure science
as well as in technology. Let us hope that this golden era of
American science will last for many decades, undisturbed by mil-
itary or economic strife. This, of course, depends very largely
upon the ability of our statesmen and those of other nations to
solve problems of international codperation such as the interna-~
tional problem of the atomic bomb which the inevitable advance
of scientific knowledge brought to the world. As a member of
the Atomic Scientists of Chicago and of the Science Division of
the now defunct Independent Citizens Committee of the Arts,
Sciences and Professions, I participated with other scientists in
trying to arouse public opinion in this country to the future dan-
gers of atomic warfare. I believe that considerable success was
achieved in these efforts— witness the Baruch Plan — but the
opposition of the Soviet Union in the U.N. to the American pro-
posals has nullified completely the initial progress towards the
solution of this great problem.

Our social and family life in Evanston has been happy and
stimulating. We particularly enjoy the wonderful summers
when we have a chance to indulge in our chief hobby of sailing
on Lake Michigan. Fortunately this is a sport in which the whole
family participates from a thirteen-year-old son (a prospective
Harvard hopeful) and eighteen-year-old daughter (Smith 1952)
to mother and greying father. Other interests include a monthly
bridge game with faculty colleagues which is usually preceded
by a lengthy and spirited discussion, an occasional Sea Scout
Committee meeting or Vestry meeting at the Church, rather rare
trips to the east or west coasts on business or to visit relatives,
and last, but not least, calculating and recalculating the family
budget to fit the inflating expense account to the traditional pro-
fessorial income. All in all, it has been a wonderful life.

[231]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

GERALD GARVEY DOLPHIN

HOME ADDRESS: 1001 Taylor Ave., Scranton, Pa,
OFFICE ADDRESS: 208-209 Mears Bldg., Scranton, Pa.

BorN: March 19, 1902, Olyphant, Pa. parents: Joseph Ambrose Dolphin,
Mary Anne Garvey.

PREPARED at: Central High School, Scranton, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1924; LLB.
1927.

MARRIED: Josephine Potocki, April 21, 1945, Honesdale, Pa.

occupaTion: Attorney and counsellor-at-law.

AFTER graduating from college, I spent three years at Harvard
Law School and obtained my LL.B. degree in 1927.

My law practice has been varied and busy. To me a lawyer is
the champion of justice in the conflict of human interests. A
lawyer brings happiness to thousands and consolation to many.
I have practised principally in Scranton and in Philadelphia, but
I have represented clients from all parts of the United States. I
really love my law work.

In my spare time, I travel, play the piano or read, and my
reading covers many subjects, such as literature, mathematics,
science, economics and philosophy.

As I look back, I consider the years spent at Harvard as
precious.

JOHN LEO PAUL DONAHUE

LAST KNOWN appress: 10 Lyman Terr., Dorchester, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 31, 1902, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: James Joseph Donahue, Sarah
Gilboy.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924(25).

occupation: Mercantile business.

DONAHUE has been carried as a “lost”? man on our records
since June 16, 1937.

JOHN GERARD DONOVAN

HOME appress: 21 Greenleaf St. Rye, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 100 E. 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y.

BoRN: Feb. 18, 1901, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: John Joseph Donovan, Delia
McManus.

[232]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1024.

MARRIED: Jean Findlay, Aug. 11, 1932, New York, N. Y. cHitpren: Sheila
Ann, Dec. 5, 1938; Neil Findlay, June 27, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

a

JOHN LEO DONOVAN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 14 President’s Lane, Quincy 69, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Veterans Administration, New England Office, 55 Tremont
St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 12, 1903, Boston, Mass. parents: John Leo Donovan, Mary
Catherine Manning.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

MaRRIED: Mary Frances Griffin, Nov. 11, 1941, Milton, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Government administration; personnel officer, New England
Branch Office, Veterans Administration.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered active duty October 14, 1942, as major,
C.M.P., Army of the United States; graduated, School of Military
Government, Charlottesville, Va.; provost marshal, 2d Army, Tennes-
see maneuvers; chief of displaced persons, Relief and Welfare Section,
G-5 Staff, 12th Army Group in European theatre of operations under
General Omar Bradley; promoted lieutenant colonel, graduated,
British Civil Affairs Staff Centre, Wimbledon, England; service in
France, Belgium, and Germany; assistant G-5, rsth United States
Army, General Board, under General George S. Patton, Jr.; promoted
colonel, reverted to inactive status, May 13, 1946, as colonel, Re-
serve, Staff and Administrative. Military awards: three bronze battle
stars for the Normandy, Northern France, and Germany campaigns,
Legion of Merit; Bronze Star Medal; Legion of Honor (Chevalier),
France; Croix de Guerre, France.

OFFICES HELD: President, Cathedral Club of Boston, 1924-25; vice-chairman,
Massachusetts Infantile Paralysis Campaign, 1940, Suffolk County
Chapter, Infantile Paralysis Foundation; director, Army-Navy Serv-
ice Committee, 1940-41, New England Committee on Displaced Per-
sons, 1947-48, vice-president, American Legion State Athletic Commit-
tee, 1948; chief of branch, 115th Composite Group, Officers’ Reserve
Corps; president, Massachusetts Chapter, Military Government As-
sociation, 1948-49; vice-president, National Military Government As-
sociation, since 1949; trustee, Boston Evening Hospital and Clinic, and
Massachusetts Hospital School for Crippled Children, Canton, Mass.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Varsity Club, American
Legion; Gridiron Club; Veterans of Foreign Wars; Knights of Colum-
bus; Military Government Association; Maison Des Allies, Paris;
Churchill Club, London.

[233]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

In London I served on the Twelfth Army Group staff of Gen-
eral Omar Bradley as Chief of the Displaced Persons, Relief and
Welfare of the G-s (Military Government) staff. On D plus 3
I landed on Omaha Beach in Normandy with the advance Army
Group party and had. much to do in those hard-hitting and fast-
moving days.

After the break-through at St. Lo I was attached to General
Le Clerc’s Second French Armored Division, which was fight-
ing its way to Paris. This division, which symbolized the new,
aroused spirit of France, entered Paris early on the morning of
the day of liberation, August 25, 1944. I saw the heart of the City
of Light overflow with thanksgiving. Millions of people mobbed
the streets of the city ina three. day celebration, despite desultory
sniping and fighting. It was unforgettable. Later came the prob-
lems of the eeneral well-being of over 4,000,000 people of Paris
and the thousands of American, British and other allied internees
who were in my charge.

Then came the months of supervision of the huge D.P. camps
along the German border and in northern France. The dam
really burst on V-E Day when over eight million unfortunates
decided to hit the road for home, military plan or orders not-
withstanding. During this period 1 became assistant G-5 on
General Patton’s staff and learned to appreciate the qualities of
America’s greatest combat general in World War IL.

I returned to the United States in the winter of 1946, after
almost three years in Europe, and the Statue of Liberty really
meant something to me on the day I came up New York harbor
on a Victory ship that consumed fifteen days and nights coming
from Antwerp.

I was able to make a real adjustment to the unfamiliar life of
the Army and the long absence from home through the loyalty
and sacrifice of my wife whom I married in the year before the.
war broke out. This relationship constitutes an enduring happi-
ness and each day she seems to be a new jewel in an ideal setting
in this postwar world.

At present I am carrying a heavy extracurricular program of
community endeavor and reserve officer activity. I want to
continue to grow in viewpoint and understanding. I have seen
the ravages of war, the ruthlessness of dictatorships and I hope

[236]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

that all of us can look forward to peace. However, there is only
one kind of enduring peace, and it is peace with honor.

JOHN BOAL DOUDS

HOME ADDRESS: 1000 Friedensburg Rd., Stony Creek Mills, Pa.
orFicE apprEss: Albright College, Reading, Pa.
BorN: May 31, 1902, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Robert Calvin Douds, Mary

Isabelle Boal.

PREPARED AT: Stoneboro High School, Stoneboro, Pa.; Westminster College,
New Wilmington, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; A.M. (Columbia Univ.),
1926; PH.D. (Cornell Univ.), 1936.

MaRRIED: Edith Morrow Brown, June 13, 1935, Interlaken, N. Y. cup:

Robert Calvin, June 11, 1936.

OCCUPATION: Professor of English Language and Literature and head of
English Department, Albright College.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and president, Debating Association of Pennsyl-
vania Colleges; member, executive committee, Mid-Eastern District,
Tau Kappa Alpha.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association of America; College English
Association.

PUBLICATIONS: The Poetry of Donne, Herbert, Cowley and Marvell (ab-
stract of thesis), Ithaca, 1936; articles in Publications of The Modern
Language Association, Modern Language Quarterly, The Speaker, and
other professional periodicals.

JOHN DELAFIELD DvuBOIS

HOME appREss: Riverside, Conn.
OFFICE AppREss: J. P. Morgan & Co., Inc., 23 Wall St., New York 8, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 24, 1903, Staten Island, N. Y. PpARENTs: Arthur DuBois, ’98, Helen
Sturges.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., Cu? laude, 1924; LL.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Gibson, Oct. 12, 1929, Richmond, Va. CHILDREN: Nancy
Greenleaf, April 4, 1938; Melanie Brooks, Oct. 30, 1939; Jonathan
Delafield, Feb. 15, 1941; Serena Dandridge, March 29, 1947.

OccUPATION: Lawyer; secretary, J. P. Morgan & Company, Inc.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served as lieutenant and later as lieutenant com-
mander in U.S, Naval Reserve, January, 1942—-December, 1945. Service
divided into four periods of roughly ten months each: training, then
legal officer, Quonset, R. 1.; intelligence, staff of ComSoWestPac,
Australia; officer-in-charge, Advance Intelligence Centers, New Guinea

[ 237]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924
and Admiralty Islands, air combat intelligence officer, U.S.S. Lexing-
ton (CV-16).
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Downtown Association.

BEFORE the war, I practised law for fifteen years, first, from
1927 to 1933, in the office of Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft,
where I was fortunate enough to work for the late William
Loyd Kitchel; then, from 1933 to 1936, as one of the assistant
counsels of the Federal Reserve Board in Washington, D. C,;
and finally, from 1936 to 1942, in the office of Davis Polk Ward-
well Gardiner and Reed, where our Class Secretary has for
many years been an outstanding member of the firm.

Since the war I have been secretary of a bank. No longer
a lawyer, not yet a banker, I have difficulty in filling out forms
asking me to define my occupation. It’s a matter of odds and ends,
most of which relate to foreign banking — for the past six months
it has been principally bank financing under the Marshall Plan.
I don’t travel much, but one pleasant feature of the work is that
we are in a central location and many classmates and friends
drop in and say hello.

I wouldn’t swap my wife or home for any that I’ve heard of.

Guess I really wouldn’t swap the children either, come to think
of it.

JOHN EZEKIEL DuBOIS, JR.

HOME ApDpress: 211 E, DuBois Ave., DuBois, Pa.

OFFICE AppRESS: Pittsburgh DuBois Division, Rockwell Manufacturing Co.,
DuBois, Pa.

BoRN: Aug. 13, 1898, DuBois, Pa. parents: John Ezekiel DuBois, Willie
Gamble.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. 1.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923,

MaRRieD: René Jane Hadley, Aug. 25, 1942, Tampa, Fla. CHILDREN: Robert
H., Sept. 15, 1924 (adopted); Jeanne H., Aug. 19, 1926 (adopted).

HARVARD BROTHER: David DuBois, ’26,

occupaTiIoN: Manufacturing gas meters.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Harvard Naval Unit, 1918. World War II:
3rith Reconnaisance Wing L.R., captain (pilot), 3rd Squadron, qth

Squadron, 16th Squadron, gist Squadron, commanding officer, 7th
Geodetic Control Squadron,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Garfield Lodge 229.
[ 238 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DURING my undergraduate days a classmate who was acciden-

tally killed in his junior year had persuaded me to join him in a

proposed venture to raise coffee in South America. His tragic

death quickly ended all thoughts of going to South America and

I entered my father’s lumber businesss after a half-year at Col-

umbia Business School.

During the next ten years I was actively engaged in learning
the ins and outs of the lumber business at our mills in North
Carolina, Mississippi, and Oregon, with three trips to South
America interspersed — the last one a two-year prospecting trip.
After this journey I felt a deficiency in my education in that I
did not think I could interestingly narrate the truth about dis-
appearing into the jungle. The idea was born from reading ac-
counts of similar expeditions, in all of which the author’s imagina-
tion ran way past first base.

After selling out our lumber interests, there followed three
years of running a foundry and machine shop business which was
most interesting but rather lean. An opportunity presented it-
self to purchase a meter business which I was still learning when
the war caught me for the next four years. |

Holding a commercial pilot’s rating, I was commissioned a
captain in the Air Corps and given a few weeks’ transition train-
ing on Army ships. For this transition I was assigned to the 3rd
Squadron of the 311th Photo Reconnaisance Wing L.R., and a
week after passing the transition tests, we took off for our over-
seas assignment.

During my last week of preparation | made a change in status
by leaving the bachelor ranks. It was the best move I ever made,
for not only did I acquire a wife, but a son and daughter as well,
both of whom are now in college.

After my discharge in March, 1946, it became apparent that
business conditions had changed to the point where it was no
longer possible for a small business to exist. We were forced to
buy tin-plate in England and I made a trip to London for that
purpose, as an example of how difficult conditions had become.
Just about a year ago our company was merged with one of the
most progressive companies in the country.

[239]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

WOLCOTT BALESTIER DUNHAM

HOME ADDRESS: 3320 Highland Park Pl, Memphis 11, Tenn.

OFFICE ADpREss: Veterans Administration Medical Teaching Group, Ken-
nedy Hospital, Memphis 15, Tenn.

porN: June 15, 1900, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Theodore Dunham, ’8s,
Josephine Balestier.

prepareD aT: Browning School, New York, N. Y.; Allen-Stevenson School,
New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922. DEGREES: A.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1924; M.D.
(Columbia Univ.), 1928.

MarriED: Isabel Caroline Bosworth, Oct. 7, 1940, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:

Wolcott Balestier, Jr. Sept. 14, 1943; Anne Huntington, May 20, 1947.
HARVARD BROTHER: Theodore Dunham, Jr., ’21.

occupation: Physician; research biologist.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant bacteriologist, New York Post-Graduate Medical
School and Hospital, Columbia University, 1937-46, research fellow,
Columbia Division, Welfare Hospital for Chronic Diseases, New York
City, 1939-40; associate in microbiology, The Squibb Institute for
Medical Research, New Brunswick, N. J., 1942-46; research biologist,
Veterans Administration Medical Teaching Group, Kennedy Hos-
pital, Memphis, Tenn., since 1946; president, New Jersey Branch, So-
ciety of American Bacteriologists, 1944-45; member, executive com-
mittee, Sigma Xi Club of Memphis, since 1947.

MEMBER OF: Society of American Bacteriologists; American Association
for the Advancement of Science; New York Academy of Medicine,

New York Academy of Sciences; Society of Sigma Xi; Sigma Xi Club
of Memphis.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in scientific journals on techniques for inoculating
chick embryos; the action of antiseptics on viruses; a relatively rapid test
for the action of drugs in syphilis, the action of penicillin and of
streptomycin in syphilis; the efficacy of measles vaccine; a serological
test for granuloma inguinale;, the action of influenza virus on human

red blood cells.
THIS matter of scratching away at the surface layers of things
to try to catch a further glimpse of how the wheels of Nature
are turned leads to a delightful existence. There is the ever-
present challenge of the interplay of forces and structures that are
but dimly seen or only imagined and must be proved present or
absent by planning and doing experiments to trap them. Then
there is the rivalrous comradery of those working in the same field.
Each in his separate chamber is trying to find some particular
cog before his friends do; but far more often than he hurts the
professional vanity of others, he helps them on by revealing some-

[240 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

thing needed for their work. This usually leads to a brotherliness
among those who speak the same laboratory jargon.

On looking back in mid-passage to try to see what were the
happiest times, it is revealing to find that they were those when
one drove oneself the hardest. There were the countless chick
embryos to inoculate at the New York Post-Graduate Medical
School and Hospital, first with material from rheumatic fever
patients and later with mixtures of influenza virus and antisep-
tics. Then there were the rabbits in the Squibb Institute for Medi-
cal Research. The happiest days and nights of my four years’
work at the Institute were spent with those rabbits. They all had
syphilis. It was just after the discovery that penicillin would
cure syphilis and it was important to know what type of penicillin
was the best. In those days it took some ten months to tell
whether a rabbit had been cured. The challenge to find a more
rapid method was great. By using an unusual route of infection,
the time was cut to six weeks. As assistance was meager, It was not
unusual to put in a twenty-four-hour session giving penicillin
shots every four hours to some eighty rabbits. Now, in a Vet-
erans Administration teaching hospital, I find myself in un-
expectedly ideal circumstances for good work, with all the per-
sonnel, equipment, and supplies that I could have wished for.
Best of all, however, is the directive from Washington to work
on any subject in any way I wish. Such freedom is all too rare.

It took me a long time to find my wife, although we had lived
on the same New York block in our childhood without meeting.
Our family is consequently young, a boy of six and a girl of two.
Our home is a lively and happy place. In it we carry on an end-
less experiment, not so much in bringing up our children as in
attempting to give them the best possible soil for mental, spiritual,
and physical growth. This problem is a more complex study and
a more vital and fascinating one than the search for the best
culture medium for micro-organisms. So the job of bacteriolo-
gist and parent are fundamentally quite the same thing. We
search to find the best medium for growth.

[ 241 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

BRADFORD CHALONER DURFEE

HOME ADpREss: 55 WY. goth St., New York 24, N. Y. .

OFFICE appRESS: Berkshire Fine Spinning Associates, Inc.. 40 Worth St,
New York 13, N. Y.

BorN: Aug. 12, 1900, Fall River, Mass. PARENTS: Randall Nelson Durfee,
Abby Slade Brayton.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. Hy Morristown School,
Morristown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922.

marrieD: Rhoda Thompson, Nov. 5, 1926, Galveston, Texas (divorced
1947); Dorothy Gardner, Feb. 7, 1948, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Deborah, Aug. 2, 1928; Jane Alden, Aug. 8, 1929; Cynthia Slade, June
13, 1933; Harvey Cushman Gardner (stepchild), May 1, 1923.

HARVARD BROTHER: Randall Nelson Durfee, Jr., 719.

occuPaTION: Cotton textile sales.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Deputy police commissioner, Civilian Defense,
Bronxville, N. Y., 1942-45.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Border City Manufacturing Company; vestryman,
Church of the Ascension, Fall River, Mass. 1925-30; member, Com-
munity Welfare Committee, Bronxville, 1943-44, Red Cross Committee,
Bronxville, 1944-45.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; Bronxville Field Club; Memphis
Country Club; Fall River Country Club.

MY FIRST year out of college was spent in Memphis, Tennessee,
with the cotton shipping firm of Porter, Weaver & Company.
This was my basic training in cotton, a commodity with which
my entire business career has been associated, After my father’s
death, late in 1923, 1 went to work for the Border City Manu-
facturing Company, Fall River, Massachusetts. I remained with
this company for over three years. Being ambitious and needing
the money, I accepted an offer of a doubled salary and went to the
Parker Mills in Fall River where I became assistant to the treasurer.
Late in 1929 the mill was merged with the Berkshire Fine Spin-
ning Associates, Incorporated. This development brought about
my moving to the New York office with residence in Bronxville.
My life in Bronxville was one of community interests, both
civil and social. I always kept up my interest in athletics, serv-
ing six years on the Bronxville Field Club board of governors,
being the president in 1945-46. In 19301 took up squash racquets,
and for many years served in various offices of the Metropolitan
Squash Racquets Association, being president in 1943-45. Follow-

[ 242 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing this I was secretary of the United States Squash Racquets As-
sociation, 1946-47. |

In 1947 my first marriage was terminated by divorce. I lived
in New York for several months. During this time I met m
present wife, Dorothy Gardner, playwright and author. We were
married in 1948 and live in New York City.

The first twenty-five years out of college are only the begin-
ning; the last twenty-five years, we all know, are the finish. Now,
as I enter the second major milestone away from the protecting
elms of the Yard, I find peace and happiness in a life whose roots
are woven into a pattern of common interests and contentment.

Living in New York has a vital quality— good music and
theatres within taxi-call are a stimulating advantage. But my
wife, who is also a New Englander, and I love nothing better than
a trip to Boston or a weekend in the New England hills or at the
seashore. We look forward to the exciting finale of a village
home.

TIMOTHY ALOYSIUS DURKIN, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 23 Simpson Rd., Ardmore, Pa.

BORN: - July 31, 1899, Augusta, Ga. parents: Timothy Aloysius Durkin,
Katharine Keenan.

PREPARED AT: Wyoming Seminary, Kingston, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

MARRIED: Mary Margaret Meaney, March 5, 1935. CHILDREN: Timothy
Aloysius, 3d, March 13, 1936; James Meaney, March 9, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Keenan Durkin, ’25; Edward Charles Durkin, ’29.

OCCUPATION: Financial Research.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: United States Field Artillery, World War I.

GEORGE DWIGHT

HOME ADDRESS: 136 E. 64th St., New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Francis C. Carr & Co., Inc., 80 Maiden Lane, New York 7,
N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 13, 1901, Boston, Mass. Parents: George Edmund Dwight,
Rachel Emma Holmes.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

MaRRIED: Georgie Fanshaw Potts, April 24, 1926, New York, N. Y. cHIL-
DREN: George Henry Potts, Aug. 6, 1927; Jerome Rockhill, Nov. 25,
1929; Shelley Holmes, Oct. 9, 1935.

[ 243 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

HarvarD sons: George Henry Potts Dwight, ’50, Jerome Rockhill Dwight,
51.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Scutt Dwight, '25.

occupation: Executive, Francis C. Carr & Company, Inc., insurance brokers
and average adjusters.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant commander, United States Naval
Reserve, Dec. 8, 1941-Jan. 6, 1946; Eastern sea frontier, New York
Cirv, to July, 1944; joint operations officer on General MacArthur's

_ staff, S.W-.P.A., July, 1944-January, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: President, Rumson Republican Club, Rumson, New Jersey,
1938-40; councilman, Borough of Rumson, 1940-42; vice-president,
Willkie for President Clubs of New Jersey, 1940, director, F. W.

Stillman & Company, since 1938, Francis C. Carr & Company, Inc.
since 1937.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Seabright (N. J.) Lawn Tennis
and Cricket Club; Seabright Beach Club; Racquet and Tennis Club of

New York; Lunch Club of New York; Reserve Officers’ Association of
the United States.

EDDIE MERRILL is responsible for finally getting me started
on my autobiography. It happened this way. I had telephoned
to see what progress he was making with his homework and, in
answer to my question, he said, “Well, I’m collecting informa-
tion.”

“How do you mean ‘collecting information?’ ” I asked, puzzled
by his need for research.

“Oh,” he explained, “I’m trying to find out the birthdays
of my children!”

Having mine in pocket if not in mind, Eddie’s dilemma affected
me like digitalis.

After graduating in 1924-—my Navy commission was later
hinged upon it — circumstances led me, a New Englander, to New
York and into insurance, first with a fire insurance company, this
not to my liking, and then as an escape, so to speak, into the
brokerage end of the business where from the beginning I’ve
been happy. It’s been fun now and then to rescue people from
their fears when lightning strikes. There’s a laugh when little
Buster in a playful mood feeds his mother’s pearls to the fishes.
But the laugh becomes a groan when mother insists that the news
—and the subsequent check — positively must be kept from
father, which is supposed to convey the idea that insurance,
usually considered only a necessary evil, does sometimes have its

[ 244 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

more amusing side. And you do see people even if you can’t
always influence them!

We were married in 1926, and lived in New York the first three
years, but the daily subway ride in the rush hours between East
96th Street and downtown New York soon softened me up for
country life. Consequently, when our expanding family began
to overrun the confines of our small apartment, I jumped at the
chance to move to Rumson, New Jersey, best identified as being
on the Jersey coast just around the bend from Sandy Hook.
Here we lived for seventeen years. Here the children grew up
inhaling all the benefits of country air. But when the war was
over I wanted some sort of change and was tired of commuting,
so we sold the old homestead and moved back to apartment life
in the big city. Even the children admitted that cliff-dwelling
has its advantages, particularly the boys when home from college
and restless for night life. As for me, it was a godsend to be
within twenty-five minutes of the office, because when I returned
after four years’ absence I found that I had to re-orient myself
in a business which had changed in the interim.

Looking back, the high points in the past twenty-five years
were our trip to Europe in 1933; the Willkie’campaign in 1940,
and, of course, the war.

The European trip I mention not just because it was fun, but
because I’m still stunned that I then had the nerve to attempt it
on the scale that I did. First of all, and not without some opposi-
tion from the office, we sailed complete with children in early
June and returned late in September. We parked the children in
Gstaad, Switzerland, hired an open Ford in Geneva, and motored
5,000 miles around Europe just like “Mr. and Mrs. Haddock in
Paris, France.” We returned at intervals to Gstaad to keep on
speaking terms with the boys, then aged three and five, and were
always chagrined to find they missed us not at all. Yes, if we
hadn’t been bold then, we would still be planning our first trip
to Europe, and realization would still be just as far away.

The Willkie campaign marked my only active participation
in politics. It was an emotional experience I shall never forget
and one that I never expect to have again. Of course, the woods
are filled with people who “discovered” Mr. Willkie. Naturally,
I am one of them. Like so many others, I teed off on “We the

[ 245 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

People,” got starry-eyed and started a Willkie Club in my Rum-
son home, worked on the convention floor at Philadelphia, and
took leave of the office for the summer. With a hillbilly farmer
from the Ozarks, I toured the state of Missouri in his car preach-
ing the gospel wherever we could, an interesting undertaking
though not especially effective. My assignment when I returned
to New York in the fall was getting out the Syrian vote. This
involved almost nightly attendance - at Syrian dinners, recollec-
tions of which still make me reach for Bicarb. .

I've never lost my admiration for Mr. Willkie. Even after his
defeat, it seemed to me he acted as a checkrein for good in this
country in the sense that when either party showed signs of going
haywire he spoke out with his characteristic frankness and ral-
lied public opinion to do what was right rather that what was
expedient. I was at G.H.Q. in Hollandia, New Guinea, when
his death was announced. It shocked and saddened everyone
including the Australians and Dutch. Whether or not men had
voted for him in 1940 made no difference.

Figuring that war was inevitable, I put in for a commission in
June, 1941, was sworn in as special agent on that memorable
Monday following Pearl Harbor, got my commission on January
3, and specialized immediately in operations which in one form
or another were to be my work for the duration. My service
was unglamorous, often uncomfortable, rarely dangerous. I had
no technical qualifications — couldn't even sail a boat — and my
conversion from a businessman to a naval officer was slow
and difficult. Frankly, I often despaired. But I know now
that had my application not been accepted, I would have re-
gretted it all my life. Out of it came friendships that I would
not otherwise have had. One in particular I would like to tell
you about.

I participated in the amphibious operations at Panay in the
Philippines, a relatively minor affair. After Iloilo and the moun-
tain barrios were secured, I attended a fiesta at a Nippa hut colony
in the jungle above Patotan, where the well-to-do residents of
Jaro, residential section of Iloilo, had taken refuge from both
Japs and marauding guerrillas. Among others, I met the members
of the Montinola family. As a result of this meeting I later be-

came friends in Manila with Aurelio Montinola, who had been an

[ 246 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

influential businessman and owner of sugar centrales. Another
officer and I, when consulted, advised Aurelio to send his son
to Fordham rather than into the guerrillas, reasoning that as the
ultimate outcome of the war was by then apparent, the boy
could eventually do more for his people by being educated in
the States. He did go to Fordham and there distinguished him-
self. With my wife and daughter, I attended his graduation from
Fordham in 1947. He is now in his second year at the Harvard
Business School, and continues to excel. He journeys across the
Charles and plays squash with my eldest son. They are friends.
Last winter Aurelio and his wife visited us in New York. He
recalled the pair of shoes I had got for him from the commis-
sary in Manila. He had been without shoes for three years.

) Money couldn’t buy them then. They: cost me nothing, but I
remember how grateful he was. From such things come strong
and lasting friendships. With them and with a faith strengthened
by church attendance, I am hopeful for the future.

JAMES FRANCIS D’WOLF

HOME ADDRESS: 11 Ridgeview Ave., White Plains, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 170 Maple Ave., White Plains, N. Y.

BORN: May 2, 1902, Bristol, R. I. parents: James Francis D’Wolf, Sophia
Jennie Dreyer.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; M.D. cum laude, 1928:

MarrieD: Elizabeth Smyth Ehrhart, June 19, 1928, White Plains, N. Y.
CHILDREN: James Francis, Jr., July 7, 1929; Jeanne Elizabeth, Aug. 22,
1931; Dorothy Ehrhart, Aug. 25, 1935; Mary Ellen, Sept. 21, 1941.

HARVARD SON: James Francis D’Wolf, Jr., ’50.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Examiner, Local Draft Board; assistant medical
director, Civilian Defense, White Plains.

OFFICES HELD: President, White Plains University Club, 1946; secretary-
treasurer, White Plains Hospital Clinical Society.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American College of Surgeons
(fellow); Westchester County Cancer Society.

AFTER graduating in 1924, I was accepted as a student at Har-
vard Medical School along with Louis Fincke, Bill Stoller, and
others. Stoller and I dissected as partners during anatomy lessons.
On graduating from Medical School in 1928, ‘TL was married to

[ 247 ]

oe

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Flizabeth Ehrhart, of White Plains, New York, who incidentally
graduated from Radcliffe in 1924.

After picking up the little piece of paper for which we all
worked and worried for four years, I took a one-year rotating
internship at the Montreal General Hospital. This was one of the
pleasantest years of my whole life. The work at the hospital was
very pleasant and the Canadian doctors and interns were a most
congenial lot.

Following the completion of this year of internship, our first
child was born, while I was in my first week of beginning a new
internship at the New Haven Hospital. While at New Haven
I spent my entire time on the medical service under Dr. Francis
G. Blake.

From New Haven we journeyed to Detroit where I spent my
first six months in the Pathology Department, and then became
assistant to the chief surgeon, Dr. Max Ballin, in his office and
private practice. The depression hit Detroit like an atom bomb,
and so in June, 1931, I found myself coming back to the East.
Inasmuch as I had hoped to do obstetrics eventually, I applied for

the regular six-month internship at the Boston Lying-In Hospital.
This service began June 1, 1931. Our second child, this time a
daughter, was born two months later.

After completing this internship on December 1, 1931, I re-
turned to White Plains, New York, where my wife and two
children were staying with her parents. After several trips to
find a place to practise, I finally opened an office in White Plains
and have been here ever since.

Since that time early in 1932, I managed to weather the vicis-
situdes of starting a practice in the worst of the depression with
a wife and two children. Eventually two more children, both
girls, were born. Our first child was entered as a freshman at
Harvard in 1946, the same year the youngest entered kindergar-
ten at home. Two years later our second child entered Colby
College in Waterville, Maine. So now, twenty-five years after
graduating from college, I find myself the father of a junior at
Harvard and a daughter at Colby, with two more coming on
rapidly in our local schools.

My life since starting in practice here has not been unusual or in
any way different from the average person living in a community

[ 248 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of about 45,000 within twenty-five miles of a large metropolitan
center. There have been the usual social activities which are quite
generally a part of the average American community.

Trying to establish oneself in the practice of medicine leaves
but little time for outside activities. My main diversion has been
a summer home on the eastern tip of Long Island, where it is
possible to sail and enjoy all that goes with life in such an area.

i WILLIAM FREDERIC EARLE

porN: April 5, 1900, Colorado Springs, Colo. Parents: Edward Farle,
Augusta Domitilla Smart.

PREPARED AT: Colorado Springs High School, Colorado Springs, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924(25); M.B.A., 19277.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered U. S. Army, October, 1942; detailed to
Supply School, Quartermaster Corps, Fort Warren, Wyoming; served
in office at headquarters; promoted private first class; honorably dis-
charged June 20, 1943.

DIED: Jan. 31, 1946, Colorado Springs, Colo.

WILLIAM FREDERIC EARLE prepared at Colorado Springs
High School and attended Colorado College before entering
Harvard. He was active as a member of the Colorado Club while
in College. Upon receiving an A.B. degree in February, 1925, as
of the Class of 1924, he entered the Harvard Graduate School of
Business Administration and was awarded his M.B.A. degree in
1927,

He spent the summer of 1925 working in the Peoples State
Bank, Detroit, and after graduation travelled abroad for several
months before returning to Colorado. He accepted a position
teaching a business course at Colorado College and during the
summer of 1929, continued study in transportation at the Univer-

- sity of Chicago. |

In the Fourth Class Report, he noted that he was engaged in
the mining machinery business and connected with the American
Ball Mill Company of Denver. He later became vice-president,
treasurer and director of the company. In October, 1942, he
entered the U, S. Army and after basic training at Fort Warren,
Wyoming, attended the Quartermaster Supply School. Promoted
private first class, he was honorably discharged from military

service in June, 1943, to do defense work. In 1944, he reported

[ 249 ]

_____. Le

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

being associated with Marland & Earle, industrial consultants, as
a business executive and partner.
He was a member of the Harvard Club of New York, Rocky
Mountain Harvard Club and the National Geographic Society.
Farle never married.

CHARLES ANDREW CRAWFORD EASTMAN

HOME AppRESS: 2 Channel Ave., South Norwalk, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Ebasco Services, Inc., 2 Rector St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: July 5, 1901, Omaha, Nebr. parents: Alonzo Eastman, Helen Rebecca
Crawford.

PREPARED AT: Scottsbluff High School, Scottsbluff, Nebr.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1919-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

marriep: Anne Kohler, April 20, 1929, Catasauqua, Pa. cHttpren: Grace,
Jan. 14, 1930; Charles, Oct. 3, 1931.

occuPaTioNn: Business consultant.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Mechanical Engineers, American Institute
of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, Harvard Club of New York;

Harvard Business School Club of New York; Old Well Lodge No. 108,
AF, & A.M.

PuBLIcATIONS: A wide variety of papers and articles having to do with
market research, sales policies, methods and organizations, and other
business functions before trade associations and for trade publications.

THE account of my life subsequent to graduation commences
with purchase of a ticket for Bisbee, Arizona, to embark upon a
mining career. The morning of my arrival, fifteenth in a line
composed principally of Mexicans, at the Phelps-Dodge office, I
was successful in obtaining a job as a mucker at the munificent
sum of $4.40 a day. Successively, I became a miner, then a mining
engineer, About a year later I received a telephone call from
Percy Wendel, formerly coach of Williams, who had just trans-
ferred to Lehigh, asking me to take charge of the line. The offer
was so attractive it was impossible to refuse, and for several
seasons thereafter I journeyed from Arizona to Pennsylvania via
Model T Ford, camping and hunting en route, alternating mining
with coaching and professional football. Tiring of the long trek
back and forth across the country, I entered the employ of the
Bethlehem Mines Corporation, a subsidiary of Bethlehem Steel,
and for several years worked night shift in the quarries at Steel-
ton and Hanover, Pennsylvania. Weekends I journeyed to

[250 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Catasauqua, Pennsylvania, 100 miles distant, where I played golf,
danced, etc.—all for a reason. Finally the reason— Anne
Kohler — a Smith graduate by the way, stated emphatically that
she would not marry anyone who worked twelve hours a night.
I obtained a new job as industrial engineer with the Pennsylvania
Power & Light Company in Allentown. Thus ended my career
in the quarries and my bachelor days.

A few years later, Electric Bond & Share Company hired me
as industrial consultant to a number of companies in the United
Srgtes and foreign countries. During World War II, my duties
involved services on problems incident to interconnection and
power pool arrangements, war contract termination and renego-
tiation, representation of clients in codperative undertakings
with the War and Navy Departments, the War Production
Board, and other war agencies.

I have now the administrative and supervisory responsibility
for a group known as the Business and Economic Studies Division
of Ebasco Services, Inc, There studies are prepared for indus-
trials, public utility companies, and other business enterprises.
The types of studies that we have recently prepared represent
surveys underground, in the air, on the water, and on the ground.
I am now negotiating a survey under water for a submarine com-
pany, thus completing all the elements. In effect my present
occupation represents the summation of many of the major
phases of my previous decade of employment in varied industries.

Although originating on the plains of Nebraska, I nevertheless
always felt a great yearning for ships and boats with the conse-
quent result that I now reside in Connecticut on Long Island
Sound, I may be located any weekend night anchored in my
-wenty-nine-foot cruiser off Peck’s Ledge Lighthouse preparing
or a cruise on the following day to go fishing or hunting ducks.
My shooting eye isn’t as good as it used to be. However, I
nodestly report that my first shot of the 1948 season killed two
rery plump and edible wild ducks. I also have some very good
ish stories but space limitation precludes same.

The foregoing summary covers work, travel, and hobbies. As

2 my political convictions, they have ceased to be since the recent
lection.

[251]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

DAN ERSKINE EDGERTON

HOME ADDRESS: 290 Baxter Blvd., Portland, Maine.

OFFIce ADDRESS: Portland-Monson Slate Co., 465 Congress St., Portland,
Maine.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1901, Riverside, Ill. parents: Seymour Edgerton, Harriet
Richardson.

PREPARED AT: Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922.

MarRiED: Phyllis Burke, Dec. 27, 1924, Boston, Mass. cHiLpREN: Nancy,
March 25, 1926 (m. Leighton Foster Johnson, 2d, Sept. 22, 1946); Dan
Seymour, March 15, 1928. GRANDCHILD: Leighton Foster Johnson, 34,
July 17, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Seymour Piran Edgerton, ’24.

occuPaTion: General manager, Portland-Monson Slate Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Chief boatswain’s mate, United States Coast
Guard, Temporary Reserve, Port Security, Portland, Maine, 1944-45.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Industry committee, Non-metallic Minerals,
War Production Board.

OFFICES HELD: Director, 1944, member of industrial relations committee,
1945, Associated Industries of Maine.

AFTER reading the “sample lives” and brief biographies of can-
didates for chief marshal, I wondered what I could say to make
my “life” seem important, exciting, humorous, or even interest-
ing to anyone. I decided I couldn’t, so V'll simply outline my
twenty-five years and let it go at that.

On leaving college at the end of my sophomore year, I spent a
couple of years in a manufacturing plant in Boston and then
went up to Vermont and followed my early interest in slate
quarrying. Marriage in 1924 and a daughter and son soon after
kept me digging — literally and figuratively — to keep our family
going, with no time or further thought for travel and adventure
which seemed so easy and appealing when dreaming about it back
in Cambridge. .

In 1940 I came over to Portland, still in the slate business, and
am now operating a plant unique in this country, with deep
mines rather than quarries, producing high quality electrical
switchboard material.

Besides my business, for which I have a deep love and interest,
I enjoy the Maine outdoors — hunting, fishing, and boating —
and in winter my stamp collection keeps me busy.

[252 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My life, although generally prosaic, has been a happy one, and
a new grandson adds to its fullness.

SEYMOUR PIRAN EDGERTON

HOME ADDRESS: 54 Larchwood Drive, Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bingham, Dana & Gould, 1 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 11, 1902, Riverside, Ill. parents: Seymour Edgerton, Harriet
Richardson.

PREPARED AT: Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 19243 LL.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Katharine Barbey, June 26, 1926, Cambridge, Mass. (divorced
1931); Rose Dunbar Gay, April 25, 1932, Hoosick Falls, N. Y. (died
Nov. 2, 1942); Lucy Sydney Kingston, Feb. 5, 1944, Hingham, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Dan Erskine Edgerton, ’24.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer. |

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Admiralty attorney, War Shipping Adminis-
tration; special assistant United States attorney in several districts.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of Boston; Union
Club of Boston; Maritime Law Association of the United States;
Boston Bar Association; Propeller Club, Boston.

IT SEEMS hardly possible that anyone will be very much inter-
ested in my history since graduation, for in comparison to those
of our authors, explorers, fighting men, politicians, statesmen, and
others, it will be pretty dull. |

Family: a wife; travels:.mostly commuting longer or shorter
distances in the run-of-mine way; politics: oh well; -—and so it
goes.

I must have been a callow youth, indeed, when I started prac-
tising Jaw here in 1927 with one of my present firm’s predeces-
sors, Blodgett, Jones, Burnham & Bingham. That is being
constantly borne in on me by the effective way in which the
war-tried young men approach problems and people. At any
rate, I started in admiralty law and soon found that my pre-
conceived notions of the absorbing interest, for me, of this field
had not let me down.

There was an interval of a few years when I lived the life of 2
country squire in West Castleton, Vermont, and attended to legal
matters in Rutland, That was strictly a shoreside practice, mostly
farmers’, quarrymen’s, and lumbermen’s problems. I was fortu-
nate, however, in being engaged in some important tax litigation

[ 253 ]

“

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

for the State of Vermont as a special assistant to the attorney
general, and in knowing many of Vermont’s able and accom-
plished lawyers, and also in knowing Federal Judge Harlan B.
Howe —a man of strong views who ran his court the way he
wanted it run. I also participated in the “pure democracy” of
New England town government and held several town offices.

Country life was interesting and pleasant, but my law practice
was neither sufficiently absorbing nor remunerative. I returned
to Boston in 1938 as house counsel in the insurance and claims
department of Mystic Steamship Company (now a division of
Eastern Gas and Fuel Associates) and Boston Tow Boat Com-
pany. Early in 1943 I went to New York with the legal division
of War Shipping Administration where we did the best we could
on the impossible task of keeping abreast of the troubles of that
agency and other government vessels.

From there I went back to Boston and Bingham, Dana & Gould.
I am living now in Wollaston (Quincy) in an apartment, and
busily engaged in looking for a small house whose present owner
has realistic views of my net worth,

ISADORE WATERMAN EIN

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 3000 39th St., N.W., Washington 16, D. C.

BORN: Jan. 14, 1903, Sydney, N.S., Canada. parents: Isaac Ein, Edith
Wasserman. .

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

marrieD: Eveline Anne Whalley, July 5, 1938, Chicago, Ill.

OCCUPATION: Salesman.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Assistant Price Executive, Office of Price Ad-
ministration, Regional Office for Territories and Possessions of the
United States, Washington, D. C.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington.

SINCE leaving college, I have lived in New York, Boston, Chi-
cago, and Washington. I was a department store employee in
Boston and New York. In Chicago I was an employee of the
State of Illinois. |

I came to Washington six months before Pearl Harbor as an
employee of the federal government. My first job was to make
ficld surveys for the Federal Works Agency. In this assignment

[254]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I visited Army and Navy installations and defense industry com-
munities in various parts of the country. In 1942 I went to the
Office of Price Administration where, for a time, I administered
the pricing problems of the mail-order houses and national chain
organizations and where later I became assistant price executive
for the territories and possessions of the United States (Alaska,
Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands).

I thus witnessed the wartime control and peacetime decontrol
of the economy, participating to a small degree in attempts to
solve some of the many administrative problems involved, but,
of course, wrestling in the main with problems peculiar to my
own bailiwick. |

I have continued to live in Washington since the decontrol of
the last of the commodities under price control and am now sales
representative in this area for some English and American textile
mills. After some of the puzzling problems of government, this
has turned out to be a not at all unpleasant occupation.

HARRY ELDRIDGE

HOME ADDREsS: 290 S. Manning Blvd., Albany 3, N. Y.

OFFICE ADpREsS: F., C. Huyck & Sons, P, O. Box 1290, Albany 1, N. Y.

BorN: March 4, 1902, Hempstead, Long Island, N. Y. PARENTS: Lewis

. Angevine Eldridge, Elizabeth Moore Huyck.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1924.

MarrieD: Kate Larsen, April 9, 1931, Oslo, Norway. cHILDREN: Kate Kristine,
April 8, 1932; Harry Knapp, July 22, 19353 Edward Bliss, Feb. 1, 19393
John Niles, Feb. 6, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Lewis Angevine Eldridge, Jr., ’21; William Angevine
Eldridge, ’21; Francis Huyck Eldridge, ’28. |

OccUPATION: Manufacturing.

OFFICES HELD: Director, since December, 1938, secretary and assistant: treas-
urer, December, 1938-May, 1946, 2d vice-president and secretary, May,
1946-January, 1947, Ist vice-president and treasurer, January, 1947-
June, 1948, vice-president, smce June, 1948, F. C. Huyck & Sons;
trustee, Albany Academy of Girls; past treasurer, Albany Academy
Fathers’ ‘Association; director and past 2d vice- -president, "Albany In-
stitute of History and Art; past treasurer, Albany Print Club; vice-
president, Albany Safety Council; past president, Harvard Association
of Eastern New York, Albany Ski Club.

[255]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of Boston; West-
minster Kennel Club; University Club of Albany, Albany Country
Club; Laurentian Club; American Museum of Natural History; New
York Zoélogical Society; National Wildlife Federation; Adirondack
Mountain Club; Lake Placid Club.

AFTER graduation in 1924, I entered the employ of F. C. Huyck
& Sons, Kenwood Mills. This firm, established in 1870 by my
grandfather to manufacture woven woolen felts for paper making,
has become the largest of its kind in the world. It has a Canadian
plant at Arnprior, Ontario. In 1920 we pioneered the manufacture
of colored woolen bed blankets, a product, Kenwood blankets,
which is better known to the public than paper makers’ felts.
However, since the invention of paper making by the Chinese
at the beginning of the Christian era, a woven woolen cloth,
known as felt, has been essential in the process. Not a pound of
paper can be made without the use of a felt. It is tailor-made for
a particular type of paper and for each individual paper machine
and position on that machine. The manufacture of paper makers’
felts is a business where quality and service are paramount and
where the paper mill looks to the felt manufacturer to help solve
many unusual problems. It is seldom that two businesses have
such a close relationship and interdependence.

T have been in this family business since graduation. In 1929 I
went abroad for a rest and remained over there, mostly in
Berlin, Germany, until the spring of 1931 when I was married in
Oslo, Norway, and returned to Albany to take up work again.
For the last seventeen years I have been active, together with my
brother who is now president of the firm, in a business which,
because of inheritance and tradition, has always had a particular
appeal and importance. During the recent war, over seventy-five
per cent of our production was for war or essential needs. My
father-in-law represented the company in Scandinavia, Finland,
and Russia for some forty years. Huyck felts have been used in
practically every country where paper is made.

My hobbies are largely those of the out-of-doors: fly fishing,
skiing, bird shooting, mountain climbing, and hiking. For many
years I managed by remote control (if any) a dairy farm of my
mother’s that was given up (much to my relief) during the last
war. My travels, those that I have indulged in on any major

[256 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

scale, have been mostly eastward so that I have a better acquaint-
ance with Europe than this country with the exception of the
northeastern section, both south and north of the border.

As to my family, it is still too early for the Viking strain to
indicate what influence it may have over my English and Dutch
heritage, but it is a stimulating combination that ultimately may
result in many pleasant surprises.

Looking back over twenty-five years, there i is much that might
be changed were it to be lived over again, but I am still proud and
appreciative of having been a member of the Harvard Class of

1924.
DAVID LIONEL ELLRICH

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 125 E. State St., Westport, Conn.
BORN: Sept. 20, 1900, Hartford, Conn. parents: Charles Ellovich, Matilda

Goldberg.
PREPARED AT: Hartford High School, Hartford, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; M.D. (Jefferson Medical

Coll.), 1928.
marrieD: Martha Schroeder, Dec. 24, 1926, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:

William Walter, April 15, 1928, Robert John, Jan.'15, 1931; Barbara
Toby, July 11, 1938.
HARVARD SON: Robert John Elirich, ’52.

OccuPATION: Physician.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Army Air Force, Medical Corps.

OFFICES HELD: Director of Medicine, Norwalk General Hospital.
MEMBER OF: State, county and local medical societies, American Medical

Association.

I’M JUST plain tired, and often wish I were back in my old
room in the Yard, sprawled on a window seat, reading the Boston

Transcript.

GEORGE INCH EMERY

HOME AppREss: Glezen Lane, Wayland, Mass.
OFFICE AppREss: First National Bank of Boston, 67 Milk St., Boston 6, Mass.

BoRN: April 1, 1903, Worcester, Mass. parents: George Edwin Emery,
Wilhelmina Inch.

PREPARED AT: Worcester North High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: 8.B. cu laude, 19243 M.B.A4 1927.

MarrieD: Helen Joan Fitch, Feb. 14, 1945, Washington, D. C. crmp: David

Inch, Nov. 10, 1948.
[257]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

occuPaTION: Vice-president, First National Bank of Boston.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned captain, Army Air Forces, May,
1942, Major, 1943, lieutenant colonel, 1944; helped administer the Re-
negotiation Act on behalf of the Air Forces; awarded Legion of Merit.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Nevada-Massachusetts Company, Chandler & Far-
quhar Company, Inc., Chelsea Clock Company, Wiggin Terminals,
Inc.; president, Harvard Business School Club of Boston, 1947.

MEMBER OF: Algonquin Club of Boston, Harvard Club of Boston; New-
comen Society; Commercial Club of Boston; The Merchants Club.

AS THIS is written, the family car sits at the front door, with the
engine practically running, waiting to take my wife to the
hospital for the birth of our first child. Pondering upon this fact
and the companion one that our marriage would have come
between our twenty-first and twenty-second reunions, had there
been such, it dawns on me that perhaps I am a bit deliberate in
some respects. Since those who speak from a background of ex-
perience assure me that in the future I shall find many new ways
in which to employ what are now my leisure hours, it seems to
be now or never for the Class Report autobiography.

After graduation my roommate, Lauren Putnam, and I made
the grand tour of Europe that was (third-class version) in three
glorious months at an overall cost that would not cover a two
weeks’ cruise today. The trip was part of a postgraduation pro-
gram which I carried out to the great surprise of Dean Donham.
He agreed in theory with the idea of an extended trip to broaden
horizons, two or three jobs in different fields of business to help
in choosing a Career, and then, after such a year of preparation,
the Harvard Business School as final training for a life’s work.
“You'll never come back if you don’t come next September,” he
said as he shook his head as he took my application for admission.
Nevertheless, I did return on schedule to experience the transition
of the school from a loose collection of students, instructors, and
makeshift classrooms, through months of mud and mess while the
present buildings were being completed and gradually occupied,
to a codrdinated and well-housed Graduate School.

I am one of those fortunate ones who found a very satisfying
life work soon after graduation among congenial people and
challenging problems. Banking had always appealed to me and
the credit department of the Old Colony Trust Company proved
a most fortunate point of entry into the banking world.

[258 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In the fall of 1929 the merger of the Old Colony Trust Com-
‘pany and the First National Bank of Boston tossed me into a larger
arena. I found myself in a wonderful training ground for practi-
cal commercial banking. The stock market boom of the twenties
was collapsing and the long depression setting in. Loans began to
turn sour. Searching for and pointing out the weak ones and
later coping with the problems they presented became my field.
Banks began to fail and we took over certain weak ones to avert.
their closing. These brought many problems. The scope and
fascination of my work increased as the depression deepened. I
enjoyed the struggle to save as many companies as possible and to
realize maximum recovery for the creditors where liquidation was
the only answer. The years of the thirties found me mixed up
with the affairs of mining companies, patent medicine manufac-
turers, printing machinery makers, hardware dealers, candy man-

-ufacturers, and hotels. I reveled in it. Every day was an adven-
ture. I served on creditors’ committees, on boards of directors,
and as an officer of a constantly changing list of problem cases.

Among the highlights was the day when I set forth in the

early dawn in a taxicab with one assistant and $3,500 in change
and small bills to take possession of one of Boston’s larger and
more famous hotels in the name of the mortgage holders. I
needed the $3,500 to stock the many cashiers’ tills for the day’s
business. A balky safe in which the funds were stored for over-
night safety nearly ruined that program by refusing to open at
the critical moment. A bewildered clerk, roused from bed at
5:30 a.m. was able to diagnose the trouble by telephone and the
day was saved.

A trip to England in 1938 to sell a business there gave me a
ringside seat at the Munich crisis which preceded World War II.
Somehow when I was fitted for a gas mask as one of the handful
of remaining guests in the Savoy Hotel, I felt more truly at war
than I did at any time when wearing a uniform in the real war
which came later.

During these years vacations and business had taken me into
most of the forty-eight states and across Canada, a couple of
times to Europe and to Latin America. Somehow, I never seemed
to find time or the right partner for marriage.

Pearl Harbor found me single, in good physical shape, and

[259]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

with no legitimate reason for escaping military service. Conse-
quently, after canvassing the situation to determine what I could
do most usefully, I was commissioned a captain in the Army Air
Forces and ordered to report to Washington in May, 1942. There
I stayed until the Japanese surrendered. A year of boondoggling
was followed by an assignment to the group being assembled for
the administration of the Renegotiation Act. When the war
ended, I was chief of that section of Army Air Forces headquar-
ters which supervised renegotiation — necessary work, and work
for which I was fitted, but hardly warlike or glamorous.

Washington solved the marriage problem for me. There I
found a girl—working for the War Production Board as an
economist — who enjoyed hiking, skiing, music, and other things
that I did. We were married in February, 1945.

The approach of our Twenty-fifth Reunion finds me back at
the bank working on problems of a prosperity era rather than a
depression one, and enjoying the pleasures of living simply in the
pleasant town of Wayland.

LEO FRANCIS EMOND

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 473 Adams St., Dorchester, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 3, 1903, Lowell, Mass. parents: Henry Joseph Emond, Amelia
Anastasia Zajicek.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: AB., 1924,

MarrieD: Marjorie Steiger, June 30, 1945, New York, N. Y.

occupation: Contracting.

I SPENT the years immediately after graduation in the real
estate promotion and development fields. During this period, I
was manager of leasing and rentals of greater Boston apartment
buildings then under the control of the firm of Henderson & Ross
of Boston.

In 1929, I entered the real estate field on my own account and
bought, sold, developed, and built residential and commercial
realty in the northeastern Massachusetts area until 1936.

From 1936 until the outbreak of World War II, I was asso-
ciated with Robert L. Innis in a residential development in Lex-
ington, Massachusetts.

In 1940 I turned to production engineering and travelled ex-

[ 260 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tensively as industrial engineer for the Pioneer Engineering
Company of Detroit, Michigan. Illness forced me to leave this
work in 1946. Since recoyering, I have resumed construction
supervision in Boston.

PAUL KRUCKOW ENGBERG

ADDRESS: 1702 Belmont Ave., Seattle, Wash.

BoRN: Feb. 12, 1901, Copenhagen, Denmark. parents: Henry Christian
Engberg, Mamie. Laura Davenport.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920~1922.

occuPATION: Music.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Engberg did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

MITCHELL BAER EPSTEIN

HOME aAppREss: 294 W. g2nd St., New York 25, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ross System, 1485 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BoRN: May 9, 1903, Vilna, Russia. parents: Baer Epstein, Rebecca Tilles.
PREPARED AT: Imperial Gymnasium, Vilna, Russia.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

MaRRIED: Lydia Landau, Aug. 18, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Restaurant manager.

PHILLIP HOLT ESTES

HOME ApprREss: 1480 Dean St., Schenectady, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDREss: General Electric Co., Schenectady, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 14, 1902, Newtonville, Mass. parents: Abram Story Newell
Estes, Ella Mae Holt.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1919-1924. DEGREE: S.B. IN E.E. cum laude, 1924.

MARRIED: Rosella Ann Callahan, Feb. 5, 1927, Swampscott, Mass. CHILDREN:
Joan Shirley, Nov. 30, 1928; Phillip Holt, Jr., Jan. 15, 1934.

OCCUPATION: Engineer.

ALLAN EVANS

HOME ADDRESS: 2227 20th St., N. W., Washington, D. C,
OFFICE AppREsS: Office of Intelligence Research, State Dept., Washington,

D.C.
BORN: July 2, 1903, London, England. parents: Percy Charles Evans, Mary

Allan Whitelaw.
[ 261 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: AB. mlagna cum laude, 1924; A.M.,
1925; PH.D., 1931.

marrieD: Marjorie Murphy, Sept. 17, 1946, Washington, D. C.

occupation: Director, Office of Intelligence Research.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Field representative, executive officer, and
chief of Research with Analysis Branch, London Office, Office of
Strategic Services.

MEMBER OF: Mediaeval Academy; American Historical Association; Sussex
Archaeological Association; Cosmos Club, Washington, D. C.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles: “Some Fourteenth-century Coinage Systems,” Jour-
nal of Business History, 1931; “Battle Abbey at the Dissolution,” Humnt-
ington Library Quarterly, 1941, 1942. Book: Francesco Balducci

Pegolotti, 1946. ;
COLLEGE was hard to get away from; boy and man, or fresh-
man and instructor, I was eighteen years at the old stand. In 1924
I entered the Graduate School to study mediaeval history with
three resolutions: not to teach German A, stay in Cambridge over
the summer, or become a 7G. By 1931, when I got my degree, I
had broken them all—yet they remain good resolutions! For-
tunately, Cambridge offered some positive compensations, teach-
ing as a tutor required exposure to broad sweeps of history, the
senior tutorship of Leverett House led into a society whose
brilliance has already, I fear, moved into the realm of legend,
and membership on committees of the Mediaeval Academy opened
up the deeper problems of research planning in my professional
field. It was nonetheless a good thing that in 1938 the squeeze
on tutorial staff forced me to look beyond Coolidge Corner
before the boundaries of Greater Boston became too terrifying a
barrier to cross.

Prewar southern California was a South Seas with modern
plumbing. The Huntington Library is for permanent research
members what every teacher desires—a college without stu-
dents. Nothing to do all day but read documents, write, and
publish; one’s associates chiefly teachers on sabbafical, none too
assiduous to the grindstone, and by no means too elderly in dis-
position or even age. No telephones, no committees, no classes —
and the grounds closed at 4:30! It is hard to understand now
why one should ever leave, or at least not fly back at any oppor-
tunity, until one remembers December, 1941.

The South Seas had the same experience then of finding them-

[ 262 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

selves suddenly in the front line, but they did not similarly remain
remote from action. Mediaeval documents grew to seem a bit
insignificant. I had therefore no hesitation in taking an offer to
open up a permanent London office for the Research Branch. This
was the vita activa with a vengeance! No part of the Office of
Strategic Services was likely to be inactive, and our relatively
innocent branch kept up pretty well; we secured information
from the British, assisted our own G-2, built up a staff of 300 by
D-Day, followed up the armies with document collecting groups,
and sifted information for the war-crimes trials. It was May,
1942, when an assistant and I opened an office on Grosvenor
Street; it was February, 1946, when, after having migrated through
a round dozen other locations, we together locked up the very
room in which we started, closing the London Branch; it was
September, 1946, when we married in Washington Cathedral.

The vita activa still seems best to suit the conditions of the
world, Our wartime business of intelligence research continues
in the State Department, and there is much satisfaction in work-
ing on modern problems through an organization rather than
individually on matters of remotely indirect cultural value. What-
ever the hazards of reorganization in Washington, where nothing
is so scarce as the legendary peace and security of the bureau-
crat, it is likely that my old ivory tower has suffered a permanent
crack,

NATHANIEL KELLOGG FAIRBANK

appREss: East Chatham, N. Y. —

BORN: Nov. 29, 1902, Prescott, Ariz. PARENTS: Wallace Fairbank, ’95, Jose-
phine Nelson.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; S.B. IN E.E. Cum
laude, 1926.

MarRiED: Alice Foster Anderson, May 12, 1931, New York, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Murry Nelson F airbank, °28; Beekman Livingston Fair-
bank, °34.

OCCUPATION: Retired.

AFTER graduating from the Engineering School in 1926, I went
to work for the International Telephone & Telegraph Company
as a telephone engineer. In the course of five years with this

[ 263 ]

\ .
HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

company I managed to be on hand for a hurricane in Cuba, a
revolution in Mexico, and the stock market crash in New York.
By 1931 I had decided that I disliked office work and cities, both
domestic and foreign, and moved to a farm in the Berkshires
where I undertook to remodel an old farmhouse and, perhaps, do
a little farming. With interruptions, 1 have been working at this
ever since. .

The first of the interruptions occurred in the early thirties
when, as a minor member of the Washington bureaucracy, I
spent a couple of years travelling all over the United States assist-
ing Self-help Cooperative Associations of the Unemployed, an
early New Deal program.

The second interruption came in the late thirties and involved
several jobs, good and bad, centering around the valuation for
rate-making purposes and accounting practices of several munici-
pally owned electric and gas plants in New York State.

The third period away from the farm was during the war,
when I returned to the International Telephone and Telegraph
Company and, as an administrative assistant in a Newark, New
Jersey, radio factory, was concerned with employee training,
draft deferments, office layout and procedures, and similar un-
glamorous odds and ends.

Since the end of the war I have again been living in the coun-
try. I am still trying to remodel a house and do a little farming.
I think, perhaps, I am gaining.

i BARTON FAY

BORN: Nov. 9, 1902, Washington, D. C. parents: Albert Eugene Fay, Mary
Elizabeth Rozzelle.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1921.

piep: May 1, 1921, Worcester, Mass.

BARTON FAY entered Harvard after completing preparatory
study at Worcester Academy and studied at the College for a
year as an undergraduate.

[ 264 ]

illite ainda: aay

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MICHAEL FELCONE

HOME ADDRESS: 274 Hamilton Ave., Trenton 9, N. J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Felcone & Felcone, 217 E. Hanover St., Trenton 8, N. J.
~ porn: March 235 1904, Trenton, N. J. parents: Umile Felcone, Concetta
Greco.
PREPARED AT: Trenton High School, Trenton, N. J.
“ YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1024. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Rose DiNaples, March 18, 1947, Trenton, N. J. camp: Michael
Frank, April 19, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer..

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Inducted into Army, August, 1942; discharged,
June, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant secretary and director, Roma Savings and Loan Asso-
ciation; chairman, Board of Governors of Columbus Civic League; past
Exalted Ruler, Trenton Lodge of Elks.

MEMBER OF: Trenton Lodge of Elks; Yardley Country Club.

THE practice of law must be interesting; otherwise, I could never
explain the quick passing of twenty-five years. Now that one
looks back, my mind brings up quite often the ideas of such fine
men as Haskins, Munro, Allan A. Young, Taussig, MclIlwain,
Charles Newell Jackson, and many others. Those were the days!

Except for the supervision of a summer camp for underprivi-
leged youngsters, I fear I’ve done little in the way of community
welfare. On the whole, however, my philosophy of life has been
to help the other fellow; and in that regard I don’t think I’ve
done too badly. |

NOEL HAVILAND FIELD

HOME ADDRESS: 21 rue de Contamines, Geneva, Switzerland.

BORN: Jan. 23, 1904, London, England. parents: Herbert Haviland Field,
Nina S. Foote.

PREPARED AT: Gymnasium, Zurich, Switzerland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREE: A.B. cur laude, 1924.

MarriED: Herta K. Vieser, May 5, 1925, Boston, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Hermann Haviland Field, 32.

OCCUPATION: Free-lance writer.

OFFIcEs HELD: Social worker, Department of Mental Diseases, State of
Massachusetts, 1925; foreign service officer and State Department offi-
cial, 1926-36; official, League of Nations Secretariat, 1936-40; director,
France, 1941-43, Europe, 1943-47, Unitarian Service Committee.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional magazine articles.

[265 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

MY HIGH school days in Switzerland during World War I were
the determining factor in the choice of my subsequent life. They
set up the dual interests of my active career: 1) to work for inter-
national peace; and 2) to help improve the social conditions of |
my fellow-beings, the victims of war and its aftermath. In college
I devoted myself mainly to international relations and to social
ethics. In the State Department, my principal tasks were in con-
nection with the League of Nations and disarmament (which
had also been the subject of my thesis for distinction). This led
directly to my later position as a member of the disarmament
section of the League in Geneva.

During World War II, I did my bit, as a relief worker, in
helping to reduce the suffering of the millions of victims of Nazi
aggression. At present I am studying conditions resulting from
the war in various European countries.

RAYMOND REBHANN FIERO

HOME ADpRESS: 42 Eakins Rd., Manhasset, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 32 Court St., Brooklyn 2, N. Y.

BoRN: Oct. 25, 1901, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Raymond Hill Fiero, Tennie
May Rebhann.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory Country Day School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREES: AB., 1924; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.),
1926.

MarRIED: Ruth Niebrugge, Feb. 18, 1938, Brooklyn, N. Y. cHi~pren: Ann,
Oct. 11, 1939; Nancy, July 31, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

CHARLES LOUIS FINCKE

HOME AppREss: Nearwater Lane, Noroton, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1 Atlantic St., Stamford, Conn.

BORN: March 5, 1902, Brooklyn, N. Y. PARENTS: Charles Louis Fincke, Mattie
Ireson Brown.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1924; M.D. 1928.

MARRIED: Katheryne Miller, July 28, 1925, Salem, Ohio. CHILDREN: Elizabeth
Miller, Aug. 5, 1928, Norma Ireson, June 6, 1931.

OCCUPATION: Physician. '

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in medicine, University of Rochester Medical
School, 1930-31; assistant in medicine, Columbia University College of
Physicians and Surgeons, 1930-43; assistant physician, Vanderbilt Clinic,

[ 266 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1930-43; director of medical service, since 1946, secretary of Medical
Board, since 1935, attending physician, since 1937, Stamford Hospital,

attending physician, St. Joseph’s Hospital, Stamford, since 1942; trustee,
Community Chest, since 1949; director, Stamford Boys’ Club, since
1940, Family Welfare Society, 1938-43; member, Committee on Ethics
and Deportment, Fairfield County Medical Society, Advisory Board of
the Family and Children’s Center, Girls’ Club, and V.N.A. _

MEMBER OF: Stamford, Fairfield County, State of Connecticut and American
Medical Associations; Medical College of Physicians (associate mem-
ber); New England Heart Association; Harvard Club of New York,
Woodway Country Club; Noroton Yacht Club.

JUNE, 1949, promises to be an even fuller month than in 1924;
in it my younger daughter graduates from school, my elder
daughter from college, my wife celebrates her twenty-fifth
reunion at Radcliffe, and all three of them will be with me for the
main event, June 19 to 23.

I sketch herewith the events since 1924 as they lead up to this
climax, together with an occasional personal observation.

In July, 1924, with a feeling of elation at being accepted at
Harvard Medical School, I started on a six weeks’ tour of Europe.
This was supposed to round out an education in the best Vic-
torian tradition; its educational value cannot be denied though
many of the best opportunities were side-stepped or overlooked,
as they had been in college.

‘Then the serious work began. The latter three-fourths of
medical school were made more fruitful by the inspiration and,
at times, the prodding of my wife, whom I married in the summer
of 1925. I managed to secure her a job which permitted her to
contribute to my support throughout the rest of my professional
education. There followed three highly valuable years as intern,
assistant resident, and resident in medicine, successively, at the
Strong Memorial Hospital at Rochester, New York. Also, added
responsibilities in the form of two daughters served as further
stimulus.

Lacking the inclination to spend the rest of my life in academic
pursuits, I decided to go into the practice of medicine. This was
an easy decision, since I had always been interested in the human
contact side of the profession. As I reported in 1934, undertaking
such an enterprise in the depths of the depression constituted no
hazard since I was starting from zero anyway. It must be ad-

[ 267 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

mitted that building a practice in a limited field, ie., internal
medicine, in a small city where contacts and influence were
meagre, had its discouraging moments. I believe my sanity was
preserved through one routine job that continued from 1931 until
the war interfered in 1942. This was working as assistant physi-
cian in the Vanderbilt Clinic in New York and teaching fourth-
year medical students at Columbia’s College of Physicians and
Surgeons.

Bit by bit, partly through social contacts, but more from
taking all the calls tossed my way by the elder men, I was able to
build up a practice that netted a bare living at the end of five
years. From that time on, things pyramided rapidly until by the
second year of the war, a twelve- to sixteen-hour day, seven days
a week, swamped me as well as all the other medical men who
remained out of uniform.

By good fortune, we were able to build a house when building
prices were at their lowest. My sympathy is hereby extended to
those who undertake that adventure now.

The civilian practitioner generally follows a pretty standard
pattern: as a young man, he has plenty of time and, consequently,
is persuaded to enter into various civic enterprises. He is flattered
by the honor at first, but with experience comes a faint touch of
disillusionment, Ostensibly, his intellect and educated judgment
are desired for the direction of the Family Welfare Society, the
Boys’ Club, the Big Sisters, the V.N.A., the Birth Control League.
After serving on the boards or medical advisory committees of the
above organizations, it becomes apparent that free medical advice,
free physical examinations, financial support, or the inside track
to the medical society are at Jeast partial reasons for his selection.
Recently, I have been elected a trustee of the Community Chest.
This, I feel sure, will not require physical examinations and no
more free medical advice than any society gathering of similar
size.

Again, as part of the pattern, advancement in the Stamford
Hospital has followed. In 1937 I was appointed attending physi-
cian, secretary of the newly-formed medical board, and head of
the medical clinic. In 1944 I became director of the department
of medicine, and two years ago became a member of the County
Medical Society’s committee on ethics and deportment. In 1942

[ 268 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I was appointed attending physician at the newly-constructed St.
Joseph’s Hospital in Stamford. In 1947 I served as president of
the Stamford Medical Society and one and one-half years were
spent wrangling as a member of a special committee of the State
Medical Society to recommend changes in the State Workmen’s
Compensation Law.

Through these experiences, | have become something of a
politician and diplomat. The rapid and radical change of outlook
observed in many friends and colleagues as a result of participa-
tion in the armed forces has occurred in me by more evolutionary
processes, nevertheless, my mode of working, thinking, and living
has changed just as surely. It is my hope that working in close
contact with all types of people, living with an active and
stimulating wife and two college-age daughters, I cannot t fall be-
hind in the march of progress.

EDWARD FISHER

ADDRESS: 112 Kennedy-Warren, Washington 8, D. C.

BORN: Nov. 20, 1902, Franklin, Mass. PARENTS: James Edward Fisher, Cath-
erine Maria Morrison.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann High School, Franklin, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude, 1924; AM.
1925.

MarrieD: Anne Margaret Corbin, Feb. 15, 1923, Franklin, Mass. (divorced
1937); Minor Tomlinson, July 21, 1941, Washington, D. C. (died July
23, 1945). cHiLD: Alan Edmund, Feb. 5, 1926.

OCCUPATION: Writer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned captain, A.U.S. May 31, 19413
Bureau of Public Relations, War Department; major, G.S.C., 1942;
executive, later chairman, Committee for Protection of Information;
chief, Domestic Security Section, Counter-intelligence Group, M.LS.;
command officer, 35th Signal Center Team; chief, Publications and
Training Section, Storage Division, A.S.F.; discharged Aug. 23, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in English, 1925-35, instructor in English and
psychology, 1932-35, Carnegie Institute of Technology.

MEMBER OF: S.D.P.; Manana; Harvard Club of Washington.

PuBLicaTions: To The Sun, 1929; Marriage in Blue, 1931; Requiem, 19333
The Moon and The Wind (with H. S. Drago), 1937; The World
Around Us (with Paul Karlson); The Cotton South Today (with
H. R. Woofter); A Long Way From Home (now in preparation);
series of literary caricatures in Tbe Bookman, and short stories appear=
ing in The New Yorker, London Argosy, Transition, Midland, and
Best British Short Stories of 1931.

[ 269 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

-”

IT HAS been a lot of fun, getting this far. Most fun in the first
ten years, when I taught school, was dividing my work between
English and psychology, so that you could hardly tell the differ-
ence, and writing some novels in summer vacations. Best
criticism of these novels was F.P.A.’s, on the second, when he
said it proved beyond a doubt that no man under thirty should
write a novel. Then I spent three years fooling around Broadway,
having the best time working for Jed Harris on an adaptation
of a play he produced with great success, without my name on it.
I still remember one awkward moment when I hid in a back
office to keep from running into Don Oenslager and giving the
whole thing away. After that I went to Washington and became
an information specialist (ghost) and wrote speeches for Dr.
Tugwell until I got erosion of the brain. I was a consultant
(ghost) in the United States Public Health Service and wrote a
lot of stuff for the National Health Survey, telling the doctors
how wonderful compulsory health would be. They didn’t believe
in compulsory health, though. Then I became a special assistant
(ghost) to Harry Hopkins and that lasted for two years until he
traded his halo for a derby hat, as somebody (probably a ghost)
said when he became Secretary of Commerce. I kept on writing
speeches for all kinds of people, and am here to say that when I
wrote a speech for Mr. Roosevelt, he gave it word for word, but
Mrs. Roosevelt tore hers up and did it herself.

In the spring of 1940 I wrote a letter to the War Department,
telling them I could write stuff and was a pretty good psycholo-
gist. One year later, on April Fool’s day, 1941, my phone rang.
“Colonel Ginsburgh wants to see you right away.” This hap-
pened: I went into an office. A little excited man asked me three
questions. “Please leave the room,” he said. “Look all right to
you?” he asked the man on his right. “Yes, sir.” “Look all right
to you?” he asked the man on his left. “Yes, sir.” He called me
back in. “I can make you only a captain,” he barked. “That’s all
right, Colonel,” I said graciously, “Go downstairs and get sworn
in and report tomorrow morning at eight-fifteen.” So I became a
captain. What were my military duties? Writing speeches for the
Under Secretary of War.

Eventually, however, I saw a chance, and grabbed it. I started
something called the Committee for Protection of Information,

[270]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and, if any of you fellows who were war contractors dealing with

classified information remember a time when it was particularly

difficult to get any information about anything, that was probably

because of me. I took a long jump from that into G-2z, Counter

Intelligence. Then I side-stepped into foreign haison, ‘trying to
keep the names of attachés straight, only once calling and making
a report to Colonel Onaciewicz (Polish) which was intended for
Colonel Knezevitch (Jugoslavian). Well, at that, there wasn’t
much more than a sneeze or two between them, and I was hurt
when my colonel looked at me in that funny way colonels look
at you sometimes. I had a brief and dizzy career as assistant
military attaché to Turkey, being recalled just when I was leav-
ing for Turkey, with the knowledge that Adam in Turkish
means 7an but that Evde doesn’t mean woman, except perhaps in
a leering, Freudian sort of way. I was commanding officer of the
35th Signal Center Team, which was scheduled for duty with the
French Army and ended up in New Guinea, while I completed
my military career in the most appropriate place I could think
of — the Storage Division, ASF, where we put everything neatly
away. And here I am.

I have the time now to get back to writing, and I’m just now
finishing a novel I hope will be out in 1949. It’s about an expert *
working for the government and it’s called A Long Way From
Home,

Family? Only a son now, but he’s quite ason. He’s just finished
a book himself, about marriage. I guess he knows as much about
it as any of us. Travels? I'd like to take some. Hobbies? Paint
pictures and photograph my friends. Political, social, or religious
convictions? Mighty few.

+ GRANVILLE FISHER

BORN: Jan. 26, 1903, Galveston, Texas. parents: Henry Granville Fisher,
Carolyn Peterson,

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922, 1923-1924. :

MARRIED: Mary Jane Bolles, April §, 1926, Brookline, Mass. cxu1zp: Henry
Granville, 3d, April 7, 1929.

pieD; July 14, 1938, New York, N. Y.

* expert: an ordinary man a long way from home.

[271]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

GRANVILLE FISHER entered Harvard with the Class after
finishing preparatory studies at the Newton High School. Since
his interest centered on art, he withdrew from the College after
his third year and attended the Museum School of Fine Arts,
Boston. His first commercial art work was done in Boston. A
few years later he went to New York, where he continued in
the field of commercial art.

JOSEPH FISHER

HOME ADpRESS: 457 Washington St., Brookline, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 18 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 17, 1903, West Park, Pa. parents: Adolph Fisher, Rose Freed-
man.

PREPARED AT: Everett High School, Everett, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924(25); LL.B., 1928.

MarrieD: Mollie Winer, April 11, 1944. camp: Nancy R., Feb. 17, 1945-

HARVARD BROTHER: David Fisher, 16.

occupation: Attorney-at-law.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member, Draft Board #58; Regional attorney,
War Manpower Commission for New England.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary to Mayor of Everett, 1934-35; chairman of Housing
Board, 1934-37.

MEMBER OF: Boylston Chemical Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Law of Stocks and Stockbrokers.

SINCE graduating from Harvard Law School, I have been prac-
tising law at 18 Tremont Street, Boston, and I am now a mem-
ber of the law firm of Broomfield & Fisher at the same address.
My political life consisted in being secretary to the Mayor of
Everett in the years 1934 and 1935. During World War II, I was
New England Attorney for the War Manpower Commission,
which demanded a good deal of time and travelling. I received
several citations for meritorious accomplishment in this field
from President Franklin D. Roosevelt down to the local American
Legion Post.

Life goes on and I go on with it, hoping that I may yet suc-
cessfully meet the rivalry of some of the more distinguished
members of the distinguished Class of 1924.

[272]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HERBERT FRANCIS FITTON

HOME ADDRESS: 1005 Pixley Rd., Rochester 11, N. Y.

OFFICE appRESS: University of Rochester, Rochester 3, N.Y. .

BORN: June 17, 1903, Buffalo, N. Y. Parents: Joseph Fitton, Katherine
Alfred Hoestermann.

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1924; M.B.A. cum
laude, 1929.

MarRiED: Faith LeFort, June 21, 1930, Springfield, Mass. (divorced 1934);
Pauline Foskett Pratt, March 20, 1935, Walpole, Mass. cuitpren: David
Lawrence, Jan. 11, 1936; Nancy Pratt, Jan. 19, 1939; Robert Stanley,

_ May 7, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Educational administration.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, United States Naval
Reserve, March, 1942; lieutenant commander, November, 1944; active
duty, July, 1942-November, 1945, as instructor in ordnance and com-
pany commander, Washington, D.'C., and commanding officer of naval
barracks, United States Naval Arms Depot, Hingham, Mass.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in mathematics, Loomis School, 1924-27; accounting
department, Kendall Company, 1929-32; head of Mathematics Depart-
ment, Wooster School, 1932-33, Storm King School, 1933-42; assistant
to director, Veterans’ Administration Guidance Center, Harvard Uni-
versity, 1945-46; assistant treasurer, University of New Hampshire,
1946-47; assistant to the dean, University School of Liberal and Applied
Studies, University of Rochester, since 1947.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Phi Delta Kappa; Chamber of Commerce;
Harvard Business School Club; Adult Education Council, Rochester,
N. Y.

THE motive for my first venture in teaching was mercenary —
to earn enough money to attend Harvard Business School. This
I did by three years at Loomis School, an experience I enjoyed
so much I almost remained there indefinitely. This three-year
delay enabled me to be a member of the Harvard Business School
class which learned “there would probably never be another big
depression like the one in 1921. The lessons learned therein —
plus the priceless tool of ‘statistical control’ — would smooth out
the business cycle thereafter.” We graduated in June, 1929 —
and there were no more depressions for at least several months.
My subsequent three years in the business world were unfortu-
nately clouded by marital troubles which I thought perhaps could
be solved by returning to the field of education, It took less than
a year to dispel that notion, but the return to education was still

[ 273 ]

ap tan ne nt

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

a good idea. In that work I remained until the war, and even
during the war, as my principal duty was as instructor in ord-
nance. (I taught interior ballistics in the morning and exterior
ballistics in the afternoon; the next day it was optics, the day
after fire control, and so on for eight weeks. An officer student
once quipped that by dozing ten minutes in a lecture, he had
missed a whole semester of physics.)

In 1935 my marital problems were happily resolved by a second
marriage, to a girl I would probably never have met if I had not.
spent those three years in business. We are still doing business
together —I won't say at the same stand, because as a result of
the war and other circumstances we have lived in many places.
However, we have thrived on the moving, although none of us
really likes it. Each move has seemed to be for the better, but
now we hope we have settled down where we can raise our
family in the same school system and among the same friends.
After an interval of eight years, we recently added a third child,
a boy who delights all our hearts. We own a small home in the
outskirts of Rochester (or shall I say co-own it with the bank?),
although it seemed like a mansion when I painted it this past
summer.

After two one-year positions since the war, of which one was

_ frankly temporary but very interesting and the other was ex-

pected to be permanent but proved to be a disappointment, I
have become happily engaged in a field of educational work which
has many compensations not found in former positions. As assist-
ant to the dean of the evening college of the University of Roch-
ester (which is larger in number of students than the day college)
I find my work very interesting, very rewarding, and very
challenging. We are in fact finding ourselves operating a sub-
stantial school of business administration and liberal arts.in this
cultural and industrial center of Rochester. With a number of
Harvard Business School men on our teaching staff and with
Harvard Business School as our ideal and inspiration, we hope
to give our ambitious evening students something real and some-
thing unique in evening colleges.

[274]

-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1 JOHN MacFARLAND FITZGERALD

HOME ADDRESS: 105 Naples Road, Brookline 46, Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 18, 1898, Baltimore, Md. parents: Cornelius C. Fitzgerald,
Gertrude Smith.

PREPARED AT: Howard Academy, Washington, D. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-10924. DEGREE: 8.B., 1924(25).

MARRIED: Bertha McKinley James, Feb. 18, 1925, Baltimore, Md. cuttpren:
Gertrude Elizabeth, Dec. 28, 1927; Barbara James, Oct. 27, 1930.

OCCUPATION: Real Estate (retired because of ill health).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Private, Infantry, United States Army, 1918.

WHEN my realty business and health both took the count
simultaneously in 1928, I returned to Cambridge with my wife
and infant daughter in search of economic and physical resusci-
tation. Regrettably, I found neither, and now, after twenty
years of dubious existence in and around the “hub of hypocrisy,”
I have just about concluded that it pays to be ignorant. This
conclusion, of course, is based on the hypothesis that ignorance
is bliss.

Here, where curious if not calloused hands still fondle a some-
what drowsy babe in its antiquated cradle,it seems that the time
is long overdue when that historic infant should have been out of
swaddling clothes and intw knee breeches or even long pants.

Some eighteen or nineteen years ago, when we were quite
young —I think it was in the fall of 1930—the cruel facts of
life in a paper doll democracy were first brought home to me.
Ironically, my informant in this igstance was an agency of our
own fair AlmagMater, the Harvard Alumni Platement Office. I
applied for employment #hrough the regular channels of the
agency at tat time. The secretary, after making the customary
survey of my education and experience background, suggested
that I drop in the office each week thereafter to go over such job
possibilities as might accrue. As the weeks grew into months and
still no “suitable” openings occurred, I became a bit impatient,
to say the least, and inquired of the secretary the reasons for my
inability to get to @rst base in the game of job-seeking. The
teply was a soul-shocking one, to wit: “It does not appear that
any of our clientele ‘would be willing to employ a person of your
Tace; it is my suggestion that you go to see some of these people
yourself and since you do not look very much like a Negro,

[275]

HARVARD CLASS OF I924

perhaps you can get better results than we can for you .. . or,
why not try some of your own classmates, etc.” Figuratively, this
was equivalent to saying: “Now that you have three strikes
against you in the batter’s box, go out and try to steal first base.”
Of course, any school boy would say phooey to that. Here we
have the incongruous picture of a mother repudiating a son and
then telling him to go out into the world and be a “Phoney.”

To be able to forget and forgive is a fine and noble principle;
however, in a matter of this sort I have the memory of an elephant
and the stubbornness of a mule.

P.S. In contrast to my own “all grind and no grist” college
experience, I am happy to report that my two daughters, Eliza-
beth and Barbara, have had full and interesting careers at Rad-
cliffe. Elizabeth was graduated last June as president and marshal
of her class and Barbara is currently vice-president of the sopho-
more class. Post tenebras lux!

JACKSON FLANDERS

HOME ADDRESS: 2103 Hopkins Ave. Redwood City, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2943 Broadway, Redwood City, Calif.

BorN: April 2, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: Harry Alexander Flanders,
Marian E. Lang. .

PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: $.B., 1924; M.D., 1929. °

MARRIED: Hazel Newhall, June 26, 1937, Melrose, Mass. cHiLprEN: Jackson
Kent, June 22, 1940; Patricia Lee, June 15, 1942.

occuPaTION: Surgeon. °

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: 1o1st Field Artillery, 1926-jo, medical officer,
182nd Infantry, 1930-32, Massachusetts *National Guard; commissioned
captain, Medical Corps, Army of the United States, March 26, 19433
served one and one-half years overseas in Africa, Sicily, Italy, and
England, discharged with rank of major, April 27, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant in Surgery, Boston University School of Medicine,
1933-39, Boston City Hospital, 1932-39; assistant surgeon, Harvard
College Hygiene Department, 1936-38; surgeon, Harvard Athletic
Association, 1936-38, associate senior surgeon, Melrose Hospital, Mel-
rose, Mass.; former mergber, courtesy staff Winchester Hospital,
Malden Hospital, Lawrence Memorial Hospital, Medford, Mass., New
England Baptist Hospital, Boston; president, Sequoia Hospital District
Medical Society, San Mateo County, Calif., 1948-49; member, surgical
staff, Palo Alto Hospital, Palo Alto, Calif., Mills Memorial Hospital,
San Mateo, Calif.

[276]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
California Medical Association; A.F, & A.M.; Rotary International.

IN JUNE, 1924, after the tumult and the shouting died, I went
to work in my father’s ice business in Boston. It did not take
many months, however, for me to learn that my talents were not
for the marts of trade. In casting about for some other and less
distasteful vocation, I happened to think of the Medical School.
Such an undertaking would at least postpone for several years the
inevitable necessity of earning a living. My father showed
definite but understandable reluctance to loosen further the
family purse-strings for such a project. He felt that this was
purely an escape from the ice business, as it undoubtedly was.
However, escape from an uncongenial life to a calling for which
I was much better fitted by interest and temperament seemed at
the time a wise and legitimate move. The passing years have
shown me what generations of doctors had already learned, that
if one’s heart is in it, there is no more satisfying work than the
practice of medicine.

After graduating from the Medical School, I went to the
Boston City Hospital for two years’ training in surgery. Follow-
ing this, several months of travel in Europe and South America
offered a further escape, but at last the day came when the eco-
nomic facts of life could no longer be evaded. I hung out the
shingle in my home town of Melrose, Massachusetts, in 1932.

In the Decennial Report I remember listing two projects for
the future, to wit: to find a wife, and to establish a practice in
surgery. The first was accomplished in 1937, and with note-
worthy success. The second was progressing very satisfactorily
until interrupted in 1942 by the war. I applied for a commission
in the Army Medical Corps, and requested assignment to the Air
Corps. This request was enthusiastically granted for about as
long as it took the ink to dry on my application papers, and I was
then transferred to the Transportation Corps, In the summer of
1943 I found myself en route to Africa, thinking that if the Army

had been able to keep the Germans as confused as it had kept me,
there would be little doubt of the outcome of the war. J spent a
year and one-half in Africa, Sicily, Italy, and later England,
suffering little and on the whole rather enjoying my experiences.
Occasional interludes of such non-medical activities as truck

[277]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

driving and sorting mail always seemed to coincide with urgent
clamorings from the Surgeon General’s office about the shortage
of doctors for the Army.

After V-E Day I was returned to the States, and ordered to
California in preparation for shipment to the Pacific. V—J Day
intervened, however, and the final nine months of my military
career (I hope) were spent in California. With the passage of
time, returning to the New England winters seemed less and less
attractive, and the family finally decided to start life over again
on the West Coast.

We are now established on the San Francisco Peninsula, and I
am well on the way to becoming a “native son,” although I still
find it difficult to remember when my friends refer to the “Big
Game” that they are talking about California and Stanford.

ROLAND FLEER

HOME ADpRESS: 227 N. Narberth Ave., Narberth, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fleer & Miller, 512 Swede St., Norristown, Pa.

BORN: July 13, 1903, Sea Isle City, N. J. parents: Frederick Henry Fleer,
Johanna Elisabet Landgraf.

PREPARED AT: William Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; LL.B., 1928.

marrigD: Doris Helene Runge, Oct. 8, 1932, Wilmington, Del. CHILDREN:
Elsabet, March 14, 1937; Roland, Jr., March 9, 1939.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Legal adviser, Selective Service System.

OFFICES HELD: Member, since 1945, Advisory Committee on Decedents’ Estates
Laws to Joint State Government Commission, Commonwealth of Penn-
sylvania; member, 1936-40, president, 1940-46, Narberth Borough Coun-
cil; solicitor, since 1936, Narberth School District.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association, Pennsylvania Bar Association,
Montgomery County Bar Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, Montgomery County Law Reporter, 1939-42; co-
editor, Fiduciary Review, 1933-41; author of numerous articles in these
and other legal publications.

HERE I sit in obedience to the Secretary’s well-justified rebuke
for having neglected my autobiography these two months. But
who can be profound, analytical, witty, etc., in this climate in
July? Yet now that meteorological conditions are more favorable,
I find myself handicapped by having read in quick succession
(quite unaccountably) three of our older brother Marquand’s

[ 278 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

books. So there seems to be no middle ground between the auto-
intoxication of a spurious material success, achieved by accident
and design, and the world-weary futility which flows from ac-
curate evaluations of self and others.

Another thing I can’t figure out is this: Was I wrong twenty-
five years ago in feeling so sorry for the doddering specimens
who then were celebrating their silver anniversary, or am I now
such a specimen? When you see me again after a long interval,
will you, too, say to yourself, “How he has aged”?

Not that this completes my bewilderments, or that it is an admis-
sion of complete bewilderment either. Let’s get on. Vital statis-
tics remain constant since last reported at the T'wentieth Anniver-
sary (allegedly the Secretary’s Sixth Report, although I can find
only two others). Same quantity of wives (1) and children (2).
I’m still living in the same community next door to Philadelphia,
and practising law in the county seat (Norristown) of that
county (Montgomery) — although now with a partner (Har-
vard, ’35).

I fought the war in a most unromantic fashion and at the risk
only of coronary thrombosis, at home yearning to be uprooted.
In a burst of fervor I undertook to run, concurrently with my
own, the office of a colleague in a rural community thirty miles
distant, while he was off to deliver Europe to Stalin. My book,
Four Years in a Frenzy, will be begun soon. Next time be stays
and. I go.

Which brings us in orderly fashion to the subject of convic-
tions. And even if it doesn’t, that is where we are now, anything
herein above set forth to the contrary notwithstanding. That’s
what you get for arguing with a lawyer. I have a pet peeve. It
is bureaucracy in big business very nicely alliterative, but a
damned nuisance when you encounter it, which is too often.
Washington, and the administrative agencies spawned there since
our Sexennial Report (in which I reported nothing), have no
monopoly on gobbledygook. Private enterprise, which I have
championed, has let me down and has succumbed to the same
disease. Persons who can read, comprehend, and write freshman
English have become extinct in private business even as in gov-
ernment. Communication of ideas and thoughts is no longer
possible, I’ll be glad to furnish samples on request.

[279]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

It is possible, of course, that television may do away with the
need for words completely. The transition period, until that ze-
nith is reached, is what worries me. Letter-writing has become a
vain thing. Responsive answers are not to be hoped for. Tele-
phoning is no less useful since human endurance is unequal to
the number of repetitions of the tale required even to tell it to
the right person. Radio is helpful, yet mystery melodies seem
not entirely satisfactory for the good old nuances. Besides,
they’re usually stolen, anyway. Can you picture me winning the
_ current $30,000 jackpot by answering that the melody is (was

swiped from) Alle Voglein Sind Schon Da, which my old German
nurse taught me when I was four?

So much for the foibles of ’49. See you on my wrist-model
TV in 74.

THEODORE FLEISHER

HOME aporeEss: 5 Ashford Rd., Newton Center, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Interstate Theatre Corp., 260 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 19, 1903, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Simon Fleisher, Lillie Ruth
London.

PREPARED AT: Revere High School, Revere, Mass.; Huntington School, Bos-
ton, Mass. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1924.

MarrieD: Lillian Gladys Ziman, Jan. 25, 1934, Boston, Mass, CHILDREN: Law-
rence Robert, Aug. 16, 1935; Michael Herbert, May 7, 1938; Peter
James, Jan. 19, 1947.

occupaATION: Executive assistant to the president, in charge of film buying
and booking, Interstate Theatre Corporation.

oFFices HELD: Chief barker, Variety Club of New England, Tent 23, 1945-

MEMBER OF: Variety Club of New England, Temple Lodge, A. F. & A. M.

A SIMPLE, quiet life is easy to record. It lacks lustre and excite-
ment, but may find compensation in peace and contentment.
Mine has. The pleasure of a happy domestic life and the con-
stant joy of observing my young sons growing up has been rich
enough reward.

I attended the Business School for one year after graduation,
and then obtained my first job at a sash and door factory in
Nashua, New Hampshire. I was soon convinced I was in the
wrong job and switched to a newspaper in Lawrence, Massachu-

[ 280 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

setts. The publisher died not too much later, and I left when the
paper was sold.

My apprenticeship in show business was spent as an assistant
manager of a movie house in Lowell. After a year 1 went to Mil-
ford, Massachusetts, as a full-fledged theatre manager for Inter-
state Theatres. This was in October, 1927, and I have been with
the same company ever since. In 1928 I came into their Boston
office, and I’ve been in the same office in the same building for
more than twenty years. That is probably the definition of a rut,
but it has been an enjoyable rut.

Show business, if you like it, is fascinating. Your merchandise
is never the same. You rush from epic to epic or from cluck to
cluck, as the case may be, in great expectancy; and guessing
what the public taste will be in communities as varied as manu-
facturing cities, “high class” summer resorts, and country towns
is great fun, particularly if your batting average in the guess de-
partment is high enough to keep your operation in the black. |
should like to see a higher standard on the screen, and so too,
undoubtedly, would the producers. The sad truth, however, is
that the common denominator of public taste is pretty low, and
only education can raise it.

And so the years go by, and we are growing older. But I feel
young enough physically to keep up playing squash, and young
enough mentally to get a kick out of my two-year-old son, while
some of you are playing with your grandchildren.

JOHN GARDINER FLINT

ADDRESS: 3213 E. Pima Ave. Tucson, Ariz.

BORN: Oct. 20, 1902, Bellows Falls, Vt. PARENTS: Francis Gardiner Flint, Sue
Daniel Bailey.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1925.

MARRIED: Laura M. Hancock, June 16, 1930, St. Louis, Mo. cump: Walker
Hancock, Aug. 19, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Retired.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted Reserve Corps, March-July, 1924; Of-
ficers Reserve Corps, since July, 1924 (various short tours of duty);
duty with C.C.C., May, 1935-March, 1938; extended active duty, Octo-

[ 281 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

ber, 1940; retired, July, 1945. Served as captain, major, lieutenant colo-
nel, General Staff Corps, assigned HQ 7th Service Command, Omaha,
Nebr.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Arizona; Old Pueblo Club, Military Order
of World Wars (Tucson Chapter); American Legion; Disabled Emer-
gency Officers of World Wars.

AFTER numerous attempts to write a narrative covering the past
twenty-five years, I must confess to utter failure as a story teller.
Hats off to the chaps who have the talent of painting interesting
pictures with words.

The following data have been jotted down for those classmates
who may be interested j in reading them,

1925-1926: Employed in the Box Division of the Dennison
Manufacturing Company, Framingham, Massachusetts.

1926-1940: Lived in St. Louis, pursuing a life insurance career
and the elusive dollar.

1935-1938: An interlude of active duty with the Army serving
as commanding officer of Company 3791, Civilian Conservation
Corps, St. Charles, Arkansas. A wonderful experience for a re-
serve officer.

1940-1945: Extended active duty with the Army, stationed at
Headquarters, Seventh Service Command, Omaha, Nebraska.

Since 1945: Living a slow-paced life for health reasons in
Tucson, Arizona, the land of sunshine, where one soon learns not
to do today anything which can be postponed until tomorrow.
“Manana, manana!”

Regarding social, political, and religious convictions, suffice it
to say that, being a native Vermonter, it is believed that twenty
years of one party control is too long. It is hoped that in the
months to come our country will become strong again in military
power, firm in its dealings with other countries, and will find a
satisfactory way to evict from this country those insidious ele-
ments which seek to destroy the basic principles and privileges
established in 1776. I have no confidence in those who seek to
nationalize completely the various phases ‘of our business and fam-
ily lives.

More people need to think of helping themselves less and of
benefiting others more,

My one recent accomplishment worthy of mention was the

[ 282 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

payment, in March, 1948, of the twenty-fifth and final premium
on my share of the Class of 1924 endowment policy.

If any readers are desirous of information about our sunshine,
just phone, write, or wire and I shall try to oblige.

FRANKLIN THAYER FLOETE

appress: Armour, Douglas Co., S. Dak.

BORN: Oct. 19, 1902, St. Paul, Minn. parents: Franklin Floete, Mary Thayer.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1024. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Seaman, third class, United States Navy, Jan-
uary, 1942; trained at Great Lakes Naval Training Station; assigned to
duty at Coast Guard Headquarters, St. Louis, Mo.; by March, 1944,
promoted to seaman, first class, attached to the Security Guard, Am-
phibious Training Base, Little Creek, Va.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Floete did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

JAMES WARREN FLOOD

HOME apprEss: 164 Holyrood Ave., Lowell, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Flood, Valentine & Foisy, 174 Central St., Lowell, Mass.

Born: Aug. 6, 1903, Lowell, Mass. parents: James Henry Flood, Anne Vera
Murphy.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; LL.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Catherine Jane Whelan, Nov. 5, 1941, Lawrence, Mass. CHILDREN:
James Warren, Jr., Jan. 6, 1944; Anne Catherine, Nov. 3, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Raymond Flood, 26; Richard Russell Flood, ’39.

OccUPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered on extended active duty, Dec. 21, 1942,
as lieutenant, United States Naval Reserve; separated Oct. 1, 1945, aS
lieutenant commander; principal duty as officer-in-charge of a naval
auxiliary air facility. .

OFFICES HELD: Aeronautics commissioner, Commonwealth of Massachusetts;
trustee, Lowell Memorial Auditorium; president, Greater Lowell Com-
munity ‘Chest; director, Greater Lowell Council of Social Agencies.

MEMBER OF: Yorick Club; Vesper Country Club; Harvard Club of Boston;
Boston Bar Association; Lowell Harvard Club; Lowell Bar Association.

[ 283 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

WHEN I sum up the important and decisive twenty-five years
which lie between graduation and now, I can’t find anything
spectacular enough to serve as the point of a story —so I am
obliged to fall back on a short and simple narrative.

On leaving school in 1924, I experienced the usual desire to
travel, and the inevitable need to make money. I wound up driv-
ing a bus in Glacier National Park; and after a little of that, I
returned to the Law School.

From 1927 to 1932, I was with the Boston firm of Gaston,
Snow, Saltonstall & Hunt, as one of their many apprentice law-
yers. I think they must have had twenty or thirty of us there at
one time, learning the how of the law.

In 1932 I came by a little money, and went to Europe for a
while, travelling mainly in England and France.

Gaston, Snow, Saltonstall & Hunt meanwhile became Gaston,
Snow, Hunt, Rice & Boyd; and in 1936 I entered this firm on a
somewhat higher footing —I became a partner.

In November, 1941, I married Catherine J. Whelan and settled
down to live happily ever after. But I reckoned without the
Japanese, who fell upon Pearl Harbor when we were scarcely a
month married.

By December, 1942, | was commissioned in the Naval Reserve,
and suffered with many others the rigors of indoctrination. I do
not recall that I served under any of the great commanders or
worked any marvels myself; so perhaps it will be wisest to claim
that I served with fidelity rather than distinction. When I was
returned to inactive duty, in 1945, I had been for some time in
charge of a naval auxiliary air facility, and held the rank of
lieutenant commander.

The two young Floods belong to this chapter of my life:
James, Jr., was born in 1944; and Anne in 1946.

For a short time, I was once again with Gaston, Snow, Hunt,
Rice & Boyd. Then in 1946 I joined Flood, Valentine & Foisy,
here in Lowell.

Since that time, I have been kept busy in the law, except for as
much time as I can devote to the two interests of aviation and
community service.

This interest in aviation has led to my being appointed a mem-
ber of the Aeronautics Commission for the Commonwealth of

[ 284 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Massachusetts, with the duty of forwarding a progressive pro-
gram in this strategically situated state. Noble motives aside, this
gives me a chance to do some flying, too.

My: work in community service, which is of fairly recent
growth, has resulted in my being president of the Greater Lowell
Community Chest, a director of the city’s council of Social
Agencies, and a trustee of its beautiful Memorial Auditorium.

If I had to look forward from here and make a forecast of the
next twenty-five years, ('d say they look like a pretty busy time!

HENRY SAYLES FRANCIS

HOME appRrEss: County Line Road, Box 207, Gates Mills, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cleveland Museum of Art, Cleveland 6, Ohio. .

BorN: March 4, 1902, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: George Tappan Francis, Fran-
ces Coren Brown.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

MARRIED: Frances Meriam Burrage, Feb. 22, 1930, Middlebury, Vt. cut:
Henry Sayles, Jr., Nov. 9, 1930.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Tappan Francis, Jr, 28.

MEMBER OF: Chagrin Valley Hunt Club, Print Club of Cleveland, Ameri-
can Society for Aesthetics; Musrt Society; American Museum "Associa-
tion.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in the Gazette des Beaux Arts, The Art Quarterly,
Print Collector’s Quarterly, Phoebus, Bulletin of the Medical Library
Association, and the Bulletin of the Cleveland Museum of Art, since

1927,

AS I write this piece, from the deck of the liner which takes me
to Europe, the twenty-five years which have passed since June,
1924, seem relatively brief as I review them. Unfortunately, I
shall miss the Twenty-fifth Reunion this coming June, which I
regret exceedingly, yet cannot avoid, since arrangements are be-
yond my control. Though the time has elapsed, I cannot say that
I feel very different from the way I did that summer after
graduating in 1924 when I first went to England to study prints
and drawings in the department of the British Museum, in prep-
aration for the job I was to take in the fall at the Print Depart-
ment of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.

I began there in October and remained for three years, accom-
plishing what amounted to graduate work in the field of the

[ 285 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

graphic arts. In October, 1927, I went to the Cleveland Museum
of Art, as curator of the department of prints for the next two
years. During the summer of 1928, and the spring of 1929, I
went again to Europe, travelling and looking at art in England,
France, Germany, and Spain, visiting especially the Barcelona
Exposition in the latter year.

In the autumn of 1929, I left Cleveland to be the assistant to
the directors at the Fogg Museum of Art at Harvard, for the next
two years, returning once more to Cleveland in the fall of 1931,
this time with my wife and son. I have remained there since, at
the Cleveland Museum, in the double capacity of curator of the
Department of Painting and that of the Graphic Arts. The Mu-
seum, as an institution, performs a lively function in the com-
munity, and gives those associated with it, plenty of interest and
opportunity. It has been my good fortune to share in the build-
ing of the collections during these years.

Twice during the thirties, I went to Europe again, once in 1933
for a summer in England, where I studied, including a short visit
to the Continent; and in 1937, when I spent the spring and early
summer travelling in Italy. My present excursion is in the na-
ture of a sabbatical during which I hope to be able to accomplish
the study and preparation for some writing of which the more
active life at home, especially during the war years, did not per-
mit. It will be spent largely in Rome, with some journeying
about Italy and, in the early summer, before leaving, in France —
all in company with my wife and son.

After it, we shall return to the Ohio farmland where we live,
east of Cleveland, where we shall continue the pleasant if un-
eventful existence of rural life — at least so I hope; in any event,
its equivalent.

_ MILTON SAMUEL FRANKEL

HOME ADDRESS: 202 Union St., Leominster, Mass.

OFFicE apprEss: Frankel’s, 38 Monument Sq., Leominster, Mass.

Borw: April 5, 1903, Worcester, Mass. pAreNTS: Klein Frankel, Bessie Siff.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926.

MARRIED: Rose Friedson, June 20, 1943, Leominster, Mass. cHitp: Elaine,
July 7, 1944.

[ 286 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Merchant.
MEMBER oF: Wilder Lodge, A. F, & A. M.; B’nai B'rith.

TEMPUS FUGIT. A trite saying but very true. Most of my
time has been spent in the retail business. I was too young for one
war, and a little too old for the other. After some training in chain
and department stores, I opened my own business. I enjoy being
a small town merchant, and find it very interesting. I work most
of the time; enjoy football and baseball purely as a spectator; and
. once in a while play a little golf — very poorly at that.

I married a little late in life, but I am fortunate in having a
swell wife and a grand little girl, Maybe this is not much of a
résumé, but I am glad to be around and able to write it.

ADOLPH FRANZ, JR.

HOME apprEss: 1158 Northampton St., Holyoke, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 276 Maple St., Holyoke, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 5, 1902, South Hadley Falls, Mass. PARENTs: Adolph Franz,
Louise Margaret Norton.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; M.D. (Columbia Uniy.),
1928.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Metz, Aug. 17, 1929, Brooklyn, N. Y. cut~pren: Adolph,
3d, June 13, 1930; Elizabeth Louise, Feb. 18, 1933; Fredrick Karl, May
26, 1935; Gretchen Anne, Jan. 13, 1937.

occuPATION: Physician and surgeon.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: United States Naval Reserve (Medical Corps)
during World War II; served at Newport Naval Hospital and aboard
U.S.S. Storm King, an attack transport, m Pacific.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Examiner, Selective Service; director of first
aid, Civilian Defense. ,
OFFICES HELD: Member of board, Public Welfare Commission, 1935-493
past-president, Holyoke Medical Society and Hampden County Medi-

cal Society.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons (fellow); Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Fraternity; Nu Sigma Nu Medical Fraternity; Madison (Conn.) Beach
Club,

FROM Cambridge I went to New York, where I was graduated
with an M.D. from the College of Physicians and Surgeons at
Columbia University in 1928. "Thence, I went further away to
Brooklyn to intern at the Brooklyn Hospital. While there, I met

[ 287 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

and married Elizabeth Metz. Then I returned to Holyoke to
practise medicine and raise a family.

The early lean years were salvaged by a municipal salary as
city physician. During the depression, this led to a civic interest .
as a member of the board of the Public Welfare Commission, an
office I have held up to the present time.

In 1943 the work as medical examiner for Selective Service
and director of first aid for the Red Cross was interrupted by a
tour of duty in the Naval Reserve. I was indoctrinated as a lieu-
tenant commander at the Newport Naval Hospital and later sent
to Staten Island to supervise the conversion of an Ez to a naval
transport. Then I was shipped to the Pacific to take part in the
invasion of Saipan on an attack transport. This was followed by
the later invasions of Palau, Leyte, Luzon, and Iwo Jima. A pro-
motion to commander followed, with numerous cruises to the
islands of the Pacific, climaxed by visits to Sasebo, Japan, and
Soeul, Korea. Relieved from sea duty at the Bremerton Navy
Yard in Washington, I was finally released to inactive duty at
Boston on ‘March 26, 1946.

Now again IT am back in Holyoke to carry on as practitioner
and surgeon. At the same time I am starting to feel the educa-
tional squeeze, with Adolph, 3d, at Deerfield and Betsy at St.
Catherine’s in Richmond. I have hopes that there is a future Har-
vard man in the family.

HARRY FREEMAN

HOME apprEss: 112 Morningside Rd., Worcester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 29 Pearl St., Worcester, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1903, Boston, Mass. PpaRENTs: Louis Freeman, Gertrude Berk-
man, .

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; M.D., 1928.

MARRIED: Rosanne Silverman, Sept. 7, 1930, Winthrop, Mass. CHILDREN: Ju-
dith Lee and Joanne Lois (twins), July 17, 1932; David Lewis, Nov.
15, 1942.

occupation: Physician.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Consulting psychiatrist, Worcester draft
boards; examining physician, Fort Devens induction center.

orrices HELD: Member, Board of Education, Temple Emanuel, Worcester;
Medical Director, Home for Aged and Orphans, Worcester.

[ 288 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Psychiatric Associa-
tion; American Physiological Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
New England Society for Psychiatry; American Board of Neurology
and Psychiatry (diplomate).

PUBLICATIONS: About forty publications dealing with research in schizo-
phrenia with particular reference to physiological investigations.

MY LIFE has been the relatively uneventful one of a physician
and researcher. After graduation, medical school, and interning
at the Beth Israel Hospital, Boston, I came to Worcester to join
a research setup studying various aspects of the schizophrenic
psychosis at the Worcester State Hospital. There I have re-
mained except that for the last few years I have been associated
with the Worcester Foundation for Experimental Biology and
my interests have shifted to geriatrics. In addition I am in prac-
tice (part-time) in Worcester. My particular interest is in en-
docrinology and my investigations have been conducted primar-
ily along that line of endeavor. I haven’t succeeded in finding
why schizophrenics get that way but I am hoping that I shall
find how and why people get old before I become too senile to
care.

My wife and I are both interested in communal activities and
my children, consisting of twin teen-age daughters and a little
boy, keep us from settling down too rapidly. We have in addi-
tion a cocker spaniel and a turtle. Politically, I am a liberal. I
am registered as a Republican (chiefly in protest against several
Democratic governors we have had) but I have voted Democratic
since Roosevelt. I have no hobbies except reading detective
stories. I used to play tennis until my contemporaries began to
fear a coronary thrombosis. I never have cared for golf.

-

NORMAN FREEMAN

HOME apprEss: 4455 Belfort Pl., Dallas 5, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Titche-Goettinger Co., Dallas 1, Texas.

BoRN: July 22, 1900, Boston, Mass. ParENTs: Samuel Henry Freeman, Annie
Fox.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923.

MarRRiED: Ernestine Julia Halff, June 15, 1931, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Patricia, May 28, 1932; Ronnie, Oct. 22, 1942.

[ 289 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I924

occupation: Divisional merchandise manager and member Board of Direc-
tors, Titche-Goettinger Company, subsidiary Allied Stores Corporation.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcorD: World War I: S.A. T. C., scheduled for O.CS.,
Camp Zachary Taylor at war’s end.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: O.P.A. Rationing Board of Appeal.

MEMBER OF: Dallas Athletic Club; Columbian Club; Harvard Club of
Dallas.

SOMEONE in a sober moment of reflection once said, “Life is
what you make it,” but as an adolescent youth I found the philos-
ophy intriguing although difficult to believe. How different is
the view looking back after these years.

The wand of fortune abruptly ended my college career to-
wards the close of my senior year. By youthful measure it was
a case of accepting that elusively rare opportunity to become a
titled sales manager and start “high up the ladder.”

For eight years, riding blissfully down hill into the depression,
experience proved both hardening and disheartening, and that
philosophy very much questioned “and bruised.

Then came a trip to ‘Texas, that empire of flatness, brag and
geniality. It “got me.” With typical Texas brevity, within three
weeks I had been converted, turned native, and went out with
enthusiasm in search of employment —in 1933! It was an ex-
perience, but this time how different! The ladders hardly seemed
to exist, so few were in evidence, but patience, I was told, was a
virtue, Finally, after a shivering wind-up into grim determination,
an opening was located, hidden, almost above reach, enabling me
to grasp only the bottom rung, and then barely by one hand.

It has been fun; but, strangely, it has been through people, not
work that accomplishment is attained. In my ripening wisdom
I see now that the gem in that philosophy is to “make people”;
apparently one’s success in business is harnessed to the happiness
and skill of those one directs.

In travelling the States, Central America, and particularly that
refreshing “island” of beauty and stoicism, Guatemala, one real-
izes more than ever the need for never-ending leadership.

And my two daughters, aged six and sixteen, currently provide
a stimulating world of exciting activities and effervescence. Woe
be unto me should I grow old before they do! Both astound my
sensitivities no end. Perhaps these shock treatments have parental

[ 290 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

value in sustaining our worldly equilibrium. If anyone finds it
different, please write the prescription for relief.

Reading, some lecturing and writing, travel, golf — these man-
age to overfill a busy life. If only time wouldn’t march on so

rapidly!

WALTER JAY FRIED

HOME ADDRESS: 1148 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 160 Broadway, New York, N. Y.
BORN: May 27, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: Joseph Fried, Flora Vera

Shamberg.
PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Long Island, N. Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1924; LLR.,

(Columbia Univ.), 1928.
MaRRIED: Louise Goldman, June 8, 1934, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1946);
Brita Digby-Brown, July 8, 1948, New York, N. Y. cxitp: Michael

Walter, June 1, 1941.
occuPATION: Lawyer.
MILITARY OF NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned 1st lieutenant, Signal Corps,

1943; received Legion of Merit, major, Army Security Reserve.
OFFICES HELD: Professor of law (bankruptcy), Brooklyn Law School, 1931-

39.
MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York; New York

County Lawyers Association, American Bar Association; Army-Navy

~ Country Club; Manhattan Chess Club.

AFTER majoring in chemistry at college and spending a year in
business, I went to Columbia Law School. Since then one word
expresses most of my autobiography —law. For about the past
ten years I’ve been a partner in the firm of Riegelman, Strasser,
Schwarz & Spiegelberg (sic). The war furnished a three-year
interlude during which I was a cryptanalyst and thereby utilized
one of my hobbies— mathematics. Other hobbies are golf,

bridge, balk-line billiards, and chess,

HYMAN BENJAMIN FRIEDMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 42 Ogden Rd., Brookline, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 491 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.
BoRN; Aug. 4, 1901, Boston, Mass. Parents: Phillip Friedman, Fannie Her-

shon.
PREPARED AT; Revere High School, Revere, Mass.

[291 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922, DEGREE: M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1926.

marrieD: Dorothy S. Edwards, Dec. 2, 1928, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Paul
Michael, Dec. 31 19333 John David, Ang 26, 1938.

occUPATION: Physician. :

MORLEY SYDNEY FRIEDMAN

HOME appREss: Cedar Avenue, Hewlett Bay Park, N. Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Dorset Fabrics, 16 E. goth St., New York, N. Y.

BorN: April 2, 1904, McKeesport, Pa. parents: Henry Friedman, Anna
Roth.

PREPARED AT: MicKeesport High School, McKeesport, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: A.B. #agna cum laude, 1924.

MARRIED: Lillian Berlin, July 7, 1928, Brooklyn, N. Y. camp: Donald, April
8, 1929.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Theodore Freeman, ’30.

OCCUPATION: Sales analyst.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Post warden, Air Raid Protective Service.

MEMBER OF: Pi Lambda Phi; Phi Beta Kappa.

THE one great ambition of our life was to have Donald graduate
from Harvard. It would have made my 25th Anniversary so
much more thrilling since he is of the Class of ’49. But not at
Harvard! However, Columbia accepted him. Valedictorian of
his class in high school and holder of a New York State Scholar-
ship, he became a Junior Phi Beta Kappa at Columbia. In addi-
tion, he is a member of the Student Affairs Committee, president
of the Philolexian Society, managing editor of the Columbia
Review, and First Prize Winner for the delivery of an original
oratorical composition.

Despite the cold shoulder Fair Harvard once turned to him,
he still aspires to be clasped to her ample bosom, when he seeks
his A.M. and his Ph.D.

RICHARD LORD FROTHINGHAM

HOME apprEss: 62 River Pl., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: New England Trust Co., 135 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.

Born: March 22, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: Edgar Victor Frothing-
ham, 794, Genevieve Lord.

preparrp at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924, DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

makiep: Helen Frederica Smith, April 12, 1929, New York, N. Y. cuIL-

[ 292 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DREN: Molly Hall, March 17, 1930; Janet Lord, Oct. 15, 1933, Peter
Broughton, July 14, 1935; Virginia Archer, March 25, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Donald Frothingham, ’27.

OCCUPATION: Trust officer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U.S.N.R., April, 1942;
indoctrination, Quonset Point, R. I, June-October, 1942; air combat
intelligence officer, Staff Fleet Air Wing 2, Panama, November, 1942-
January, 1944; training work, Banana River, Fla., January~December,
1944; Staff Fleet Air Wing 3, Hawaii, February-September, 1945;
commissioned lieutenant commander, August, 1945; separated October,

1945:

THE experience gained during my first five years out of college,
when I worked successively for the Alabama Power Company, a
coffee broker, and an exporting firm, had little or no bearing on
what I have done since. In 1929, however, I got married, joined
the Scudder, Stevens & Clark organization, and moved to the
Boston area to live. From then on, with the exception of the
war years, my experience has been entirely along financial lines
—three years with Scudder, Stevens & Clark, and about five
years each with the stock brokerage houses of Wrenn Brothers
& Company, and Tucker Anthony & Company, with both of
which my work was primarily as statistician. I did not wish this
as a permanent line of work, but with a growing family it was
hard to make a break.

World War II took this step for me. I was released from the
Navy in October, 1945, and joined the New England Trust
Company two months later. To my great satisfaction I found
that my previous experience had fitted me well for this sort of
work. In another two months I was made a trust officer, and for
the last three years I have had the pleasure of being at once ex-
tremely busy and thoroughly interested in what I am doing.

As mentioned above I was married in 1929. We have three
daughters and a son, and their age range is substantial. The eld-
est is completing her sophomore year at Bryn Mawr, while the
youngest, who is only five, is just getting through her first year
at nursery school.

For the first two years of our marriage we lived in a small
apartment in Boston, then moved to a rented house in Dedham,
Massachusetts, and for the past twelve years have owned our own
house in that town.

[ 293 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

On our vacations we seem to favor the simple rather than the
social life. We have usually managed a trip either to Keene Val-
ley in the Adirondacks where we mountain climb, picnic, and
swim, or to some place on the shore where we substitute small
boat sailing for mountain climbing but otherwise lead similar
lives. In addition I have usually cruised for a week each summer
on the Maine Coast and I do a little bird shooting in the fall.

Despite my title of air combat intelligence officer, my three
and a half years in the Navy were entirely without combat ex-
perience. I went in as a lieutenant in June, 1942. After four
months of training at the Naval Air Station, Quonset Point,
Rhode Island, I was sent down to Panama on the staff of the com-
mander, Fleet Air Wing 2. I spent fourteen months down there,
where most of my work was in connection with the training of
pilots and crews in anti-submarine warfare. I also managed to
see quite a lot of that part of the world, with flights to Honduras,
Jamaica, Cuba, Puerto Rico, St. Thomas, Curacao, Ecuador, Peru,
and Galapagos Islands, Guatemala City, and Nicaragua.

Then I was sent to the Operational Training Unit at Banana
River, Florida, where I spent ten months mostly lecturing on
anti-submarine warfare, survival intelligence, and the character-
istics of the peoples and areas in the Pacific to which the crews
were most likely to be sent.

My final assignment was to the staff of the commander, Fleet
Air Wing 3, at the beautiful Kaneohe Naval Air Station on Oahu,
Hawaii. Here I prepared intelligence summaries for the Admiral,
briefed crews about to fly to forward areas, and interviewed all
returning combat crews to get information which might be of
value to those about to go out.

I flew back to the States in an old beaten-up Privateer on the
night of August 31, 1945, and landed in San Diego the next morn-
ing. It can easily be seen that my life in the armed forces was
totally devoid of heroics. On the other hand I think that the
work was not without value, and it at least served its avowed pur-
pose of releasing a trained pilot for active flying duty.

[ 294 ]

lt

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JACK FULBRIGHT

appress: Washington Hotel, Fayetteville, Ark.
BORN: Sept. 2, 1898, Fayetteville, Ark. PARENTS: Jay Fulbright, Frances
Roberts Wangle. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.
marriep: Madeline Mackechny, Dec. 1, 1923, Wichita Falls, Texas.

occUPATION: Lumber business.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Fulbright did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

NEWCOMB FULLER

HOME ADDRESS: 2309 Barcelona Rd., Schenectady 8, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: General Electric Co., 1 River Rd., Schenectady, N. Y.
BORN: Sept. 22, 1900, Fall River, Mass. parents: William Eddy Fuller, Jr.,

92, Mary Newcomb.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922.

marrieD: Pauline Eddy, Dec. 29, 1923, Fall River, Mass. cyitp: Nancy,
Aug. 22, 1925.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Eddy Fuller, ’19.

occupation: Planning facilities for carrying out engineering projects at the
General Engineering and Consulting Laboratory of the General

Electric Company.
OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Kiwanis Club, 1940-41.

SINCE our Class graduated, it has been my good fortune to have
been married for twenty-five years and to have brought up a
daughter, Nancy, a graduate of Colby Junior College, who is
now employed at the General Electric Company. -

During the first fourteen years, of which twelve were spent
in Concord, Massachusetts, manufacturing was my chief interest.
My principal occupations were my own reproduction furniture
factory and the American Woolen Company’s Assabet Mill in
Maynard, Massachusetts.

In 1938 we moved to Mount Dora, Florida, where I took up
woodworking again. Four years down there in the sun made
us ready to withstand again the rigors of northern winters.

In May, 1942, I came to work for the General Electric Com-
pany in Schenectady, where I have been ever since. During the
war I spent three and one-half years in industrial engineering,

L295 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

manufacturing electronic tubes. Since then I have been planning
facilities for a large group of energetic engineers in the General
Engineering and Consulting Laboratory.

HOLDEN FURBER

HOME ADDRESS: 2 Gregory St., Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: History Dept. University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Pa.

BORN: March 13, 1903, Boston, Mass. parents: William Henry Furber,
Mabel Harriet Holden.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1924(23);
PH.D., 1929; B.A. (Univ. of Oxford), 1925; M.A. (ibid.), 1930.

marrieD: Elizabeth Chapin, Sept. 24, 1936, Boston, Mass.

OccuPATION: Associate professor of history, University of Pennsylvania.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Office of Strategic Services (research and
analysis branch, British Empire and Far East sections), May 1942-
June, 1943; Department of State (Division of Territorial Studies),
June, 1943-January, 1945; Division of British Commonwealth Affairs,
January, 1945-June, 1946.

MEMBER OF: American Historical Association, Royal Historical Society,
London (fellow).

PUBLICATIONS: Henry Dundas, First Viscount Melville, 1742-1811, Oxford
University Press, 1931; The Private Record of an Indian Governor-
Generalship, the Correspondence of Sir John Shore, Governor-General
with Henry Dundas, President of the Board of Control, 1793-1798,
edited with an introduction and notes, Harvard Historical Mono-
graphs IJ, Harvard University Press, 1933; John Company at Work, a
Study of European Expansion in India in the Late Eighteenth Cen-
tury, Harvard Historical Studies LV, Harvard University Press, 1948.

HAVING made what now seems to me an unwise decision to
go through Harvard in three years, I spent our senior year
and the subsequent academic year at Queen’s College, Oxford.
While there, I made many warm friends, with some of whom I
still correspond, and began preparation for a career of teaching
the history of Britain and the British Commonwealth and Em-
pire. I spent my first Oxford vacation on a trip to Egypt and
Palestine which gave me my first contact with the East. Other
vacations were spent in Paris and elsewhere on the Continent.
I read modern history for an Oxford B.A. degree and returned
to the Harvard Graduate School in the fall of 1925.

After a year as Professor Mcllwain’s assistant, I passed my oral

[ 296 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

“generals” for the Harvard Ph.D. In January, 1927, I went back
to England to prepare to write a life of Henry Dundas, the
Younger Pitt’s political manager and right-hand man. Dundas’
private papers were just then being sold to various libraries and
book dealers. After eight months of study of these papers in
London and Edinburgh, I was able to return to Cambridge with
enough material for a Ph.D thesis, which was written under the
direction of the late Professor W. C. Abbott and subsequently
published by the Oxford University Press. The “tutorial” sys-
tem, later so seriously curtailed by the consequences of the de-
pression, was then flourishing, and I began my nine years’ service
as an instructor in history and tutor in the division of history,
government, and economics at Harvard. In February, 1930,
Professor Julian L. Coolidge asked me to be resident tutor
in history at Lowell House, which, along with Dunster, was to
open in the following September. I was thus able to watch
Lowell House grow from its foundations and spend six years
in pleasant associations with its staff and students. Those were
the days when “full-time tutorial” meant a quota of twenty-five
students, most of whom received an individual hourly conference
once a week.

Meanwhile, as my interests were turning more and more to
_ the study of the British Empire and Commonwealth, I deter-
mined to see as much of it as I possibly could. In the summer of
1934, I left Cambridge early in June, travelled around the world
via Vancouver, Honolulu, Fiji, New Zealand, Australia, Ceylon,
Suez, Malta, and the Azores, and got back to Lowell House in
time for my first tutorial conference. This route was followed
chiefly for the purpose of seeing Australia and New Zealand,
where I made it a point to visit as many universities and colleges
as possible in the brief time at my disposal. The highlights of the
trip were, perhaps, attendance at a native ceremonial dance in
a Fijian village as a guest of a British colonial official, and a trans-
continental train journey across the Australian desert.

When my Harvard appointment was not renewed in 1936, I
decided that now was the time to see the rest of the British Em-
pire. Meeting and marrying Elizabeth Chapin, also a historian,
upset the schedule slightly but, when we finished reading
proof in Paris on her book, Les Villes de Foires de Champagne,

[297]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

published in the Bibliothéque de PEcole des Hautes Etudes, we
were off to India from Marseilles via Suez in the last of the P &
O coal-burners, the Kaiser-i-Hind. We landed in Bombay. in
December, 1936, to spend three months travelling to every part
of the great sub-continent except the southwest. We not only
followed the usual tourist route, but visited such out-of-the-way
places as Surat, Chandernagore, Pondichery, Tranquebar, and
Karikal. In March, 1937, we sailed across the Indian Ocean to
Durban via Seychelles, Mombasa, Dar-es-Salaam, Zanzibar, Beira,
and Lourengo Marques. After a month in South Africa and
Rhodesia, where we saw the Victoria Falls, we returned to
Southampton via St. Helena. Fortunately my application for a
Guggenheim Fellowship had been successful, and we were able to
spend another year of research in London, Paris, The Hague, and
Copenhagen, while I collected material for a book on the history
of European expansion in India in the late eighteenth century.
Shortly after the Munich crisis, I returned to Marblehead to
write a book and teach in the Harvard Summer School.

In the summer of 1940, I was appointed assistant professor of
history at the University of Texas where I spent two years
teaching British history, before the war brought me to Wash-
ington to work in the British Empire and Far East sections of the
Office of Strategic Services. In June, 1943, I transferred to the
State Department, spent a year and a half working on India and
adjacent areas in the Division of Territorial Studies, and then
another year and a half as a “deck officer” dealing with British
colonies in the Division of British Commonwealth Affairs. In
September, 1946, I returned to Texas as associate professor of
history, and prepared for publication, John Company at Work: a
Study of European Expansion in India in the Late Eighteenth
Century, which appeared in March, 1948, as one of the Harvard
Historical Studies published by the Harvard University Press.
1 am now taking up an appointment as associate professor of his-
tory at the University of Pennsylvania, which is inaugurating
in 1948-1949 a special program of South Asian studies. Mrs.
Furber and I therefore, expect to be settled somewhere near
Philadelphia during the academic year, but to continue to spend
our summers in Marblehead.

[ 298 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES LOUIS GAGNEBIN, JR.

HOME aApprEss: 7 Griggs Terr. Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Company, Inc., 61 Sherman St., Malden, Mass.

BorN: April 1, 1902, Brookline, Mass. parents: Charles Louis Gagnebin,
Evelyn Cornish Denison.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE! A.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Charlotte Lois Potter, June 4, 1927, Boston, Mass. cHiLpREN: Lois,
Aug. 6, 1929; Charles Louis, 3d, Oct. 24, 1940.

occupaTION: Radio manufacturing sales engineer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Sergeant, Massachusetts State Guard, 1941-42.

OFFICES HELD: Salesman, 1926-38, district manager, 1938-43, Boston Edison
Company; director, Rotary Club of Brookline, 1942-43; member, Town
Meeting, since 1944, Advisory Committee, 1945-47, Town of Brookline;
member of Prudential Committee, 1945-47, deacon, 1938-44, Harvard
Church, Brookline.

MEMBER OF: Cohasset Golf Club; Cohasset Yacht Club; Harvard Club of
Boston.

WITH all the pressure being put on, it appears that procrastina-
tion on this questionnaire will no longer be tolerated. But not
being a man of letters I have delayed in this report. Having
served on committees where the lack of reports from individuals
makes one’s work so much harder, I should know better, and duly
apologize therefor.

Having spent four years at Cambridge in expectation of en-
tering the chemical business, one year after college found me in
the public utility field trying to increase the consumption of —
electricity for the local electric light and power company here
in Boston. Being of average ability, advancement was not too
fast, but the nature of the work was not difficult and the hours
of duty, while far from those demanded by the modern Labor
Union, were not overcrowded. This:left me a little time to de-
vote to my family and my two hobbies: golf, which consumed
most every weekend when the weather permitted, and amateur
radio as an indoor sport.

When World War II broke out, I was a district manager for
the Boston Edison Company here in Brookline, and immediately
offered my services to Uncle Sam. Neither the Army nor the
Navy was interested, apparently because of my senility. How-
ever, an opportunity presented itself to join in the battle for

[ 299 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

production with a radio manufacturing company which sud-
denly found itself completely overwhelmed with war work for
the government. The long and continuous hours of work that
followed were somewhat tempered with the thought that some-
how or in some way our efforts would save a life here or win a
battle there. I am still associated with the National Company
and handle most of the current contracts with the government.
Right now we are all very busy with the production and dis-
tribution of our television receivers.

In spite of the 1948 presidential election, I am still recorded
as a Republican, and have the privilege of living in a Republican
town, which incidentally still maintains the old Town Meeting
form of government. I spent six years as a member of the Board
of Deacons of Harvard Church here in Brookline where I have
been privileged to hear many inspiring messages from our pastor,
Dr. Leavitt.

At present my primary interests are providing for my daugh-
ter who is in her second year at Goucher College, and for my
eight-year-old son who, I hope, is on his way to Harvard.

WILLIAM LAWRENCE GALVIN

HOME appreEss: 10 Brattle Circle, Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE appREsS: 38B Brattle St., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: March 4, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: Jeremiah Galvin, Julia Agnes
Galvin.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922, 1923-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1924(26); M.ARCH,,
1931. .

MarRieD: Julia Ann O’Keefe, June 29, 1940. CHILDREN: Sheila, Aug. 1, 1942;
Patricia, Oct. 7, 1945.

occuPATION: Architect.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant, Word War II.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Board of Appeal, and Board of Examiners, Cam-
bridge; past-president, Harvard Square Businessmen’s Association.
MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects, Rotary Club of Cambridge.
PUBLICATIONS: Assisted as secretary in drafting of new Building Code and

Zoning Law for the City of Cambridge.

ARCHITECTURAL practice: small office, but active in all
fields — industries, schools, and residences.
Family: two children gifted with brains and good looks.

[ 300 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Wife: terrific ordeal. Life has been a long hard battle to live.
Superb courage, patience, and Christian life of virtue. She must
win!

Mother: fine character, true to every tradition of what a
mother should be. Simply grand!

HARRISON GARDNER

HOME appREss: Cherry Street, Wenham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jones, Gardner & Beal, Inc., 148 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 20, 1901, Boston, Mass. parents: Philip Gardner, Virginia
Rebecca Atkinson.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Eloise Lawrence, Sept. 29, 1928, Ipswich, Mass. cHiLpREN: Phyllis,
Aug. 16, 1929; Harrison, Jr., Jan. 23, 1932; Joan Silsbee, Aug. 16, 1938;
Nancy, July 15, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Cotton merchant. ©

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: 211th Machine Gun Battalion, Massachusetts
National Guard, 1921-24; commissioned second lieutenant, Officers Re-
serve Corps, 1924; commissioned second lieutenant, Massachusetts State
Guard, 1941; commissioned lieutenant, United States Naval Reserve,
1942; convoy duty and operations officer, Boston Section Base, 1942;
officer-in-charge, Standard Landing Craft Unit No. 28, 1943; com-
missioned lieutenant commander, United States Naval Reserve, 1943;
commanding officer, Waimanalo Amphibious Training Base, Oahu,
Hawaii, 1944; executive officer, U.S.S. Lowndes, attack transport, par-
ticipating in initial assault landings Iwo Jima and Okinawa, awarded
Commendation Ribbon, 1944-45; commissioned commander, United
States Naval Reserve, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Jones, Gardner & Beal, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Greater Boston Development Committee; Corporation Chil-
dren’s Hospital, Boston; Massachusetts Republican Club; Cruising Club
of America; Somerset Club; Myopia Hunt Club; Veterans Associa-

tion First Corps Cadets.

AFTER graduating at midyears in my senior year, I made up
my mind to go into the cotton business. I had been warned
that the New England cotton industry was on the march south,
a prediction that subsequently has turned out to be only too
true. Nevertheless, I was determined to give it a try and so went
to work in a cotton mill in order to learn the intricate processes
of manufacturing. My interest, however, lay in the merchandis-

ing of raw cotton and I went to Fgypt for the purpose of

[ 301 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

HERBERT SYMONDS GARDNER

HOME AppREsS: 14 Dix St., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: New England Mutual Life Insurance Co., s01 Boylston
St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 1, 1903, Hancock, N. H. parents: Harry Ellsworth Gardner,
Annie Elizabeth Symonds.

PREPARED AT: Blackstone High School, Blackstone, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1924.

MARRIED: Sophia Louise Hughes, July 30, 1932, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Herbert Symonds, Jr. May 10, 1938; Thomas W., April 14, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Actuary.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant actuary, New England Mutual Life Insurance Com-
pany, since March, 1942.

MEMBER OF: Actuarial Society of America (fellow); Boston Actuaries
Club; Harvard Club of Eastern Middlesex.

JOHN HOWLAND GARDNER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 133 Blake Rd., Hamden, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 54 Meadow St., New Haven, Conn.

BORN: Dec. 17, 1901, New London, Conn. parents: John Howland Gardner,
Helen Mary Douglass.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREES: S.B., 1924; LL.B. 1927.

MaRRIED: Ruth Huntley, May 29, 1929, Cambridge, Mass. cumpreN: John
Howland, 3d, Oct. 1, 1931; Ann Chipman, June 13, 1933; Douglass
Stearns, July 18, 1934.

OccUPATION: Counsel, New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad Com-
pany.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Prospect Hill School.

MEMBER OF: New Haven Lawn Club, Vineyard Haven Yacht Club, East
Chop Tennis Club.

I ENTERED the Law School in 1924, graduated in 1927, was
admitted to the Connecticut Bar, and since then have been a
member of the New Haven Railroad Law Department in New
Haven. In 1929 I married Ruth Huntley who had been my sis-
ter’s roommate at Radcliffe and who was then teaching in the
Buckingham School in Cambridge. My Massachusetts Institute
of Technology roommate, George Elkins, married my sister
in the same year, an unusual though logical conclusion to the
years that the four of us spent at college,

In 1931 I bought a small house outside of New Haven and we

[ 304 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have added rooms to it from time to time as the family grew. The
three children (boy, girl, boy) are about a year apart in age and
the elder boy will enter college this fall from Berkshire School,
He will be left free to make his own choice in the light of my
own mistakes. I spent my first two college years at Massachusetts
Institute of Technology and finally managed to transfer to Har-
vard, where I had wanted to go in the first place. There I was
a freshman for my third year and a senior in my fourth year,
with the result that I do not know who my classmates are.
As soon as school closes each year, my tamily loads the car
with baggage, our four cats and one large dog and leaves for a
summer at the Vineyard. My travels since graduation have con-
sisted of weekend trips there and back, since I could not prevail
upon them to go anywhere else and would not if I could.

WADSWORTH GARFIELD

ADDRESS: 31 Nassau St., Room 1100, New York, N. Y.

BorN: April 3, 1902, Schenectady, N. Y. parents: William Garfield, Mary
Lewan.

PREPARED AT: Schenectady High School, Schenectady, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; pIPL. (Univ. of
Paris), 1926.

MARRIED: Frances D. Thompson, Sept. 17, 1925, Paris, France, cup: Ann
Abigail, Nov. 5, 1937.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant director and director, Reference Service on Inter-
national Affairs, Paris; managing editor, European Economic and
Political Survey; associate editor, Business Week, secretary, Real Estate
Bondholders Protective Committee; vice-president and secretary, Hotel
Lexington, Inc.

PUBLICATIONS: French Income Tax Laws, German Disarmament, Arbitration
and Judicial Settlement of International Disputes.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Garfield did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

FREDERICK WHITE GARLAND

HOME ADDRESS: 1897 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Osborne Co., 14 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: March 4, 1901, Worcester, Mass. parents: Louis Brainard Garland,
Annie Florence Bagley.

[ 305 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

PREPARED aT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923.
occuPATION: Advertising.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Garland did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

EARLE WOODWARD GARRETT

HOME ADDRESS: 0-54 33rd St., Warren Point, N. J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Griffenhagen & Associates, 333 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago,
I.

BorN: Nov. 7, 1897, Woodbury, N. J. parents: Charles Maris Garrett,
Elizabeth Jane Anns.

PREPARED AT: Palm Beach High School, Palm Beach, Fla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

MarrieD: Gertrude Margaret Abbihl, July 20, 1935 (divorced 1947).

occupation: Public administration management consultant.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II: major, lieutenant colonel, Ord-
nance, Military Government; served for four years in Narth Africa,
Italy, Austria. :

OFFICES HELD: Chief deputy commissioner, acting commissioner, New Jer-
sey State Department Alcoholic Beverage Control.

MEMBER OF: Council on Alcohol; American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science; Harvard Lodge, AF. & A.M.

PUBLICATIONS: “Chicago Police Problems” (with others), Univ. of Chicago
Press; “Report on Police” (with others), Government Printing Office;
“National (Wickersham) Commission on Law Observance.”

IN COLLEGE I specialized in money and banking. When I com-
pleted the requirements for the degree in February, 1924, I had
no bank stocks and no influential bank relatives, so I went to
Florida to earn a living in the news business and the (then) cur-
rent land boom. Like others, 1 won. With ninety per cent of
these, I eventually lost.

In 1928 I made a new start — in the field of public administra-
tion research and management consulting. My work has been
chiefly in the field of police administration, sometimes as con-
sultant and then again as administrator. Graduate courses at
Syracuse University and the University of Chicago helped to
locate and light up the informational paths. The work has been
interesting and stimulating,

Three years spent with the Army in North Africa, Italy, and
Austria are unforgettable. During several months in Rome it

[ 306 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

was a pleasure to serve under Charlie Poletti when he was Rome
Area Commander. Austria was a worth-while experience — trout
fishing, chamois hunting in the Austrian Alps, stag and pheasan
hunting, as well as generous portions of work. |

And now, back in civilian life, there is plenty to do, relieved by
occasional excursions to the Maritime Provinces when the At-
lantic salmon are expected in the rivers.

Politically, I avoid the luxury of speculative Communism. M
religious convictions have not been precipitated. Could it be
that I am just nature’s boy?

WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, ITI

HOME appreEss: Cheshire, Conn.

OFFICE appREss: Cheshire Academy, Cheshire, Conn.

BORN: Jan. 28, 1902, Newton Center, Mass. parents: William Lloyd Garri-
son, Jr., 97, Edith Alice Stephenson.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1924; 4.M. (Columbia Univ.),

1939-
MarRIED: Jane Downer Wilson, April 13, 1929, Chicago, Ill. (divorced

1945). CHILD: John, Nov. 2, 1936.
HARVARD BROTHERS: David Lloyd Garrison, ’28; John Bright Garrison, 731.

OCCUPATION: Teacher. _

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

I SOLD insurance for the Aetna Life Insurance Company from
October, 1924, until June 30, 1926. I worked as a clerk for
Stone & Webster until February, 1927, when the doctor insisted
that I take a six months’ vacation. In September, 1927, I became a
bond stock trader, working for G. L. Ohrstrom & Company in
New York, Chicago, and Philadelphia; Struthers & Dean; Swart
Brent & Company; Graham, Parsons & Company; and William J.
Mericha & Company in New York.

In September, 1937, I began teaching school. First [ was at the
Lawrence Smith School, New York City; then at Short Hills
Country Day School in New Jersey; Green Vale School, Roslyn,
New York; The Dalton Schools, New York City; Bloomfield
High School, Bloomfield, Iowa; and finally at Cheshire Academy
in Connecticut. This is my fourth year teaching Spanish at
Cheshire. I brushed up on my Spanish by spending the past
summer in Mexico.

[ 307 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

+k KELLOGG GARY

BORN: Feb. 28, 1903, Chicago, Ill. parents: John William Gary, Emily
Clarissa Lyon.

PREPARED AT: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

pieD: June 20, 1929, Antibes, France.

KELLOGG GARY prepared at The Hill School and entered
Harvard with the Class. In college he was a member of the Fresh-
man Musical Clubs, Instrumental Clubs, Pi Eta Society, and the
Advocate. After receiving his A.B. degree, he spent a year
travelling in Europe and upon his return entered the theatre. He
worked in Arabesque, as assistant to Norman Bel Geddes; in two
Eugene O'Neill plays, The Fountain and The Great God Brown,
as an assistant to Robert Edmund Jones; and in the independent
production, Bean-Strings. He spent a season in summer stock in
the Adirondacks and acted in God Loves Us, an Actors’ Theatre
production which opened in November, 1926.

HUGH McEOWEN GASTON

HOME ADDRESS: 737 Dixie Lane, Plainfield, N. J.

OFFICE appREss: 45 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: May 30, 1902, Somerville, N. J. parents: Louis Prevost Gaston,
Maude Barney Safford. -

PREPARED AT: Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1924(25)3 M.B.A., 1927.

MARRIED: Elizabeth D. Thomson, June 4, 1932, Somerville, N. J. CHILDREN:
Helen Andres, June 10, 1936; Frances Mallet-Prevost, Aug. 6, 1938;
Louis Prevost, July 22, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Kenneth Safford Gaston, °18.

OccUPATION: Account executive in the investment department of the U. S.
Trust Company of New York.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Plainfield Unitarian Church.

MEMBER oF; Harvard Club of New York; Plainfield Country Club.

I BELIEVE that I married later in life—when thirty — than
most of my classmates, but I have done pretty well since to build
up a family. My elder daughter, now twelve, is doing well with
the piano; the second daughter, aged ten, is at the chubby stage;
and my six-year-old lithe boy shows a strong inclination to
mechanical things, which is a good tendency in this atomic age.

[ 308 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT |

My hobbies have been tennis and squash racquets, and I am
beginning to find them both too strenuous. It gets more and
more difficult for me to leave an easy chair by the fireside to keep
a squash racquet date. How does one go about improving his
golf game with a minimum strain on his disposition? Also, to
the exasperation of my wife, I am getting so that I do not want
to go out much in the evenings —I guess it’s stodgy middle age,
against which we should fight.

I have been employed as an “account executive” in the in-
vestment department of the United States Trust Company of
New York for the past fifteen years. This venerable institution
is one of the oldest and largest personal trust companies in the
United States. While there are other good trust companies, of
course, I think our personnel is tops. We are fortunate in having
Barklie McKee Henry as one of our trustees. By the way, have
you made a will and named an executor? Isn’t it time that you
were thinking about such matters? Also, how about a trust to
prevent that fellow who is paying court to your daughter
from getting his hands on your money. If you want to die com-
fortably, without a worry in the world, please come and see me.

It seems to me that all the problems of the world may be
simply summarized in five words: “how to make ends meet.” If
every individual, company, and governmental unit could solve
this problem, how happy the world would be. That is the only
political conviction I have af present.

¢

WILLIAM NAHUM GATES

HOME apprEss: County Line Road, Novelty, Ohio.

OFFICE appREss: Squire, Sanders & Dempsey, Cleveland, Ohio.

BORN: Dec. 28, 1900, Cleveland, Ohio. Parents: William Nahum Gates, Ada
Laura Cook,

PREPARED aT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. "DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1924; LLB.
cum laude, 1927.

MarRiED: Frances Cashman, April 11, 1929, Cleveland, Ohio (divorced
1938); Elizabeth Berenson, Nov. 24, 1938, Elyria, Ohio. cHmpREN:
William Nahum, 3d, Jan. 15, 1930; Sarah Monteith, Feb. 9, 1940; Robert
McNair, Dec. 16, 1942.

HARVARD SON: William Nahum Gates, 3d, ’52.

[ 309 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Monteith Gates, '27; Geoffrey McNair Gates, 727;
Edward Leigh Gates, ’30,; David Edgerley Gates, 34.

OCCUPATION: Attorney-at-law.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Cleveland Institute of Music, since 1931, Karamu
House of Cleveland, 1940-48, Ten-Thirty Gallery, since June, 1948.

PUBLICATIONS: Dance criticisms for the Cleveland News since 1937.

SINCE leaving the Law School I have been associated with three
law firms, one in New York and two in Cleveland. My third
and present association commenced in January, 1929, and my
establishment there was quickly followed by marriage and the
birth of my elder son. My time for experiment and free choice,
assuming that free choice is not in any case illusory, had ended.
I can quickly dispose of my history in the legal profession. It
has furnished my family a modest livelihood and otherwise has
developed in me no zealotry but only patience.

In the early thirties, as a member of a small group of young
blades, I helped launch a rather gaudy weekly called Parade. For
two years an angel absorbed its deficits. Then the angel folded
his wings and our gay exotic expired. Meanwhile I had assumed
the post of music and dance reviewer and developed a particular
interest in the dance. Some years later I took on the extracurricu-
lar job of reviewing the dance for the Cleveland News. Since
this exacts from me half a dozen columns a year, at most, it is
obvious that the appetite of the Cleveland public for ballet and
other art dance forms is a good deal less sharp than I should like.

My private life, that is to say, my life, divides itself into two
parts. The watershed was 1938, the year in which I was divorced
and wonderfully remarried. Until then I dwelt, somewhat un-
easily, in the ways of Suburbia. Neither my Tenth Reunion
nor two holidays in Europe served to make me aware that I was
living spiritually on a diet of husks. Only retrospect has made
this clear, as I survey with pleasure the length of my travels
since 1938.

The modest physical landmarks of my post-1938 period are
two. One was the fathering of a new generation, a daughter in
1940 and a son three years later, whose obstreperous spirits
weigh heavily upon a man of my years. The other was the build-
ing, with the completely satisfying architectural guidance of my
brother, Jack, of a modern house set in the country twenty

[ 310 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

miles out of Cleveland. We moved in at the end of 1941 and
thereby finally terminated, metaphorically as well as physically,
all connections with Suburbia and metropolitan living.

We have taken country living seriously, not only from taste
but also because our almost complete lack of “help” has obliged
us to do so. As a result, values have undergone a great readjust-
ment and simplification. Movies, plays, concerts, dinner parties,
socio-civic activities must promise considerable reward in order
to be admitted to our fringe of time and energy.

But life is not solely regulated by the principle of conserva-
tion of energy. The prospect from our hilltop is wonderfully
satisfying and beautiful. I rarely find as good company, and
never as good food, as at home. Thus I have learned how not
to dissipate the days which I shall possess only once.

ERWIN LAWRENCE GEHRKE

HOME ADDRESS: Route 3, Lancaster, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDREss: R.B.M. Division, Essex Wire Corp., Lancaster, Ohio.

BoRN: April 25, 1898, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Hermann Gehrke, Augusta
~ Wolfgang.

PREPARED aT: West Technical High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1925, DEGREE: S.B. 1924(25).

MARRIED: Jean MacLeod, Sept. 9, 1926, Boston, Mass.

occupation: General manager, Lancaster Plant, Essex Wire Corporation. -:

MEMBER OF: Society of Automotive Engineers of Detroit, Lancaster Country

Club.

LIFE since graduation has, in general, been good to me, for which
Tam thankful. My married life has been a most happy one and I
have enjoyed modest success in business. Inasmuch as I have
taken my travelling and social activities in moderation, I have
nothing in particular to mention. There is still too much un-
finished business left to be done. |

From a political standpoint, I think the biggest job facing our
generation is the handling of our foreign policy. We must in-
dividually, collectively and courageously face the issues and do
something about them once and for all.

[311]

HARVARD CLASS OF I924

KENNETH EDWARD GELL

HOME ADDRESS: 610 Clay Ave. Rochester 13, N. Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Charlotte High School, 4115 Lake Ave., Rochester 12, N. Y.

BorN: July 6, 1901, Rocheser, N. ¥Y. parents: Robert Gell, Mildred Mac-
Master.

PREPARED AT: West High School, Rochester, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924(30); ED.M., 1934; ED.D., 1944.

marriepD: Geraldine Barbour, Dec. 30, 1924, Newton Highlands, Mass.

occupation: Head of Department of Social Studies, Charlotte High School;
special lecturer in education, University of Rochester; chairman of
Council of Social Studies Department Heads, Rochester Board of Edu-
cation.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, 1935, president, 1936, New York State Council
for the Social Studies; president, Genesee Finger Lakes Council for the
Social Studies, 1934-35, 1946-49; incorporator and member of board of
trustees, Better Housing Association of Monroe County, 1938-40; Roch-
ester representative, Unitarian Commission on World Order and Peace,
1947-49. |

MEMBER OF: International Torch Club, Rochester Chapter.

PUBLICATIONS: hat American Seniors Need to Know About Canada, 2 vols.;
an unpublished thesis; “The Trans-Lake Study Groups,” with Alfred
E. Hobbs, published in The Clearing House, September, 1948, and
School Progress, January, 1949; about a dozen articles for professional
magazines, beginning with “The Art of Asking Challenging Questions,”
Harvard Teachers’ Record, 1934; numerous book reviews.

ON COMMENCEMENT Day, 1924, I had the wish that I might
teach or design buildings. Either of these professions would
have required more study at once, and that meant more money.
Being short on income at the time, and hearing older friends
talking about the coming Era of Eternal Prosperity, I decided
to cut myself a slice of that and perhaps try the others later. So,
with a wife and high hopes, I started out in the business field,
but 1 got back to the first two desires sooner than I expected!
(Remember what happened in 1929, and how it happened earlier
in New England?)

In 1927 I came back to the old home town to teach economics
to high school seniors. The work was interesting and challeng-
ing, and there was much work to be done in the growing field
of secondary education. This new attempt had two other at-
tractive features: I was near the beautiful hill and Finger Lakes
country of up-state New York, and there was the urgency (or

[312 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

excuse, if it needed to be interpreted that way) to go back to
Harvard for more study. For several summers and for one four-
teen-month stretch on an Austin Fellowship, I studied what I
needed and things I wanted. Do you remember that in the cata-
logue there were courses you wanted to take just for the fun or
the joy of it, but the crowded schedule and the concentration re-
quirements wouldn’t permit it? Well, here was the chance for
me to take some of those courses, and my wife took a few others.

So, by 1934 I had both feet in teaching, with a schedule in-
volving secondary school teaching and supervision, and some
university teaching. One unique joy of my work was to or-
ganize the Trans-Lake Study Groups—the only regular and
continuous student exchange between Canada and the United
States. That seems to have paid off, for the students, I hope for
the two countries, and for me in my new friends in the Great
Dominion.

In 1930 I had the chance to start exercising, if not practising,
the other original interest of designing and constructing build-
ings and other gadgets for living. We bought thirty-six acres
of white pine and meadow in the Bristol Hills, Finger Lakes
country. Now we have a small house of a modified Frank Lloyd
Wright style, a concrete swimming pool, a “scientific” garden,
and several other buildings and outdoor living arrangements. On
these I experimented with functional design, unique space ar-
rangements, and devices to promote ease of living. And I sull
have more ideas and more excuses to try them out. But best of
all it is ours —the result of our own design and physical work.

And so, I lead a double life, and I recommend it. In general,
for five days a week, forty weeks a year, I am caught up in the
excitement, interests, and rush of a professional life — teaching
in two institutions, planning courses of study, working on com-
mittees, conducting adult forums, taking my turn as officer in
professional and civic bodies, and filling speaking engagements.
The rest of the 365 days a year I work with my hands or sit at
my drawing board, in the quiet of the hills. Or my wife and I
just relax — the two of us or with friends — or we re-explore the
beautiful countryside by motor and on foot.

I happened to miss the two world wars. I was just a little
too young for the first one, Early in the second one I was rushing

[ 313 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

work on the research part of a,doctoral thesis, trying to finish it
before my draft number came up. Then they lowered the top
age limit and I took a trip to the Pentagon Building where I was
told that teachers of my age were “a dime a dozen” and was
turned down. Besides, I thought I was worth more than eight
and a half mills.

In all these things Harvard has played a big part— by the
courses I took, but most of all by the inspiration of her great
men who taught me and by association with the wide-awake
minds of my fellows there.

FRANCIS WILLIAM GERHART

HOME appress: 60 Tunstall Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Young & Rubicam, Inc., 285 Madison Ave., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 25, 1900, Lincoln, Nebr. parents: William Henry Gerhart,
Fannie Shroyer.

PREPARED AT: Westport High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924(25).

Marriep: Annemarie Lepel, June 14, 1933, Hamburg, Germany. CHILDREN:
Mary Benbow, Sept. 6, 1936, Margreta von Pein, June 7, 1938.

occuPATION: Advertising.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

IT IS Sunday, November 7, a half-hour after church by the
cuckoo clock hanging on the wall to my left, as I sit yPing this
account of me in my green-carpeted living room.

The air is golden and balmy for early November in West-
chester County. The chrysanthemums are still in bloom. By
turning my head I can see out the window the second blooming
of a neighbor's forsythia across the street. It makes an unusual
and unexpected spot of yellow at this time of year in this latitude.
The leaves of the dogwood at the house corner, where I sit look-
ing out, edge into my view with their red and yellow tones con-
trasting brightly against a very Sunday-blue sky.

From upstairs comes the squeak of Scamper, guinea pig in
ordinary to Margreta, ten years old. From further upstairs come
the strains of “All I Want for Christmas Is My Two Front
Teeth,” played on the phonograph by twelve-year-old Mary.
From the kitchen comes the smell of braised lamb. Its delicious
odor floats past the bookcases, lining the walls between living

[314]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

room and dining room. I lift my head from the typewriter to
sniff it and I see green, red, blue, and putty-colored backs. of
books against blond pine shelves.

“Dinner is ready,’ ’ says Annemarie, my wife, thus halting for
the time being this account of me for the important occasion of
food.

It is now December 30, the same living room on a Thursday
evening at about eight o’clock, with a Christmas tree to my right
on which the tinsel and artificial snow reflect tints of green, red,
and yellow from the tree’s lights.

We had a wonderful holiday! But then we always do, Praise
the Lord.

A. self-winding wrist watch, a four-foot inflatable Shmoo,
books, home-knit Argyle socks,-a bottle of three-star Hennessey,
games, a wonderful turkey, plenty of snow outside and plenty
of marzipan inside, a new toaster, and a new collar for our brown
and beloved dachshund, Schoko — these things, plus our feelings
about each other, tell what a good Christmas it was.

It should be clear to anyone going this far with me that this is
no autobiography which marches firm-footedly from 1924 to
1949. To be sure, I like my past. I enjoy reading my own ac-
counts of myself in the previous Class Reports. And if anyone
else would read them let him do so. The point is this: I like
today, and my part in the present, better.

I have evidence to support my preference. But before intro-
ducing it, a simile may be in order.

The surveyor sights a wood, let us say, from three points of
vantage and thus gains a perspective of the object. Now, it occurs
to me that such triangulation may aslo be useful to a man writing
about himeslf. This is why there follow two accounts of me
Written by contemporaries of mine. These comments are from
different points of vantage. They may well serve to throw me
into some sort of perspective.

From red-haired, slim-like-her-mother Mary comes thist

“Tn all my twelve years of life, I only remember my father for
eight years, strange but true. The first I remember of him was
he was going to take a picture of us (Greta and I). My first
picture! What a thrill! But there are always problems. I fought
and fought for the bunnies, and poor Dad was in it. I had tr ied to

[315]

é

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

I have the mind of Thomas Jefferson in
the body of Gregory Peck, and I feel a lot
better. O.K.2 For a curtain line, that is?

RICHARD DODGE GEROULD

HOME ADDRESS: 14 Brown St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 2, 1903, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Charles Walter Gerould, 83,
Florence Russell.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass., Phillips
Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; LL.B., 1927.

marrieD: Eleanore Chapman, Dec. 27, 1926, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Lesley Chapman, July 15, 1929; Marcia Dodge, March 19, 1932.

HARVARD BROTHER: Russell Gerould, ’20.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Coast Guard Temporary Reserve, Boston Har-
bor Patrol, 1942-44.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Massachusetts State Price attorney and New
England regional associate price attorney, 1942-44; division counsel for
food, assistant general counsel, and associate director, Food Price
Division (National Office), 1944-46, Office of Price Administration.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Margaret Fuller House, 1940-44; trustee, North |
Avenue Savings Bank, 1938-44; special assistant to the Massachusetts
Attorney General, Boston Elevated litigation, 1942; member, budget
committee, Cambridge Community Fund, 1942-44.

FROM 1949 on I intend to devote my energies to the private
practice of law and the development of greater skill in skiing and
small-boat racing.

As I see my friends and relatives grow sleek with the sale of
soap and cereals, I feel great contentment in the variety of the
problems which I shall encounter in a small law office. There
will be difficult human differences to understand and resolve.
Business men will require enlightenment on their relations with
their government. All shapes and sizes of men and women will
seek counsel in the preservation and distribution of their property
and the management of their lives. When tempers or tensions
have risen too high, the slow process of litigation will cool nerves
and relieve strain.

Lawyers will continue to worry about the vastness of their
professional field and about the novelty of its developments.

[ 318 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Government regulations will multiply faster than reported cases.
This will cause the general practitioner no great concern. He
will know where to look for the answer, if he only has skill
enough to perceive the problem. He will surely find a reading
of the New York Times more rewarding than Blackstone.

In a small law office I shall be nobody’s man. No corporation
executive or Civil Service Commission will classify my job. It
will be as great or as small, as exacting or as easy as my clients
and I care to make it. No anti-trust law will be needed to render
it competitive.

In the New England winters ‘ahead I shall stay in Cambridge
and look forward to the first snow. Only the geese go south.
There will be less emphasis on down-hill speed and more on cross-
country skiing. Let the fine-feathered gentry flock to the
crowded slopes and trails to break each other’s legs. Pll break
my own on a tree of my own selection.

And in the summer and fall there will be racing at Cape Cod.
For excitement I shall know no substitute for the last ten seconds
before the starting-gun. Profanity is never more satisfying than
it is then. My crew members will be telling me that we'll never
make it and, whether I agree or not, I shall be screaming at them
and at the skipper of the next boat. There will follow the tense
judgment of the wind, the waves, the current, and the fleet, and
perhaps the thrill of a three-second win.

Twenty-five years have been a start in the right direction.

NORMAN ELIOT GIBBS

HOME apprEss: R.F.D., Rogers Lake, Old Lyme, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lab. No. 3% Raytheon Manufacturing Co., Waltham 54,
Mass.

BORN: Nov. 20, 1903, Brooklyn, N. Y. Parents: David Gibbs, 98, Eloise
Adeline Barstow.

PREPARED AT: Meriden High School, Meriden, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: S.B., 1924; ED.M. 1925.

OCCUPATION: Engineering, research, and development.

MEMBER oF: American Physical Society; Institute of Radio Engineers;
American Meteorological Society; Harvard Engineering Society; Amer-
ican Radio Relay League.

PUBLICATIONS: “A Study on Anaeroid Capsules” (with Eugene W. Pike),
Journal of Applied Physics, Vol. 19, No. 1, p. 106, January, 1948; “A
Homebuilt Velocity Microphone,” Q.S.T., March, 1938.

[319]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

SCIENCE teaching proved an interesting field of exploration
after graduation. There is something intensely satisfying in lead-
ing young and lithe minds into channels of usefulness to them-
selves and to others.

Equally challenging and interesting are the processes involved
in research and development work in Y which one occasionally has
the reward of wresting some small nugget of usable information
from the buried and hidden lode, the ‘unknown.

A period of chemical research was entered after teaching.
This work on a fellowship at the New Jersey Agricultural Ex-
periment Station was coupled with graduate study at Rutgers
and was followed by a year in the Chemistry Department as a
graduate assistant.

Running a small radio business during the depression was an
experience profitable in many ways although it was entered as a
“stop-gap” when the last and lingering illness of my father
caused abandonment of plans for study and research. However,
the liberal education involved in meeting and doing business with
the general public has been worth much, It is unfortunate that
many outspoken critics of enterprise have not had such direct
experience. They might then be less glib in proposal and more
kindly disposed towards their fellow-men.

The war, as seen from the inside of a laboratory, entailed about
as much drudgery and frustration as was seen from any other
point of view. It found me in charge of the research and develop-
ment laboratory of an instrument company in Connecticut, the
R. W. Cramer Company. The special devices for which respon-
sibility for development was laid at my door were coding type
radiosondes for the Signal Corps Laboratories. These were
miniature weather stations borne aloft by free balloons and con-
tinually reporting meteorological conditions back to ground by
radio signals in International Morse code.

Since the war I have served as chief physicist with a research
and development company in New Jersey, Reaction Motors,
Inc., and more recently have become a senior engineer with the
Raytheon Manufacturing Company of Waltham.

Successful research and development work is rather demand-
ing. It implies unreserved codperation with others so that con-
certed effort is possible by the entire team working in the Jabora-

[ 320 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tory on the project. It is unfortunate that so many business
executives do not appreciate that research is a state of mind,
an inquiring attitude ever seeking verification of old and new
ideas, many times making new things better and cheaper by
entirely novel approaches. The hardest fight the researcher often
has is not in wrenching knowledge from the unknown but in
getting others to grasp the significance of the new facts or new
approach developed. To see a solution to a basic problem
chalked up on the board and put to work for mankind repays
many hours or months of disappointment and painstaking
attack. |

It is nice to be near Cambridge again with opportunity to
attend special courses and lectures and to watch our counterparts
of twenty-five years ago preparing for their entry into the ring.
As long as the human race faces problems there will be room for
intelligent attack, initiative, and zeal in prosecuting their solu-
tion. Who said there are no frontiers left? How they have
multiplied instead!

Life has not all been on the serious side. Among various avoca-
tions, I have spent time as assistant and later as scoutmaster, and
in working with young people’s discussion groups. Amateur
radio (WLJXP) has offered a chance to try ideas, make lasting
friendships at far distances, and develop useful techniques. Even
bee-keeping has its quiet satisfactions. There are just so many
things that seem worth while to investigate and do that time never
hangs heavily on my hands but seems to pass all too rapidly.

HENRY LATHROP GILBERT, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 34 Larchwood Drive, Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dewey & Almy Chemical Co., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: May 20, 1902, Columbus, Ohio, Parents: Henry Lathrop Gilbert,
°88, Laura Fullerton.

PREPARED AT: Columbus Academy, Columbus, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MaRRIED: Priscilla Brown, Dec. 25, 1932, Sewickley, Pa. cHmpren: Mary
Hill, Nov. a1, 1938; Katharine Frances, Jan. 30, 1940; Jane Lathrop,
Jan. 10, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Erskine Fullerton Gilbert, ’26.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Dewey & Almy Chemical Company.

[321]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

MY TWENTY-FIVE years out of college can be divided into
three periods of about eight years each. The first period was
before marriage, when I lived abroad most of the time doing re-
search work in Sumatra and building factories in Italy, Germany,
and England. .

The second was after marriage and before children, when my
wife and I made many happy long trips together to Europe,
Australia, Japan, and China.

The third was after marriage and after children, when I made
many feverish trips to South. America and Europe, leaving my
family at home.

Since I’m in charge of our overseas business, I expect to con-
tinue travelling and am looking forward to a fourth period of
travelling with my family and seeing things again through youth-
ful eyes.

Outside of my family and business, my chief interest is food.
My embonpoint is not due wholly to middle age,

RILEY MILES GILBERT

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 370 Park Ave., New York, N. Y.

BORN: July 29, 1902, New York, N. Y. PaRENTs: Riley Miles Gilbert, Annie
Ruffin Williams.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924.

MarRiED: Julia G. Elliott, April 25, 1925, Wilmington, Del. cHILpREN:
Cynthia, Feb. 12, 1927; Riley Miles, Jr., April 18, 1929.

fhe fe
“DONALD JAY.GILLAM

ADDRESS: 28 Pembroke "AVe. Randall Manor, Staten Island 1, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 2, 1900, Hillsdale, Mich. parents: George Edwin Gillam, Rena
Bowen Tillotson. _,

PREPARED aT: Culver Military Academy, Culver, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: 8.B., 1924.

marrieD: L, Ilse Mueller, Jan. 28, 1928, Bronx, New York, N. Y. cuip:
Bruce Quest Mueller; Dec. 25, 1930.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Cader, United States Military Academy, June,
1919-April, 1920 | (honorable discharge).

MEMBER OF: Socicty for Ethical Culture, New York. -

[ 322 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER graduation I attended the School of Business, Columbia
University, for two years, then worked a short time for the
Schrader Company in the accounting department. Then for
four and one-half years I worked in the Budget and Authoriza-
tion Bureau of the United Electric Light & Power Company, a
subsidiary of the Consolidated Gas Corporation, New York City.
Since then I have been an inmate in a mental institution.

- Hobbies: philosophy, psychology, sociology, and history, for
the purpose of getting at the roots of social trends, including the
recurrent catastrophe of war, which is not a matter of economics
alone. -

Religion: agnostic (although reared in the Episcopal church,
for which I still have a great respect and affection). Roughly
speaking, Nature seems to be the only perceptible manifestation
of God and therefore is God, as far as I can see, but any “know-
it-all” attitude is repugnant to me. Religion is to be respected as
a form of seeking for something greater than one’s self that will
be at once an inspiration and a source of solace, but without
ethics religion may become the cause of devastating wars, or, on
the other hand, may bring about in people a sort of ivory-tower,
smug isolationism towards the root causes of major conflicts.

Family: my son has just entered Brothers College at Drew
University, Madison, New Jersey. Sorry, but in his case it
seemed better than Harvard could be. Perhaps a graduate school
at Harvard will come later.

_ ARCHIBALD RAPHAEL GIROUX

HOME ADDRESS: 6 Stratham Rd., Lexington, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Haley Cate Co., Everett, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 19, 1897, Somerville, Mass. PARENTS: Ernest Armand Giroux,
Jessie Frances Stewart.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922.

MarRiepD: Audrey MacDougall, Oct. 1, 1921, Flushing, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Ernest Armand, 2d, Oct. 7, 1922 (m. Dorothy Chadwick); Audrey
MacDougall, Sept. 18, 1923 (m. Walter S. Baker); Robert Stuart, March
31, 1928. GRANDCHILDREN: Chadwick Allston Giroux, Sept. 17, 19433
Walter S. Baker, Jr., July 1, 1946; John Archibald Baker, Sept. 20, 1948.

HARVARD son; Ernest Armand Giroux, 2d, '44.

OccUPATION: Vice-president and general manager, Haley Cate Company.

[ 323 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: American Field Service (French Army), 1917;
Royal Air Force, 2d lieutenant, 1918; lieutenant colonel, Army of the
United States, American Military Government; served in North Africa,
Sardinia, England, Normandy, Northern France, Belgium, Holland,
and Germany, 1943-46.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1935-43, chairman, 1938-43, Board of Selectmen,
Lexington, Mass.; county commissioner, Middlesex County, Mass.,
1940-43; chairman, Republican State Committee, 1946-47; campaign
manager for Governor Robert Bradford, 1948; president, Boston Stock ~
Exchange, 1942.

AS A veteran of the first World War, I entered Harvard with the

idea of completing an interrupted education. For many reasons

I found it difficult to adapt myself to school life. As a result, I

became acquainted with very few members of the Class. I could

not participate in freshman football as I had played with the

Dartmouth freshman team in the fall of 1919. My only activity

was as a member of the Harvard Second Varsity in the fall of 1921.

Later, on State Street, and in politics, I met many members of our

Class.

In the first World War, I lost my only brother, Lieutenant
Ernest Armand Giroux (Dartmouth, ’19), a member of the 103rd
Pursuit Squadron, United States Army Air Service. Those inter-
ested can easily imagine my feelings when I encountered my son,
Lieutenant Ernest Armand Giroux, 2d, ’44, at various times in
this recent war — first in Manchester, England; then Normandy
in July, 1944; later Paris, where we visited his birthplace at
Sevres-Ville d’Avray; finally, serving together in the unit I com-
manded in Hof, northeast Bavaria.

My political conviction is that the Republican party must take
its leadership from men of broad understanding such as Henry
Cabot Lodge, Jr., of the Class of 1924. I believe that life is well
worth living and that great progress has been made in our time.
Even greater progress is ahead.

+ EUGENE CHELLIS GLOVER |

BorN: Dec. 23, 1903, Gorham, Maine. parents: Leon Otis Glover, Lelia
Stiles.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1924, M.D. cum
laude, 1928.

[ 324 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MarRRIED: Dorothy E. Colby, Dec. 26, 1931.
DIED: Jan. 22, 1932, Boston, Mass.

EUGENE CHELLIS GLOVER prepared at the Public Latin
School and after completing his studies, entered Harvard with
the Class. During 1920-21, he received the New England Federa-
tion of Harvard Clubs Scholarship, the John Appleton Haven
Scholarship the following year (1921-22), and the Mathew and
Mary E. Bartlett Scholarship in 1922-23, and 1923-24. He was a
member of the Student Council (1923-24), Phi Beta Kappa,
Junior Eight, and the Boylston Chemical Club while in college.

After receiving an A.B. degree with the Class, he entered
Harvard Medical School and was awarded his M.D. degree with
honors in 1928. During his senior year in medical school he began
research’ work in cancer and allied diseases at the Huntington
Memorial Hospital. After graduation he was made a research
fellow of the Thorndike Memorial and appointed to a house
officership in the Boston City Hospital. In 1930 he won a research
fellowship for study in Belgium and spent one year studying
under the celebrated Professor Maisin at the University of
Louvain. His work there was concentrated on the possible use
of animal tissues in retarding cancer, the particular field of cancer
research which he was following at the time of his death.

Returning to this country in September of the following year,
he took up his work at Thorndike Memorial and in addition to
his position there, served as.an assistant professor of medicine at
_the Harvard Medical School and a consultant on cancer treatment
for the Massachusetts state hospital at Pondville.

At the time of his death, he was working on an experimental
project involving the use of cyanide and it was believed that the
poison caused his death.

BARTON ISADORE GOLDBERG

HOME ApprEss: 498 Reading St., Fall River, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Fall River Trading Corp., 52 12th St., Fall River, Mass.

BORN: May 1, 1903, Salem, Mass. parents: Simon Goldberg, Esther Shapiro.

PREPARED AT: Salem High School, Salem, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1920-1923. DEGREE: LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1926.

Marrigp: Evelyn Ruth Radovsky, Sept. 24, 1929, Fall River, Mass. cHtL-
DREN: Stephen Bernard, Oct. 20, 1932; Judith Ann, April 17, 1936.

[ 325 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

occuPATION: Chain grocery stores.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Second lieutenant, Massachusetts State Guard,
during World War IL

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member, advisory board, Draft Board, Salem,
Mass.

OFFICES HELD: President, Salem Hebrew Community Center, 1937-39, Con-
gregation Sons of Jacob, Salem, 1945; secretary, Salem Jewish Charities,
1939-45; clerk, Salem Community Fund, 1946.

MEMBER OF: Kiwanis Club, Salem; Kiwanis Club, Fall River; Fall River Lit-
tle Theatre.

AFTER having practised law in Boston and Salem from the time
of my admission to the Bar in 1927, I decided to give up worrying
about other people’s troubles and to get some of my own about
which to worry.

I left Salem in June, 1946, and migrated to Fall River. There I
became associated with the Fall River Trading Corporation,
operators of the Puritan Stores, a chain of grocery stores in Fall
River and New Bedford.: I always had the idea that there was no
profession as fascinating as the law. However, I find it equally
fascinating finding out what people want to eat and why, and
trying to persuade them to eat what they didn’t know they
wanted,

My family is growing up. My son is a junior in high school
and my daughter is in junior high school. It won’t be long now
before my son will be (I hope) at Harvard.

EDWARD GOLDMAN

HOME appress: 347 N. Quaker Lane, West Hartford, Conn..

OFFICE ADDRESS: Maytex Fabrics Co., 112 Allyn St., Hartford, Conn.

BORN: Nov. 4, 1904, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Morris Goldman, Celia Kramer.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1921.

MarrieD: Vivian Bertman, July 27, 1928, Providence, R. I. curpren: Mari-
Jyn Barbara, March 26, 1930; Richard Howard, June 2, 1935.

occupation: Wholesale textile business,

offices weLp: President, Hartford Upholstered Furniture Manufacturers
Association, 1930-33.

MEMBER OF: B'nai B'rith; American Jewish Congress, Tumble Brook Coun-

try Club.

MY LIFE since leaving Harvard has been highlighted primarily
by its Jack of any spectacular events or achievements.

[ 326]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Unfortunately, I am not in a position to devote some of the
space in this brief account to an exciting account of my experi-
ences during the war as I happen to be a member of that betwixt
and between generation that was too young for the first World
War and too old for the second.

My career in the world of business began with a few years in
the purchasing office of a wholesale automobile accessory com-
pany in Boston, after which, not without trepidation, I ventured
forth into the furniture manufacturing business in Hartford,
Connecticut. I found time along the way to acquire a wonderful,
patient, and understanding marital companion. After a number
of years devoted to the manufacture of upholstered furniture,
dedicated to the physical comfort of my fellow-man, and the
monetary comfort of myself, it was a rather natural transition
into the textile distributing business, which now occupies the
major portion of my waking hours, not without considerable
protest from my greatest inspiration and severest critic, my wife.
However, this rather routine career has been far from uninterest-
ing, and I have found a great deal of pleasure and fascination in

the excitement and constant activity of a busy mercantile estab-
lishment, with its clatter and chatter, tempered, usually at the
most inopportune moments, by the insistent buzzing of that in-
fernal instrument that was apparently invented to harass every
busy executive, the telephone.

Nevertheless, with considerably more than a little codperation
from Mrs. Goldman, I managed to be instrumental along the way
in the production and up-bringing of two fine children, who seem
to have grown up along with the business. My daughter is about
to enter her junior year at Syracuse, and my son has completed
his elementary education, with the time not too far distant when
he will be ready for college, at which time I hope to be able to
route him in the direction of that hallowed and ancient seat of
learning in Cambridge, Massachusetts, which must bear the re-
sponsibility for these deeply interesting memoirs.

SIDNEY GOLDMANN

HOME apprEss: 860 Stuyvesant Ave., Trenton, N. J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 202 Trenton Trust Bldg., 28 W. State St. Trenton, N. J.

[327]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

BORN: Nov. 28, 1903, Trenton, N. J. PARENTS: Samuel Goldmann, Stella
Reich.

PREPARED AT: Trenton High School, Trenton, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude, 1924; LLB.,
1927. ,

MarRIED: Beatrice Corosh, Nov. 20, 1938, Trenton, N. J. crimp: Donald
Alan, April 19, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harold Reich Goldmann, ’39.

occuPATION: Counsellor-at law and special master of New Jersey; state ar-
chivist of New Jersey.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Mercer County Bar Association, 1948; city
attorney and acting city manager of Trenton, 1935-39; executive secre-
tary to Governor Charles Edison, 1942-44; standing master of Superior
Court, since 1949; state librarian of New Jersey, 1944-46; head, Ar-
chives and History Bureau of New Jersey, since 1946; chairman of
Governor’s Committee on Preparatory Research, archivist and histor-
ian, New Jersey Constitutional Convention, 1947, chairman, New Jer-
sey Supreme Court Committee on Rules for Local Courts, 1948-49,
Trenton Community Relations Council, since 1946, New Jersey State
Council, Council of Jewish Federations and Welfare Funds, since 1948,
Trenton Little Theatre Association, 1932-35; member of executive com-
mittee, Trenton Symphony Association, since 1935, Trenton Council of
Social Agencies, since 1946, New Jersey Citizens Conference, since 1949;
member, board of directors, Trenton Adult School, since 1945, Tren-
ton Community Chest and Council, since 1946, Trenton Y.M.H.A.
and Y.W.H.A. Community Center, since 1932, Har Simai Temple,
Trenton, since 1947, Trenton Home for the Aged, since 1947; secre-
tary, 1929-48, president, since 1948, Trenton Historical Society; mem-
ber of executive committee, since 1945, vice-president, 1947-48, presi-
dent, since 1949, Trenton Council on Human Relations; member of
board of directors, since 1935, president, 1946-49, Trenton Jewish Wel-
fare Service, member of board of directors, since 1935, president,
1939-43, Trenton Jewish Federation, chairman, Trenton chapter, since
1946, member, national executive committee, since 1947, adm. commit-
tee, since 1948, American Jewish Committee; member, national execu-
tive committee, Joint Defense Appeal, since 1946, advisory committee,
United Service for New Americans, since 1946.

MEMBER OF: New Jersey Bar Association; American Judicature Society;
Society of American Archivists, American Association for State and
Local History; B’nai B'rith; New Jersey Historical Society; National
Conference of Christians and Jews; Harvard Club of New Jersey.

PUBLICATIONS: History of the Trenton Transit System, 1932; History of
Trenton, 1929, contributor on transportation and on historic sites; The
Organization and Administration of the New Jersey Highway Depart-
ment, 1942, Morven and the Stocktons, 1945; Trenton Community
Messenger, editor and contributor, 1929-36; editor and contributor of
monographs prepared by the Governor’s Committee on Preparatory

[ 328 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Research for the New Jersey Constitutional Convention of 1937; edi-
tor, “Constitutional Convention Proceedings.”
THREE years in the lecture rooms of Austin and Langdell was
quite an adventure in the realm of law, but not entirely related to
the very real world waiting outside the graduation door. Private
ractice back home was far removed from the ideal structure
raised by Williston, Beale, Scott, and Chafee.

After clerkship, examinations, and admission to the New Jersey
Bar, came a summer in Europe in 1929. Three months abroad
was an inner necessity. Certainly I did not foresee the débacle of
the next decade nor the complete change in personal fortune. A
leisurely look at England and France (the Rhine and Berlin were
an afterthought) was simply something I very much wanted
before starting down the long road to what I hoped would be a
decent practice. I opened a modest office in October, two days
before the crash. There wasn’t much to do for a while, and so I
turned to the community and became a part of its work.

There was a quiet investigation of the Trenton Transit Com-
pany. It undecked a messy corporate situation which promptly
led to a receivership, so comfortable that it is still in force. The
transit report was co-authored with a Yale man and proved a
nine-day sensation. The newspapers and a few interested citizens
perched a couple of laurel wreaths on our heads. The bond-
holders called us “economic vandals.” With little more by way
of reward or inspiration we went on to a study of municipal
organization and practices in aid of an official citizens’ committee
appointed to find some way of meeting a depression budget in
1932. Our whole set of recommendations was blandly ignored.
The city commission met its problem by the simple device of
cutting employees’ salaries a flat twenty per cent. This, plus the
unlovely business of a police investigation in which I was chief
assistant investigator and which finally ended in indictments and _
resignations of some police officials, made a change in municipal
government inevitable.

A lot of time and effort went into the Trenton campaign for a
change to the council-manager form. The fight was successful in
1935. The new council appointed me city attorney and acting
city manager. Looking back over the years, one can say with
some objectivity that the city got a really business-like adminis-

[ 329 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

history has been a good hobby, to be picked up and dropped as
time allowed.

Politics — independent Democrat. Religion —I am convinced
that essentially American Jewry stands in real need of recaptur-
ing the significant content of a great religion, of meaningfully
relating the culture and values of Judaism to America and thereby
gaining an inner security so important to the strength and dignity
of the individual.

~ VINCENT BOWDITCH GOLDTHWAITE

BORN: July 3, 1902, Dublin, N. H. parents: Joel Ernest Goldthwaite, Jes-
sie Sophia Rand.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922.

pieD: Aug. 9, 1922, Essex, N. Y.

VINCENT BOWDITCH GOLDTHWAITE entered Harvard
after finishing preparatory study at Milton Academy. In college
he was active as a member of the Revolver Team (1921-22),
Band, Dramatic Club, and the Speakers’ Club. Under age for
military service, he worked at the Curtis Airplane Factory in
Marblehead during World War I.

ABRAM VOSSEN GOODMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 26 Hillcrest Ave. Davenport, Iowa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Temple Emanuel, 33 Union Arcade, Davenport, Iowa.

BoRN: Feb. 10, 1903, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Samuel Goodman, Emma Vos-
sen Greenfield.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1919-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; Rabbi (Jewish Inst. of
Religion), 1928, Mw. (ibid.), 1928.

Marriep: May Happy Friend, Oct. 31, 1933, Chicago, Ill. campren: Gail
Friend, Oct. 25, 1937; Judith Elinor, Dec. 3, 1940.

occupation: Rabbi.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Civilian chaplain, Schick General Hospital and
Mayo General Hospital, 1943-45.

OFFICES HELD: President, Jewish Religious Teachers’ Association of Mary-
land, Virginia, and the District of Columbia, 1932-33; vice-president
and president, Maternal Health Clinic of Austin, 1939; chairman, Jus-
tice and Race Commission, Central Conference of American Rabbis,
since 1948, Joint Commission on Social Action, Central Conference and

[ 332 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Union of American Hebrew Congregations, since 1949, member of
executive board, Central Conference of American Rabbis, 1940-42,
American Jewish Historical Society, since 1948, vice-president, Daven-
port Ministerial Association, 1945; first vice-president, Tri-City Re-
gion, Zionist Organization of America, since 1948; member of board,
Scott County Red Cross, since 1941, Buffalo Bill Scout Council, since

1946.

MEMBER OF: Contemporary Club; B’nai B'rith.

PUBLICATIONS: American Overture: Jewish Rights in Colonial Times; We
Remember Seixas; Jacob Schiff in Retrospect.

WRITING this on my forty-sixth birthday, I realize that it is no
time to make summations. Life is a process of becoming, and I
refuse to believe that the record of my growth and personal
development is completed. The best that can be done at this
point is to submit merely an interim report.

But what form should that report take? It seems to me that a
catalogue of events that occurred during a quarter of a century
would be dull and lifeless for classmates with courage to read,
whatever those events may have once signified to me. Possibly,
more recent experiences loom larger and merit more extensive
emphasis.

Let me begin with my chief accomplishment. In 1947 I was the
author of a book on a neglected by-way of early American his-
tory entitled, American Overture: Jewish Rights in Colonial
Times. It was heartening to read the favorable criticism that
appeared in various publications from the American Historical
Review down, to learn of the cordial reception from my readers,
and to hear from my publishers that the book would enjoy con-
tinued sales for many years to come. I am now preparing for a
revised edition.

One goal for which I have labored in my spare time through
the years is now in sight. My wife says that she will be very
happy to sew the black velvet bars on my pulpit gown after I
receive my degree of Doctor of Philosophy from the University
of Texas on May 30, 1949.

Being a Jew demands that one also be an optimist, cherishing
the belief in the eventual improvement of mankind, so that in the
end of days we shall attain the Kingdom of God on this earth.
Of late, there have been occasions of very rough sledding for
this doctrine, notably when Hitler tortured to death in his

[ 333]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

charnel houses some six million human beings of my faith in
this twentieth Christian century. Still, a good many of us are
seeking the brotherhood of man in terms of a new harmony
among the world’s great powers for the atomic age, a rec-
onciliation in the conflicting interests of capital and labor, and a
more basic understanding transcending the barriers of race and
color. It has been a source of great pleasure to me that I have
been made chairman of the Joint Commission on Social Action
of the Central Conference of American Rabbis and of the
Union of American Hebrew Congregations. This, the initial
group of its kind to be organized in Jewish circles, will first
attempt to create a social awareness among our people in the
spirit of the prophets of Israel, and will, secondly, seek to join
in the correction of some of the basic evils of our time.

One of my recent activities seemed destined to disturb only
the placid reaches of our local mill-pond, but to my surprise it
created a wider splash than was anticipated. In 1946 I succeeded
in obtaining a ban on the distribution of New Testaments among
the children of our public schools by the Gideon Society. The
grounds — the American tradition of the separation of church
and state. One result —a column in Time.

Looking back over the last twenty-five years, I realize how
lucky I have been. I have found happiness in my profession, and
if I had my choice today, I should elect the rabbinate once more.
But my chief joy has been in my family circle, in the companion-
ship of my two daughters and of my dear wife (whose many
talents and virtues I long to describe).

JAMES CARNAN GOODWIN

HOME ADDRESS: 2126 Connecticut Ave., Washington, D, C.

OFFICE appRESS: 16 E. Eighth St. New York, N. Y.

BORN: March 14, 1903, Chicago, Ill. parents: Francis Marion Goodwin,
Margaret Carnan.

PREPARED AT: Lewis and Clark High School, Spokane, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1924, M.B.A.
cum laude, 1926.

margiep: Margaret B. Mapes, June, 1934, Harrison, N. Y. (divorced 1936);
Mary E. Swallow Clark, April 21, 1947, New York, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Marion Goodwin, Jr., 731.

[334]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Banker.
WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Finance officer, United Nations Relief & Re-
habilitation Administration, 1945-1947.

AFTER college and business school, I attended Cambridge Uni-
versity in England as a graduate student in economics in 1927
and 1928. Since then, I have been engaged in the banking busi-
ness, first with the National Bank examiners in the Cleveland
district, then with New York and Baltimore banks, the Chemical
and Equitable Trust Companies, respectively. I also spent two
years in Washington with U.N.R.R.A. during the latter part of
the war and thereafter. I am now living in New York, engaged
in private business.

I am still a Republican and not discouraged. Most of my
leisure time has been spent in travel, principally in this country,
and in golf. I can add only that I look back to the years at Har-
vard with ever-increasing pleasure and satisfaction.

JOHN WILLARD GORDON

HOME ADDRESS: 41 Chestnut St., Salem, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Telephone & Telegraph Co., 50 Oliver St.,
Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 19, 1901, Boston, Mass. parents: John Gordon, Jane Holbrook
Young.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

MaRRIED: Elsie Hopkinson, June 5, 1929, North Andover, Mass.

occuPaTION: Assistant to general counsel, New England Telephone & Tele-
graph Company.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Communications chairman, Region IV, Massa-
chusetts Civilian Defense, 1942—45.

OFFICES HELD: Manager, 1928-29, district manager, 1931-45, public relations
assistant, 1945-47, general commercial assistant, 1947-49, assistant to
general counsel, since 1949, New England Telephone & Telegraph
Company; chairman, Brockton Community Fund Campaign, 1936; vice-
president, Chestnut Street Associates, 1946-49; vestryman, Grace Epis-
copal Church, Salem, 1943-46.

‘MEMBER OF: Telephone Pioneers of America; Chestnut Street Associates;
Macedonian Lodge, A.F. & A.M.

THE arrival of the Class Life questionnaire for the Twenty-fifth
Anniversary Report and the fact that the local paper began to
fill the “Old Timer’s” column with happenings of 1924, brought

[335]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

a sudden realization that the twinges in my joints were not alto-
gether due to unusual exercises. I am still startled somewhat on

hearing classmates solemnly quoted as authorities or pointed out

as celebrities.
All of my time has been spent in New England, living, work-

ing, playing, and being a good citizen in the community. M
wife and I have travelled thoroughly by automobile through the
United States. So far, we have been in practically every state
and this year hope to visit the remainder, thus completing our
tour of the forty-eight.

Although new economic theories seem to have supplanted
many of the basic principles we were once taught, the gleaming
shield of Veritas still stands steadfast, often the one bright spot
in the dark and confused background of our times.

LEWIS GORDON

HOME appress: 708 Gramatan Ave., Mt. Vernon, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 50 Broadway, New York, N. Y.
BorN: Aug. 10, 1902, Rockport, Mass. parents: Simon David Gordon, Net-

tie Florence Kingsley.
PREPARED AT: Gloucester High School, Gloucester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.
marRiED: Mavis H. Taylor, Feb. 22, 1929, New York, N. Y. cuitp: Lewis,

Jr., Nov. 8, 1930.
HARVARD SON: Lewis Gordon, Jr., 752.
HARVARD BROTHER: Everett Frank Gordon, ”20.
occupation: Director, International Division, Sylvania Electric Products,

Inc.
MY LIFE since 1924 has been strictly routine and normal. I
would not think of boring other Class members with the unin-
teresting details. .

WILLIAM ALEXANDER GORDON

HOME apprEss: Scaife Road, Sewickley Heights, Sewickley, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co., 2000 Grant Bldg., Pittsburgh,

Pa.
BoRN: Aug. 30, 1902, Flushing, N. Y. parents: Gordon Gordon, Lucy Hen-

derson Bullard.
PREPARED AT: Westminster School, Simsbury, Conn.; Phillips Academy, An-

dover, Mass.

[ 336 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Madelaine Laughlin Alexander, June 24, 1933, Sewickley, Pa.
(died June 30, 1944). cHILDREN: Gordon, March 9, 1935; Maitland
Alexander, Aug. 25, 1936; William Alexander, Jr., Dec. 28, 1937; Laugh-
lin Alexander, Aug. 3, 1939; Charles Alexander, July 30, 1942; Jona-
than Harrington, June 30, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lewis Henderson Gordon, ’27.

occuPATION: Manager of trade sales, Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Newman-Crosby Steel Corporation; secretary, di-
rector, Taft-Pierce Manufacturing Company; vestryman, St. Stephen’s
Church; member, assistant treasurer of chapter, Trinity Cathedral,
member, diocesan council, judge of elections, Diocese of Pittsburgh,
treasurer, member board of trustees, Sewickley Academy; member
board of trustees, Western Pennsylvania School for the Deaf; member
board of governors, Pittsburgh Club.

MEMBER OF: Allegheny Country Club; Sewickley Hunt Club; Pittsburgh
Club; Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club, Duquesne Club; Rolling Rock
Club; Harvard Club of New York.

MY FAVORITE quotation when I left the Yard in June, 1924,
was Forsan et haec olim memininisse quvabit, and nearly twenty-
five years later my favorite quotation is still the same excerpt from
that pungent conversation between Dido and Aeneas. And inci-
dentally, I reread regularly two or three times a year that literary
jewel Aeneas Africanus, by Edwards, in addition to most of the
Shakespearean plays studied under “Kitty” in Harvard Hall as a
sophomore and as a junior. .

The past twenty-five years can be divided roughly, like Gaul,
into three parts; nine years as a bachelor, eleven years as a bene-
dict, and five years as a widower.

My nine years as a bachelor were extremely active and reason-
ably happy, although it must be admitted that I was too con-
cerned with getting ahead in the plate glass business to have
much opportunity for steady reading or for concentrated relaxa-
tion, My plans to read a good many volumes unread went “by
the board,” much to my chagrin. Instead I moved about from
New York to Pittsburgh to Chicago to Pittsburgh to Minneapolis
and way stations, and then finally returned to Pittsburgh in
1929, where I have resided, between business trips and vacations,
for the past twenty years.

Following marriage in 1933, I settled down to raising a family,
to identifying myself more closely with the church, and to trying

[ 337]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

at one and the same time to reduce my bridge losses to a minimum
and to lower my golf handicap to a respectable figure. At about
this time, I began to forego squash racquets and hard tennis and
to increase my consumption of cigars. Meanwhile, my wife
presented me with one son after another until there were six, a
complete hockey team, but steadfastly refused to give me a
daughter. With the exception of the war, in which I was largely
a spectator, exempted because of the nature of my job, these
eleven years were as happy as they could possibly be; and when
the boys’ mother died, the bottom dropped out of everything.
During the past five years, your classmate has tried to “pick up
the pieces,” or in other words, to “carry on” to the best of his
ability. His relatives, his friends, and his church have backed him
up all along the line, and he will be fully satisfied if he can last
just another sixteen years, when his youngest son, Jonathan,
reaches his majority. His eldest son, Gordon, entered St. Paul’s

last September, and promptly nailed two Harvard banners to the
walls of his alcove.

FREDERICK JOSEPH GORMAN

appress: 100 Nashua St, Boston 14, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 30, 1903, Boston, Mass. PARENTs: John Francis Gorman, Bridget
O’Rowle.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.
OCCUPATION: State government service.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Gorman did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

JOHN DILLON GORMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 3555 Netherland Ave., Riverdale, New York 63, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 33 W.-34th St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1901, Brockton, Mass. Parents: Dennis Joseph Gorman,
Catherine Louisa Kelly.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1024.

MaRRIED: Cathleen M. Dowling, Feb. 5, 1930, Brookline, Mass, CHILDREN:
Judith, March 31, 1932; John Dillon, Jr., March 12, 1937.

occuPATION: Hosiery buyer.

[ 338 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PHILIP GOSSLER

LAST KNOWN AppreEss: 161 E. 75th St., New York 21, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 27, 1901, Montreal, P. Q., Canada. parents: Philip Green Goss-
ler, Mary Claplin.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Gossler did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

FRANCIS XAVIER GRADY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 711 East St., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Raytheon Manufacturing Co., Waltham 54, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 14, 1902, Chelsea, Mass. pareENTS: Francis Xavier Grady, Agnes
Adelaide Carroll.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1924(25); M.B.A., 1927.

MARRIED: Stella Mary Thomson, Feb. 22, 1941, Dorchester, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Statistician,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

AFTER graduating from the Business School, I spent a few
months at the Gillette plant in South Boston, and then a few
months more doing public accounting with Price Waterhouse
Company in Boston.

Early in 1928 I became affiliated with Lever Brothers Company
in Cambridge and spent the next eighteen and one-half years
there, associated with the advertising and sales departments.
Now I am in the sales division of the Raytheon Manufacturing
Company, which I joined late in 1946.

In 1938, after despairing of ever becoming a golfer, I resumed
a hobby that I had practically abandoned after college — the
study of the violin. I still keep up my interest by taking bi-
weekly lessons.

Although settling down to married life did not come until
comparatively late, I have quickly become an out-and-out con-
vert, with no regrets except that of having taken so long to make
up my mind. Advice on this subject is the only advice I have
taken from my brother-in-law, Edward Lane, during an ac-
quaintanceship of over thirty years.

[ 339]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

+: SIDNEY CHASE GRAVES

BORN: July 21, 1901, London, England. parents: William Phillips Graves,
Alice Mirick Chase.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.; Milton Academy, Milton,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1924(25); M.D., 1929.

marriep: Alice Driver Brown, April 21, 1934. CHILDREN: Sidney Chase, Jr.,
March 10, 1936; Margaretta Levering, Nov. 22, 1937; Alice Driver,
Feb. 8, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Phillips Graves, Jr., 27

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted in Medical Corps, U. S. Naval Reserve,
July, 1942. Served at Chelsea Naval Hospital, Chelsea, Mass., until
March, 1944. Detailed to overseas service, March, 1944; killed in action,

May 14, 1944.
pieD: May 14, 1944, in Pacific area.
wipow: Mrs. Sidney C. Graves, 148 Central Ave., Milton, Mass.

SIDNEY CHASE GRAVES entered Harvard after completing
preparatory study at St. Paul’s School and Milton Academy. In
college he was a member of the Freshman Hockey Team, the
Hockey Squad (1921-24), Hockey Team (1924), Freshman
Smoker Committee, Institute of 1770, D.K-E., S.K. Club, Hasty
Pudding Club, and the Porcellian Club. In addition to his four
years of undergraduate work, he took an additional year of pre-
medical study and received an A.B. degree in 1925, as of 1924.
Upon graduation, he entered Harvard Medical School and was
awarded an M.D. degree in 1929.

The first two years following graduation from medical school,
he interned on the East Surgical Service of the Massachusetts
General Hospital, Boston, and in 1931 he became the resident
surgeon of the Free Hospital for Women in Brookline, remaining
in that capacity for two years. He later served as assistant visiting
surgeon at this hospital. In addition to his private practice, he
was a member (from 1933) of the Harvard Medical School fac-
ulty and served as an assistant in gynecology.

At the onset of World War II, he enlisted in the U. S. Naval
Reserve and, after serving for nearly two years at the Chelsea
Naval Hospital, was ordered to overseas service. He was killed
in action shortly after reaching the Pacific. His rank was lieuten-
ant commander.

He was a member of the Lancet and Aesculapian Clubs; the

[ 340 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Massachusetts Medical Society; the American Medical Associa-
tion; a fellow of the American College of Surgeons; an associate
of the Obstetrical Society of Boston; Boston Medical Library,
New England Obstetrical and Gynecological Society; and a
diplomate of the American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology.

HENRY COOLIDGE GRAY

HOME aApprEsS: Lake Trail West, Mt. Kemble Lake, Morristown, N. J.

OFFICE apDREsS: Columbia High School, Maplewood, N. J.

BoRN: May 3, 1903, North Easton, Mass. parents: John Gray, Emily At-
wood Leach.

PREPARED AT: Oliver Ames High School, North Easton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924, DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; a.M. (Colum-
bia Univ.), 1928.

MaRRIED: Martha Jane Murphy, Aug. 22, 1931, Maplewood, N. J. CHILDREN:
Martha Jane, March 1, 1935; Robert Randall, Oct. 15, 1935; Margaret
Atwood, Aug. 6, 1937.

OCCUPATION: Class adviser and teacher, Columbia High School.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member, Auxiliary Fire Department, Civilian
Defense, Maplewood, 1942-45. .

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Jersey.

PUBLICATIONS: A Study to Discover Attitudes of Pupils, Teachers, and
Parents Toward the Profession of Teaching, Metropolitan School
Study Council, 1947.

THE past twenty-five years have passed rapidly in a life which,
as I look back upon it, has been quiet, prosaic, and perhaps, to
many would appear even dull. But to me the years have been
filled with pleasure and many satisfactions. Working with young
people — advising them and trying to help them find a direction
for their lives — and bringing up a family of three children have
kept me busy.

Through my day-by-day contact with young people over a
period of twenty years, I have come to know a great deal about
them, their hopes and aspirations, their frustrations and disap-
pointments, and their ideals. ‘There is much potential power in
the youth of our country which needs careful guidance and help.
The guidance counselor finds great satisfaction in aiding and
encouraging young people to develop these latent powers.

It is always amazing to me how little real interest the people
of a community express in their schools. Public education in the

[ 341 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

United States is a powerful force, for it is a prime factor in
shaping the future of our land. How much greater a force the
school could be if citizens took a more active interest and partici-
pated to a greater extent in the formulation of educational poli-
cies. How can the citizenry entrust so completely its most valu-
able asset, its youth, to the schools without taking a constant
interest in what they are doing? However, it is encouraging to
note that in many communities today teachers, pupils, and citi-
zens are working closely together to build better educational
practices.

My recent study, under the auspices of the Metropolitan
School Study Council, of the attitudes towards the profession of
teaching was quite enlightening. Parents seemed to feel that the
profession was a finer one than the teachers considered it to be.
Perhaps if teachers were prouder of their work, schools could be
better and would attract more of the stronger personalities into
teaching.

Ownership of a small farm in western Ohio for six years gave
me an insight into some of the problems of farmers. However,
the recent increase in the value of farm land was so tempting, and
the difficulties of an absentee landlord so numerous that I ended
my farm ownership in the spring of 1948.

As long as our children were small and could find amusement
in a narrow land area, we lived in town, Now that they are older,
we have moved to the country. The joy that the children have in .
the woods, stream, lake, and open country amply repays us for
the inconveniences of country living. Life has assumed a slower
pace more fitting to the increasing years, and we have more time
to spend together as a family.

LOUIS JONATHAN GREENBERG

HOME appress: 43 McLean St., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 141 Charles St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 4, 1903, Boston, Mass, parents: Jacob Greenberg, Julia Levine.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924, DEGREB! A.B. 1924.

Marritp: Katherine E, Tuzik, Oct. 22, 1935, Harrison, N. Y.

OLUPATION: Sales representative for Keeler Brass Company, Grand Rapids,
Mich.

MEMBER OF: Everett C. Benton Lodge, AF. & A.M.

( 342 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I HAVE been working hard in order to earn more and thus
spend more.

RAYMOND BARRY GREENE

HOME AbpREss: 232 Watchung Fork, Westfield, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Connecticut General Life Insurance Co., 11 Commerce St,
Newark, N. J.

BORN: May 6, 1901, Passaic, N. J. parents: Raymond Austin Greene, Flor-
ence Dearborn Barry.

PREPARED AT: Laft School, Watertown, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922, 1931-1932.

MarRiED: Agatha Jennison, Sept. 6, 1922, Bay City, Mich. (divorced); Kath-
ryn Brady, June 17, 1937, New York, N. Y. cui~pren: Agatha Buimey,
Aug. 8, 1923 (m. Wendell East, December, 1945); Raymond Barry, Jr.
May 9, 1925; William Jennison, March 19, 1930; Sarah Dearborn, Feb.
5, 1940, Patricia Anne, Oct. 26, 1942. GRANDCHILD: Morgan East, Nov.
II, 1946.

OccUPATION: Manager, Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, for
Northern New Jersey.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Williams R.O.T.C., 1917; Junior Plattsburg,
1918.

OFFICES HELD: President, Newark Chapter of C.L.U., 1946, General Agents
and Managers Association of Northern New Jersey, 1947; vice-presi-
dent, Life Underwriters Association of Northern New Jersey, 1948;
director, Babies’ Hospital Guild, Newark, 1948, chairman, Commercial
Division of C.E.D., Newark, 1945-46.

MEMBER OF: Essex Club; Downtown Club of Newark; Harvard Club of
Newark; Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Business School Club
of New York.

JOHN MASON BROWN, in his Class of 1923 Report, won-
dered if all people should not be temporarily uprooted from their
jobs every ten years to get a fresh point of view. Though de-
pressions are unpleasant, as were the wars of J.M.B., they do
tend to give one a fresh point of view as to the realities of life.

The depths of the depression painted quite vividly a fast
shrinking bank account and helped me to the realization that
my duties as secretary of a wholesale hardware company in
Michigan gave little satisfaction by way of creative accomplish-
ment. The Rubicon in this case was my resigning from the com-
pany and entering Harvard Business School, from which I re-
ceived a certificate in 1934.

The next four and one-half years were spent in merchandising

[ 343 ]

\

HARVARD CLASS OF I924

(Montgomery Ward) and then in 1938, a unique observation
helped to crystallize the opportunity which has given me my
greatest source of satisfaction in business.

The observation was that many of my friends and business
acquaintances worked long hours to “get ahead” in their chosen
fields, but few of them spent any time on their personal financial
plans to get the most out of what they had worked so hard to
accumulate — like the farmer who had grown a magnificent
bumper crop and then lost a large part of it because he hadn’t
planned in advance how it was going to be picked.

Asa result, July, 1939, found me with the Connecticut General
Life Insurance Company of Hartford, where estate planning was
born. And in 1943 came the opportunity of bringing, through
my associates, this service to the people of northern New Jersey.

My family? Present family life, that is? Well, it started with
a pretty slick little red-head whom I met in 1936. She and our
two tornadoes, plus a boxer pup and a kitty, keep “Pa” jump-
ing — but it’s fun.

Travel? We poked our noses into Honolulu in 1939 before we
even had carpets or dining room furniture — and almost stayed
for good. Other favorites were Colorado, Bermuda, and Nassau
—and our next venture is the Harvard Reunion in 1949.

STEPHEN GREENE, II

HOME ADpRESS: 12 Rue du Douanier, Paris (14e), France.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ets. Emel, 6 Rue des Suisses, Paris (14e), France.

BorN: April 20, 1903, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: William Houston Greene,
Sara Marie Cavanagh.

PREPARED AT: Episcopal Academy, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: AB., 1924.

MarRIED: Sophie Victor. -

OCCUPATION: Director, Ets. Emel, Paris, France; industrial consultant
specializing in Work Simplification Programs.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Industrial consultant with OSRD, attached to
New Developments Division, Pentagon, Washington, D. C.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Ste. Filmtac, Paris, since 1931, Ets. Emel, Paris,
since 1934; honorary secretary, American Chamber of Commerce in
France, since 1945.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, American Society of Motion
Picture Engineers; Sucicty for the Advancement of Management, Pho-

[ 344 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tographic Merchandising and Distributing Association; American Club
of Paris; TNT; Touring Club of France.

RALPH MALCOLM CLARKE GREENIDGE

HOME ADDRESS: 100 Fairmount Ave., Chatham, N. J.

OFFICE appRESS: Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc., Murray Hill, N. J.

BORN: July 12, 1902, St. Johns, Barbados, B. W. I. parents: Malcolm Fiddis
Greenidge, Bessie O’Neale Clarke.

PREPARED AT: Lodge School, Barbados, B. W. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B. IN M.E., 1924.

MARRIED: Frances Howard Ford, April 23, 1927, Orange, N. J. cuitpren:
Malcolm Clarke, Jan. 18, 1928; Carrington Howard, Oct. 14, 1932.

HARVARD SON: Malcolm Clarke Greenidge, ’52.

occupation: Telephone engineer, Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc.

IT’S hard to believe that twenty-five years have elapsed since
President Lowell bid us each Godspeed with the hard-earned
sheepskin. Hardly had the ink on it had time to dry before I
was in New York City working for the Western Electric Com-
pany engineering department, which in 1925 became the Bell
Telephone Laboratories. The initial era of my post-graduation
existence — without protracted feminine encumbrance — lasted
for almost three years. During the first part of this period I was
fortunate enough to be bedded down with Weston Gage Thomas
and Kenneth Maurice Keefe, which helped to mollify the eco-
nomic limitations which beset a young engineer on his own. We
had a lot of fun with cards—those you dealt and those you
held in front of little sliding windows in doors. Some of our
experiences were not altogether uninteresting. During the second
part of the period I lived in Brooklyn with my brother who was
in this country for a while. By this time I had succumbed to the
mating instinct and spent a great deal of time in the Orange
Mountains of New Jersey with a girl named Frances Ford, whom,
as the previous records show, I married on April 23, 1927.

In the athletic line I competed for the New York Athletic
Club in the javelin, but never achieved any fame, although I
enjoyed trying. Matt Smith also competed for the New York
Athletic Club in the discus for a while. I also took up the game
of golf, most of which I played with Kenny Bourne during
vacations. I reached my peak in this sport at Marblehead, Massa-

[ 345 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

warding have to be done year after year by substantially the
same people —a fraction of the whole. This has always been
very disconcerting to me, for I fail to see how we can have a
vibrant democracy in a community, state, or nation where the
majority of the people are indifferent to almost everything except
as it affects their own little backyard. Well, I think I shall stop
this sermon before I tangle with Corliss Lamont.

And now a little about my work. I learned from Professor
Taussig’s book in Economics A that “all labor is irksome.” I
heartily agree, at least in part — and J might add “the more highly
unionized, the more irksome.” The telephone business embraces
multitudinous fields of specialization and I have dug around in
a few of them. I started out in magnetics and drifted into the
development of loading coils (for long distance communication)
before the dawn of carrier telephony, coaxial cables, and the
new-fangled microwaves. From there I went into “outside plant”
work which has nothing to do with farming, but rather with
the development of telephone equipment of quartz crystal oscil-
lators and resonators. Piezoelectricity, my classmates, is mysterious
to me, but highly useful. As of this date I am working on re-
sistances—the things that have ohms and retard the flow of
electric current. So, you see, I have been around a bit and, to
tell the truth, have gained an impression of what the soccer ball
we used to kick around Soldiers Field felt like, Nevertheless, I
have made many friends and the work has been interesting and
has taken me to interesting places around the country which I
would not ordinarily have visited. I spent almost two months once
on the desert of New Mexico. Another time I had a chance to en-
joy the woods and fields of Wisconsin in quest of a panacea
for lightning damage to telephone cable. Thus I hope that I have
contributed in some measure to the communication art. I should
like to point out, however, that I have had nothing to do with
this television thing, and that all complaints of the Class chould
be directed to Bill Wintringham and others.

For other details of my interim existence — see me at the Re-
union.

L 348 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JESSE MORE GREENMAN, JR.
HOME ADDRESS: 32 Manchester Rd., Tuckahoe 7, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Consolidated Millinery Co., 417 Fifth Ave. New York 16,

N. Y.
BoRN: June 26, 1903, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Jesse More Greenman,

Anne Turner.

PREPARED AT: Soldan High School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; M.B.A., 1926.

MargiED: Carol Southworth Hopkins, June, 1932, Millerton, N. Y. cut-
DREN: Carol More, 1933; Jesse More, 3d, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Milton Turner Greenman, ’26.

occupaTion: Manager and controller, Eastern District Office, Consolidated

Millinery Company.
MEMBER OF: Sigma Alpha Epsilon Alumni Association.

WHILE still clutching my M.B.A. degree from the Business
School, I became a merchandise assistant at the E. T. Slattery
Company in Boston, but succumbed to the lure of the stock
brokerage business in January, 1928, and moved to Hartford,
Connecticut. This occupation lasted for ten years, mostly as a
statistician for three firms in Hartford, namely, Fuller, Richter,
Aldrich & Company (a 1930 victim of 1929); the Hartford office
of Paine, Webber & Company; and Coburn & Middlebrook.
There was an interval of about two and one-half years, W hen I
was associate manager of the Security Analysis Division of the In-
surance Department of the State of Connecticut, a most interest-
ing experience as a substantial number of insurance companies
had serious troubles.

In February, 1938, I made my present affiliation with a firm
leasing and operating millinery departments in department stores
in almost every state in the Union. Commuting keeps me abreast
of the daily news, and the New Yorker supplies the more serious
literature. The rest of my time is occupied with un-balancing
the family budget.

Our daughter, whose sixteenth birthday looms, has attended
the Hannah More Academy, Reisterstown, Maryland, for the
last three years, where her activities of horseback riding, basket-
ball, etc., far over-shadow her scholastic progress. Our son is
breezing easily through grammar school, ambitious to enter West
Point with the class of 1960, or thereabouts. At present, he seems

L 349 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

to have little inclination to entertain the more strenuous propo-
sition of a Harvard education.

WILLIAM EARL GREGG

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 607 W. Water St., Kerrville, Texas.

BORN: July 28, 1902, Calumet, Mich. parents: William Tecumseh Sherman
Gregg, Lulu Belle Lounsberry.

PREPARED AT: Calumet High School, Calumet, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924, M.D., 1928.

MARRIED: Virginia Louise Tracy, Sept. 14, 1932, Pontiac, Ill. crpren: Noel
Virginia, Dec. 24, 1936; Mary Ann, July 12, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Ward Irving Gregg, ’28; Richard Lounsberry Gregg,
38.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Local chairman, Health and Emergency Medi-
cal Service, Civilian Defense, 1941-45; Medical examiner, Kerr County,
Texas, Local Board, Selective Service System, 1941-45.

OFFICES HELD: City health officer, Kerrville, Texas, 1940-49; president, Kerr-
Kendall-Gillespie-Bandera Counties Medical Society, 1941 and 1946;
Staff of Kerrville General Hospital, 1947-49; director, Kerr County
Tuberculosis Association, 1949, Kerrville Municipal Concert Associa-
tion, 1948-49.

MEMBER OF: Kerrville Rotary Club.

AFTER leaving medical school in 1928, I had a two-year intern-
ship at St. Luke’s Hospital in Chicago. For the next nine years,
ending in the summer of 1939, I worked as an assistant to Dr. F.
W. Griffeth at Elgin, Illinois. A vacation at Eagle Harbor,
Michigan, was followed by an interesting trip, inasmuch as it was
our guest for a new location and home; stops in Missouri and
Oklahoma failed to disclose what we thought we were seeking,
and Texas beckoned; two days out of Dallas and an hour’s drive
west of San Antonio we found Kerrville and an opportunity to
go back to work without delay, with the result that on November
first, I at last opened my own office and hung out my shingle.
So I became a Texan by adoption — Mary Ann insists she is the
only real Texan in the family —and I fear I have already ac-
quired that attribute of almost all Texans, native or adopted —
their “brag.”

However, since some classmates may wonder what sort of
place this little bit of great big Texas may be, and few if any
will otherwise be informed, I feel impelled to indulge in brief

[ 350]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

description. Kerrville spreads out along one bank of the Guada-
lupe River in the “Heart of the Hill Country,” southwest Texas,
on the eastern edge of the Edwards Plateau. Moderate elevation
is a large factor in producing a fairly good climate, about the
best in all of Texas from an all-seasons point of view. Naturally
such conditions, along with the presence in the vicinity of many
large summer camps for girls and boys, attract a large tourist
trade, and a great many families from the larger cities, particu-
larly Houston, maintain summer homes or ranches within the
county. Hunting of wild turkey and white-tailed deer is another
attraction (and, incidentally, my own favorite sport) and amounts
to a big business for the ranchers, towns, and cities, as well. But
the backbone industry is in its broad sense agricultural — sheep,
goats, and cattle — or wool, mohair, and meat. The Jaycee’s an-
nual July rodeo is one of the best, fast becoming famous through-
out the Southwest. Most popular indoor (and, in summer, out-
door, as well) entertainment is dancing, with many a Paul Jones,
polka, and Cotton-eyed Joe. It is the hospitality and friendliness
of people here in all walks of life which finally make the average
visitor want to remain or at least to return as often as possible.

Returns to Cambridge, since 1938, have been three in number
— the first for the wedding of my brother, Ward, who married
Edith Webster in 1931, the second for our Tenth in 1934, the
third and longest in June and July, 1938. This last was of sufh-
cient length, so filled with interest and pleasure, that we were
very loath to leave. After Commencement and a brief trip to
Woodstock, I stayed on at Gerry’s Landing to attend a refresher
course at Massachusetts General for six weeks, spending all week-
ends at Naushon with Ward’s family and mine; and what won-
derful weekends those were! Brief trips into nearby Old Mexico
have constituted my only foreign travel.

Come and see us just once, then you may want to “hurry
back.”

HENRY STURGIS GREW, JR.

HOME AppRESS: 285 Ocean Ave., Lawrence, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREss: Wellington Sears Co., 65 Worth St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: March 31, 1901, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Henry Sturgis Grew, ’96,
Ethel Hooper.

[351 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

MarRIED: Selina Richards Wood, Nov. 29, 1935, Philadelphia, Pa. CHILDREN:
Henry Sturgis, 3d, Sept. 1, 1936; Joseph Clark, 2d, Dec. 20, 1939; Selina
Richards, Sept. 11, 1944; Robert Sturgis, March 31, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Hooper Grew, ’29.

occUPATION: Mercantile business.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member, Cotton Dock Advisory Committee,
War Production Board.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Wellington ‘Sears Company,
since 1938; director, Equinox Mill, Anderson, S. C., since 1938, Textile
Research Institute, Inc., 1948.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Merchants Club, New York;
Lawrence Beach Club, Lawrence, Long Island, N. Y.

AFTER graduation, I spent the summer travelling through
Europe, but early in the fall I went to work in the Lovett Cotton
Mill in Lovett, Alabama. In January, 1927, I joined the Boston
office of Wellington Sears Company but was shortly sent to
Detroit, Michigan, to contact the automotive industry. In the
fall of 1929 I was transferred to Wellington Sears Company’s
New York office, where I have been ever since. I am currently
in charge of manufacturing and development work, which un-
fortunately requires a great deal of travelling across the country.

HORACE HARNDEN GRISWOLD.

HOME ADDRESS: 2620 Creston Drive, Hollywood 28, Calif.
OFFICE appress: Mund-McLaurin Associates, 210 W. Seventh St, Los Angeles,

Calif,

BoRN: Aug. 23, 1902, Ventura, Calif. parents: Joel Sabin Griswold, Mabel
Harnden.

PREPARED AT: Los Angeles High School, Los Angeles, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920~1922.

MARRIED: Katharine Appleton Stone, Sept. 25, 1926, Medford, Mass. cHixp:
Deborah Ann, June 2, 1930.

OCCUPATION: Insurance analyst.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Maritime Service, World War I.

MY WORK in the insurance field has taken up most of the time of
the last twenty-five years. The principal part of this has been in
the actuarial and statistical end, and group insurance has been the

chief interest.
Insurance analytical work and administration in the self-insured

[352]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

plans is the most interesting and pleasant phase of the business that
I have seen.

As to social and political convictions, the “welfare state” and
the basic concept of self-insurance are somewhat opposed. Cali-
fornia’s reputation to the contrary, there is still some conservatism
in the hills!

Sailing and trout fishing when time is available (and that seems
seldom), cover the hobby field. Aside from an occasional trip to
the East Coast, travel has been limited by the Rockies, and we
seem to be growing into more and more provincial Californians.

MAURICE RICHARD GROSSER

HOME appress: 100 Belvoir Ave., Chattanooga, Tenn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 219 W. 14th St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 23, 1903, Huntsville, Ala. parents: Edward Harold Grosser,
Theresa Goldsmith.

PREPARED AT: Webb School, Bellbuckle, Tenn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1924.

OCCUPATION: Painter; dealer, Knoedler Art Gallery, New York City.

PUBLICATIONS: “Painting in Public,” Knopfs, 1948; scenarios for the two
Stein-Thomson operas: “Four Saints in Three Acts,” and “The Mother
of Us All.”

oa

CHARLES HAROLD GUSHEE

HOME ADDRESS: 190 Prospect St., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Financial Publishing Co., 82 Brookline Ave., Boston 15,
Mass. .

BORN: Nov. 29, 1903, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Almond Shaw Gushee,
Therese Louise Peters.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1924.

MarRiED: Priscilla Creevy Simpson, Sept. 5, 1930, Somerville, Mass. cHIL-
DREN: Ann Elizabeth, Dec. 22, 1931; Philip Charles, Feb. 6, 1938; Cyn-
thia Mary, Aug. 30, 1940; Susan Ellen, Nov. 19, 1942.

occupaTION: Publisher of financial books.

OFFICES HELD: Visiting assistant professor of commerce, University of South-
ern California, summer of 1948.

MEMBER OF: Boston Chamber of Commerce; Society of Printers; The Book-
builders; American Civil Liberties Union.

PUBLICATIONS: Financial Compound Interest and Annuity Tables, 1942; Mu-
nicipal and Corporation Bonds, 1936; Stocks and Their Market-places,

[ 353 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

1929, 1937; planning and publishing of at least twenty-five books in the
last twenty-five years as the products of the company. |
IN RETROSPECT my twenty-five years’ history is wholly un-
exciting. Immediately on finishing college, I took a job with a _
small company called Financial Publishing Company. I am still ©
there.

For five years I clerked, or computed, or sold their books until
the opportunity arose of purchasing control. I became president
of the company in August, 1929, a brief two months before
the start of the financial troubles. Somehow, I survived the de-
pression and since then have diligently worked at the job of run-
ning what is really a most unusual small business.

It is hard to pass judgment on the product of these years since
everything I have written or planned for publication (one article
excepted) has been published by my own company. I can say
that about ninety per cent of all books of tables used in the in-
vestment or banking business today have been prepared under >
my supervision.

Last summer I varied the routine by teaching a summer course
in the mathematics of finance at the University of Southern Cali-
fornia, primarily to educate myself as to what to put into books,

Geographically, I have spent the twenty-five years around
Boston, in one suburb or another. In 1937 I built a home in
Belmont where, with my wife and four children, I now live.

ALBERT HAILPARN

HOME appress: 400 E. 57th St. New York, N. Y.

oFFice aporess: Einson-Freeman Lithograph Co., Long Island City, N. Y.

BORN: June 3, 1903, Boston, Mass. parents: William Hailparn, Etta Sidd.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGRER: A.B., 1924.

MARRIFD: F loreine June Nelson, June 9, 1947, Westport, Conn.

occupation: Manufacturer, lithographed point-of-purchase advertising.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Joined A.A.F, Aug. 20, 1942, as ist lieutenant,
separated Feb. 28, 1945, as captain.

orrices HELD: President and director, Einson-Freeman Foundation, Long
Island City, N. Y., Finson-Freeman Building Corporation; executive
vice-president and director, Einson Freeman Lithograph Company,
Inc., vice-president and director, Geo, Greb Photo Studio, New York,
N. Y.; director, Fairlawn Industrics, Fairlawn, N. J.

Memispk ov: Harvard Club of New York; City Achletic Club, New York.

[354]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

_] DECIDED, for some reason now apocryphal, upon an adver-
tising career. Agency jobs were unavailable in those dear, dead
days and, after floundering around for a few years in the litho-
graphing business which I detested, I found myself associated
with two lads who agreed with me that a powerful advertising
medium was latent amid the presses and the ink,

After twenty years of zealous application, mingled with an
intense desire to retire at the earliest possible age, I find that our
dream has resolved itself into “point-of-purchase” advertising
and is a respectable, but not commissionable, member of every
well-rounded advertising program.

The retirement lure has grown with the acquisition of the per-
fect wife. One Herculean task remains — pulling out the long,
hardy, and tenuous roots. One pleasurable task remains —
choosing among the south of France, the north of Cuba, and the
south of California. .There are greedy moments when it appears
that it may be all three.

DUDLEY WINTHROP HALLETT

HOME apprEss: 34 Walbrooke Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New York Telephone Co., 140 West St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 3, 1902, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Winthrop Allen Hallett, Ros-
ella Dudley.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

MARRIED: Julia Margaret Herrick, Sept. 21, 1940, New York, N. Y. cat-
DREN: Linda Gertrude, July 22, 1942; Dudley Winthrop, Jr. May 22,
1945.

Occupation: Traffic superintendent, New York Telephone Company.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Rotary Club of the Pelhams, N. Y.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club of the Pelhams, N. Y.; Timber Trails Club, Sher-
man, Conn.; Edgemont Association, Scarsdale, N. Y.

AS SOME classmates may recall, I spent rather more time than I
Should have as an undergraduate working in the stage department
of the Dramatic Club. The skill I acquired made it possible for
me to take a job immediately after Commencement as stage mana-
ger for the Jitney Players, a travelling dramatic group. We toured
New England during the summer months giving performances
out of doors unless the weather forced us inside. I recall that we

[355]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

played in sixty towns during our ten weeks on the road. Since
it took four hours to set up the stage which was on a truck and
two hours to take it down again, it seems remarkable in retro-
spect that we had so much time to enjoy the active social life
that was stimulated by our dramatic efforts. There were dinner
parties and gatherings of all sorts with interested people who
thought our undertaking so “romantic.” Fast friendships were
made among our group which numbered fifteen. These friend-
ships persist to this day. Whenever two or three of us can get
together a pleasant evening of reminiscences is assured.

At the close of the season, I entered the investment bankin
business in Boston. After three interesting years, I decided that
my career lay elsewhere so I came to New York with a chain store
organization. Soon after a hectic Christmas season, I decided to
make still another change and went to work for the New York
Telephone Company. Twenty-one years of service with the Bell
System makes me a telephone pioneer.

My work with the telephone industry has been in the traffic
and commercial departments. During the war I was with the
Long Lines Department of the American Telephone and Tele-
graph Company. There I did staff work on labor relations for
a while, as well as having routine traffic duties. Twice I made
extended business trips to Boston and renewed acquaintances
with scenes of former activities. After the war I joined the New
York Telephone Company’s organization operating in West-
chester County with the office just fifteen minutes from home.
More recently I have moved back to southern Manhattan in a
branch traffic office. I have found my work always interesting
and my associations pleasant. There is a fine group of men and
women working together in the telephone industry.

In my earlier years in New York I lived in Washington Square
in Greenwich Village. After my marriage in 1940 to a Wellesley
girl, who, incidentally, wasn’t in college when we were, I moved
to Scarsdale where we now own a house. With a young daughter
and son, life is still active. Enjoyment comes from watching the
children grow and keeping the house intact.

In 1938 I built a country house at Sherman, Connecticut, on
the Timber Trails Club property. The house was written up in
Better Homes and Gardens magazine, June, 1941. The article

[356]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

brought letters from all sections of the country and I believe
there are now houses similar to ours in many sections of the coun-
try. I hope they have brought as much pleasure in living to the
owners as ours has brought to us.

The years past have been good years. I feel that I can count
many blessings. However, many plans wait for fulfillment in
the future. I plan to travel some and hope to take the children
along. I plan to take an increasingly active part in the life of the
community where I live. I also look forward to maintaining
Class friendships more actively than in the past.

PARKER HAMILTON

HOME apprEss: 41 Tyler Rd., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE aDpREss: Boston University College of Business Administration, 685
Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1901, Marinette, Wis. parents: Arthur Little Hamilton,
Helen Willis Parker.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

MarRIED: Hildegard Kunhardt, June 27, 1927, North Andover, Mass. cHiL-
DREN: Michael, Oct. 22, 1929 (Princeton ’52); Peter, July 16, 1935.

OCCUPATION: Teacher.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II: Solomon Islands and New
Guinea under Air Force as technical representative for eight months.

MEMBER OF: American Association of University Professors.

DURING my first college summer vacation, selling insurance in
Chicago appealed to me as an easy road to fortune. My most
effective selling was done as a result of avid discussions of tennis,
golf, sailing, etc., but not as a result of considering the merits of
our policies. And the very small sum of cash that accrued to
these efforts also helped me to conclude that selling was not my
line.

Two summers’ tutoring convinced me that my original desire
(to become an engineer, after receiving a broad unspecialized
education) was to be supplanted by an ambition to be a teacher.
Despite the popular wise-crack of our time, “What are you going
to do, teach or work?” I thought they could be combined, and
now fully believe that I have ‘combined them,

Doctor Howe, after coaching a real freshman crew, had car-

[357]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

ried through a lifelong ambition and started a school of his own.

“Doc” was wisely unwilling to accept me as a teacher before I

had had a year’s experience elsewhere, Mr. Cram suggested that

Pomfret School needed a man and Pomfret took the chance.

The following year “Doc” took me on at Belmont Hill School.

Thirteen years there were filled with work and the innumer-
able pleasures that attend a teacher's life. Teaching offers one a
chance to live, if not to get rich. Although one may not have as
much time to devote to outside interests during the school year
if one really carries out all that should be done at school, there
are summers. Summers to travel or work for cash, summers to
study to become a more effective teacher.

Fourteen summer school courses at Harvard, three at Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology, and a half-year in the Techni-
cal High School at Munich, plus a study of the principles of
demonstration and display in the Deutsches Museum, made up the
useful academic total. On the warmer, less intellectual side, I
count to date (Ralph Waldo Emerson to the contrary) five trips
to Europe, on three of which my gal and I earned our way over
and back; and six camping trips across our own remarkable
United States, one of which included a visit as far south as Aca-

ulco.

Before explicitly exposing Hildegard Kunhardt to my way of
life, I expounded casually, but in some detail, my theory that life
should be lived in phases. Fifteen or twenty years of teaching
should be enough, for I feared getting in a rut. One deals con-
stantly with minds of less maturity than one’s own and is so often
thought of as an authority on all affairs, whether one likes it or
not, and goes over much the same material from year to year,
that it is a real job to remain fresh. Dilly Kunhardt accepted
the likelihood of change before she said, “Yes.” In 1938 I entered
the business world.

The next seven years meant a great deal to my widening
horizon. I learned to respect some of the goals of business men,
which, up to that time, I had believed to be purely mercenary.
Get, get, get, and for what? The various kinds of responsibility
assigned to me at Polaroid were interesting. But it was not prop-
erly my kind of work. I did not feel effective, my best skills
were not in action. One assignment, however, for Polaroid and

[358]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the government offered a fascinating opportunity, eight months
in the Solomon Islands and New Guinea as a technical representa-
tive under the Air Force to determine how three-dimensional
photographs and mosaics might be used to advantage, and to
train men to produce them with the materials which the serv-
ices already possessed in abundance. Although this was “right
down my alley,” I hoped that it would not last long, as such, and
continued to discuss in letters with my wife the idea of going
back to teaching.

In 1945 I took advantage of the then great need for teachers,
and started a three-year job at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology. I am now at Boston University in the College of
Business Administration, as assistant professor, teaching in the
mathematics and science department.

The third phase of this’ planned living is opening slowly and
expensively. When our two boys are on their own, we shall try
to make a living by camera and film and articles for publication.
I am afraid of it for it is hazardous, but we shall try it if all goes
well.

As far as the boys go, the elder is evidently on his own already
for he went to Princeton last fall. The younger is at the Bel-
mont Hill School. But all four of us have an ever-present yearn-
ing for the Southwest.

ARTHUR ALAN HANSON

HOME ADDRESS: 231 Washington Ave., Brooklyn 5, N. Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Neptune Meter Co., 192 Jackson Ave., Long Island City 1,
N. Y.

BORN: July 20, 1903, Chicago, Ill. Parents: Conrad Allison Hanson, Mary
Alice Whelan.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1924; M.B.A., 1926,

MarRIED: Lothian Kerr, Oct. 3, 1933, Brooklyn, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: Conrad Allison Hanson, Jr. ’27.

OCCUPATION: Treasurer and comptroller, Neptune Meter Company.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member, Local Board #177, Kings County,
N. Y.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; National Association of Cost Ac-
countants,

[359]

a . matin =

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

+ WILLIAM HARVEST HARKNESS, JR.

BoRN: Jan. 26, 1902, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: William Harvest Harkness,
Mabel Beers.
PREPARED AT: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.
MakrrieD: Ruth E. AfcCombs, Sept. 9, 1934.
piep: Feb. 19, 1936, Shanghai, China.
WILLIAM HARVEST HARKNESS, JR., entered Harvard after
completing preparatory work at The Hill School. He was a mem-
ber of the Freshman Tennis Squad, Pi Eta Club, Speakers’ Club,
Institute of 1770, and D.K.E. in college. Receiving his A.B. de-
gree in 1924, he attended the Harvard ‘Law School for two years,
then transferred to the Boston University Law School. In the
summer of 1927 he took a trip around the world, going to China
and India by way of Paris and returning to the United States
through San Francisco. This trip proved the beginning of his
collection of unusual animals and natural history specimens for
which he achieved a reputation. With Lawrence T. K. Gris-
wold of Quincy, Massachusetts, he succeeded in capturing three
of the largest known lizards, referred to as “dragons,” in Komodo,
Dutch East Indies. Two of the lizards were presented to the
Bronx Zoo, and the third was given to the National Zoo, Wash-
ington, D. C.

In 1934 Harkness and four other companions spent five days
adrift on the Sulu Sea before reaching Tawao, Borneo. The
motor boat in which they planned to make an ethnological ex-
pedition had become incapacitated. When the Chinese govern-
ment refused to give permission for a panda-hunting expedition
the following year, he was forced to postpone the project. His
wife later succeeded in capturing and introducing the panda to
the United States.

CARROLL HARRINGTON

HOME appress: 200 Grotto Ave. Providence 6, R. I.

orrice, apprrss: Howard Realty Co. 171 Westminster St., Providence 3,
RL

BorN: July 15, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: George Wheaton Harrington,
‘vo, Marian Augusta Andrews,

[ 360 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.; Noble and Greenough
School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Katherine Stiles, Oct. 4, 1924, Fitchburg, Mass. CHILDREN: Robert
Jeffries, Jan. 14, 1926; Katherine Anne, Nov. 18, 1928; Carroll Stiles,
April 11, 1932.

HARVARD SON: Robert Jeffries Harrington, ’47.

HARVARD BROTHER: Gerald Wallace Harrington, ’30.

OCCUPATION: Business property management.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Howard Realty Company, since 1928, Somerset
Realty Company, since 1928, Winslow Realty Company, since 1928,
St. Martin’s Episcopal Church, since 1941; director, Phenix National
Bank of Providence, since 1936, Title Guarantee Company of R. I,
since 1948, Providence Athenaeum, since 1946, Providence Y.M.C.A.,
1936-40; trustee, Peoples Savings Bank in Providence, since 1941, St.
Phillip’s Church, Mattapoisett, Mass., since 1947; general trustee, Epis-
copal Diocese of R. I, since 1948; president, R. I. Squash Racquets
Association, 1934-36, New England Division Associated Harvard Clubs,
since 1948; R. I. delegate, New England Lawn Tennis Association, since
1947; corporation member, Providence Lying-In-Hospital, Home for
Aged Couples, St. Elizabeth’s Home.

MEMBER OF: Providence Art Club; Agawam Hunt, Hope Club; Harvard
Club of Rhode Island (secretary, 1933-43, president, 1943-45); Matta-
poisett Casino (treasurer, 1936-47, president, since 1947).

IN LOOKING back upon the past twenty-five years, I am some-
times thankful, sometimes dismayed, at the regularity of pattern
portrayed in this part of my life. I am reasonably sure that such
an ordered existence would be abhorrent to most members of
the Class of ’24. No doubt it is a reflection on my character
that I have derived considerable happiness from vacations which,
to most people, would seem downright dreary.

Immediately upon graduation from college, I entered the family
real estate business, then headed by my grandfather. It took me
a number of years to realize that an A.B, degree was not neces-
sarily indicative of a broad knowledge of real estate management.
With the passage of time, I began to assume more responsibilities
in other aspects of community.life. A natural bent for figures,
plus a susceptibility to flattery have caused me undue trouble in
this respect.

The most satisfying relationships have been those with my
parish church and with my alma mater. As custodian of the
pledge cards of some eight hundred communicants, I have learned

[ 36r ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

much of the inherent goodness of human nature. My association
with New England Harvard Clubs has enabled me to return
some measure of recompense for the educational benefits re-
ceived from a great university. I am grateful for both these
opportunities for service.

My life has been singularly blessed. The courageous experi-
ment of becoming engaged at nineteen and married at twenty-
two seems to have worked out well. No doubt my wife and I are
horrible examples to the local unit of the Parents League. Our
elder son, Robert, received his A.B. degree, cum laude, from
Harvard in 1946 (as of the Class of ’47), took one year of graduate
work at the School of Education, and is now happily engaged
in his chosen profession as a teacher at the Aiken Preparatory
School for Boys. Kathy, our daughter, has followed her mother’s
footsteps at Bryn Mawr College, where her honor grades cur-
rently have earned her a year of study abroad at the University
of Geneva. I am sorry that she will not be present at the time
of the Twenty-fifrh Reunion. Our younger son, Carroll, shows
a tolerant disposition to consider Harvard among his choice of
colleges when he graduates from Moses Brown School a year
from this spring.

I have given up competitive play in squash racquets, but am
still active on the tennis court. Last summer, Robert and I
reached the semi-final round of the National Father and Son
Tournament. Our ambition is to win the championship in 1950.
After that date I shall probably retire to the old man’s game of
golf,

Perhaps the past twenty-five years of my life are best sum-
marized in the recent observation of one of my friends: “You
know, Carroll, you’re one of the best adjusted men I know.”

I’m still wondering whether to take that remark as a compli-
ment or as an insult.

THOMAS WILLIAM HARRINGTON

HOME AbpDRESS: 124 Englewood Rd., Longmeadow, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 17, 1900, Medford, Mass. parENTs: Thomas William Harrington,
Margaret Agnes Cleigh,

prepartD AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924.

[ 362 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Margaret E. Nutting, Jan. 25, 1927, Milton, Mass. cxuttp: Thomas
William, Jr., Nov. 26, 1928.

HARVARD SON: Thomas William Harrington, Jr., ’s0.

JOHN UPHAM HARRIS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: St. Andrew’s Rectory, 94 Lincoln St., Framing-
ham, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 31, 1901, Lake Forest, Ill. parents: John Francis Harris, Ger-
trude Burbank Upham.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; B.D. (Episcopal Theologi-
cal School), 1927.

MaRRIED: Katrina Trask Sturges, June 29, 1927, Princeton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Katrina Mia, July 11, 1928, Gertrude Ann, April 16, 1930, John Up-
ham, Jr., Nov. 6, 1931; Susan Coolidge, March 5, 1935.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Henry Pratt Upham Harris, ’23; Lement Upham Har-
ris, °26.

OccUPATION: Minister, Protestant Episcopal Church; rector, St. Andrew’s
Church, Framingham.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Volunteered for service as chaplain, U. S. Army,
June, 1943; commissioned September, 1943; attended Chaplains’ School
at Harvard, November, 1943; assigned as assistant post chaplain, Camp
McCoy, Sparta, Wis.; served as chaplain of Station Hospital, Camp
McCoy for six months, transferred to 194th General Hospital and went
overseas August, 1944; transferred to Paris Detention Barracks as chap-
lain, February, 1945; returned to United States, March, 1946; dis-
charged June, 1946, with rank of captain.

OFFICES HELD: Rector, St. George’s Church, Lee, Mass., 1928-31, St. Thomas
Church, Hanover, N. H., 1931-39, Indian Hill Church, Cincinnati,
1947-48, St. Andrew’s Church, Framingham, Mass., since 1948; minis-
ter, 1939-43, Green Foundation, Trinity Church, Boston; chaplain,
U. S. Army, 1943-46.

IN SPITE of the influence of John Bird, Stan Brown, Parker
Hamilton, Charlie Hubbard, John Monks, and Shaw Sprague
(senior-year room and entry mates at Grays Hall), I found my
faith sufficient to carry me into the Christian ministry. In fact,
life was a bit dull during the three years that I studied for the
ministry, enlivened, however, by the marriage festivities of the
above classmates. I am wondering if the “well handled cat” ever
got out of the elevator shaft at the New York Harvard Club at
Charlie Hubbard’s ushers’ dinner. Clay Hollister should know.

[ 363 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Upon graduation I took a year’s work at Oxford where I at-
tended Balliol College with mutual benefit to wife and self. The
years 1928-1943 were years of an expanding ministry, first in a
small manufacturing town, then in a college community — Dart-
mouth, then in a great city parish in Boston. The war completely
disrupted my life and I found myself a chaplain in the Army
after having first been rejected because of age. I never thought
I would go across but I went without even a P.O.E. leave and
spent some nineteen months overseas in the European Theatre of
Operations. At first I was with the 194th General Hospital,
which, after many wanderings and trials connected with the Battle
of the Bulge, set up in permanent quarters in Paris. Shortly
thereafter I was sent on a special assignment to act as chaplain
for the Military Police units connected with the Paris Detention
Barracks and to be the only resident chaplain in the Detention

Barracks for the prisoners. During the year I was there, over
60,000 stragglers were processed through this establishment and
several thousand general prisoners were “tried. It was my duty to
see all prisoners who received general court martial sentences.
Our population of prisoners ranged from a low of 650 to a high
of 1800 in a plant designed for 700. The majority were Ameri-
can offenders, but we had also war criminals, black market opera-
tors, Canadian prisoners, German prisoners, and for almost a
month the Japanese diplomats from Germany. Services were
conducted for these various groups with the exception of the
Japanese. It was a busy and exhausting twelve months, made en-
durable by two short leaves to the south of France and Switzer-
land (boy, what skiing!) and by the occasional cases where you
could really do something for men caught in a tragic situation.
During this period the Army also assigned me to serve at Hol
Trinity Cathedral, Paris, where I took the Civilian Sunday Serv-
ice during the absence of the Dean and until his return from
America. Of course, in these war days, most of the congregation
was military, but we had a full church on Sundays.

Upon leaving the Army, I took six months off and then under-
took an experiment in Church Unity. Two groups, Presbyterian
and Episcopal, wished to found a united parish with one plant —
church, parish house, and rectory——-in a community where
neither group had any building. For sixteen months I served as

[ 364 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the minister of this venture during which time the organization
of the two parishes and their governing boards were established
and given a working head in a governing board of trustees. Our
membership just about doubled in this period and our budget
and pledges more than tripled. But cost of building put the pro-
ject back for five years or more—estimates now are in the
neighborhood of half a million—and I found it necessary to
resign and get my family all under one roof again. So now I am
hard at work in a grand parish close by and expect to take in all

the reunion activities.

LLOYD FRANCIS HARRIS

HOME ADDRESS: 1130 Stone Canyon Rd., Bel-Air, Los Angeles, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2601 S. Figueroa St., Los Angeles, Calif.

BORN: July 29, 1901, Portland, Oregon. parents: William Henry Harris,
Lillian Marie Schieffelin.

PREPARED AT: Harvard School, Los Angeles, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1024. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MaRRIED: Dorothy Harriet Daniels, June 12, 1923, Chicago, Ill. crimp: Doro-
thea Harriette, Sept. 11, 1925.

OccUPATION: Attorney-at-law.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Colonel, Cavalry, Army of the United States,
1940~46, decorated with Legion of Merit and Army Commendation
Ribbon with cluster.

MEMBER OF: Kappa Alpha Fraternity, Army and Navy Club, Washington,
D.C,

WHEN I was a little fellow, my grandmother showered on me
a priceless gift which has helped me out of many a hole during
my meanderings on earth. Her present was a deal of solid and
homely philosophy which she passed on through the medium of
axiomatic sayings. If you don’t believe that Granny can get me
out of the tough hole of parading my past history before the
Class, stop her on this one, if you can: “Least said, easiest
mended.”

The very thought of writing my autobiography makes me
shudder, because in the parlance of my trade, it can often be
considered as a self-serving declaration and many times as an ad-
mission against interest. I also fear the biography, if it should come
my way, having in mind Bill Shakespeare’s warning, “The evil
men do lives after them. The good is oft interred with their

[ 365 ]

NN

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

bones.” Maybe though, as a defense mechanism, a person should
put in a plug for himself while still breathing, so he can shout
down the opposition. Therefore, I beg to report as follows. |

Since leaving Cambridge, I have lived in California, on the
outskirts of Los Angeles near the Pacific Ocean. I have rendered
such assistance as my wife deemed necessary in rearing a daugh-
ter, who is now a budding scientist. During the depressing
davs of the early thirties, with blood, sweat, and tears, we built
our home, a California ranch house, in a canyon similiar in ap-
pearance, believe it or not, to Rock Creek Park of National
Capital fame.

For many years I have practised law in this area and have the
honor of having been admitted to practise before the Supreme
Court of the United States of America. However, the dear old
career was interrupted for a period in excess of five years by the
squabbling of some disagreeable foreign nations. I trust that the
present and possible future antics of certain foreign characters
will not be so extensive as to require me to remove my sword
and buckler from their moth balls once again.

Of late, I have become a little weary of the intricacies of
modern life, from a city standpoint. As an antidote, I have de-
cided to become a country lawyer, with my services to be avail-
able more to the masses than to the classes, in one of our inter-
esting desert communities, namely, Palm Springs, where, strange
as it may seem, in the winter one may have sunshine and snow
in the same day. The exact date of this metamorphosis is not yet
determined, but will arrive later, if not sooner.

To some of you, no doubt, the desert calls to mind the sun-
scorched skulls of animals and skeletons of humans who have died
of thirst, all of these appurtenances strewn with abandon over
desolate expanses of dryness and nothingness. On the other
hand, to me the great deserts of our West mean the lush green of
the ocotillo and creosote, the delicate purple of the sand ver-
bena and countless other wild flowers to include the magnifi-
cent orchid-like bloom of the cacti, as well as the beautiful and
unusual coconut type of palm that grows in secluded canyons
on the edge of crystal streams, with real water in the palms.
Further, animation is given to this magnificent backdrop on one of
nature’s stages, through the medium of numerous species of birds,

[ 366 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and animals ranging from the tiny chipmunk to big-horned sheep.
I could, of course, go on indefinitely describing what I have de-
termined to be the Fiddlers’ Green of my life, but in order that
you may get on with your reading about others of the Class, I
shall say only this much more. If one day you are motoring,
burro-ing, or flying across the western desert and should observe
a satisfied guy sitting under a bough with a jug and his thou,
don’t be'surprised if you recognize me.

LOUIS MAYER HARRIS

HOME ADDRESS: 2333 Newton Ave., S., Minneapolis, Minn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Harris Machinery Co., 501 30th Ave., S.E., Minneapolis 14,
Minn.

BoRN: May 15, 1903, Chicago, Ill. parents: Arthur Mayer Harris, Carrie
Cohn.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Minneapolis, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Minette Kennis, May 29, 1930, Minneapolis, Minn. cHtpren: Louis
Mayer, Jr., Feb. 18, 1932; Margo Frances, May 7, 1935; Cynthia Kennis,
Oct. 10, 1946.

occuPaTIoN: Machinery dealer.

MEMBER OF: Oak Ridge Country Club; Walker Art Center; Art Institute;
B'nai B’rith.

MY LIFE since leaving Harvard has been well concentrated in

activities in Minneapolis. I immediately joined our family com-

pany, engaged in the buying and selling of machinery of all types,
and have been constantly associated with this company, assum-
ing more and more responsibility as time went on.

Our business, although a small one, is very interesting and has
kept me on my toes, inasmuch as every day brings new items and
new problems, Being small it has its compensations in that all
aspects can be supervised and enjoyed without the usual pres-
sure,

My life outside of business has been occupied with a rather
limited amount of “good works” and a rather large amount of
“good times.” A few of my activities have had some social sig-
nificance but most of them are purely social.

Intellectually, I feel that I am half awake and cognizant of
what is going on, but feel no compulsion to take part in all phascs.

In the latter years ] have been vacationing quite regularly in

[ 367]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Mexico and have assembled a smattering of Spanish so that some
of my Mexican friends need not feel that I am interested only in
a good time.

My family, as you will see from statistics, is a divided one — my
two elder children, pretty much on their own, and a youngster
who makes life more exciting.

Altogether I would say mine is a good life rather than an
interesting one. "

MORGAN HOVEY HARRIS

HOME ADDRESS: Quarters R-7, Naval Station, Key West, Fla.

oFFice appress: U.S. Fleet Sonar School, Key West, Fla.

BorN: Aug. 8, 1902, Falmouth, Mass. PARENTS: Henry Wilson Harris, Mabel
Hovey.

PREPARED aT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923.

marrieD: Gladys Nordstrom, Jan. 15, 1931, Boston, Mass. cHttpreN: Morgan
Hovey, Jr. Dec. 15, 1932; Mabel Hovey, July 31, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Henry Wilson Harris, ’20,; William Charles Harris, ’28.

occupation: Commander, United States Navy.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Went on active duty as lieutenant, U.S.N.R.,
Aug. 26, 1940, at Naval Training Station, Newport, R. I.; commanding
officer, U.S.S. Sustain (AM 119), November, 1942-November, 1943, in-
cluding participation in invasion of Sicily and Italy; commanding officer,
USS. Abrens (DE 575), February, 1944-June, 1944, anti-submarine oper-
ations in Atlantic Ocean; commander, Escort Division 79, July, 1944-
November, 1945, escort of convoy duty and anti-submarine operations
in North Atlantic Ocean; staff training command, U. S. Atlantic Fleet,
January, 1946-June, 1947, student, General Line School, Newport,
R. I, July, 1947-May, 1948; executive officer, U. S. Fleet Sonar School,
Key West, Fla., June, 1948, to present time. Awarded Legion of Merit
with Combat “V” and two gold stars in lieu of second and third Legions
of Merit with Combat “V”; awarded Commendation Ribbon with
Combat “V.” Transferred to regular Navy, Sept. 12, 1946, with rank
of commander.

AFTER leaving college in 1923, I went into the insurance busi-
ness in Boston, where I remained for seventeen years. My
marriage in 1931 has continued to be the best move I ever made
and our offspring have been a never-ending source of joy to us.

Work, interspersed gencrously with play, such as yachting, golf,
skiing, etc., occupied my time until the summer of 1940 when,
because I felt the war coming on at a rapid rate, I volunteered

[ 368 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

for active duty in the Navy and went on duty in August of that
year. My naval record listed above outlines my duties during the
war, and although I never got to the Pacific, the long, rough
winter days in the North Atlantic, stalking U-Boats, gave me a
real taste of the sea. The life appealed to me, so I applied for
transfer to the regular naval service and was accepted.

_ Since then my family has become accustomed to the nomadic
life and frankly we love it. Meeting new people and seeing new
places holds a certain fascination for us. Incidentally, we have
seen a great many classmates in our travels whom we otherwise
would not have run across. Our outlook has been broadened
considerably by the travel opportunities afforded us in carrying
out Navy orders. I’m sure the children have benefited from these
increased contacts in the various places we have been.

What the future will bring is controlled on a much higher
echelon. Suffice it to say, we shall be prepared for whatever
orders we get and for wherever we.are sent. Maybe there will
be more classmates there.

HAROLD IRA HARVEY

HOME ADDRESS: 2503 Stuart St., Berkeley 5, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2340 Ward St., Berkeley 5, Calif.

BORN: Nov. 1, 1902, Scranton, Pa. parents: Josiah Henry Harvey, Minnie
Oren.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Providence, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; M.D. (Duke Univ.), 1937.

MarRiED: Ada Patricia Hawe, June 20, 1946, Seattle, Wash.

occupation: Physician, internist and cardiologist.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: E.A.D., October 1, 1941, 1st lieutenant, (AL.C.),;
C.B.I, to December, 1946, as flight surgeon, sist Fighter group, and
surgeon, 14th Air Force; discharged Jan. 26, 1947, as lieutenant colonel.

OFFICES HELD: Cardiologist and associate chief of medicine, Herrick Memorial
Hospital, Berkeley, Calif.; clinical instructor in medicine, Stanford
University Medical School, member visiting staff in medicine, Alameda
County Hospital.

MEMBER oF: Acro Medical Association of the U.S. (associate fellow);
American Board of Internal Medicine; American Heart Association.

[ 369 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

HENRY CUMMINGS HASKELL

HOME ADDRESS: 4500 Rockhill Terr. Kansas City, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kansas City Star, Kansas City, Mo.

BorN: Afay 1, 1902, Kansas City, Mo. parents: Henry Joseph Haskell, »
Isabel Cummings.

PREPARED AT: Westport High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1924.

MarRiED: Lucy O'Connell, April 2, 1931, Fort Leavenworth, Kans. (divorced
1939); Lois Ogren, Jan. 9, 1943, Kansas City, Mo. cHitpren: Merritt,
May 13, 1932; Elizabeth Cummings, April 29, 1944; Ingrid, Aug. 8, 1945;
Tamme, Feb. 15, 1947.

occupation: Foreign editor, Kansas City Star.

OFFICES HELD: President, Conservatory of Music of Kansas City, since 1945;
member, board of trustees, City Trusts (appointed by judges of the
United Srates District Court for Western Missouri).

SHORTLY after our graduation I went to France, ostensibly

to study comparative literature at the University of Toulouse,

actually to watch the wheels of French provincial life go ’round.

(In those days they seemed to be revolving very smoothly, in-

deed.) The next year I moved to Wichita, Kansas, and got a job,

just vacated by Ernest Lindley, as a general reporter on the

Wichita Beacon under Henry J. Allen.

In October, 1926, I transferred to Baltimore, where Henry L.
Menken’s Evening Sun promptly shoved me off to Washington
to cover the Coolidge administration. Iwo years later the Lon-
don Times and the English-Speaking Union, for reasons I have
never fathomed, appointed me the first Walter Hines Page Junior
Newspaper Fellow to the British Isles. There I worked succes-
sively on the London Times, the Manchester Guardian, the West-
ern Mail of Cardiff, the Irish Times of Dublin, the Glasgow
Herald, and the London Daily News. (The experiment evidently
proved so disastrous to Anglo-American relations that no other
fellow has been appointed to this day.)

Returning to Baltimore in 1929, I had scarcely settled down,
doing state politics for the Evening Sun, when 1 was recalled to
the Kansas City Star as an editorial writer on economics and in-
ternational relations. Here I have remained ever since, with the
exception of three trips to Furope, winning a microscopic seg-
ment of a Pulitzer editorial prize in 1933 and arriving last year
at the ticle of foreign cditur. Tam still watching those wheels,

[ 370 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

which are a newspaper man’s business, and —I must confess —
growing steadily dizzier and dizzier.

JOHN SEABURY HATHAWAY

HOME AppREss: 57 Franklin Rd., Hamden, Conn.

OFFICE ADpREss: Yale University, 109 College St., New Haven, Conn.

BORN: Sept. 13, 1903, Little Compton, R. I. parents: John Gael Hathaway,
Charlotte Maria Seabury.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; M.D., 1928.

MARRIED: Margaret Hobart, June 28, 1927, Momence, IJ]. cuitpren: Peter,
Nov. 3, 1931; Jared Hobart, Dec. 29, 1933.

OCCUPATION: Physician, Yale Department of University Health.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served in the zone of interior, in the Training
Command and Third Air Force, from August, 1942, to June, 1945, and
finally in the 314th Bomb Wing at Guam, until April, 1946.

MEMBER OF: Connecticut State Medical Society; New Haven City Medical
Society; Faculry Club, New Haven; American Veterans Committee.

EXCEPT for a short interval in the early forties, I have been
working in Student Health at Yale for the past twelve years.

LOVERING HATHAWAY

HOME aAppREss: 21 Dexter St., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 8 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Nov. 8, 1898, New Bedford, Mass. parents: Horatio Hathaway, '93.
Mabel Lovering. ,

PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924.

MarriepD: Elizabeth Hooton Elfreth, April 11, 1930, Paget, Bermuda. cHit-
DREN: Elizabeth Elfreth, Oct. 10, 1933 (died Dec. 7, 1937); Horatio,
July 24, 1936 (died Nov. 3, 1936); Lovering, Dec. 31, 19373 Emily
Allen, Nov. 29, 1939; Thomas Schuyler, April 6, 1944; Margaret, May 11,
1946.

OccuPATION: Artist.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Boston; Guild of Boston Artists; Boston

Society of Watercolor Painters.
I STUDIED drawing and painting at the Boston Fine Arts
Museum School, and outdoor watercolor technique with Henry
W. Rice. a
During the period 1942 to 19445 I served as deputy chief air
raid warden at the Dedham Report Center, organized and con-

[ 37! ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

ducted warden courses, and served on the night message unit in
the Operations Room at the headquarters of the Massachusetts
Committee of Public Safety. Hunting and fishing are my hobbies.

As the Report went to press the Secretary learned of Hatha-
way’s untimely death on May 9, 1949, at Dover, Massachusetts.

RAI HATTORI

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Sanya-cho, Meguro-ku, Toky.o, Japan.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Central Purchasing Office, GHQ, FEC, APO 500, Tokyo,
Japan.

BORN: Jan. 20, 1901, Tokyo, Japan. PARENTS: Yozo Hattori, Raku Nakamura.

“PREPARED AT: Los Angeles Polytechnic High School, Los Angeles, Calif.;
Knox College, Galesburg, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: S.B. IN E.E., 1924.

MarrieD: Umae Kataoka, April 24, 1926, Tokyo, Japan. cHt~pREN: Aiko,
July 7, 1927 (m. Masao Mayeda, Oct. 3, 1946); Isamu, March 22, 19303
Hiro-ko, April 12, 1932. GRANDCHILD: Takeo Mayeda, June 2, 1947.

occupation: Adviser for inspector of Central Purchasing Office of textile
section of GHQ, FEC of Occupation Force in Japan.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Japan.

I WANTED to write a few lines but the condition in Japan
at present does not allow me to express my thoughts, since we
are under occupied control. I am sending my sincere wishes to
all the members of the Engineering Class of 1924.

ALAN SALTER HAYS

HOME ADDRESS: 53 W. Ninth St. New York 11, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 70 Pine St.. New York 5, N. Y.

BoRN: March 25, 1903, Buffalo, N. Y. parents: Walter Hays, Bessie Irene
Salter.

PREPARED AT: Lafayette High School, Buffalo, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; LL.B., 1927.

MaRRIED: Florence Courtenay Wakefield, July 24, 1930, Delaware, Ohio.
CHILDREN: Alan Salter, 2d, June 15, 1931; Florrie W., March 18, 1935.

occupation: Lawyer.

AFTER college I went to the Law School. Dean Pound used to
say that we should work eight hours a day. This seemed laughable
at the time. I conscientiously devoted at least an hour to home-

work almost every weekday, and graduated. As we walked out
of the Commencement exercises, a courier brought me a mes-

[ 372 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sage that I was wanted that very evening by the Secretary of the
Interior. Having had no previous contact whatsoever with the
Secretary, I was intrigued. The courier and I rushed to the air-
port and in a brief time were at the desk of the Secretary who
gazed at me in amazement. “Wrong Hays,” he said, “but you'll
have to go anyway, there’s no time left.” It seemed that certain
valuable American deposits of cotton coal in Alaska at the Cana-
dian border had been blown loose by a kind of eruption on the
Canadian side and shifted to Canadian soil. A lawyer was needed
immediately. I was there the following day, in a sense still
dressed in my cap and gown, for there had been almost no time
to change. The legal problems proved insoluble, so we resorted
to blasting the coal back again, a difficult task as it is uphill from
Canada to Alaska at that particular point. As soon as the coal
was safely back, I was transferred to Nome to study the inter-
national aspect of the marking of seals and whales. I had never
before known that fish apparently travel through underground
channels. This may account for the hush-hush German whale
found during World War II in Lake Huron bearing the mark of —
a Nazi-occupied Norwegian fishing station. The work in Alaska
was exceptionally interesting, and sometimes led to unexpected
results.

Finally, after eleven months, it was good to get home where
I could figuratively disrobe from my cap and gown and take a
bath — one gets rather soiled during eleven Arctic months.

I settled down to pass my Bar exams, none too simple nearly a
year after law school, but I was determined to succeed. If I could
eat blubber for eleven months I could pass a mere Bar exam, and
I did!

After another year, I was again called to Washington, this time
for an interview at the White House. Would I undertake a
mission to Mesopotamia? I would, and was off. We organized a
caravan and reached the Arab leader whose peaceful codperation
was important for the laying of a new pipe line. Learning Arabic
in two weeks was difficult, but our whole party had spent two days
and nights in an Arab night club in New York where we picked
up an amazing vocabulary.

It is never easy to know to what extent we can consciously
rule our own lives. When I left Mesopotamia, I was twenty-

[373 ]

»

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

eight years old — how old that then seemed, how young now!
Was it a natural and inescapable evolution, or was it a deliberate
personal decision? No matter, the result was the same. It seemed
to me I should get married, to a girl.

Pascal says in ‘his Discours sur les Passions de P Amour, “Lamour
donne esprit, et il se soutient par Vesprit. Il faut de Padresse
pour aimer.” So I addressed that spirit, and went in search of a
young lady with a similar address. But, as Pascal also says,
“Quand on est loin de ce que l’on aime, l’on prend la résolution
de faire ou de dire beaucoup de choses, mais quand on est prés,
lon est irrésolu. D’ot vient cela? C'est que quand |’on est loin la
raison n’est pas si €branlée, mais elle Pest étrangement 4 la
présence de l'objet; or, pour la résolution il faut de la fermeté,
qui est ruinée par |’ebranlement. Dans l'amour on n’ose hasarder
parce que l’on craint de tout perdre; il faut pourtant avancer,
mais qui peut dire jusques ot?” It is popularly supposed that in
situations involving love, the resolution of females is less ébran-
Jée than that of men, but since females are also in the category
of human beings this supposition must be one of those old
deceptive jokes. For, if Pascal is right, then by definition a female
with resolution non-ébranlée cannot be in love. Thus, in real
love matches, both participants must be struck dumb at sight of
each other.

Homeward bound through Mesopotamia, our ship was churn-
ing hotly through the Red Sea. As dusk came on, I saw a tall
young woman of commanding beauty standing alone by a capstan
on the deck. I joined her, saying nothing. She replied in like
manner. Twenty-one silent days later we were married, and I
suppose I shall soon be a grandfather.

The life of a lawyer, or even a Harvard College graduate, like
that of any other, can be exceedingly monotonous, but mine has
been exciting and adventuresome. As I sit here in my bed in this
lovely Paris and gaze out the window into the beauty of the
He-de-France, I can think of few pleasures which I have missed.
Of course, those surrounding me have made it so.

| 374]

A

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BERTRUM PERRY HEBENSTREIT

HOME ADDRESS: 1432 Waverly Ave. Toledo 7, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Spengler, Nathanson, Hebenstreit & Heyman, 1007 Nicholas
Bldg., Toledo 4, Ohio.

BORN: July 5, 1901, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Max Hebenstreit, Dora
Wilshinsky.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; LL.B., 1928.

MarRRiED: Marion Brehm, Feb. 5, 1937, Toledo, Ohio. cuitp: Stephen Louis,
Dec. 5, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; member, Spengler, Nathanson, Hebenstreit & Hey-

man. ;

OFFICES HELD: Assistant director of law, City of Toledo, 1940-46, chairman
board of governors, .Jewish Federation of Toledo, 1940-43; member
faculty, University of Toledo Law School, 1940-43, secretary, Gross
Photo Supply Company, Meilink Steel Safe Company.

MEMBER OF: Various fraternal organizations.

A QUARTER-CENTURY and several hundred miles removed
from the rarefied atmosphere of the Yard, I have contrived to
weather the storm of depression, recover from the knocks and
bruises of exposure to practicalities, and settle down to the hum-
drum existence of a general practitioner in the law.

The building of a law practice, the hard necessity of supporting
a wife and child have left little time for extraneous activities,
which have been slight—a stint of teaching at the night law
school of the University of Toledo; collaboration in the prepara-
tion of a book on corporation law, and in the revision of the Ohio
Corporation Code; and miscellaneous civic activities. I enjoy
the very dubious distinction of being the author of the Toledo
City income tax law and regulations, which has pulled Toledo
out of its financial doldrums, temporarily at least, and has fur-
nished a model plan for many other cities.

Life in general, and Toledo in particular, have been moderately
kind to me. My undergraduate dreams — and I cannot now re-
member what they were — seem centuries removed. My literary
tastes have gravitated from the classics to “whodunnits”; my sole
hobbies are family and home. In short, I am immensely enjoying
the life of a very average citizen.

[375]

HARVARD CLASS OF I924

CLARENCE JULIUS HELDMAN

ADDRESS: 881 Clinton Springs Ave. Cincinnati 29, Ohio.
BORN: July 21, 1902, Cincinnati, Ohio. Parents: Jacob Heldman, Emma
Leon.

PREPARED AT: Hughes High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1921.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Heldman did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

% GEORGE STAPLES HENDRICKS

BORN: Nov. 21, 1899, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: James Hendricks, Prudence
Monroe Staples. .

PREPARED AT: Doane Academy, Grenville, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: S.B. IN C.E., 1924.

MARRIED: Jeanette Nelson, Sept. 15, 1928, Philadelphia, Pa.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served as corporal with the Motor Transport
Corps, U.S. Army.

pieD: July 27, 1943, Philadelphia, Pa.

winow: Mrs. George S. Hendricks, 6705 N. 12th St., Oak Lane, Philadelphia,
Pa.

GEORGE STAPLES HENDRICKS, after completing prepara-
tory work at Doane Academy and a year’s study at Denison
University, entered the Class in 1921. In college he was a mem-
ber of the Glee Club (1921-22), Kappa Sigma fraternity, and the
Engineering Society. After receiving an S.B. degree in Civil
Engineering, he became employed in the Philadelphia Terminal
Division, Engineer's Office of the Pennsylvania Railroad. He was
later engaged in subway construction work on a new subway
being constructed in Philadelphia and also worked on the city
planning and construction of Homosassa, Florida, a city built on
former swamp land and forest area. After spending some time
in the hosiery dyeing business, he accepted an engineering posi-
tion with Jacob R. Fox, railroad contractor in Philadelphia, and
worked on a railroad project for the Ford plant at Chester,
Pennsylvania.

In the Decennial Report (1934), he noted that he was teaching
at Abington Friends’ School, Jenkintown, Pennsylvania, during
the winter and operating the Aberdeen I Iotel, Longport, New

[ 375]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Jersey, during the summer. At the time of his death, he was still
engaged in both of these activities.

BARKLIE McKEE HENRY

HOME apprEss: Old Orchard, Princeton, N. J.

OFFICE aDpREss: P. O. Box 684, Princeton, N. J.

BORN: July 6, 1902, Ventnor, N. J. parents: William Barklie Henry, Alice
Belknap.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920~1924. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1924.

mMarRiED: Barbara Whitney, June 25, 1924, Roslyn, N. Y. (divorced 1945);
Mrs. Margaret Trowbridge Griggs, Dec. 18, 1945, Cheyenne, Wyo.
CHILDREN: Gertrude V. W., March 25, 1925 (m. Luis Gabaldoni, Jan. 19,
1946); William Barklie, Nov. 18, 1927; Mary Jackson, Sept. 13, 1946;
Lawrence Trowbridge Griggs, May 13, 1937 (stepchild). GranpcHiLp:
Barbara Gertrude Gabaldoni, Dec. 21, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Investments.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active duty, July 2, 1941. Officer-in-charge,
coastal minesweeper U.S.S. Assertive, AMc67; commanding officer, U.SS.
SC508, 110 foot sub-chaser; member of teaching staff, Sub-chaser Train-
ing Center, Miami, Fla.,; commanding officer, U.S.S. Gantner (DE 60),
1943-44, Operating in North Atlantic, Caribbean, and Mediterranean,
commanding officer, U.S.S. Rutherford (DE 347), 1944. Navy Depart-
ment, Washington, D. C., 1944-45; Navy Board of Medals and
Awards; deputy chief, Industrial Readjustment Branch, Secretary's
Commendation Ribbon. Present rank: commander (D), U.S.N.R.
(inactive).

OFFICES HELD: Managing editor, Youth's Companion, 1926-27; trustee, United
States Trust Company of N. Y., since 1934; director, The Texas Com-
pany, 1936-44, American Telephone and Telegraph Company, 1939-
41, Reynal and Hitchcock, 1933-39, Township Press, Nassau County,
N. Y., 1933-35, Union Sulphur Company, since 1947; member of coun-
cil, New York University, 1932-36; governor, New York Hospital, since
1931; vice-president and president, New York Hospital, and chairman,
Joint Administrative Board, New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Cen-
ter, 1936-39; president, Association for Improving the Condition of the
Poor, 1934-39; co-organizer and first president, Community Service
Society of New York, 1939-44; trustee, Milbank Memorial Fund, since
1934, Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, since
1935, Bayard Cutting Arboretum, since 1936, Rockefeller Institute for
Medical Rescarch, since 1947; member, Board of Managers, Diagnostic
Center, New Jerscy Department of Institutions and Agencies, since

1948.
MEMpuer oF: Harvard Club of New York; Tavern Club of Boston.

[377]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

ARCHIBALD L. HEPWORTH

HOME Appress: 14 Park St., Easthampton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 30, 1902, Derry, N. H. parents: Oliver Henry Hepworth, -
Lucy Tourell.

PREPARED AT: Pinkerton Academy, Derry, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1921. DEGREES: A.B. (Bowdoin Coll.), 1925; a.m.
(Harvard Univ.), 1936.

MARRIED: Stella Mae Whitman, 1928, Hebron, N. S., Canada. CHILDREN:
David Whitman, March 25, 1929; Anne, May 27, 1933.

occupation: Head of History Department, Williston Academy.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S.N.R., June, 1943-November, 1946; attained
rank of lieutenant commander; spent most of service at Camp Parks,
Calif. in military training; also stationed at Great Lakes, Camp Joseph
Pendleton, and Washington, D. C.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Republican Town Committee; president, Pascom-
muck Club.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Nu; Masons; educational groups.

I SPENT only one year at Harvard as an undergraduate. I re-
mained out of college one year, and then attended Bowdoin for
three years.

Since then I have taught at Colby Academy, New London,
New Hampshire; Wassookeag Summer School, Dexter, Maine;
Mount Tom Summer School, Easthampton, Massachusetts; and
at Williston Academy from 1926 to the present time.

Usually I see one Harvard football game each fall.

THEODORE DRAKE HERSEY

HOME appress: 60 Lexington Rd., West Hartford, Conn.
orFice apnress: Hartford Accident & Indemnity Co., Hartford, Conn.

BorN: July 1, 1901, Foxboro, Mass. parents: Ira Charles Hersey, Kate
Lincoln Simmons.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Richard Mills Hersey, ’15, Robert Wilson Hersey, ’20.
occupation: Casualty insurance.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Counter Intelligence Corps, 1942-45.

BUSINESS has moved me all over the country with relatively
short stays. In all this time I have voted for a winning presidential
candidate only once, Now with another opportunity soon, I find

[ 380 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

myself disfranchised as a man temporarily without a state! Any-
way, it will be fun on the sidelines.

JAMES THEODORE HEWLETT

HOME ADDRESS: 203 Townsend St., Grove Hall 21, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Allston Post Office, Allston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 27, 1900, Boston, Mass. parents: James Thomas Hewlett,
Eleanor Lacy.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1919-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

OCCUPATION: Postal service.

WHILE fame and fortune have eluded me, work hasn’t. I have
completed thirty years of postal service and anticipate retirement
upon reaching the minimum age level.

For a number of years I was a reporter, feature writer, and
later member of the executive staff of the Associated Negro
Press, beige counterpart of American Press, for Canada and New
England. This line of endeavor, albeit interesting, promised more
honor than remuneration so must be included among my hobbies.

I enjoyed immensely prewar trips to Europe and North Africa.
I regret exceedingly, however, the visa difficulties that prevented
a tour of eastern Europe and the lack of time that cancelled an
invitation to the palace of the Sultan of Tunis.

Stock market activity enabled me to sustain my interest in the
capitalistic system and a small peptic ulcer. A multiple compound
elbow joint fracture suffered in an M.T.A. bus accident two
weeks before induction occasioned a 4F classification but per-
mitted me to contribute to the success of some of my Harvard
medical classmates.

FREDERIC WALBRIDGE HIBBARD

ADDRESS: 53 State St., Boston, Mass.

Born: March 18, 1903, Pittsfield, Mass. parents: Frederic Walbridge Hib-
bard, Grace Russell Allen.

PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1071 laude, 1924(25); LL.B 1029

MarRIED: Mary Johnson, Aug. 8, 1931, Boston, Mass. ctuto: Mary Crane,

Dec. 23, 1933
[ 381 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

occupPaTIoN: Lawyer, with the firm of Palmer, Dodge, Barstow, Wilkins &
Davis.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Hibbard did not return a questionnaire for this Report. Mail sent
to the above address has been returned.

+ FRED MACE HICKEY

BorN: Afay 4, 1903, Boston, Mass. parents: William Fred Hickey, Anna
Frances Mace.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: S.B. IN E.E., 1924.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Mace Hickey, ’27.

DIED: Jan. 12, 1926, Schenectady, N. Y.

BROTHER: William M. Hickey, 57 Villa Ave. Larchmont, N. Y.

FRED MACE HICKEY prepared at the English High School
and attended Tufts College before entering Harvard. While in
college, he was a member of the Rifle Team (1922-23) and the
K.G.X, Club. In 1924 he received an S.B. degree in electrical

engineering and soon accepted a position in the testing depart-

ment of the General Electric Company in Schenectady. He was
employed there at the time of his death.

FRANCIS SHERBURNE HILL

HOME apprEss: 84 Glen Ridge Rd., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Massachusetts Eye & Ear Infirmary, 243 Charles St., Boston,
Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 14, 1900, Boston, Mass. parents: Francis Asbury Crook Hill,
Harriet Sherburne.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.; Milton Academy,
Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MarRiED: Evelyn A. Royce, Oct. 12, 1934, Dedham, Mass. CHILDREN: |
Wendy Ames, Jan. 8, 1936; Evelyn R., Jan. 1, 1938; Francis Sherburne,
Jr., March 3, 1941.

OccUPATION: Hospital administration.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, 1935-45, treasurer, 1943-45, Star
Brass Manufacturing Company; assistant director, Massachusetts Eye
and Ear Infirmary, since 1945. ,

MeMBER oF: Dedham Country and Polo Club; The Country Club, Brook-
line; Ski Club, Hochgebirge.

[ 382 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER leaving college I remained single for quite a long time —
to be exact, ten years. During this period I lived in bachelor
quarters with three others in varying degrees of confusion except
for one brief stretch when we had a Jap butler with all the
fixings. ‘It wasn’t too bad an existence. In the winter we skied
every weekend, played golf in the summer, and managed some
pretty good vacations. I went to Europe once, skied in Banff for
a couple of months in 1932, took a schooner through the West
Indies to Panama, and had several trips to Bermuda. All these
things could not have been done with a family to support.
Nevertheless, I was all ready to settle down when I finally
married in 1934.

Now we have three children, thirteen, eleven, eight (two girls
and a boy) and live about twelve miles outside of Boston, ; in what
I think is mighty nice country. I manage to spend a lot of time
with the children and can still play a creaky sort of tag football
with them on occasion. They are all coming to the Reunion next
spring, and my only regret is that I spent so much time as a
bachelor that I shall not be able to vie with Buzz Henry, Frank
Royce, and you other old men who will be sitting around com-
paring notes on your grandchildren,

My business career to date can hardly be called sensational but
in one way or another I have managed to keep the wolf from the
door without acquiring too many grey hairs. Along with a good

_ many others in the twenties, I started out in the investment busi-
ness. ‘The First Boston Corporation allowed me to go through
their bond school after which I became manager of their uptown
office. In 1933 I switched to the brokerage business and re-
mained there until the beginning of the war.

There was one break of seven months when I picked up my
wife and a couple of kids and went to Tucson, Arizona, sup-
posedly because of my health, At the time it seemed like quite a
major move. However, on looking back on it, I now feel that it
was one of the grandest vacations we ever had. I could not do
much but sit in the sun, swim, and admire the desert. Neverthe-
less, this amazing country got under our skin, and we might be
there yet except for the necessity of earning a living. I got w ell
sooner than expected and came home convinced I could live there
indefinitely without getting bored,

[ 383 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

In 1942 I beame treasurer of a small manufacturing company
in Boston which made steam valves and gauges for the railroads
and shipping companies. When the war started, the plant was
converted to supply this equipment to the Navy for DES de-
stroyers and cruisers. Over the next two years production was
increased ten times, and this without expanding the physical plant
and with inadequate and inexperienced personnel. It was a most
exasperating, yet absorbing, experience. During this period the
nearest I got to a uniform was attaining the rank of corporal in
the Massachusetts State Guard.

In 1945, much to my surprise, I was asked to go into hospital
administration, although I had had no previous experience in this
type of endeavor. For many reasons this appealed to me at the
time and before I knew it I was trying to make both ends meet in
a voluntary hospital during a period of inflation. I have now
been with the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary for four
years and am having more fun than at any time during the last
twenty-five. There is a certain satisfaction, for me at least, in
being associated with a non-profit organization which is contin-
ually hungry for money to expand its facilities for research and |
teaching.

HERBERT WELLS HILL

HOME apDprEss: 13 Buell St., Hanover, N. H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dartmouth College, Hanover, N. H.

BORN: Oct. 10, 1902, Andover, Mass. parents: Herbert Hudson Hill, Ada
Jane Wells.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1924; A.M., 1926;
A.M. hon. (Dartmouth Coll.), 1941.

marrieD: Theodora Hill, Sept. 6, 1924, Wianno, Mass., Leland Burdine
Barbee, June 19, 1933, Hanover, N. H. cuitpren: Josiah French, Aug.
16, 1930; Leland Jane, Dec. 2, 1935; Martha Clayton, May 11, rgqo.

occupaTION: Professor of history and chairman of Department of History,
Dartmouth College.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Director of naval history and strategy, Dart-
mouth V-12 Program; various posts in New Hampshire Civilian
Defense.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, New Hampshire Historical Society, since 1934, New
Hampshire War Records Commission, since 1945, New Hampshire
Fish and Game Commission, since 1938, chairman, New Hampshire

[ 384 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

State Democratic Committee, 1946-48, New Hampshire Constitutional
Convention, 1948; delegate, Democratic National Convention, 1948.
MEMBER OF: American Historical Association; American Association of

University Professors; New Hampshire Historical Society; American
Association for State and Local History.
PUBLICATIONS: Articles and reviews.

AFTER believing for a long time that it was impossible to live
outside of Boston, I came to Dartmouth in 1928. Now I feel
strongly that there is no better place than New Hampshire in
which to live, and I have resisted all temptations to move away.
My family likes it here even more; we are in fact all quite satis-
fied, Dartmouth is a splendid place for a teacher, and so I have
been fortunate indeed. There has been time too for enj oying the
countryside, and especially for hunting and fishing. The work
with a number of public agencies has been interesting, and for
some years I have been active politically. Starting as the conven-
tional doorbell ringer, I eventually served as state chairman, and
this fall was Democratic candidate for governor. This made a
very busy three months (and this Class Life late), although this
state joined Vermont this year in opposing the national tide. But
that means more time in the next few years for sitting in the
college library. And today the deer season starts, so there are
compensations.

KENNETH NOYES HILL

HOME apprEss: 39 Manning St., Providence 6, R. I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 100 Westminster St., Providence 1, R. I.

BoRN: April 5, 1903, Lisbon, N. H. parents: Joseph Henry Lawrence Hill,
Mary Cecil Noyes.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1024. DEGREE: A.B. 1924(25).

MaRRIED: Judith Worthington Brand, Oct. 4,. 1930, Springfield, Mass.
CHILDREN: Judith Worthington, Nov. 25, 1931; Elizabeth Bulkeley,
Sept. 30, 1934.

OccUPATION: Trust officer, Providence National Bank.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, United States Naval
Reserve, July, 1943; stationed at Navy Department, Washington, D. C.,
1943, Navy Yard, Brooklyn, N. Y., 1943-45; promoted lieutenant
commander, October, 1945; released to inactive duty, December, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Delegate, Republican State Convention, Massachusetts, 1936;
trustee, Roxbury Latin School, 1936-43, Berkshire Athenaeum, 1940-433

[ 385 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

trustee and member of investment committee, City Savings Bank, Pitts-
field, Mass. 1940-48, director, 1939-48, treasurer, 1941-43, president,
1947-48, New England Home for Little Wanderers (Berkshire Branch);
chairman, Berkshire County Disaster Committee, American Red Cross,
1946-48; director, Berkshire County Society for the Care of Crippled
and Deformed Children, 1940-48, Hadley Company; trustee and mem-
ber of board of managers, Episcopal Diocese of Western Massachusetts,
1947-48.
MEMBER OF: The Golf Club; Agawam Hunt Club.
REVIEWING my life since graduation, I am impressed by" what
a short period twenty-five years is and by how little there is of -
public interest that has happened to me in that time. The span
since graduation has included such exciting but strictly personal
events as that first job, a raise from $1,500 to $1,800, marriage and
parenthood, but not much that will be recorded on the pages of
history.

Except for a year’s aberration at the Hood Rubber Company,
I spent the first six years of my business career working in fairly
rapid succession for the Rhode Island Hospital Trust Company,
the First National Bank of Boston, and the First of Boston Invest-
ment Management Corporation—the last having the longest
name but the shortest existence. It was organized by the First
National Bank of Boston in April, 1929, to dispense investment
wisdom. When I returned from my wedding trip in 1930, I
found that it had ceased to be and that I had been traded by the
waiver route to the Old Colony Trust Company, another club in
the same chain. The next eight years I spent learning something
about the trust business and living a pleasant country life in
Dedham, where I enjoyed a slight participation in politics as a
member of the town finance committee and as delegate to the
Republican State Convention which nominated Cab Lodge for
the Senate. .

After a lifetime, including all my education, in Boston and
environs, it was high adventure indeed when, in 1938, I put my
family and possessions in a covered wagon and pushed westward
150 miles to Pittsfield, Massachusetts, to run the trust department
of the Agricultural National Bank. (I had, it is true, ventured a
few years earlier to Springfield for a wife but had brought her
straightway back to Boston.) We found in the Berkshires a high
state Of civilization and no red men— except possibly a few in

[ 386 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Local 255, U.E.R.M.W. There were even some Harvard men —
not counting such transients as Cab Lodge who periodically beat
the bushes for votes and Corliss Lamont with whom I occasionally
rode a capitalistic ski-tow. "

It was all fine until interrupted by the war. I joined the Navy
and helped hold the Brooklyn beach-head, braving the East River
crossing twice daily in what my daughter called my Brooklyn
Bridgecoat. After a pleasant postwar interlude back in the
Berkshires getting caught up on the banking business, we made
our second major move last spring—this time crossing the
state line!

Back in Providence where I started my banking career twenty-
four years ago, I find many changes and feel somewhat like Rip
“Van Winkle, although looking at my wife and two grown
daughters I know that I haven’t been asleep all the time. As a
matter of fact I regard my family as my greatest accomplishment
and pride, the statistics above merely indicating some of the
accompanying details in the course of its acquisition and growth.

LOUIS LEONARD HILL

HOME ADDRESS: 24 Bonnett Ave., Larchmont, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 180 Madison Ave., New York 16, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 28, 1902, Jerusalem, Palestine. PaRENTs: Simon Hill, Jenny
Salomon.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920~1927.

MaRRiED: Mildred Kreckstein, May 28, 1929, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Tony, Aug. 21, 1938; Polly, May 26, 1940.

occupation: Manufacturer and converter of fabrics for men’s neckties.

MEMBER OF: Tau Delta Phi Fraternity; Old Oaks Country Club, Purchase,
N. Y.

I ENTERED the textile field in February, 1927, with the C. K.
Eagle Company, New York City. In 1931 I organized the firm
of May & Hill, specializing in fabrics for the men’s neckwear
trade. This firm was dissolved in 1943 and the firm of Hill Fab-
rics, Inc., formed. I was somewhat instrumental in the creation
_ of many of the bizarre designs scen around men’s necks in recent
years, for which please accept my apologies.

For hobbies, I play golf (ten handicap), paine with my eleven-

[ 387 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

year-old son, and dance with my nine-year-old daughter and my
wife.

My social travelling is restricted to a winter vacation in Florida
and a summer one in Maine, but I visit many foreign isles and
countries via Mfrs, Hill’s eyes.

JULIEN DONALD HILLS

HOME ADDRESS: 130 N. Sheridan Rd., Waukegan, III.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Waukegan Township High School, Waukegan, II].

BoRN: Feb. 18, 1900, Clarion, Iowa. Parents: Fred Newberry Hills, Grace
Hopkins.

PREPARED AT: Clarion High School, Clarion, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1921, 1922-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; A.M. (Stanford
Univ.), 1948.

occuPaTION: Education.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: S.A.T.C., Simpson College, Indianola, lowa,
1918; 390 F.A.Bn., 94th Div., 1942-43; 363 F.A. Bn., 96th Div., 1944-45;
participated in all the Leyte and Okinawa campaigns with the 363rd
Bn.

OFFicEs HELD: Secretary, Local 504, American Federation of Teachers,
1937~42.

MEMBER OF: AF.T.; A.V.C.; N.E.A.; S.P.E.B.S.Q.S.A.

A GOOD many of my convictions of ’24 seem to have been lost
on the way. I am inclined to agree with Bugs Baer, that Utopia
has disappeared as a station-stop on the time-table of the future.

I possess the two hobbies which seem to reach back to my
childhood —the study of railroading and the pursuit and ob-
servation of poisonous snakes. On Leyte my first cobra inter-
ested me more than the tumult of the beach-head.

Beginning in November, I am to reap the reward of twenty-
five years of teaching —a year of sabbatical leave in Europe.

ALBERT POPE HINCKLEY

HOME appress; “Ffenchman’s Lea,” Orlean, Va.

orFice appress: “Elenchman’s Lea” Office, Warrenton, Va.; c/o Fahnestock
& Co., 65 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

Bown: March g, 1901, Boston, Mass. parents: Freeman Hinckley, Margaret
Roberts Pope.

perpaned at: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLELE’ 1920-192}. DEGKER: A.B., 1924.

[ 388 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Katherine Steedman, June 14, 1928, St. Louis, Mo. cHr~pren: Mar-
garet Roberts, July 28, 1929; George Fox Steedman, Nov. 3, 1931;
Albert Pope, Jr., June 16, 1934.

occuPaTION: Member of New York Stock Exchange; author; farmer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: 211th AA’ (First Corps of Cadets) 1925-28;
BPM ATC Fort Meade, summer, 1940; commissioned major, AUS,
March 16, 1942, Inter-American Defense Board; assigned Hg. USAF,
April 15, 1943; assigned 389 Ftr. Sq. 366 Ftr. Gp., Aug. 1, 1943; sailed
ETO, Dec. 28, 1943; assigned Hq. roth TAC, May 26, 1944, returned
U.S.A., June 21, 1945; assigned command Prisoners of War, northern
Virginia, Aug. 15, 1945; promoted lieutenant colonel, Dec. 23, 1945;
discharged, April 16, 1946.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Deputy to officer in charge of purchases
OPM, January-April, 1941.

OFFICES HELD: Member, School Board, Bedford Hills, N. Y., 1935-40.

MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club; Harvard Club of New York; The
Country Club, Brookline, Mass.; Army and Navy Country Club, Arling-
ton, Va.; Fauquier Club, Warrenton, Va.

PUBLICATIONS: Short stories in Colliers.

NOW that we are assured of four more long years of the New

Deal, our family’s 1940 move to a farm in Virginia seems wiser

than ever. There, without benefit of governmental assistance or

more than trivial bureaucratic interference, we are at least as-
sured of eating and living comfortably.

During the years of government planning, I have maintained a
membership on the New York Stock Exchange, have had a small
success in the writing of fiction, spent nearly six years in the
armed forces, some of them under that rugged individualist
General George Patton, have learned to fly, have run a farm,
have engaged in politics, and have become a Master of Fox Hounds.

There have been several trips to Europe, one as a guest of the
Air Force, a good many through our western states and a few
summers in Maine. Obviously an undistinguished and common-
place twenty-five years, but filled with entertaining people and
amusing events while devoid of ulcers or recourse to Alcoholics
Anonymous.

A daughter at Smith, two sons at Exeter — the elder takes off
for Princeton in the fall! — and the same understanding, generous,
good-natured wife have made the past twenty-odd years ones of
contentment and happiness. Some small things have been accom-
plished, many kind people have helped me, and a few have been

assisted in their turn.

[ 389 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

As a result I retain an abiding faith in the human race and an
unshakable conviction that, told the truth, the people of the
United States comprise a great, brave and noble nation. That
through the last twenty-five. years their leaders should have
offered them so little of such invigorating fare seems to me de-
plorable and, for this failure, not a few Harvard men of both
right and left must, in my opinion, bear their full share of blame.

Lest it appear that negative indifference has been the sole
motivation for the years since graduation, I might add that I was
once again working in Republican National Headquarters when
the roof fell in last November second.

FDWARD BARNARD HINCKLEY

HOME apprEss: 102 Abbott Rd., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: Babson Institute, Babson Park 57, Mass.

BorN: Oct. 24, 1903, West Newton, Mass. parents: Edward Crocker
Hinckley, Eleanor Barnard.

PREPARED AT: Deering High School, Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924, A.M., 1926;
PH.D., 1932.

MarRiED: Dorothy Sybil Kuenzli, Jan. 11, 1929, Mansfield, Mass. CHILDREN:
Marjorie Mary, Oct. 16, 1931; Edward Charles, Dec. 16, 1934; Lois
Vivian, Dec. 23, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Barnard Doremus, '35 (half-brother).

OCCUPATION: President, Babson Institute of Business Administration.

OFFICES HELD: Head of English Department, University of Tampa, Tampa,
Fla., 1933-36, 1937-40; dean, Kalamazoo College, Kalamazoo, Mich.,
1942-46; president, Babson Institute of Business Administration, since
1946.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Faculty Club; Executives’ Club, Boston Chamber of
Commerce; American Geographical Society; Association of American
Military Engineers.

puBLicaTions: “Thoreau and Boston,” New England Quarterly, “Cape Cod
Folks,” Harvard Graduates’ Magazine, “Harvard Teachers,” Harvard
Alumni Bulletin.

SURELY the first prerequisite to the task of putting twenty-five
years of living into fifty lines of printing is a central theme. The
only central theme that seems applicable to my life is the remark
which Thomas Wolfe was fond of making: “You can’t see the
end from the beginning.” J entered Harvard in 1920 with the
firm intention of becoming a master mind in chemistry (follow-

L 390 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing the footsteps of a favorite uncle) and for six years I followed
the science as a more or less willing slave, noting among the other
high spots two courses with Professor James B. Conant, as well
as other stimulating contacts with Professors E. P. Kohler, Grin-
nell Jones, George Shannon Forbes, and Gregory P. Baxter, as
well as that Titan of Titans, Theodore W. Richards. Those
were good years, though difficult, and when I received my
Master’s degree in 1926, I felt justified in spending two months
in Europe before plunging into the Analytical Laboratory of the
B. F. Goodrich Company in Akron, Ohio.

Within the year, I had resolved to spend more time with people
and less time with things — an accurate though perhaps oversim-
plified summary of the reasons why I turned to the teaching of

English. My Akron experiences had been most happy and had
given me a number of good friends — one of whom I married on
January 11, 1929. |

Returning to Harvard in the fall of 1927, I laid my course
towards a Ph.D. in English, materially guided and inspired by
such literary lighthouse keepers as Professors Irving Babbitt,
George Lyman Kittredge, and John Livingston Lowes. I passed
my oral in due course in June, 1932, and the next year, with my
wife and our first child (born in 1931), I started teaching in
Tampa, Florida, as head of the English Department of the Uni-
versity of Tampa. Our second child—a boy —was born in
1934. Six years with a young and growing college in Florida
proved a most interesting and vital experience, involving such
diverse activities as raising lemons and goats and directing original
student operettas.

In 1940 I transferred to Kalamazoo College in Michigan as a
member of the English Department. A third child, our second
girl, was born in Kalamazoo in 1943. The Kalamazoo phase of
our lives, by a series of apparently fortuitous circumstances,
pitchforked me, after two years of teaching English, into new
administrative duties. Two months after I had accepted an ap-
pointment as dean. The president of the college left on sick leave
and I became acting president of Kalamazoo College in the fall of
1942. The years 1942 to 1944 were busy years, with an Army
Specialized Training Program Unit on our campus and the usual
hazards and headaches of education in wartime. After the presi-

[ 391 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

dent’s return, I remained as dean until 1946, when a letter from
Mr. Roger W. Babson brought me to Wellesley on Test Able
Day as the third president of Babson Institute of Business Admin-
istration. Babson Institute is a college of 550 men, devoted to
what has come to seem an increasingly important task: the train-
ing of business executives of character and ability.

Another “end” which I certainly could not have foreseen from
the beginning was my slow but logical development from an
agnostic Unitarianism to a confident acceptance of the doctrines
of the Swedenborgian Church. Between and around my other
activities I have taken sufficient theological training to become an
ordained minister, which has broadened and extended my relations
with people. Like C. S. Lewis, I value the fact that I came,
through my own reading and reason, to a conviction of the
validity of religion and the fundamental reality of the spiritual
world. This conviction gives a meaning to my life which I have
tried to make “available upon request” to others.

We are now living what is certainly a full life and, we think, a
fairly rich life, striving as usual for the perfect integration of
business and living. My chief extracurricular off-campus activi-
ties are change ringing, the Boston Symphony, and sailing. On
campus they include supervising construction of a new swimming
pool at the college, planning slides for projection on the Great
Babson Relief Map (on a scale of four miles to the inch), and
gathering facts on the feasibility of building a plastic globe of the
earth forty-one feet in diameter to be illuminated by a point
source of light shining through colored spherical slides.

From where I sit, the future promises horizons equally varied
and unlimited.

MOSES HIRSH

HOME appress: 58 Bicknell St, Dorchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 148 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 1, 1904, Russia. parents: Benjamin Hirsh, Eva Shostakowsky.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREFS: A.B. cum laude, 1924(25); LL.B. 1927.

Maxgieo: Frances Beatrice Glasser, July 31, 1928, Boston, Mass. cum:
Judith Lenore, Nov. §, 1932.

occupaTION: Lawyer.

[ 392 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member of Auxiliary Police, Civilian Defense,

and of War Rationing Board, and chairman of Price Panel, Dorchester,
1943-45.

OFFICES HELD: President, Mattapan-Dorchester-Roxbury Zionist District,
1942~44; vice-president, New England Zionist Region, 1945-46; vice-
chairman, districts division, United Jewish Appeal of Boston, 1948.

MEMBER OF: Mattapan-Dorchester-Roxbury Zionist District of Zionist Or-
ganization of America, New England Zionist District (member of ex-
ecutive committee); Harvard Law School Association.

AFTER graduation from the Law School, I practised Jaw in
Boston till 1942, when I became associated with a family mercan-
tile business, though retaining contact with the practice of law.
I continue to reside in Boston, enjoying the affection of my wife
and daughter and a host of friends numbering many of our
classmates.

My late father was an outstanding Hebrew educator. As a
consequence, the first language I spoke was Hebrew, the first
books I read were in Hebrew. I was saddened by the tragedies
of the Jewish people during the dispersion but thrilled by the
dream of the reéstablishment in Palestine of a Jewish homeland.

At Harvard I found that the example and influence of the late
Justice Louis D. Brandeis, an outstanding American Zionist, had
stimulated student interest in Zionism. During our senior year I
became president of the Harvard Zionist Club. Following gradu-
ation I participated with several of our classmates in forming the
Palestine Society of Boston to interest and educate college men
in Zionism. We met for many years with outstanding figures in
American Zionism, including Justice Felix Frankfurter, then at
the Law School. I am happy to say that many of the members
of the Palestine Society have become outstanding leaders in Zion-
ism, among them classmates Rabbi Leo Shubow, Robert Martin
Morrison, and Morris Michelson.

During the past year, the Zionist dream has come true. Israel,
a free and independent Jewish republic, has been established in
Palestine. I am proud of the notable contributions by Harvard
men, including classmate Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, towards
this ideal. It is my ardent belief that Israel will be a bastion of
democracy in the Near East, that it will spread the ideals of de-
mocracy, liberty, and justice, which we learned to value so highly
at Harvard.

[393 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

JAMES HOWARD HISS, JR.

ADDRESS: 164-20 77th Rd., Flushing, N. Y.

BorN: Dec. 13, 1900, Baltimore, Md. parents: James Howard Hiss, Elizabeth
Yearley.

PREPARED AT: St. John’s Preparatory School, Danvers, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923.

occuPATION: Transportation.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Hiss did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

HENRY-RUSSELL HITCHCOCK

HOME appress: 8 West St., Northampton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Smith College, Northampton, Mass.

BORN: June 3, 1903, Hyde Park, Mass. parents: Henry-Russell Hitchcock,
Alice Whitworth Davis.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1924; AM.
1927,

occupation: Professor of art, Smith College; lecturer in architecture,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Photographic library, Bureau of Aeronautics,
Navy Department, 1942.

OFFICES HELD: Director, College Art Association, since 1947, Society of
Architectural Historians, since 1945; trustee, Pilgrim Society, Plym-
outh, Mass., since 1935.

MEMBER OF: Royal Institute of British Architects, London (honorary cor-
responding member); Club of Odd Volumes, Boston.

PUBLICATIONS: Modern Architecture, 1929, The International Style, 1932;
The Architecture of H. H. Richardson and His Times, 1936; Rhode
Island Architecture, 1939; In the Nature of Materials, The Architecture
of Frank Lloyd Wright, 1942; American Architectural Books, 1946;
Painting Toward Architecture, 1948.

A LIST of publications such as that above indicates the most
noteworthy events in a writer's life, but something of a back-
ground should be filled in as well. Finishing college in three
years, I spent the fourth, before graduating with my Class, in the
architectural school. But I found work in architectural history
under Kingsley Porter more satisfying and soon gave up the idea
of becoming an architect. Instead I became a writer on architec-
ture, earning my living as a teacher of the history of art. Fellow-

[ 394 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ships and summer vacations permitted me to explore Western
Europe in the late twenties and my first book, covering the his-
tory of European and American architecture since the mid-
eighteenth century, defined the field, partly historical and partly
contemporary, into which all my later books have fallen. I am
most proud of the two later books which have provided (in both
cases in more or less close relation with exhibitions at the Mu-
seum of Modern Art) full documentation on the work of two
of America’s greatest architects, H. H. Richardson and Frank
Lloyd Wright. An earlier book (also related to a major archi-
tectural exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art), despite the
fact that its title, The International Style, has always aroused
controversy, seems to have signalized the beginnings of a wide
professional and public interest in and, perhaps one may now
safely say, acceptance of the general principles of modern ar-
chitecture in this country. A bibliography which attempts to
list all American publications on architecture up to 1895 was
neither controversial nor of interest to a wide public; but as a
tool of scholarship for American historical studies, in which ac-
tivity increased so notably during the war, it has proved of real
value, I believe, to all who were able to obtain copies from a
pessimistically small edition. My interests have never been ex-
clusively either American or European and my studies since the
war have been centered in the architecture of Victorian England,
on the theory that a proper understanding of American architec-
tural developments in the nineteenth century (as is obviously the
case in the Colonial period) also requires the fullest knowldge of
the currents of influence which continued, at least down into the
eighties, to flow across the Atlantic.

As a graduate student at Harvard I was also a tutor, but my
teaching really began at Vassar in 1927. After a year there and
another year abroad, I settled down for twenty years at Wes-
leyan University in Middletown, Connecticut. From there I
went on leave during the war to work on aircraft engine publi-
Cations at Pratt & Whitney in East Hartford after a few months
with the Navy Department in Washington. For some reason I
have almost always had two jobs at a time. During the early
thirties I worked a good deal at the Museum of Modern Art in
New York and also at the Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford

[ 395 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

NORMAN FISHER HOARD.

HOME ADDRESS: 27 Wendell Park, Milton 86, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Press Wireless Manufacturing Co. Inc., 25 Prospect PIL,
Wrest Newton, Mass.

BoRN: June 19, 1902, Lakeville, Mass. parENts: Alton Tisdale Hoard, Mary
Steele Fisher.

PREPARED AT: Taunton High School, Taunton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B. IN E.E., 1924.

MARRIED: Amey P, Staples, Nov. 24, 1928, Lakeville, Mass. curp: Leatrice
Mae, March 23, 1930.

occupation: Electronic engineering; general manager, West Newton Divi-
sion, Press Wireless Manufacturing Company, Inc.

WRITING a brief account of my life for the Twenty-fifth An-
niversary Report of the Class of 1924 takes me back to-the days
when I was filling out blanks for admission to Harvard. It seems
just yesterday that I received my acceptance and enrolled in the
freshman class. Those four years flew by, and before I had a
chance to catch my breath, I found myself with a diploma in my
hand wondering just what to do next.

In the fall of 1924 I joined the staff of the General Electric
Company at Schenectady as a test engineer in the radio depart-
ment. Engineering work on superheterodyne receivers and ra-
dio interference problems filled my next four years. Although
all of this work was extremely interesting, I really never did like
Schenectady with its cold winters and deep snows.

An opportunity presented itself in 1928 which permitted me to
return to Boston. For the next three years I was employed as a
radio engineer with Wireless Specialty Apparatus Company,
which was later absorbed by Radio Corporation of America and
operated as R.C.A, Victor Company (Massachusetts). My en-
gineering work during this time pertained to deluxe radio-phono-
graph combinations, commercial receivers, centralized sound
systems, and direction finders,

In the meantime, an important event in my life had taken place.
I was married to Amey P. Staples, whom I had known ever since
my early school days. A daughter, Leatrice Mae, was born in 1930.

Just after my acquisition of a home and family, that familiar
depression of the early thirties struck. The Massachusetts plant
of R.C.A. Victor Company was closed, and I transferred to Cam-

[ 398 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

den, New Jersey, to carry on engineering work on radio direc-
tion-finders. For three years I lived in a hotel in Camden and
travelled back and forth to Boston every two or three weeks to
be with my family. This arrangement was quite unpleasant, to
say nothing of the heat, humidity, and pungent odors which
characterize Camden in the summertime.

After the death of my parents, I returned to Boston to take
care of personal business affairs. In 1935 I joined the signal divi-
sion of Holtzer-Cabot as an electronic engineer. This proved to
be a very enjoyable and pleasant association. During those ten
years my duties were extremely diversified. I started as an engi-
neer, then became production superintendent, and finally man-
ager of the signal division until it was sold shortly after the war
came along. Research and development then became an ex-
tremely important factor in furthering the war effort, and I was
made assistant director of the newly-organized Engineering and
Development Laboratory. This led to the position of manager of
the electronics division which, until the end of the war, was en-
gaged in producing electronic equipment for the armed services.

Like a great many other people, in 1946 I found it necessary
to embark on a new enterprise. The next year and a half I spent
in organizing and operating the research products division of
Stevens-Arnold Company. This proved to be a very interesting
but unprofitable venture.

In May, 1948, I joined Press Wireless Manufacturing Com-
pany, Inc., and am now general manager of the West Newton
division. My present field of endeavor “includes research and de-
velopment work on electronic equipment for the United States
government, as well as the production of electro-mechanical
products for both military and commercial applications.

Time certainly passes quickly. It is difficule to realize that
twenty-five years have elapsed since graduation from Harvard,
but, nevertheless, it is a fact. When I stop to consider that my
own daughter is already away from home attending Bryn Mawr
College, I know that I must be growing old, although I feel al-
most as young as when I attended classes in Pierce Hall and per-
formed experimental work in the Cruft Laboratory,

[ 399]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

ARTHUR LAMBERT HOBSON, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE apprEss: Little Boars Head, N. H.

BORN: Feb. 4, 1902, Brighton, Mass. parents: Arthur Lambert Hobson, ’95,
Alice Carey Gale.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 19243 LL.B. 1927.

marrieD: Geraldine Allen, Jan. 22, 1931, St. Louis, Mo. (divorced 1945);
CHILDREN: Gail, Sept. 3, 1932; Arthur Lambert, 3d, June 3, 1934; Eliza-
beth Barry, March 3, 1937.

occupation: Private practice of law.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Assistant way foreman, Bethlehem Shipyard,
Hingham, Mass., for two and one-half years.

AFTER leaving college, my time was occupied largely with row-
ing and law. I coached crews while in the Law School and later
—in 1928 —I rowed with the Union Boat Club for the Grand
Challenge Cup in the Henley Regatta in England. I practised law
in Boston with the firm of Herrick, Smith, Donald & Farley and,
after ten years, went with an independent oil operator as coun-
sel and general adviser.

The years 1933-39 were most interesting ones for me; not only
from the point of view of the work I was doing, but also on ac-
count of the observations I was able to make. I spent much time
in Germany and, as no one thought me of much importance —
which was the fact—no one made any effort to conceal much
from me. I was shown the German fleet; I was conducted around
Stuttgart by Mr. Goering in person. “What are you doing all this
for?” I inquired, “war?”

“Heavens, no; Der Fuehrer needs pomp as other rulers.”

Still, although most everyone said that there would be no war,
the British were sandbagging everything in London; in Cairo and
Rome elaborate preparations were being made and the Germans
were building enormous underground shelters under Berlin.
How this added to “Der Fuehrer’s pomp” was hard to see. The
barracks at Potsdam were unashamedly alive with troops. After
Munich everyone relaxed, but this was short-lived after March
fifteenth when the German Army marched into Prague.

The morning this happened my German friends whom I knew
in a business way were speechless and could not discuss the mat-
ter until the afternoon papers came out to tell them what ex-

[ 400 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

planation to give. They had boasted of all that Hitler had done

without war and now they were utterly confused. They still

kept asserting that there would be no war, but by this time this
assertion had become a matter of “The woman doth protest too
much.”

I relate this here because, while the Germans have been
brought up quite differently from us in this country, neverthe-
less, it indicates how the apathy of a people can lead them into
very unfortunate circumstances to say the least, and we are not
without our weaknesses. I am sure the Germans were more sur-
prised than I was at the turn of events. As I see it, while the
Germans are used to discipline, we are rather apt to be carried
away with the “Hollywood” characteristics of our officials. We
can respect the abilities of our officials without being carried
away with their Hollywood appeal, and recent disclosures would —
seem to dictate more vigilance on the part of our people.

After the war broke out, I virtually moved to Houston, Texas,
but did not move my family from New York where the children
were well set in schools. In 1941 my client died and I then went
to Washington State for an independent oil company where I
supervised the drilling of an oil well. I moved my family out
there and we lived in a small town called Enumclaw near Seattle.
In February, 1942, having been rejected by both the Army and
the Navy, I went to work for the Bethlehem Hingham Ship-
yards where I remained until August, 1945. I worked there in
the capacity of an assistant way foreman in the outfitting divi-
sion. Since leaving the yard, having been divorced, I have lived
at my present address with my family, doing some law work and
interesting myself in small business and real estate activities.

In 1947 my past sins caught up with me and I developed neuri-
tis which has considerably restricted my activities. I have no
special plans for the future other than what I am doing although
I have seriously considered returning to the West Coast. I have
my son with me during his vacations. He is at the Fessenden
School in West Newton.

[ or ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

t+ SAMUEL J. HOCKING

porN: Sept. 15, 1899, Calumet, Mich. parents: Samuel John Hocking,
Frances Ede.

PREPARED AT: Calumet High School, Calumet, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1919-1920, 1922-1923. DEGREES: A.B, 1924(27); A.M. (Univ.
of Chicago), 1927.

marriep: Ada Eichmever, Aug. 15, 1925, Shanghai, China (deceased);
Evelyn McMillan, Nov. 30, 1931. CHILDREN: Louise Mae, Feb. 9, 1926;
Samuel McMillan, June 22, 1935.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Service in the U. S. Army Tank Corps, October
to December, 1918.

piep: June 27, 1942, Montgomery, Ala.

wiwow: Mrs. Samuel J. Hocking, 205 Ponce De Leon Ave., Montgomery,
Ala.

SAMUEL J. HOCKING attended Calumet High School, com-
pleting preparatory work there before entering Harvard. He at-
tended the college for two years as an undergraduate and was a
member of the Harvard Masonic Club. After leaving Harvard
he entered Washington and Jefferson College, studying there be-
fore going to China. For three years he taught in Shanghai,
spending a year and a half at Tul Tan University and the remain-
der of the time at St. John’s University. After the death of his
first wife, he rerurned to the United States and began working
on a Ph.D. degree in the field of Chinese history, politics, and
culture. He was granted an A.B. degree in 1927, as of 1924, and
that same year also received an A.M. degree from the Univer-
sity of Chicago,

In the Sexennial Report (1930) he reported he was a professor
of history in the Extension Department of the University of
Alabama at Decatur. He continued with the Extension Depart-
ment for several years and in the 1939 Class Report he noted that
he was a professor at the University of Alabama in Montgomery,
the position which he occupied at the time of his death.

Ele was a member of the Montgomery Rotary Club.

FREDERICK MERRILL HODGE

Hosp apuress: 45 Maple Ave., Hyannis, Mass.
orricg, AppRESS; Barnstable High School, Hyannis, Mass.

[ 402 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: April 3, 1903, Malden, Mass. parents: Frederick Richard Hodge, ’95,
Emma Roxanna Merrill.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newtonville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 19243 ED.M., 1925.

MaRRIED: Persis Grace Canfield, July 24, 1931, Hyannis, Mass. CHILDREN:
Frederick Merrill, Jr., March 22, 1934; Ruth Canfield, June 16, 1938.

occupaTion: High school principal.

OFFICES HELD: President, Cape Cod High School Principals Association,
1940-41, Barnstable County Teachers Association, 1940-41, Worshipful
Master, Fraternal Lodge, A.F. & A.M., 1947.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Schoolmasters’ Club; Railroad Photographic
Club; Orient Royal Arch Chapter, Cotuit Chapter, OES. |

AFTER receiving my degree of Master of Education from the
Harvard Graduate School of Education in 1925, I became prin-
cipal of the high school at Cotuit, Massachusetts, where I
remained for two years. In the fall of 1927 I came to the Barn-
stable High School at Hyannis, where I taught history for three
years, was assistant principal for nine years, and am now com-
pleting my tenth year as principal of the school.

EMERSON HODGES

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 156 Mt, Auburn St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 25, 1902, Chevy Chase, Md. parents: Vernon Estabrook
Hodges, Anna Seymour Hamlin.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Washington, D. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920—1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

HARVARD BROTHER: Vernon Seymour Hodges, ’34.

occupaTion: Writing and research.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; Delta Theta Phi Law Fraternity.

PUBLICATIONS; Articles, stories, and advertising copy.

SHOW me the man who likes to write his own epitaph. Others
can say so much nicer things about you and get away with it.
But I can’t plead lack of practice in biography, because I’ve been
boiling down all sorts of lives lately into a few short paragraphs
— full-time lives, like Mme. de Pompadour’s, for instance, and
not a mere quarter of a century of one, with nights off.

Here it is, then, cut to the cloth.

I began those twenty-five years with a partial initiation into
the family enterprise, which was patent law; skipped all roo
eagerly out of it into the management of hello girls, to running

[ 403 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

a sweatshop, to peddling wire, red flannel underwear and other
sundries and services, with more than a dash of what I shall call
journalism.

The pattern is a bit miscellaneous. But, now that I have settled
at last to the highly congenial enterprise of delving in libraries
(the Harvard ones at the ‘moment) for grist for a series of biog-
raphies in miniature, I feel that it has been all to the good in the
understanding of life—or lives. If I'd spent my twenty-five
years in a boiler factory, I'd probably say the exact same thing.

There, that’s the life! But just one aside. During the war, |
put in a good many evenings of volunteer work in a New York
hospital, and received as my acknowledgment an attractive lit-
tle enamel button with a white cross, in the manner of the Red
Cross, on a field of blue. I kept it with my cuff links and broken
paper clips and occasionally stole an admiring look at it. I never
wore it. This was after the V-Days, when the returning warriors
were getting out of their uniforms into discharge buttons as fast
as they could, so that an empty lapel was almost conspicuous.
But the others had been in the services, and I hadn’t, and I wasn’t
anxious to point up the difference.

On the other hand, I too had earned my badge; I'd earned it
making a pair of flat feet nearly five hundred hours flatter, and
(never mind the paradox) I'd paid sixty-five cents for it. So
when I went to meet my brother at the railroad station, I thought
that at last I had my opportunity to razzle-dazzle someone.

Nothing doing! The younger brother wasn’t taking my strut.
Why, he wanted to know (disgruntled to think that he was still
in uniform), did I want to give the impression I was a discharged
veterinarian?

Experiences like this have persuaded me, the hard way, that
people don’t want to hear you blowing your own horn.

JOHN ALOYSIUS HODGES

HOME aAppress: 121 N. Solomon St., New Orleans, La.

OFFICE Appress: U. $, Custom House, New Orleans, La.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1897, Hammond, La. parents: John Thomas Hodges, Grace
Evelyn McDaniel.

PREPARED AT: Amite High School, Amite, La.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1923.

[ 404 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Rosalie Ann Girgenti, Feb. 4, 1936, Amite, La. CHILDREN: Rosalie
Ann, June 9, 1940; John Aloysius, Aug. 24, 1942; James Michael, Feb. 23,
1945.

occupaTION: United States customs inspector.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active duty, United States Naval Reserve,
1917-18.

WILLIAM HODGKINSON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 601 E, 2oth St., New York 10, N. Y.

OFFICE ADpREss: American Telephone & Telegraph Co., 195 Broadway, New
York, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 5, 1901, Bristol, R. I. parents: William Hodgkinson, Elizabeth
Marshall Allen.

PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.

"YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1924(25).

MARRIED: Sara Kathryn Wagner, Nov. 29, 1945, New York, N. Y. cuit:
Anne, May 2, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Statistician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant colonel, Army of the United States;
with Headquarters, United States Army Air Forces, on active duty,
June, 1942, to December, 10945.

MEMBER OF: American Mathematical Society; Institute of Mathematical
Statistics; American Statistical Association; American Association for
the Advancement of Science; Grand Jury Association of New York
County.

PUBLICATIONS: “Preferred Stock Issues and Redemptions, 1919-1927,” Har-
vard Business Review, Vol. VII, No. 1, October, 1928, pp. 49-58; “The
Primary Production of the World,” Bell Telephone Quarterly, Vol. X,
No. 3, July, 1931, pp. 193-202 (reprinted in Stone & Webster Journal,
Vol. 48, No. 9, September, 1931, pp. 608-611).

SINCE graduation I have lived continuously in New York City,
working for my present employers, éxcept for the punctuation
caused by war service.

HERBERT BENNO HOFFLEIT

HOME ADDREsS: 1536 N. Orange Grove Ave., Los Angeles 46, Calif.

OFFICE apprEss: University of California at Los Angeles, gos Hilgard Ave.,
Los Angeles 24, Calif.

BORN: July 16, 1905, New Castle, Pa. parents: Fred Hoffleit, Kathe Caroline
Wilhemina Sanio.

PREPARED AT: New Castle High School, New Castle, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B, Magna cum laude, 1924; AMa
1925; PH.D. 1927.

MarRiED: Julia Norfleet Daniel, June 28, 1946, Los Angeles, Calif.

[ 405 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

occuPATION: Assistant professor of Latin and Greek, University of California
at Los Angeles. —

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Eta Chapter of California, Phi Beta Kappa, since
1946.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Philological Association; Mediaeval
Academy of America; Classical Association of the Pacific Coast.

pusBLications: An Un-platonic Theory of Evil in Plato, 1937; “A Latin
Medical Manuscript,” in Classical and Mediaeval .Studies in Honor of
Edward Kennard Rand, 1938; Epigrammata, in collaboration with Paul
Friedlander, University of California Press, 1948.

MY HOBBIES and addictions have changed but little since 1924.

Neither my politics nor my religion can be said to reveal the see-
ing of any great new light, even in our trying era. Perhaps I
am a little more tolerant, inwardly, but my wife is not permitted
to perceive any confession of her influence in that regard, nor
can she claim to have exerted any. I still fiddle, travel, read, and.
vote Republican.

RALPH THOMPSON HOLCOMB

HOME AppRESS: 84-09 35th Ave., Jackson Heights, N. Y.

orFice apprEss: Bell Telephone Laboratories, 463 West St., New York 14,
N. Y.

BorN: Oct. 21, 1897, Milton, Ky. parents: Ralph Bryan Gould, Lily
‘Thompson.

PREPARED AT: Findlay High School, Findlay, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREES: S.B. IN MECH.ENGIN. magna cum laude,
1924(25); LL.B. with honor (New York Law School), 1934; J.s.D. cum
laude (Brooklyn Law School, St. Lawrence Univ.), 1936.

MarrieD: Helen Ross, April 19, 1927, New York, N. Y. cHitp: Ralph Ross,
June 3, 1929.

occuPATION: Lawyer; member of patent staff of Bell Telephone Laboratories.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Reserve Officers’ Training Corps, Ohio State
University, 1916, University of California, 1920.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Post warden, Air Raid Protection Service,
Civilian Defense, Forest Hills, N. Y., 1942-45.

OFFices HELD: Member board of governors, Harvard Engineering Society,
1939-40.

MEMBER OF: Tau Beta Pi Association; Harvard Engineering Society; Ameri-
can Bar Association; Telephone Pioneers of America.

SICKNESS prevented my taking the final examinations in 1924,
but I took them in 1925 and was awarded my degree in that year,
as of 1924.

[ 406 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Shortly thereafter I joined the Bell Telephone Laboratories as
a member of the technical staff and engaged in communication
engineering for about five years.

In 1930 I transferred to the patent staff of the company.. This
necessitated training in law and required the burning of much
midnight oil while pursuing the study of law at New York Law
School, and later at Brooklyn Law School. In 1935 I was ad-
mitted to the Bar of the State of New York, and later to a num-
ber of federal Bars, including the Supreme Court of the United
States. I am a registered patent attorney and spend most of my
time on patent matters.

DANIEL STEWART HOLDER

HOME ADDRESS: 903 King Charles Ave., Rehoboth, Del.

OFFICE ADpREss: P, K. Motors, 2102 Gov. Printz Blvd., Wilmington, Del.

BoRN: Feb, 1, 1901, New Orleans, La. parents: Daniel Curtis Holder, Agnes
Stewart.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1924(25).

MarrieD: Margaret White, June 5, 1926, Valley Forge, Pa. (divorced 1935);
Marion Willoughby Speakman, June 27, 1936, Smyrna, Del. CHILDREN:
Margaret Adele, Sept. 13, 1928; Anne Stewart, Nov. 6, 1937; Marion
Speakman, May 22, 1940; Daniel Stewart, Jr., May 15, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Oscar Curtis Holder, ’33.

occupation: Salesman; manager of children’s sailing club during summer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Ensign, United States Coast Guard Auxiliary.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Member, Draft Board, Middletown, Del.

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive committee, American Schoolboy Rowing
Association.

MEMBER OF: Phi Delta Kappa; Harvard Club of Delaware; Schoolboy
Rowing Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Article on sailing club, published in Yachting, September,

1948.

MY LIFE since leaving college may be divided into three phases.
The first eight years I classify as purely parasitical, the next four-
teen as constructive, and the last rwo as a combination of both.

From 1925 to 1932 I was in Wall Street. After an appropriate
training period; I was made the manager of the New York branch
of my uncles’ firm, Stewart Brothers Cotton Company of New
Orleans. Next I joined the New York Cotton Exchange and
enjoyed the hectic life of a floor broker, standing around the

[ 407 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

ring yelling all day and never knowing how much you were in or
our. When the gong rang at three o'clock, you headed for the
nearest spcakeasy.

During this period I married and became the father of two
daughters. The second died shortly after birth.

After living in Chatham, New Jersey, for a year, I moved to
Darien, Connecticut, where I whirled through the Roaring
Twenties, enjoving a large income (which was never enough),
sailing, and being a big business man. In August, 1929, I
was taken in as a partner in a stock firm. After the crash, I
twiddled my thumbs for the better part of two years, then
got out of the Street. For six months I worked on starting an
insurance company to cover accidents to young sportsmen. That
blew up.

This last effort was not entirely without return. It put me in
touch with schools. I decided to become a school teacher. Waldy
Pell at St. Andrew’s in Delaware was looking for a teacher of
math and Latin. (I had hoped that I had seen the last of Latin in
1918.) I got the job. First, however, I had to get my degree for
which I was half a C short. I attended summer school and managed
to drag down two A’s and a B. (1 still think we send boys to
college too young.)

Now began what I consider my constructive period. For the
next fourteen years I taught Latin and math, coached football and
crew, winning what are known in Philadelphia as five National
Championships. The part of school teaching that I enjoyed most,
however, was the guidance department in which I was very
much involved as head of the discipline committee and as an
elected form adviser. The many close friends I now have among
the graduates is one of my greatest joys. In 1935 I was divorced
and I married again in 1935. 1 am now the proud father of two
more little girls and a boy, Harvard *64.

In 1947 I resigned from school teaching to reénter the world
of business — not a very smart move, Here begins my construc-
tive-parasitical period. I spent some months selling frozen foods,
butter, eggs, and cheese in a vain effort to make myself valuable
to Minute Maid frozen orange juice. That hasn’t panned out.
At the moment I am attempting to sell Mercuries and Lincolns
in a General Motors town with the to-be-expected results, After

[408 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

kicking the gong around for nearly a year following my retire-
ment from school teaching, I joined Alcoholics Anonymous.

On the constructive side, I founded a junior yacht club, the
Rehoboth Juniors’ Swimming and Sailing Club, in an attempt to
give the youngsters some of the good, clean fun I had at their age
and to keep them out of the usual summer resort troubles. This
effort has panned out very well. Once again I have made some
very close friends out of young members and feel that not only
have they enjoyed themselves, but also they have learned a lot
about sailing, conduct, and good sportsmanship.

HUBERT THOMAS HOLLAND, JR. .

HOME apprEss: 3 Glendale Rd., Harrison, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Everfast Fabrics, Inc., 4o Worth St., New York, N. Y.
BoRN: March 31, 1903, Boston, Mass. parents: Hubert Thomas Holland,

Katherine Devlin.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.
MARRIED: Esther Hennessy, June 17, 1929 New York, N. Y. cyto: Ann,

July 8, 1932.
occuPATION: Manager, drapery division of Everfast Fabrics, Inc.
WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Secretary, Committee on Printed Fabrics,

Office of Price Administration.
OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Johnson & Faulkner, 1941-45, Bokelman Com-

pany, Inc., 1942-45.
MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; Bonnie Briar Country Club.

Larchmont, N. Y.; Lake Placid Club, Lake Placid, N. Y.

IN THE fall of 1924 I took a short course in textiles at the Lowell
Textile School in Lowell, Massachusetts, and in January, 1925, I
became associated with a woolen and worsted agent in Boston.
After a very dull and unremunerative year, I left that business
to become a salesman in the Boston office of Johnson & Faulkner,
importers and jobbers of decorative fabrics. I remained there
until March, 1929, enjoying the uninhibited life of a bachelor. In
April, 1929, I entered a training course in Lord and Taylor's
in New York City. The following June I married Fsther ‘Ten-
nessy in New York City. At Lord and Taylor’s I went through
the various stages of assistant buyer and buyer, buying drapery
and curtain fabrics and blankets both in. this country and in
Europe. In January, 1940, all of my desires for the retail busi-

[ 409 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

ness being surfeited, I returned to Johnson & Faulkner in the
New York office. The following year I became the vice-presi-
dent of that firm and handled the buyi ing and converting of all
fabrics.

As a war effort we formed a subsidiary company, the Bokel-
man Company, and entered into the weaving of various types of
webbing such as for parachute harness, safety belts, etc., for the
armed forces. I was in charge of all production and sales for this
plant. With the end of the war with Germany we liquidated
this company and returned to our civilian business. My direct
contributions to the war were limited to this weaving business
and to the time I spent on the Office of Price Administration ad-
visory committee of printed fabrics. At the end of 1945 I left
Johnson & Faulkner to start and manage a new drapery division
for Everfast Fabrics, Inc., and at the present I am enjoying watch-
ing that development. In the twenty years I have been working
in New York I have been living in various towns in Westchester
County, the last six years in our home in Harrison. I have a
daughter, Ann, now sixteen, who is in her junior year at the
Baldwin School in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania. She is planning
on entering Wellesley in the fall of 1950. Most of my leisure
time is spent at hacking away at a golf ball or enjoying my slip-
pers and a good book by the fireplace.

CLAY HARVEY HOLLISTER

HOME AppRESS: 610 S. Grand Ave., Pasadena 2, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 621 S. Spring St., Los Angeles 14, Calif.

BoRN: May 14, 1902, Grand Rapids, Mich. parents: Clay Harvey Hollister,
Justina Hall Merrick.

PrepareD AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924, DEGREES: A.B, 1924; M.B.A. cum laude, 1927.

Maraigp: Harriet Lowell Sturgis, Oct. 1, 1927, Manchester, Mass. CHIL-
pxEN: Eleanor Sturgis, July 25, 1929, Harriet Sturgis, Nov. 30, 1931;
Isabelle Martin, June 4, 1937; Clay Harvey, Jr., April 20, 1947.

Harvard proTHERS: Paul Merrick Hollister, 13; George Merrick Hollister,
"18 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Consulting management engincer.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, 1947-48, president and director,
1944-49, Harvard Business Club of Southern California, secretary and
director, Harvard Club of Southern California, 1947-48; member board

[ 410 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of control, Exchange Club of Los Angeles, 1948; vice-president, Har-
vard Business School Club, Toledo, 1944.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Los Angeles; Harvard Club of New York,
American Marketing Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional magazine articles.

IMMEDIATELY following graduation, I went to work in my
dad’s commercial bank in Grand Rapids. A few months there
emphasized the fact that banking was not for me, and that I
knew absolutely nothing about business. Four years at the Busi-
ness School remedied that. I came away from there knowing all
about business.

On January 2, 1929, I went to work for a manufacturing busi-
ness in western Massachusetts. In the twenty years since I have
been gainfully employed by several manufacturing firms for
periods from one to six years and on my own for the last four
years.

The greatest interest and the broadest experience have been ac-
cumulated in the field of general management and sales. The
master plan was pointed towards developing at some point a
capacity to direct a company. Whether it is better to have
changed companies and homes to acquire diversified experience,
rather than to take sedatives and sit it out in a single spot with
some one or two companies, is subject to later review —say at
our Fortieth or Fiftieth Reunion.

In any case life has been eventful but rugged at moments.
Perhaps the saving grace has been the things done as a family.
For instance, at one point we had the shell of a house built for
summertimes on a hilltop headwall of a green Vermont valley
that fell away ten or fifteen miles to the far away hills. Much
of the upstairs we completed ourselves and some things re-
mained still to be done when we came to the other side of the
country. A little bit of each of us was left up there in those
beautifully uneconomic hills.

Perhaps the most colossal production was the flight into the
Promised Land when we came across country to live here in
Pasadena. In two cars, with our three girls and a Newfoundland
dog, we saw the U.S.A. for a few days. We looked at Ozarks in
their native heath, saw the wondrous mountains of Colorado,
and pondered again about the cliff-dwellers’ lives. Could they

[4qir]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

have been acceptable inhabitants of our part of the earth, sans
radio, bathtubs, electricity, and the myriad of elements which
make our standard of living better than any other era ever?
Maybe they weren’t and therefore were permitted to die out.
Maybe they were just Republicans.

Once in this land of milk from synthetic baled-hay dairies and
honey from orange blossom bees (by Sunkist), we have readily
become boosters for smog .and sunshine in alternate layers. Be-
sides, the famous climate has done the impossible. It made aver-
age children grow tall. It even engendered a boy-child — or
maybe the law of averages took over.

Occasional bursts of amateur photographic frenzy punctuate
the years, and some golf improves the basal metabolism although
tending to increase hypertension.

Tracing strangers to their home areas has been a casual pas-
time. An interest in bad puns was translated into recognition of
the sounds of a professional southern drawl, the sharp “r “ry? that
is localized in the Middle West, the American language without
accent of Oregon, and, of course, the condensed twang of many
a New Englander that sorts them out from those using the unique
phonetics belonging i in and around New York.

As far as things are concerned, we've still got the same ones
that we've always had. Of course, household tools have been
replaced and the normal process of absorbing unrelated junk from
all sources has gone on.

Places and people stand out in retrospect as having been most
worth-while — friends all over the country, a few in France or
England, a surprise phone call here, an unexpected meeting in
Bermuda, or an unexpected meeting somewhere else.

A great delight in good food and drink has been abetted through
the years by a very high standard of “things tasting good” at
home.

I still have missed going to Washington State, Idaho, and Mis-
sissippi in the last ten years but no other states have been left out.
These are parts of the pattern of the second twenty-five years.

If the gently increasing degree of social instability which I
have thus far achieved can be halted at some level some day,
maybe we can go see South America or France or the homes of
the Nordics or England; perhaps even share a few more ‘twee

[412 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

draps” with a Scotsman after a round of golf in the heather,
the fog, and the gentle paralysis that Scots can teach one to wel-
come. Who knows? You can always dream, can’t you?

And for the third twenty-five years, the second half of my
business and family life? Hopefully, it will be a little less rugged,
a little more stable.: Does that mean it will be less fun? When
“Shorty” graduates from Harvard in ’68, Pll let you know the
answer from my wheel chair.

LEONARD FIELD HOLMES

HOME ADDRESS: 45 Oriole Ave., Bronxville, N. Y.
BORN: Nov. 30, 1903, Brockton, Mass. parents: Frank Blackwell, Charlotte

Elizabeth Flagg.

PREPARED AT; Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; M.B.A. 1926; A.M. (Col-
umbia Univ.).

MARRIED: Emily Linnard Cobb, Oct. 7, 1933, New York, N. Y. cHILpren:
Francis Stacy, 2d, Sept. 4, 1934; Henry Evertson Cobb, Sept. 5, 1935.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Stacy Holmes, ’31.

MEMBER OF: Bronxville Field Club.

THERE is one point of similarity between my status now and
that of twenty-five years ago —I have no job and I haven't the
slightest idea what I shall be doing a year from now. Perhaps I
had better examine the events that led up to this amazing failure
to progress.

As I review the past, the thing that impresses me most is the
tremendous part the “breaks” have played in my life. I got my
first job at Macy’s as a result of cutting a class and writing a
“funny” report to my professor of retailing at the Business
School. I got my wife by comparing my summer tan with that
of a man I didn’t know. I went into business for myself because
I was fired by a boss who was not impressed by my sterling
worth; and, after a long struggle, I made a little money in the
textile business because my two sons (aged three and four) com-
mitted a nuisance on somebody’s rug. Obviously, I have never
been the master of my own destiny, nor do I see any reason why
I ever shall be. Something happens and your whole life starts
running in the opposite direction.

Just in case anyone but myself is interested in the details of my

[ 413 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

treatment at the hands of Fortune, here they are: After six
years at Macy’s I quit to become an author. A glance at the
list of my publications gives some idea of the success of that ex-
periment. The year and a half that I spent away from trading,
however, was not without its compensations —I found a wife,
something Macy’s had given me neither time nor energy to do.
The move still looks like a good one to me. The economic pres-
sures of marriage sent me right back to trade, eventually landing
me in my own business as a converter of rayon fabrics. After
doubling our original capital, my partner and I lost all our gains
and very nearly went busted (tried to get rich too quickly —
tell your sons it’s a mistake).

At this point my inability to hold onto the money I had made
with such hard work seemed to me to indicate that the real values
in life lie, not in the bank account, but in the service that one
gives to mankind. I left the textile business, got a Master’s de-
gree at Teachers’ College, Columbia University, and became a
teacher — ivy-covered walls, Mr. Chips, and all that. It was at
the Pawling School that my sons committed their little indiscre-
tion which made it seem advisable for me to apply my talents
once more to the field of textiles rather than that of character
building. This was in 1940. I returned to my former partner just
in time to catch the boom brought on by the war. I sold out on
April 1, 1947, determined this time to spend personally the money
I had made, rather than have it taken away from me. After a
year and a half of physical activity spent largely in planting trees
and chopping them down, I am just about to start looking for a
job that will do some little good in the world.

I have learned one thing in the last twenty-five years that is
important to me and which I am trying to instill as an attitude in
my sons. The way to judge a person is by his behavior, not by
his background, his color, race, or church. On leaving Harvard
I had two prejudices: I was anti-Semitic and anti-Irish Catholic.
These were prejudices based, not on my own experience, but on
hearsay only. What happened to change these prejudices? The
most wonderful boss I ever had was an Irish Catholic, the best
friend I had in Macy’s was Jewish, and my partner, with whom
T enjoyed an almost ideal relationship for eleven years of good
and bad times, was Jewish. My actual experience contradicted

[414]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my preconceived opinions. In one respect I am still intolerant —
I have no use for those who condemn a whole category of the
human race, thus failing to recognize that it is the individual who
counts, not the label attached to him. Such an attitude perpetu-
ates the difficulties in human relations from which our country
suffers. There are good people in every segment of humani
and they should not be made to suffer on account of the real or
imagined sins of some other members of their group.

PHILIP LaFOREST HOLMES

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Jackson Rd., Somerville, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 9, 1902, Somerville, Mass. parents: Frank H. Holmes, Lennie
Belle Wiggin.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; A.M., 1934.

OCCUPATION: Teacher.

SINCE graduation, I have studied at the Sorbonne and at the
University of Heidelberg, and have spent some time in Mexico
and Cuba.

At present I.am teaching during the day at Somerville High
School, and during the evening at Lincoln Preparatory School in
Boston.

WARREN SMITH HOLMES

HOME ADDRESS: 4952 25th St. S., Arlington, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 3703, Navy Annex, Arlington, Va.

BORN: Feb. 23, 1902, Medford, Mass. parents: Arthur Pierson Holmes,
Minnie Warren Smith. .

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; A.M. (Yale Univ.), 1942.

MarRiED: Evelyn Alyx Ferrari, Sept. 9, 1927, London, England. cHiwpreN:
Richard Warren, April 10, 1929; Anne Jacqueline, Sept. 24, 1932.

OCCUPATION: Assistant head, Educational Services Section, Bureau of Naval
Personnel.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active duty as lieutenant, United States Naval
Reserve, June, 1943; ordered to Staff Headquarters, First Naval Dis-
trict, September, 1943; released from active duty as lieutenant com-
mander, November, 1946.

PusLications: A few professional articles, principally in Navy publications.

[415]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

WHEN the business career which I had been planning to enter
after graduation blew up in my face in the middle of my senior
year in college, I decided to try teaching for a year or two. The
Gunnery School in Washington, Connecticut, was the scene of
this experiment beginning in the fall of 1924. Nineteen years
later I was still trying it. Those years had been good ones for
the most part. Washington, in Litchfield County, is one of the
loveliest spots in this country, and the life of a master in a board-
ing school, while at times partaking of the characteristics of an
intellectual and spiritual deep freeze, is in many ways a satisfying
one.

Yet for a number of years I had been restive. The war, of
course, brought a climax to the unrest. During the winter of 1941
to 1942 nothing seemed less important than teaching French and
Spanish in a boys’ boarding school. With a great deal of diffi-
culty and after several false starts, I finally succeeded in worming
my way into the Navy. There I found, at first to my chagrin,
that I was expected to go on with educational work. Soon, how-
ever, I discovered the excitement of bringing education to men
who were eager for it and deeply grateful for the opportunities
offered. After years of trying to coax reluctant and over-privi-
leged adolescents into college, the experience was a new and re-
freshing one. My specific job was organizing and administering
the educational services program in the First Naval District. I
became so absorbed in this work that, when the hostilities ended,
I was glad of the opportunity to go to Washington to assist, as a
civilian, in the supervision of a Navy-wide program.

To me there are two particularly attractive aspects of board-
ing school teaching, and these I miss to some extent. One is the
teaching itself, which I always enjoyed, and the other is the sum-
mer vacations, There are so many things that can be done with
three months that fit ill, or not at all, into a shorter period. My
early summers I spent abroad, and those months in France, Eng-
land, Spain, and Switzerland are among the most delightful of my
life. Another series of summers took me to Colorado, where I
joined friends in establishing a combination horse ranch, dude
ranch, and summer tutoring school. We had 1450 acres, the low-
est point of which was 7600 feet above sea level. Those, too,
were good summers. A third and much longer series was spent

[ 416 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

at, and much of the time below, sea level on Cape Cod. ‘This was
the period when the children’s growth and development were
fascinating, and these were perhaps the best summers of all.

My children are children no longer. My son, after a pleasant
but undistinguished succession of sojourns in a number of schools
both public and private, is finishing up an enlistment in the Na
aboard a submarine based at Pearl Harbor. I hope he will soon re-
turn to civilian life and take aboard some rather badly needed
education. My daughter is a junior in high school and embodies
the interesting phenomenon of a New Englander being slowly

lated over with Virginianism.

As for the departments of hobbies and convictions, I'm long

on the one and short on the other. The well-tempered clavichord
and the Chopin “Etudes” are hardy perennials. Woodworking
is another, and a recent volunteer crop is gardening, which tends
to wax as tennis understandably wanes. ‘And probably the less
said: about those convictions (social, political, and religious),
whose exiguity I contemplate with some dismay, the better.

JOHN REDFIELD HOOVER

HOME aApprEss: 151 Elm Rd., Stow, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: B. F. Goodrich Chemical Co., 324 Rose Bldg., Cleveland,
Ohio.

BoRN: April 12, 1903, Little Falls, Minn. parents: Edgar Malone Hoover,
Mary Jane Redfield.

PREPARED AT: Boise High School, Boise, Idaho.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B. Cum laude, 1924.

MARRIED: Janet Weston, June 26, 1926, Akron, Ohio. cHitpren: John Red-
field, Jr, May 14, 1927; Alice Jane, June 2, 1928; Janet Elizabeth, June
I, 1929.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edgar Malone Hoover, Jr., 28.

~ occupation: Vice-president in charge of sales for B. F, Goodrich Chemical
Company, manufacturers of plastic materials, synthetic rubber, and
chemicals.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member, Vinyl Resin Industry Committee,
War Production Board.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, B. F. Goodrich Chemical Company, since
1945, vice-president, 1945-46, president, 1947-48, Plastic Materials
Manufacturers Association, Inc.; director, Service Publications, Inc3
Cleveland, 1948.

MEMBER oF: American Institute of Chemical Engincers; American Chemi-

cal Society; The Chemists’ Club, New York City; Elarvard Club of New
[417 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

York; Cleveland Athletic Club; Mid-day Club, Cleveland, Harvard
Varsity Club; Society of Plastics Engineers; Society of the Plastics In-
dustry; Plastic Materials Manufacturers Association, Inc.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles and papers for technical and trade journals
and scientific societies.

GRADUATION seems but yesterday. If there is a common de-
nominator for Harvard men, it must be their continual zest for
life, their insatiable curiosity about the things, people, and events
of the world in which we live. The process of education is for
them one with the whole process of living. It is a full and fast
life that way.

I often tell my children, who are all three in college now, , that
their mother and I are enjoying life even more than they. Some-
times they agree, as their youth makes it impossible for them to
regard their own problems as less than monumental.

As you will see from our vital statistics, the children came one
at a time but otherwise as rapidly as nature permits, so, the
Hoover family has grown up together in a very real sense. Yet
it would be difficult to find three children with interests and
temperaments as unlike as these: Janet, the youngest, going to
Sargent for physical education; Alice Jane specializing in music;
and John, the eldest, with talent in art and science.

I have revolved since graduation in an orbit resembling the
figure eight, one loop being the family and the other my work —
with occasional tangential excursions into the mystic glories of
nature by way of photography, gardening, fishing, wandering,
or simple basking, and less frequent but no less fervent digres-
sions to hear and collect hot jazz.

You see here, then, a happy man, the result of a perfectly
wonderful wife, a three-ring circus of a family, health, a sense of
humor, friends with the same, a challenge in my work, a gener-
ous portion of that Harvard curiosity, and an abiding faith in
human nature.

+ JOHN MILTON HOPKINS

BorN: March 9, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: John Appleton Haven
Hopkins, Alison Turnbull.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: 8.B. IN MECH.ENGIN. cum laude, 1924.

[418 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED:. Doris Keyes, April 9, 1927, Springfield, Mass. cHmpREN: Richard
Appleton, Oct. 11, 1929; Bradford Streeter, April 6, 1931 (died in in-
fancy); John Bradford, Oct. 2, 1936.

piep: Oct. 14, 1946, Essex Fells, N. J.

wwow: Mrs. John M. Hopkins, Arden Lane, Essex Fells, N. J.

JOHN MILTON HOPKINS, after completing preparatory
work at Phillips Academy, Andover, Massachusetts, entered Har-
vard with the Class and during his first year at college received
the Harvard-Andover Scholarship. He was a member of the
Freshman Tennis Squad in 1921 and the Tennis Squad in 1922 and
1923, the Andover Club (secretary-treasurer, 1922-1924) and the
Falcon Club, (president, 1923). In 1924, after receiving his
S.B. degree cum laude in mechanical engineering, he accepted
a teaching position at the Belmont Hill School, Belmont. He
later became engaged in manufacturing and in 1934 was working
for the Osborne Chromatic Gravure Company at East Orange,
New Jersey.

Five years later he was engaged in the publishing field, han-
dling the production and advertising contact work for This
Week Magazine published by the Alco-Gravure Division of
Publication Corporation. He remained with this group for
twelve years and at the time of his death was production man-
ager of the rotogravure section of Intaglio Service Corporation,
engravers, of New York.

His wife, Doris Keyes Hopkins, and two sons, Richard Apple-
ton and John Bradford, survived him.

MORRIS HOROWITZ

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 35~25 95th St., Jackson Heights, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 31, 1903, Minsk, Russia. Parents: Max Horowitz, Lena Zuck-
erman.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1925. DEGREES: A.B, 1924(25); M.p, (Univ. of Mary-
land), 1929.

MaRRIED: Beatrice Jacobs, Aug. 6, 1944, Brooklyn, N. Y,.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Medical Society, State of New
York; County of Queens Medical Society,

I EARN my livelihood as a general practitioner of medicine. It’s
all right, except for the long and uncertain hours, I also miss my

[419]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

sleep much too often. I hope we don’t get socialized medicine,
but I’m afraid it’s coming. If I had to do it all over again, I think
I would choose the same work.

SAMUEL GILBERT HOUGHTON

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: P. O. Box 1313, Reno, Nev..

BORN: Jan. 24, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: Clement Stevens Houghton,
Martha Gilbert Colt.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923.

marriED: Edda Kreiner, June 20, 1939, New Canaan, Conn. cumpren: John

Greenleaf, April 17, 1940, Catherine, May 21, 1942; Linda, Sept. 16,
1946.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Maxwell Houghton, ’22; John Denison Hough-
ton, 727.

occuPATION: Mine development (gold, both placer and lode); writing; civic
and charitable organizations, politics.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Prepared for Annapolis, 1918, entered U.S.
Naval Academy, June, 1919, resigned, November, 1919. Enlisted as
quartermaster, 2d class, in the Seabees on Jan. 15, 1943; active duty
March 11, 1943; shipped overseas with 74th Constr. Battalion, Sept.
24, 1943; landed at Tarawa, Nov. 24, 1943; Kwajalein, March 24, 1944;
Oahu, July 24, 1944; Okinawa, June 24, 1945; honorably discharged,
Aug. 6, 1945. .

OFFICES HELD: Director, since 1940, public information chairman, 1940-43,
1945-47, Washoe Company Chapter, American Red Cross; director,
1940-43, 1945-49, president, 1947-49, Reno Y.M.C.A.; director, Reno
Community Concert Association, 1947-49; executive committee, Nevada
Young Republicans, 1940-43, Republican State Central Committee,
1942-49, secretary-treasurer, Republican Veterans’ Committee, 1946;
senior vice-commander, Reno Post 4o7, V-F.W., 1947-48; vice-president,
Acme Gold Placers, Inc.; secretary-treasurer, Rosegold Placers, Inc.;
director, Double-O Timber and Mining Company.

MEMBER OF: B.P.O.E. Lodge 597, Reno; Saturn Club, Buffalo, 1929-34;
St. Botolph Club, Boston, 1934-48, Harvard Club of New York, 1930-
42.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Writer’s Handbook,” Boston, 1936, “The Music Al-
bum,” Wm. Morrow & Co., 1938; “zqth Battalion in Review,” San
Francisco, 1945.

WHY would anyone born on Commonwealth at Exeter and sent
to traditional schools choose to live in the West and, of all places,
in Reno?

This small city has been tagged and filed in the same drawer,

[ 420 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

but not quite as deep, as Sodom. Its people, however, dislike
hypocrisy. With less gambling than the larger cities, they prefer
theirs in the open and tax-supporting, not a force to corrupt
politicians and police. As for the custom of legalizing domestic
destruction, they think it improbable that a man and a woman
_ can be legislated into the same bed and kept there. Mainly, the
attitude — mature, I think — embraces a tolerance for the way
other people lead their lives, so long as they do not encroach un-
pardonably. There is a gentle curiosity, of course, but lacking
recept and criticism.

Also: One lives in a most satisfying scene, enjoying a climate
that permits outdoor activity at all seasons. Schools are good;
it’s just about ideal for raising children. Two miles from home I
took a five-pound rainbow this year. In half an hour from my
house I can reach an excellent duck blind. (And in nineteen
hours, if need should ever be, reach Boston.)

The war touched but did not blight us. The town grew larger,
and some fellows did not come back. Curiously, more naval en-
listments in proportion to population came from inland Nevada
than any other state. Inflation has knocked mining in the head,
but we live in hopes.

License plates are hereditary, as they are in Massachusetts. We
have fifty thousand cars and trucks, no more. Some years ago
Harrison Gardner told me he was angling for number 24 (Mas-
sachusetts) in honor of our Class; in Nevada I got 4oz2, since the
owners of 24 and 1924 are healthy and stubborn. Perhaps Harry
did better. Numerologists might marvel, however, that my em-
barkation overseas, four Pacific landings, and (oh, happy day)
return to the United States all occurred on the twenty-fourth
day of the month.

CHARLES FAIRBANKS HOWARD

HOME ADDRESS: 1205 Upper Ridgeway Rd., Charleston 4, W. Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 502 Kanawha Banking & Trust Bldg., Charleston, W. Va.

BORN: Jan. 24, 1900, Dodge Centre, Minn. parents: John Howard, Alice
Fairbanks.

PREPARED aT: Princeton Preparatory School, Princeton, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1921.

MARRIED: Nanne Shel Waldrop, Nov. 21, 1929, Bryan, Texas. CHILDREN:

[42t ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Charles Fairbanks, Jr. July 21, 1932; Nanne Shel, Oct. 23, 1933; Joel
Willis, Oct. 11, 1938.
HARVARD BROTHER: David Clyde Howard, a.M., ’11, LLB. ’14 (deceased).
occuPaTION: Oil and natural gas production.
MILITARY OR NAVAL REcoRD: Cadet, Air Force, 1918.

AT THE time it seemed that the net result of my first three
years’ work, after I left college, was a large “E” (“E” for effort).
I was endeavoring to find a type of work that would be interest-
ing and, I hoped, profitable.

First, I spent six dragging months in the field office of a large
coal company, and next, a year in their main office. That effec-
tively took care of the coal production business as far as I was
concerned. The following two years I spent with a wholesale
grocery company. Advancement was rapid up to the wall of the
old timers. The death of one of these seemed to be the only
chance for advancement, so I left to go into the production of
crude oil and natural gas as an independent operator. The varied
and sundry problems of this business have held my interest ever
since.

In 1928 I journeyed to Houston, Texas, to be best man for a
Virginian friend. After one look at the maid of honor, I can
only report that they say “his bride was very beautiful.” Some-
time during the following year she must have started reading my
letters as we were married in November, 1929.

While I served in the first World War, the demands for oil
and natural gas were so great that I was instructed to “carry on”
in my business,

Twenty years and three children later, we are still chasing that
will-o-the-wisp —a really large oil or gas well.

RICHARD FOSTER HOWARD

HOME ADDRESS: §224 Shriver St., Des Moines, Iowa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Des Moines Art Center, Greenwood Park, Des Moines,
Iowa.

BORN: July 26, 1902, Plainficld, N. J. parents: Lawrence Riggs Howard,
Nina Margaret Kellogg.

PREPARED AT: New Trier High School, Wilmette, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: $.B., 1924.

Markiep: Anne Okeson, Sept. 5, 1925, Bethlehem, Pa. (divorced 1929);
Frances Mary Flanders, Dec. 17, 1932, Brookline, Mass.; Helen Bos-

[ 422 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

well, 1941, New York, N. Y. cuipren: Margaret Anne, June 17, 1926
(m. Charles Gleason, 1948); James Boswell, Oct. 17, 1942.

occupPATION: Art Museum Director.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Second lieutenant, 1924, first lieutenant, 1925,
captain, 1930, Field Artillery, Officers’ Reserve Corps; active duty as
captain, Field Artillery, May 1, 1942, commissioned major, Nov. 1,
1942, lieutenant colonel, Nov. 15, 1944; commanded 787th Field Ar-
tillery Battalion, Rhineland and Central European campaigns; Bronze
Star, Order of White Lion of Bohemia.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles and reports on the arts and military govern-
ment.

AFTER teaching school for five years, I returned to Harvard for
graduate work in fine arts. Then Yale gave me a fellowship,
studying the behavior of museum visitors! I was kept from too
much contamination by being sent to Philadelphia during most of
these three years. Then in 1935 I went to Dallas to build their
new museum, organize the art show for the Texas Centennial, etc.
I stayed six years, until I went on active duty. Nearly two years
at Fort Sill, another at Forts Lewis and Bragg, and then I went
overseas with my own outfit. After a brief stay at home in the
spring of 1946, I went back again to the Office of Military Gov-
ernment for Germany, United States. _
After a false start or so, I am now more than happily married,
with two stepchildren as well as a son, and my married daughter.
My interests are broad, but I don’t ride any hobbies except my
work. | |
I have just become director of the new Des Moines Art Center
(a magnificent building designed by Eliel Saarinen), returning
from Germany ten days ago (January 20, 1949) to take this chal-
lenging and interesting job. I had been chief of monuments, fine
arts, and archives, Office of Military Government for Germany,

United States, from July, 1946, to January, 1949.

WILLIAM PRENTISS HOWE, JR.

HOME apprEss: 28 Grantland Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Dewey & Almy Chemical Co., Cambridge, Mass.

BorN: March 13, 1902, Brookline, Mass. parents: William Prentiss Howe,
Minnie Dennison.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924(25),

[ 423 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

marrieD: Mildred Mooney, April 24, 1930, Brookline, Mass. cuitp: Wil-
liam Prentiss, 3d, Jan. 21, 1931.

HARVARD SON: William Prentiss Howe, 3d, ’52.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Lincoln Howe, ’32.

occupation: Office manager, Container Division, Dewey & Almy Chemical
Company.

I HAVE spent all the years since graduation in the environs of

Cambridge. For this reason, perhaps, our college days do not

seem as remote as they otherwise might.

The illusion is heightened by the fact that many of the business
people in Harvard Square are still operating at the same old
stands and do not appear to have changed too much.

The college, of course, has changed in many ways, and in other
ways has not changed at all. Perhaps the principal difference is
the multitude of students more or less inadequately housed, with
some inhabiting the new gymnasium. My son Bill, now a fresh-
man, is living in Lionel with four roommates in a suite originally
designed for three. This, of course, eliminates the furnishing
problem, and the boys do not seem to mind.

For the rest, I have been happily married for eighteen years,
and for the past several years have been living in Wellesley
Hills, spending the summers at Cape Cod.

WILLIAM THOMPSON HOWE

HOME ADDRESS: 139 Sycamore St., Somerville 45, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: Broadway Winter Hill Congregational Church, Broadway
& Central Street, Somerville 45, Mass.

BORN: May 3, 1903, Roxbury, Mass. parents: William Woods Howe, ’95,
Jeannette Prudden Thompson.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; s.1.B. (Union Theological
Seminary), 1928.

MARRIED: Hazel Louise Jameson, June 28, 1935, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Richard Jameson, May 24, 1937; Marjorie Louise, June 5, 1940; Allan
Thompson, Feb. 3, 1948.

OccuPATION: Clergyman; minister of the Broadway Winter Hill Congrega-
tional Church.

OFFICES HELD: Pastor, First Church of Christ (Congregational), North
Conway, N. H., 1928-37; moderator, Strafford Association of Con-
gregational Churches, N. H.; acting pastor, Prospect Hill Congrega-
tional Church, Somerville, 1943-47; director, Somerville Family
Service Association, 1939, American Congregational Association, since

[424]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1947; president, Somerville Council of Churches, since 1947; chairman,
Greater Boston Regional Council of Congregational Churches, 1947—
48; member, executive committee and budget committee, Somerville
Community Council, 1941-48.

MEMBER OF: Congregational Club of Boston; Somerville Ministerial Alli-
ance; Suffolk North Ministers’ Association.

PuBLICATIONS: Article in Advance, July, 1947.

I SPENT the year after graduation earning enough money to
continue my education. I worked as dining-room cashier on the
Yarmouth and New York lines of the Eastern Steamship Lines
during the summer and spent the winter driving a taxi in Miami,
Florida. A further advantage of this year free from study was
contact with phases of life not usually very well known in theo-
logical school. In September, 1925, I entered the Union Theolog-
ical Seminary (which I had been informed was the best
theological school in the world) and pursued its course of study
to completion in May, 1928. Summers were spent serving coun-
try parishes in North Dakota and working in the wheat fields,
and incidentally, travelling over much of the American and Cana-
dian Northwest after the completion of each summer’s work.
One summer the laymen, with my help, erected a new church
building out on the North Dakota prairies. On December 10,
1928, I was ordained to the Christian ministry in the East Con-
gregational Church of Milton, Massachusetts, by the Suffolk
South Association of Congregational Churches. Dr. Henry
Sloane Coffin, the president of the Union Theological Seminary,
preached the ordination sermon.

I had already begun my first pastorate at the First Church of
Christ (Congregational) in North Conway, New Hampshire.
This is a famous mountain resort, one of the most beautiful
villages in the world. There was time for snow-shoeing, moun-
tain-climbing, duplicate contract bridge tournaments, etc., with
classmate Kenneth Hutchinson and many others. These eight
years were happy and successful, with cherished contacts with
many summer visitors, as well as the year-round folks. In 1930 I
visited Scotland and England, in connection with the Interna-
tional Council of Congregational Churches, meeting in Bourne-
mouth. In July, 1935, I brought my bride to the White Moun-
- tains, and we shared the life of that mountain village until
February, 1937.

[425 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

At that time a call came to assume the pastorate of the Broad-
way Winter Hill Congregational Church in Somerville. As most
of our relatives and friends lived near Boston, and this afforded
an opportunity to lead a city church, the invitation was accepted.
It brought the chance to serve one of the most beautiful churches
in eastern Massachusetts, among people whose loyalty and de-
votion has been a constant inspiration. In a community where
conditions are rather unfavorable, the membership has increased
over fifty per cent and the financial support has doubled. The
business of the pastor of the medium-sized or large city church
is inconceivable to those who know little of the constant demands.
The pastor is on call twenty-four hours a day. He works morn-
ing, afternoon, and evening, seven days a week, and is fortunate
if he can get one morning, afternoon, or evening a week for him-
self. Month after month passes when the only professional read-
ing I can accomplish is while riding to Boston and return. After
my first Sunday-morning service in Somerville, there were two
funeral services to conduct that afternoon, and the pace has kept
up ever since! Denomination and community also make heavy
demands. I was instrumental in the founding of the Somerville
Community Council. There is some compensation in the six-week
summer vacation, which we usually divide between Cape Cod
and the coast of Maine.

From 1943 to 1947, in addition to my regular pastorate, I as-
sumed the acting pastorate of the Prospect Hill Congregational
Church, also of Somerville. The regular pastor had gone over-
seas as a chaplain in the Army.

Our life here has been made happy by the arrival of two sons
and a daughter. Both sons, I hope, are headed for Harvard. A
few years ago, Rabbi Leo Shubow, ’24, assumed leadership of
Temple B'nai B'rith, across Central Street from my church. Since
then, relations between temple and church have been closer and
more brotherly than ever,

In choosing the ministry as my life work, I rejected education
because it deals with the training of the mind alone, and usually
with one subject alone. I rejected journalism because, although
it deals with public issues, it deals with them in a superficial way
for the most part. I chose the ministry because it deals with the
meaning of life, the securing of an adequate purpose in life, and

[ 426 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

because it deals with those issues that make life worth living. Re-
ligion deals with the one eternal thing — the soul’s relationship
- to God.

Religion deals with basic, personal issues of life. It deals with
character and its roots in faith, with convictions, ideals, and mo-
tives, with what makes people tick, with whatever makes them
say the things they say and do the things they do. Here, indeed,
is the heart of life, in character, in personal standards of living.
All problems, even world problems, come back to this. It is
still my conviction that religion alone gets at the foundation of
life, not only in character, but also at the basis of character in
faith. Religon deals with the stuff of eternity in human character
and human souls, and builds the most lasting institution in the
world, the Church, the Kingdom of God.

The minister is the trusted friend in whom hundreds confide.
He deals with the deep sources of peace and courage and hope.
Sought out in the course of every year by hundreds of people with
problems, he has in religion a real leverage whereby he can
change lives. His contact with multitudes of children and young
people is a constant tonic and inspiration.

It is the joy of the minister to be God’s ambassador, to speak
His word, to do His errand, to impart something of the divine
encouragement and comfort. It is also the minister’s privilege to

lift people’s successes, joys, and triumphs to divine consecration.
Working with people from the divine point of view, we come
to grips with this thing called life and find it to be good. After
twenty years of it, I believe it to be the most worth-while and

satisfying work in all the world,

HENRY REESE HOYT

HOME ADDRESS: Box 66, Route 1, Santa Fe, N. Mex.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory, Los Alamos, N. Mex.

BORN: Dec. 5, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: Henry Reese Hoyt, Emy
Otto. .

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE! A.By 1924.

MarrigepD; Mary H. Foote, Aug. 28, 1929, Cleveland, Ohio. caitpren: Henry
Reese, Jr, Dec. 24, 1931; Alfred Miller and Edward Lydig (twins),
Feb. 17, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alfred Otto Eloyt, ’15.

[ 427 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

OCCUPATION: Assistant administrative associate director, Los Alamos Scien-
tific Laboratory.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Air Corps, 1942-45; discharged with rank of
major.

MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club, New York.

CHARLES JOSEPH HUBBARD

HOME ADDRESS: 1217 Potomac St., N. W., Washington, D. C.

OFFICE AppRESS: U.S. Weather Bureau, Washington, D. C.

BORN: June 25, 1902, Kansas City, Mo. parents: Charles Joseph Hubbard, ’83,
Alice Davis Field.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922, 1923-1924. DEGREES: A.B. Cum? laude, 1924; S.B. IN
E.E. magna cum laude, 1925.

MarrieD: Anna Fuller, June 13, 1925, Lancaster, Mass. (divorced 1929);
Dorothy Speare, October, 1936, Millerton, N. Y. (divorced 1942); Har-
riet Bissell, 1943. cuiLpReN: Charles Joseph, Jr., Nov. 24, 1928; Harriet
Aries, Oct. 20, 1943; John Hamal, Oct. 7, 1945; Dana, Oct. 12, 1948.

HARVARD SON: Charles Joseph Hubbard, Jr., ’s50.

HARVARD BROTHER: Wynant Davis Hubbard, ’22.

OCCUPATION: Engineering and exploration, chief of Arctic operations, U.S.
Weather Bureau.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant commander, U.S.N.R., 1941-43; lieu-
tenant colonel, A.U.S., 1943-45; development of North Atlantic aviation
facilities.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Special Arctic assistant to commanding general,
Air Transport Command.

MEMBER OF: American Geophysical Union; American Meteorological So-
ciety; Explorers Club; Arctic Institute of North America; American
Geophysical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Various popular articles and fiction for magazines.

T IMAGINE it gives us all pause for thought to review twenty-

five years that have slipped away. The main point must be to

render an account of our goings on so that our classmates may
balance something of a man’s maturity against what can be re-
membered of the youngster’s promise. Our good Secretary goes
further and suggests that we should indulge in reflections and
confessions. The confessions, at least, will have to appear between
the lines where they will be hazy enough to be harmless.

After graduation I stayed in Cambridge through 1925 to com-
plete the requirements for a degree of Bachelor of Science in

Electrical Engineering. I was well grounded in Boston conserva-

[ 428 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tism and started in the world at the bottom of the customary
ladder. This seemed to lead onward and upward through various
Boston firms such as Stone & Webster, and Coolidge, Shepley,
Bulfinch & Abbott. I did a little coaching at Harvard. I had an
apartment on Beacon Hill and walked across the Common to one
or another of those old-fashioned offices. I even wore a derby
hat and a black overcoat with a velvet collar. I still have the over-
coat in mothballs, in case I might come back to walk across the
Common again some day.

Just what dislodged me from about the fourth rung of the
climb towards conventional success is hard to say. ‘The depression
had something to do with it. There were family influences.
And I certainly didn’t look so hot in a derby.

I wanted more action, I liked ships and airplanes, and new
places and new faces. I figured I could spend a few years sailing
in pursuit of opportunity, and put down my anchors later. I still
think it was a good idea. For the sake of my conscience I worked
out a philosophical reason. I concluded that since a man’s work
takes up so much of his life he might as well do something he
could really get a kick out of. So I learned to fly and went to
Labrador on a mapping job. It wasn’t much but it got me out of
Boston for a while. About this time I was divorced from my
first wife — and little wonder!

I did contract work in the sub-Arctic during the early thirties
and pieced out a rather precarious living by free-lance writing.
I bought an ocean-going schooner and lived on her for a couple
of years. Having a deep-water ship is a restless business so I made
a voyage to the Pacific and sold the hooker in California. |
got a kick out of it. I even had another try at matrimony, with-
out success.

Being a sailor, I went into the Navy in 1941, hoping that my
northern experience might be valuable. They put me to work
on the development of facilities for the North Atlantic Flight
Route. After we entered the war, they took me out of a blue
uniform and put me in the Air Force, since the Air Transport
Command had the primary interest. I saw a lot of country
around the Arctic Circle before the war was over. When the
Battle of the North Atlantic was in the bag, I worked on search
and rescue organization. I got out of the service in 1945 and had

[ 429 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

to figure what to do next. I was about ready to start to settle
down. I had acquired a new wife and started a new. family which
were more important than all the ships and airplanes, I had bought
a home in Washington.

I knew more about the Arctic than anything else. We had de-
veloped various techniques during the war, and the complexion of
Arctic work had changed from adventuring to engineering
through the use of modern equipment. Scientific people were in-
terested in continuing Arctic development, and especially the
meteorologists. I proposed to the U.S. Weather Bureau that we
should start a civilian Arctic program on an international basis.

Enabling legislation was passed by the 79th Congress and funds
were appropriated early in 1946. Canada and Denmark (for
Greenland) approved a substantial program of joint weather
stations. I was appointed Chief of Arctic Operations for the
Weather Bureau.

During the past four years we have established joint outposts
reaching very nearly to the most northern land in the world.
Three are supported by air, using airstrips on the sea ice in the
early spring. They are civilian enterprises but the Navy and Air
Force generously provide sea and air transportation. It is appro-
priate that this sketch has been drafted while on board the ice-
breaker U.S.S. Edisto, returning from the most northern latitude
yet reached by a vessel under power. On the shore of the Polar
Sea I picked up Admiral Peary’s record of his dash for the Pole
in 1905. But there is none of the glamor of the old dog-team
days. We used a helicopter from the flight deck of the ship.

Contrary to the usual conception, I have found government
service both sincere and remarkably free of red tape. The
work involves enough adventure to remain interesting and still
requires an increasing attention to administrative detail. I am
learning to sit in an office again as becomes the advancing years
and the departure of that thatch which once protected my skull
on the football field. Pretty soon I shall put my bower-anchor
down and stay at home. I might even break out in another derby.

‘

[ 430 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RUSSELL STURGIS HUBBARD

HOME ADDRESS: 1106 Seminole Ave., Detroit 14, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 63 E. Hancock Ave., Detroit 1, Mich.

BORN: Sept. 8, 1902, Germantown, Pa. parents: Russell Sturgis Hubbard,
Elizabeth Russell Perry.

PREPARED AT: Chestnut Hill Academy, Philadelphia, Pa.; St. George’s School,
Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1924; S.1.B. (Virginia
Theological Seminary), 1927.

MarRieD: Anna Catherine Pratt, Nov. 3, 1928, Massillon, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Ann Perry, Oct. 26, 1929; Jane Parkinson, Jan. 29, 1932; Judith Brad-
bury, Dec. 26, 1933; Russell Sturgis, Jr., Feb. 5, 1937; Catherine Carroll,
May 11, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Perry Hubbard, ’25; James DeWolf Hubbard, ’29.

occuPaTIon: Suffragan Bishop of Michigan, Protestant Episcopal Church.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant, St. John’s Church, Waterbury, Conn., 1927-29;
priest-in-charge, St. Paul’s Church, Vermilion, S. Dak., 1929-32; rec-
tor, St. Martin’s Church, Providence, R. I., 1932-41; member of the
Board of Examining Chaplains in Rhode Island and Maine; member
Scholarship Committee, Harvard Club of Rhode Island, 1936-40;
Canon Missioner of the Diocese of Maine, 1943—48.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Rhode Island (president, 1940).

THE life of a parish priest is a source of bewilderment to many
people; yet there are few men who have as interesting an ex-
istence. While the conduct of worship on Sunday is important,
far more significant than our generation has been taught, this
is only a small part of the work. During the week there are in-
terviews helping people to adjust —it may be trying to save a
home from breaking up, or helping a person who is suffering
from an overload of nerves to bear up under the strain. The oc-
casions and opportunities are manifold and demand some knowl-
edge of most of the social sciences and the techniques that are
available for shipwrecked fellow-travellers. Usually there are
some claims made upon time to take the ordinary citizen’s part
in community activities. Then the priest is an administrator or
executive who is responsible to a vestry or board of laymen who
may be more or less effective in taking some part in the main-
tenance of a physical plant that is often fairly expensive. And
again, he is an educator, directly ‘charged with running a Sunday
School and perhaps a week-day school, too.

This last function has been a main part of my ministry, and one

[431]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

KENNETH HUBERMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 103 Cabot St, Newton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: (winter) 103 Cabot St. Newton, Nfass.; (summer) Camp
Kenwood, Potter Place, N. H.

BORN: Sept. 20, 1903, Boston, Mass. parents: Benjamin Huberman, Mary
Brown.

PREPARED AT: Portland High School, Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. magna. cum laude, 1924; LL.B., 1928.
MarRiED: Berniece Riback, April 7, 1938, New York, N. Y. cHitpren: Mar-
cia, Nov. 18, 1939; Sylvia, March 25, 1942; Mary Ann, Oct. 2, 1945.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Moses Samuel Huberman, ’25; Leo Huberman, ’29.

occupation: Camp director.

HOW to account for a quarter of a century! After gradua-
tion, like many others, I knocked about a bit wondering what to
do. That takes care of the first year. Finally, I drifted into the Law
School, mainly because many of my friends were there. Funds
were low, and I needed work. So, I landed a job doing part-time
social work directing boys’ clubs at a settlement house and
found it to be fascinating work. During the course of the year,
it occurred to me that, while children of low-income families
had much supervised recreational outlet, those of middle class
homes had no adequate play supervision unless they attended a
good private school. Out of this thought grew the Brookline
Playschool, an after-school and vacation play group which I
organized during my second year at the Law School. I believe
that this was the first of the now flourishing private day camps.
At any rate, the work seemed to me so much more attractive
than the prospect of practising law that I stayed with it. In
1932 I bought my present camp site and opened a summer camp,
Camp Kenwood for Boys. From rather a small beginning, it has
grown to good size, now accommodating 130 campers,

In 1935 I disposed of my interest in the Playschool and took
that trip to Europe. Shortly after my return I met a charming
girl who now confesses to having been very bored listening to
endless stories about my European travels. Our wedding trip
took us to Mexico! We got as far as Acapulco where we did
some trolling and landed our first sailfish. It proved to be our
last!) Now we've settled down to raising our family, doing our
share of community work; Scouts, Parent Teachers Association,

[ 434]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Community Chest, Combined Jewish Appeal, Temple Brother-
hood, ‘Temple Sisterhood, Zionists, etc.

JAMES HENRY HUNT

HOME AppREss: 1820/4 E. 120th St., Los Angeles 2, Calif.

BoRN: July 5, 1899, Cambridge, Mass. parents: James Madison Hunt, Ida
Hawkins.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923, 1924-1925, 1927-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1924(28);
a.M. (Stanford Univ.), 1937.

marrieED: Mona Juanita Little, April 30, 1924, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: James

Henry, Jr. April 30, 1925; George Edgar, March 2, 1927; Juanita
Dolores, Dec. 16, 1929; Valentin José, Dec. 16, 1931.

OCCUPATION: Government service.

OFFICES HELD: Professor of Romance languages, Florida A. & M. College,
1928-29; chairman, languages and literature, professor of Romance
languages, Bishop College, Marshall, Texas, 1929-43.

MEMBER OF: Spanish Honorary Society; Alpha Phi Alpha; Masonic Lodge.

PUBLICATIONS: Kingship in Spanish Literature of the Golden Age, 1937;
Language Arts, 1940; Spanish Grammar, 1941; French Grammar, 1942,
Mexico, 1943.

TWENTY-FIVE years in retrospect reveal my life as one with
not too many attainments, but I feel a deep satisfaction in enjoy-
ing the company of my wife, three sons, and one daughter. I
am very thankful to be able to enjoy not only the celebration of
our Twenty-fifth Reunion, but also twenty- five vears of marital
happiness with my loving wife who has shared with me a quarter
of a century of a very pleasant existence.

In reminiscing, I am grateful for the opportunity for fifteen
years in two of our educational institutions, assisting many am-
bitious youths in meeting the challenge of training for a life of
usefulness.

Life has not been too unkind to me and mine, for we have
enjoyed many blessings and I have studied abroad at the Univer-
sity of Madrid and travelled in Mexico. I am looking to the
future with hopeful expectation.

WALTER JACOBUS HUNZIKER

HOME ApprEss: 53 Glenwood Rd., Upper Montclair, N, J.
OFFICE ApprEss: Hunziker & Hunziker, 152 Market St., Paterson 1, N. J.

[435]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

BorN: Dec. 30, 1902, Paterson, N. J. PARENTS: Gustav A. Hunziker, Ida May
Jacobus.

PREPARED AT: Afontclair High School, Montclair, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924, DEGREES: A.B. 1924; LL.B. (New York Law
School), 1927.

atarrieD: Helen P. AfcKee, March 19, 1928, Cleveland, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Walter Jacobus, Jr. Dec. 2, 1929, Robert McKee, April 22, 1932; Sara
May, Jan. 4, 1937.

occuUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Served two terms in New Jersey House of Assembly; held
various municipal offices in Paterson.

MEMBER OF: Hamilton Club of Paterson; Charter Club of Paterson; Delta
Theta Phi (legal fraternity).

] AM enjoying the practice of law in a relatively small city. My
work is general in character, with emphasis, perhaps, on corpora-
tive, trust, and estate practice.

My elder son is now a sophomore at Amherst. The younger
son is readying himself for there or for one of the other small
New England colleges. Sister is registered at Smith.

Recently, we acquired an old farmhouse with a few acres of land
not far from here, where we garden and loaf as much as possible
during the summer and fall months. A few months ago we sold
our home in Paterson and have moved to Upper Montclair, about
a fifteen-minute ride from my office.

FRANCIS XAVIER HURLEY

HOME AppRESS: 39 Pond St., Jamaica Plain 30, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 20 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 11, 1903. PARENTS: Patrick James Hurley, Julia Devine.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1924; LLB.,
1928,

MargiEp: Lucille Gibbons, March 5, 1934, Montgomery, Ala. cHILDREN:
Julia, October, 1935, Patricia, November, 1939; Peter, July, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederick James Hurley, ’16.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Massachusetts State Auditor, two terms, Massachusetts State
Treasurer, one term, member, Massachusetts Board of Tax Appeals;
chairman, New Bedford, Woods Hole, Martha’s Vineyard, and Nan-
tucket Steamship Authority.

MEMBER OF; Phi Beta Kappa.

[ 436 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SINCE leaving Law School I have spent a tolerably happy exist- °
ence running for or holding public office and between times
practising Jaw in Boston. By all odds the most interesting public
job I have held is my present unpaid one as chairman of a public
authority whose task is to provide transportation between the
mainland of Massachusetts and the islands of Martha’s Vineyard
and Nantucket. The undertaking is, it seems to me, definitely on
the socialistic side, if things are still measured by old standards.
The legislation under which my colleagues and I function as
members of the Steamship Authority would have shocked Bay
Staters not so many years ago. Indeed, the very suggestion of it
might well have precipitated an investigation in the 1920's, when
we were trying to learn about government from books across
the river in Cambridge.

There is really nothing more that I can think of that would
be worth while writing. I cannot believe that anyone would be
interested in reading my personal opinions of men and institu-
tions. Of the good things which have come my way in the past
twenty-five years, a very happy home life is the blessing for which

Iam most grateful.

KENNETH INNISS HUTCHINSON

HOME apprEss: P.O. Box 94, Kearsarge, N. H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: North Conway, N. H. .

BORN: Jan. 18, 1902, Boscobel, Barbados, B. W. I. parents: William Gordon
Hutchinson, Priscilla Inniss.

PREPARED AT: The Lodge School, Barbados, B. W. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1926. DEGREE: A.B., 1924(26),

MarRIED: Hazel Veda Dodge, Jan. 22, 1941, Laconia, N. H. camp: William
Dodge, Oct. 11, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Supervisor of recreation, Community Center, North Conway.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Chief electrician, Merchant Marine.

OFFICES HELD: K.P, and 1ooF, Rotary Club; member, Committee for Fluorine
Treatment for Children, Junior Ski Program Committee, Boy Scout
Troop Committee; junior warden of Church.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society; North Conway Rotary Club.

ONE wonders what can be said of interest by an average in-
dividual when the Class contains such personalities as the Lodges,
Polettis, Emerys, Daffinees, Hubbards, etc. I spent the war years
doing electrical work in shipyards, where I had two injurious

[ 437 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

falls. There I found a lot of selfish personal greed displayed
mostly by men of draft age. F ortunately this was offset by others
of patriotic fervor.’ 1 know of one Harvard man who refused his
pay check because he was not kept busy enough. It is therefore
to be hoped that if we ever find ourselves involved in another
war, our law makers will draft everyone and pay those at home
on a basis equivalent to that of the soldiers. I was also for a short
time with the Aferchant Marine, where I learned that Commu-
nists were in the top brackets of the union. One sailor with whom
I discussed the problem was asked why he joined such a union.
“I am opposed to Communism,” he explained, “but the union
gets me better wages!”

I am now back in North Conway supervising the Community
Center. At times I am reminded of the cartoon appearing in
the Lampoon of our time. It pictured a tired father picking up
toys scattered around a living room, and was captioned: “And
when I became a man, I put away childish things.” I find that
instead of putting away childish things, they constantly become
the most important part of our lives, and present a variety of
problems and pleasures unequalled in any field.

PAUL OBLINGER HUTH

HOME appress: 818 Oakland Blvd., Cambridge, Ohio.

OFFICE appRESS: 122 S. Tenth St., Cambridge, Ohio.

BORN: June 12, 1902, Woodsfield, Ohio. parents: Francis Charles Huth,
Margaret Otillia Ketterer.

PREPARED AT: Woodsfield High School, Woodsfield, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924(27); M.D. (Univ. of Louis-
ville), 1929.

MarrieD: Frances Marie Hunter, Jan. 8, 1930, Louisville, Ky. CHILDREN:
Francis Charles and Henry Clay (twins), Dec. 28, 1930.

OccUPATION: Practice of medicine, specializing in surgery; superintendent
and chief surgeon, St. Francis Hospital, Cambridge, Ohio.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered the U.S, Navy in 1942 with the rank of
lieutenant commander; spent about two and one-half years overseas in
the Pacific area, most of the time in combat zone; promoted to rank
of commander, July, 1945; assigned to inactive duty, Feb. 27, 19q5.

MeMBrR or: Harvard Chemical Club; Olympic Club, Veterans of Foreign
Wars, American Legion, Stare Medical Association; American Medical
Association; Eagles, Moose, Knights of Columbus,

[ 438 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

* ROBERT LEE HYATT
sporN: Nov. 12, 1903, Monticello, Ark. parents: Robert Lee Hyatt, Mamie
Stanley.
prEPARED AT: Monticello High School, Monticello, Ark.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B, magna cum laude, 1924; B.A.

(Univ. of Oxford), 1927. .
prep: July 27, 1939, Monticello, Ark.

ROBERT LEE HYATT entered Harvard after completing pre-
paratory study at the Monticello High School and a year at the
University of California. In college he received the Bowditch
Scholarship (1922-23), the Class of 1802 Scholarship (1923-24)
and was a member of Phi Beta Kappa (1923), the Track Team
(1923, 1924), Harvard-Yale Combined Track Team (1923) and

Kappa Sigma fraternity.
As receiver of the Rhodes Scholarship from Arkansas for. 1924

to 1927, he studied law at Balliol College, Oxford University,
after receiving an A.B. degree magna cum laude from Harvard in
1924. While at Oxford he was a member of the Oxford Univer-
sity Athletic Team. He returned to Harvard after being awarded
a B.A. degree from Oxford in 1927 and spent the following year
tutoring in government and studying at the Harvard Graduate
and Law Schools. During the summer of 1928 he travelled in
Europe and in October joined the law firm of Cravath, de Gers-
Jorff, Swaine & Wood, corporation lawyers. He was in practice

vith them at the time of his death.

MORRIS INGALL

IME ADDRESS: 44 Pasadena Rd., Dorchester 21, Mass.

‘FICE ADDRESS: 483 Beacon St., Boston 15, Mass.

RN: Feb. 1, 1898, Novogradvolynsk, Russia. PARENTS: Menasha Ingall,
Chaia Yusim.

sPARED AT: Charkoff Gymnasium, Russia.

ARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: S.B., 1924; M.D., 1928.

rriED: Bessie G. Gottler, Feb. 16, 1936, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Michacl,
July 8, 1940; Gilda, March 23, 1942; Nancy Elaine, April 26, 1946
uPATION: Physician, specializing in pediatrics.
“eR oF: American Board of Pediatrics (Licentiate 1934); Great
Boston Medical Socicty; B'nai B'rith, Haym Solomon Lodges New
England Pediatric Society; Massachusetts Medical Society,

[ 439 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

PUBLICATIONS: “Tapeworm Among Jewish People,” New England Medical
Journal, 1929; “Agranulocytosis,” American Journal of Medical Sciences,
1931.

OUR Twenty-fifth Anniversary finds me still in the practice of
pediatrics, a work which I found to be as interesting as I antici-
pated.

Life, in general, has been very pleasant, the credit for which
is due to my wife and my three children.

As for exciting events, there have not been any, and I still
nourish a nostalgic feeling for my travel through Europe in 1931.
Since then my matrimonial adventure and additions to the family
have kept me at home. A wife and three children supply plenty
of excitement.

At present, I am an associate visiting pediatrician at the Beth

Israel Hospital and an instructor in pediatrics at Tufts Medical
School.

GEORGE MAYBURY JACKSON

HOME appreEss: 110 Warren St., Brighton 35, Mass.

OFFIcE apprEss: Hollingsworth & Whitney Co., 60 Batterymarch St., Bos-
ton 2, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1903, Brighton, Mass. parents: Frederick Wilder Jackson,
Annie Maybury Murphy.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1924.

OCCUPATION: Estimator.

I HAVE been employed since graduation in the estimating de-
partment at the Boston office of Hollingsworth & Whitney Com-
pany, manufacturers of paper. I have tried to perform my duties
faithfully, with the hope that I would do my daily work “a little
better” sometime in the future.

During the last couple of years I have become very much
interested in and enthusiastic about retreats for men at St.
Gabriel’s Monastery in Brighton, In making these weekend
retreats, which are conducted by priests of the Passionist Order,
I] have found peace of mind, a sense of order in my life, and a
strong desire to be nearer to God.

[ 440 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LOUIS JACOBS

HOME ADDRESS: 224 Seaver St., Roxbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 85 Devonshire St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 14, 1903, Warsaw, Poland. parents: Samuel Jacobs, Sadie Kel-
man.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 19243 LL.B. 1927.

MARRIED: Betty Lomasney, Nov. 10, 1935, Brookline, Mass. cHiLpREN: Arlene
Joyce, July 26, 1937; Joan Susan, April 13, 1944; Marjorie Lee, Sept. 29,
1948.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.
AS ONE can see from my record I married somewhat later than
average, having held out until 1935, in the middle of a world-wide
depression. We went to Havana and Mexico for a month on a
honeymoon trip and then returned to Boston to settle down and
live a normal life, raise a family, and make a living. The first
baby came in 1937, the second in 1944, and the last one only ten
days ago. I was hoping the last one would be a boy, but no such
luck. However, all my children are healthy and normal girls, for
which I am thankful. "

I have practised Jaw in Boston since 1927, have made a com-
fortable living, and look forward to seeing my children grow up.

I was not subject to the draft in the late war; however, I tried
to enlist in the Navy in 1943, but was turned down due to slightly
defective vision in one eye.

My travel has been from Maine to Chicago, from Canada to
Miami, Florida, Nassau and Havana, mostly for pleasure.

I have always been a Republican; the last ten years or so have
left me rather befuddled. I do not know where we are going, or
rather, drifting. The foreign situation at times becomes alarming
and one loses all sense of proportion and values. Perhaps we shall

know the answers at our 35th Reunion.

VICTOR JACOBS

HOME appREss: 46 Cambridge Ave., Dayton 6, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1348 Third National Bldg., Dayton 2, Ohio.

BORN: June 24, 1903, Dayton, Ohio. parents: Mose Nicholas Jacobs, Clara
Doreman.

PREPARED AT: Steele High School, Dayton, Ohio.

[441 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREES: S.B. cu?” lattde, 1924; LL.B., 1927.
MarRIED: Irene Muir, April 10, 1926, Boston, Mass.
occupation: Lawyer.

HOWARD HAHN JACOBSON

HOME ADDRESS: 30 Eastchester Rd.. New Rochelle, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Doehler-Jarvis Corp. . 386 Fourth Ave., New York 16, N. Y.

BoRN: April 1, 1902, Toledo, Ohio. PaRENTs: Louis Jacobson, Cora Hahn.

PREPARED AT: Scott High School, Toledo, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: S.B., 1924; LL.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Beatrice I. Sawmelle, Sept. 15, 1939, New York, N. Y. (CHILD;
Louise Ingrid, June 19, 1941.

occuPATION: Assistant director of labor relations, Doehler-Jarvis Corpora-
tion.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered active duty, Army Air Forces, June,
1942; attained rank of major; released from active duty, May, 1946;
duty with troops on West Coast and service in the Aleutians for fifteen
months; served with Materiel Command in legal capacity at Wright
Field and in the Eastern District Office in New York City; awarded
Asiatic-Pacific Medal with Aleutian campaign star, American Theatre

Medal, and World War II Victory Medal; received Army Commenda-
tion Award.

MEMBER OF: Masons, 32°; American Bar Association.

WHEN I left law school I returned to Toledo and practised law
for nine years with the firm of Fraser, Hiett, Wall & Effer (now
Shumaker, Loop, Kendrick & Winn). In 1936 I formed my own
firm with Gerald P. Openlander under the name of Openlander
& Jacobson. Our partnership continued until I entered the Army
on June 2, 1942.

On September 15, 1939, I was married in New York City to
Beatrice Sawmelle, whom I had met while I was in Harvard. On
June 19, 1941, our only child, Louise, was born. She is now
seven years old, and is the large, economy size like her father.

I entered service as a first lieutenant and attended Officers’
Training School at Miami Beach in the Class of ’42D and then
was shipped on the longest possible continental trip to Seattle,
Washington, where I served for three months as squadron ad-
jutant with the 302nd Base Headquarters and Air Base Squadron.
With this outfit I shipped for Alaska on September 11, 1942. It
was quite an experience, in Army Arctic clothing, packed like
sardines on the S.S. Baranoff for the seventeen-day trip. We

[ 442 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ultimately landed at our base, Naknek. This spot is located on

Bristol Bay at the top of the Aleutian Peninsula, about fifteen

miles from the native fishing village. I had a chance to make sev-

eral trips by plane up and down the Aleutian chain and into the
interior of Alaska, and, of course, made many trips into Anchor-
age which was the headquarters for the 11th Air Force.

In Alaska, I served as base adjutant, base executive officer, and
base commander. I also assumed many odd and assorted jobs,
principally to keep from going nuts. When I returned at the end
of December, 1943, I had a few weeks’ rest at the Redistribution
Station in Atlantic City. Then I went to Wright Field in the
Procurement Legal Department. I was there for about four
months. When contract terminations started to become impor-
tant in May, 1944, I was sent to the Eastern District Office of the
Air Materiel Command where I organized the Termination Legal
Department. I also had the responsibility for the termination of
contracts for the larger companies in the Eastern District whose
termination programs were set up on a special basis.

When I left the Army in May, 1946, I returned to Toledo and
there made contact with my present employer whom I had come
to know through legal work in the days when their home offices
were in Toledo. I am now in the company’s executive offices in
New York and I do labor work with the title of assistant director
of labor relations.

During my years in Toledo, I was active in many community
organizations. I served as trustee of the Collingwood Avenue
Temple and the Jewish Federation of Toledo. I was active with
the Republican Committee of Lucas County. I have also been
vice-president of the Harvard Club of Toledo and a trustee of the
Toledo N.A.A.C.P.

While I lived-in Toledo, I had many hobbies, principally
golf, trap-shooting, and field-hunting, but these I have now
relinquished in preference to the more intrepid New York sports
of commuting and keeping calm while being pushed around in
subways.

[ 443 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

AARON MAURICE JAFFE

HOME ADDRESS: 1310 Squirrel Hill Ave., Pittsburgh 17, Pa.

OFFICE apbREssS: J. A. Williams Co., 401-35 Amberson Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa.

BORN: Feb. 17, 1904, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Morris Jaffe, Nellie Williams.

PREPARED AT: Peabody High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1924; LLB.,
1927.

marRieD: Hortense Reis Greenberg, Nov. 20, 1931, Pittsburgh, Pa. CHILDREN:
Elsa Williams, July 24, 1935; Nellie Lou, Oct. 13, 1937.

OCCUPATION: Chairman of board, general manager, J. A. Williams Company.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant city solicitor, City of Pittsburgh, 1930-34; director,
Pittsburgh Wholesale Merchants Association, 1945-49.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Western Pennsylvania; Westmoreland Coun-
try Club.

THIRTEEN years of law practice, thirteen enjoyable years
filled with wide, varied and interesting experiences, were inter-
rupted abruptly by the sudden death of the executive head of the
family business. So without much ado, I left my chosen field to
become manager of the business which my father had helped to
found at the turn of the century.

As board chairman and general manager of a sizeable wholesale
hardware and major appliance business, I have emerged from the
war years fortyish, balding, still a Republican, a twenty-handicap
golfer, a subscriber to the Harvard Business Review in lieu of the
Harvard Law Review, and the still very happy husband of a
charming wife and the proud father of two lovely daughters,
aged thirteen and eleven.

JOHN DENISON JAMESON

HOME aApprEss: South Howell’s Point Road, Bellport, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Associated Universities, Inc., Upton, Long Island, N. Y.

BoRN: Nov. 4, 1903, Providence, R. I. parents: Arthur Hugh Jameson, ’92,
Rebecca Jameson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; M.B.A. Cum
laude, 1926.

MarRIED: Elsa (Denison) Voorhees, Sept. 29, 1932, New York, N. Y. sTep-
CHILDREN: Elsa Voorhees, Sept. 25, 1915 (m. Theodore Spaeth Hauschka,
March 28, 1938); James Dayton Voorhees, Jr., Nov. 14, 1917 (m. Mary
Margaret Fuller, Sept. 5, 1942); Katrina Voorhees, Nov. 25, 1919 (m.
Herbert Alvin Berman, '24, April 1, 1945). GRANDCHILDREN: Stephen

[ 444 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Denison Hauschka, April 18, 1940; Peter Voorhees Hauschka, Aug. 19,
1942; Margaret Spaeth Hauschka, Jan. 15, 1945; James Dayton Voorhees,
3d, Oct. 12, 1945; Susan Fuller Voorhees, Sept. 19, 1947.:
HARVARD SON: James Dayton Voorhees, Jr., LL.B., ’43.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Thomas Hugh Jameson, °33; Arthur Gregory Jameson,

"37:

OCCUPATION: Assistant treasurer and assistant secretary, Associated Univer-
sities, Inc.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Price executive, June, 1942, to October, 1944,
district director, October, 1944, to November, 1946, Office of Price
Administration, Concord, N. H.,; member, War Records Committee,
State of New Hampshire, 1944-47.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president in charge of research, Clarke, Sinsabaugh &
Company, investment counsellors, New York, 1938-42; vice-president,
New Hampshire Audubon Society, 1942-47; program chairman, Bell-
port Chapter, United World Federalists, 1948.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Varsity Club; Harvard Club of New Hampshire;
Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Business School Club of New
York; Inlet Club, Bellport; Association of Brookhaven Scientists,
Grange, Sugar Hill, N. H.

IN PREPARING to write this report, I have found it a chastening

experience to read my earlier ones. They reflect the confusion

of the times in which we have lived. They lack consistency,
direction, and continuity. The purposes and values of one span of
years seem forgotten in the next. The author no more than the
casual reader can guess what kind of person or life is forecast by
the series. Perhaps it’s unfair to blame the times for such a result,
more properly, the blame rests with the subject matter and the
skill of the reporter. In any case, it’s a revealing obstacle to full
enjoyment of this opportunity to talk about myself to my class-
mates to suspect that five or ten or more years from now, I shall
feel just as uneasy in the presence of these words as I now do when
reading the earlier ones. Another obstacle is a sense of duty to
make this a definitive statement of my views of the times we live
in, of the future, of my share in each, and of the business of life
itself. While such a feeling is a tribute to the good promotional
work of the twenty-fifth classes before us, it is a considerable
damper to the temerity called for by this kind of introspection.
But, have done with such distractions; they are but the tools
of procrastination.

Having graduated in 1924 by mail, and shared in a decent but

uncompromising defeat by the Yale Olympic crew of that year, I

[ 445 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

power of society and of men to adapt to the ensuing changes,
that even short of total atomic war, the civilization of which I
was a part and from which I had gained so much, might com-
pletely lose its way, its belief in its great accomplishments for
human good, and its capacity to defend itself against its enemies
both from within and without. To aid so far as I was able in
preventing this seemed a worth-while goal.

It would involve an educational effort in the public interest; it
would have the challenge of the frontier in a figurative but very
real sense; and it would satisfy a long-felt desire to be closer to
and know more about scientific developments. Fortunately,
opportunity soon appeared in the offer of a job as one of the
administrative staff of the corporation which, under Ivy League
sponsorship, runs Brookhaven National Laboratory as a center
for fundamental nuclear research and training. It is the scientists
who will make the Laboratory successful, but if they are to devote
themselves fully to their work, they must have an adequately
equipped, properly staffed, smoothly run and well understood
frame within which to apply their efforts. My hope is to help
provide the frame. Like a coxswain, the administrative worker
in such a laboratory can win no races and may lose some, but the
many challenges and opportunities for constructive effort in such
a field seem to compensate for the lack of a chance to say to
posterity, “See, I did it.” A happy circumstance is that my assign-
ment covers so wide a range of tasks that all my skills from
accounting to public speaking and my interest in the subtleties of
human relations will have plenty of exercise.

_ So, we find ourselves with a new home in Bellport, Long

Island, which I had barely heard of until two years ago. A grow-
ing throng of new friends and fresh associations is gathering.
Instead of the mountains and the forests of New Hampshire, we
have the bays and beaches of eastern Long Island. Both have
charm, and fortunately for another of my outside interests, both
have birds for the watching. Neither is as sweepingly beautiful
as the Arizona desert, nor is that so generous as a home. So long
as we can travel from time to time we are content and happy to
be here. After all, it is mich like the New England which is by
now part of the marrow of our bones. And so far as extra-
curricular projects are concerned, this is as good a place as any and

[ 448 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

better than most to try to make the world government idea — -
intelligible (United World Federalist version).

What does it all add up to? Well, I’m living at a pace as fast
as I feel I can maintain over the stretch, and enjoying it consid-
erably. Happy? I'm not sure that any of us knows what that
means, but I feel pretty sure that to be happy as the condition is
usually described, is not the purpose of living, in fact cannot be
without causing life to lose its real meaning amid a welter of
invited disappointments. What is the purpose of living? Well,
it seems to me it’s to find the way to use all one’s endowments
to the fullest extent possible without infringing on the other
fellow’s right to do the same thing, and to do it in such a way as
to confirm the promise of all history that men need not live alone
and in fear if they really prefer to live in peace as brothers. In
short, the purpose of living is to live effectively, and that’s what
I’m trying to do without thinking very much about the fact that
when I turn to look at it, the future of our familiar institutions
and relationships looks a bit bleak these days. It’s the future of
our values and of our loyal efforts to know ourselves and to live
effectively that really counts. That future is wholly within our
own control, and is immune to politics, or war, or even the atom.
It is but the extension to tomorrow of what we do today. Thus
the present and the future become one. Blessed be the future!

JOSEPH YERKES JEANES, JR.

HOME appREss: 1108 Berkeley Rd., Wilmington 67, Del.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wilmington Trust Co., Wilmington 99, Del.

BORN: Feb. 13, 1903, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Joseph Yerkes Jeanes, Lenette
Ellison Ford.

PREPARED AT: Haverford School, Haverford, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; M.B.A., 1920.

MarRiED: Elizabeth Schiffer Stubbs, June 25, 1932, Wilmington, Del.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Warner Jeanes, ’31.

OCCUPATION: Assistant secretary, Wilmington Trust Company.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Air raid warden.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, board of trustees, 1930-42, vice-president, 1943.
Southern Home for Children, Philadelphia; treasurer, Harvard Club of
Philadelphia, 1941-44; assistant treasurer, Delaware Hospital, Wilming-
ton, since 1946; assistant secretary, Wilmington Trust Company, since

1946.
[449 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Harvard Club of Delaware;
National Railway Historical Society; National Model Railroad Asso-
ciation; Wilmington Power Squadron; American Rose Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in 1947 and 1948, American Rose Annual.

AFTER graduation I took a summer course at Columbia in
newspaper work, expecting to start in Canton, Ohio. The only
job that materialized was piling sheets in a steel mill. A year of
this and another of advertising in Philadelphia convinced me that
to get work again I would need a further dose of education, and
I applied for admission to the midyear class of ’29 at the Business
School.

Our class eventually numbered about thirty. We came to
know one another pretty well, and had a grand time together.
Our contacts have continued by mail and visits.

In February, 1929, I returned to Philadelphia, this time as
securities analyst for an investment firm. The luncheon table at
the Harvard Club was my favorite interest, and through friends
there I met my wife. After twelve years of commuting from
Wilmington, I was glad to find an opportunity to go into trust
administration on my own doorstep.

I have been very fortunate in living in a stimulating and con-
genial community, and of sharing with my wife the building,
furnishing, and operation of our house, as well as many other
interests, including bridge, travel, and gardening. In an escapist
mood, I turn railroad magnate in the cellar.

FRANCIS HAYNES JENCKS

HOME appress: Greenwood Road, Towson, Md.

OFFICE appress: Wrenn, Lewis & Jencks, 113 W. Mulberry St., Baltimore 1,
Md.

BORN: Nov. 16, 1902, Baltimore, Md. parents: Francis Mankin Jencks, Eliza-
beth Platt.

Prepared at: Gilman School, Baltimore, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924, DEGREES: A.B. 1924; B.ARCH. (Columbia Univ.),
1927.

Mannirps Elizabeth Pleasants, Dec, 14, 1932, Baltimore, Md. cnrpren:
Christopher Sandys, Oct. 22, 1936; Stephen Francis, Nov. 9, 1940; Helen
Wilmer, July 29, 1944.

occupation: Architect.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RecORD: Lieutenant, United States Naval Reserve, Office

[ 450 J

-25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of Procurement and Materiel, July, 1942-October, 1944; lieutenant com-
mander, October, 1944-Jan. 1, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Baltimore Chapter A.1.A., 1933-36; director, Citi-
zens’ Planning and Housing Association, secretary, Harvard Club of
Maryland, 1933-36; chairman, Baltimore Chapter of Committee to
Defend America; vice-president, Building Congress, president, Munici-
pal Art Society; trustee, Baltimore Museum of Art, Roland Park
Country School.

MEMBER OF: 14 W. Hamilton St. Club; Wednesday Club, Johns Hopkins
Club; Baltimore Country Club, L’ Hirondelle Club.

+ PERCY JENKINS

BORN: Oct, 2, 1899, Quincy, Mass. parents: James Henry Jenkins, Elizabeth
Simmons Cooke.

PREPARED AT: Mercersburg Academy, Mercersburg, Pa.; Staunton Military
Academy, Staunton, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE! A.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Madeleine Hoyt Child, June 14, 1930, Clinton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Richard Hoyt, April 5, 1931; Peter, Sept. 24, 1932; Robert S., May 17,

1936.
pieD: Aug. 19, 1947, New York, N. Y.
wipow: Mrs. Percy Jenkins, 127 Soundbeach Ave., Old Greenwich, Conn.

PERCY JENKINS completed preparatory study at Quincy
High Schoo] and attended Mercersburg Academy and Staunton
Military Academy before entering Harvard. In college he was
an active sports participant and became well known for his ability
as a baseball star. He was a member of the Freshman Football
Team, Freshman Baseball Team, Freshman Track Team, Football
Squad (1921), Track Team (1922), Football Team (1922, 1923),
and Baseball Team (captain, 1924). He was also a member of the
Class Committee, Athletic Committee, Student Council, Varsity
Club, Institute of 1770, D.K.E., S.K. Club, Phoenix Club, Hasty
Pudding Club, and the Ow] Club, In our senior year he was
elected one of the permanent members of the Class Committee.

After receiving an A.B. degree with the Class, he was employed
in the insurance business in Texas for a year and then joined the

Wickwire-Spencer-Steel Corporation (now Wickwire Spencer
Steel Division of the Colorado Fuel and Iron Corporation), serv-
ing a three-year apprenticeship in Clinton and Worcester, Massa-
chusetts. From the steel mill, he was transferred to the steel sales
branch of the business and in 1934 became New England sales

[451]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

manager. In 1940 he was transferred to the New York office and
at the time of his death was hardware products sales manager and
an executive of the company.

Elected president of the Insect Wire Screening Bureau in 1946,
he was also a member of the New England Iron League. He
belonged to the Innis Arden Golf Club of Old Greenwich, the
Worcester Country Club and the Quinsigamond Boat Club.

His wife, Madeleine Child Jenkins, and three sons, Richard
Hoyt, Peter, and Robert S., survived him.

RICHARD JENNEY

HOME ADDRESS: 625 Haydock Lane, Haverford, Pa.

OFFICE appress: United Engineers & Constructors, Inc., 1g01 Arch St., Phila-
delphia 5, Pa.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1901, Anaconda, Mont. parents: Warren Jenney, Genevieve
Jones.

PREPARED AT: Weston High School, Weston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: $.B. IN C.E. magna cum laude, 1924.

MARRIED: Clementina Rhodes Hartshorne, June 17, 1926, Haverford, Pa.
CHILDREN: Richard Hartshorne, July 24, 1927; Peter Borie, Sept. 17,
1930; Elizabeth Ann, June 19, 1939.

OCCUPATION: Structural engineer on power and heavy industrial work.

OFFICES HELD: President, Main Line Codperative Association, 1938, 19453
overseer, Haverford Monthly Meeting, 1940; director, Haverford
Friends’ School, 1946-48; treasurer, Haverford Civic Association, 1946-
49.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Civil Engineers, Harvard Engineering So-
ciety; Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Tau Beta Pi; Association of Iron
and Steel Engineers; Registered Professional Engineer, Pennsylvania,
Oregon, Massachusetts; National Bureau of Engineering Registration;
Franklin Chess Club.

pusLications: “A Geometrical Aspect of Failure Theories,” Civil Engineer-
ing, March, 1946.

WHO remembers that Commencement oration in which we, as

freshmen, were likened to a diver about to plunge for pearls; and,

as seniors, rising again to the surface with engraved oyster shells?

My shell read “Civil Engineer.” Professor Swain informed me at

the time that it was only a Jearner’s permit, but it has taken me

much of the last twenty-five years to find out how right he was.
After a year as an assistant in the Engineering School, I went
to work for Dwight P. Robinson (’g4), Inc., as tracer, draftsman,

[452 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

transitman, and, by 1928, as designer. Married in 1926, I dragged ~
my wife and two growing boys through twelve domiciles in the
ensuing twelve years. Mr. Robinson’s firm merged with others in
1928 to form the United Engineers and Constructors, Inc., of
Philadelphia. With them I worked on a subway and an office
building in Buenos Aires, a chemical plant in the Mojave Desert,
on bridge site investigations on the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, and
generally in many of these United States. There were indeed
few dull moments, and the family stood it wonderfully well. We
squeezed in a trip to the Continent in 1934 by taking the long
way home from a job. The children’s education was a hit-and-run
affair, but it seems to have done them less harm than good.

By 1937 I had established a precarious claim on a proper
engineering status, and we bought a house in Haverford. This
radical step turned out to have been an act of faith which some-
how resulted in a stabilization of my affairs.

Since that time I have been handling the structural engineering
phases of a long series“of power and industrial projects. One of
my collateral duties has involved the visitation of colleges to
induce the more promising among the prospective graduates to
take their initial employment with my firm. I could enlarge
considerably upon the growth of starting salaries within the last
quarter-century. Nevertheless, in spite of the magnificent oppor-
tunities available to today’s graduates, there seems to be a growing
number of boys who really expect within a year or so to trade in
box tops and oyster shells for preferred executive spots.

The novelty of this business of living in one place has not yet
worn off. In fact, while others tear off to the mountains and the
shore at every opportunity, my wife and I just sit back and enjoy

being home. My elder son, Dick, went to Haverford School, had
about two years in the Navy, and js now a junior at Swarthmore.
Peter finished last year at Westtown and is now a freshman at
Haverford College. Be it said here that I had elected to send them
to Harvard, but seem to have been outvoted. Haverford Friends’
School accounts for the other two, Betsy being in the fourth
grade and my wife handling the five-year-olds in the school.

On my own time I most enjoy mathematical problems, tele-
vision, chess, bridge, walking down to the station with Betsy for
the Sunday papers, refinishing antique furniture, and helping Pete

[453]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

with his calculus— pretty senile, what? As members of the
Society of Friends and registered Democrats, we probably stand
well to the left of the composite ’4ger.

On the whole, the last twenty-five years have been good — may
the next twenty-five be better!

HARRY ALBERT JOHNSON

HOME ADDRESS: 104-49 199th St., Hollis 7, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Employees Credit Corp., 155 E. 44th St., New York, N. Y.-

BORN: Dec. 7, 1902, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Amandus Johnson, Ida
Christina Peterson. .

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

MaRRIED: Josephine R. Walsh, Sept. 2, 1931, Manchester, N. H. CHILDREN:
Carolanne, Nov. 15, 1936; Robert, July 1, 1945.

occupaTion: Assistant treasurer, Employees Credit Corporation, consumer
finance. |

MEMBER OF: Mu Chapter, Beta Alpha Psi.

MY FIRST position after graduation was as field auditor with a
Boston public accounting firm. Travelling for a year and a half
while engaged in this work gave me the urge to see more of our
great country. The publicity given to the Florida real estate
boom influenced my thoughts in this direction, Consequently, I
gave up my job and headed south. After spending several months
in Miami in the employ of a real estate accounting firm, two of
my friends and I pooled our resources, purchased an old Ford
and camping equipment, and set out with California as our goal.
That trip has always remained a highlight of my life, because a
leisurely manner of travel enabled us to devote as much time as
we wished to admiring the wonderful handiworks of nature, such
as the Grand Canyon, the Painted Desert, the Great Salt Lake,
Yellowstone National Park, etc.

Back in Boston I again joined a public accounting firm. Two
years later I left public accounting to enter the consumer finance
business which has become my life’s work. In 1932 I took over
the management of a branch office in New York City. Subse-
quently, I became affiliated with Employees Credit Corporation,
where I am employed at present as assistant treasurer.

The year 1931 was an eventful one in my life, for on September

[454]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

2 I was married. This union has been blessed with two children.

My principal hobby has been caring for our home on Long
Island and raising our children. Five years ago, after having
been out of college for nineteen years, I decided to return to
school in the quest of a master’s degree in business administration.
I have just completed my thesis and shall receive the degree of
Master of Business Administration from New York University

in June, 1949.

RAYMOND AUGUSTINUS JOHNSON

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 30 Maple St., Marlboro, Mass.

BORN: Feb, 27, 1902, North Easton, Mass. parents: August B. Johnson, Alma
Evelyn Anderson.

PREPARED AT: Oliver Ames High School, North Easton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; M.D. (Yale Univ.), 1928.

MARRIED: Sara Frances Rogers, April 11, 1935, North Easton, Mass. cHILp:
Linda Frances, Feb. 24, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Medical examiner, Selective Service Board.

OFFICES HELD: President, Marlboro Rotary Club, 1937-38; president of medi-
cal staff, 1948, trustee, Marlboro Hospital; trustee, since 1945, member
of Investment Board, since 1946, Marlboro Savings Bank.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society, New England Obstetrical and
Gynecological Society, United Brethren Lodge, AF. & A.M.

PUBLICATIONS: “Urinary Suppression and Uremia Following Transfusion of
Blood,” American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology, August, 1933.

I AM still practising general medicine in Marlboro, with special
attention to obstetrics and gynecology. If I were to enumerate
the interesting things which occur in the life of a medica] man,
the space allotted would be insufficient for even a preamble. So I
shall simply say that I have enjoyed my share. My only side
interest is being on the Board of Investment of the Marlboro
Savings Bank. This board of five men, incidentally, includes

three Harvard graduates.

MALCOLM BANCROFT JONES

HOME apprEss: 29 Broad St., Salem, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Connecticut College, New London, Conn.

BORN: March 23, 1902, Salem, Mass. parents: George William Jones, Mary
Wells Thayer.

[455 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924.

PREPARED AT: Salem High School, Salem, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1924; A.M., 1930;
PH.D., 1936.

marniep: Marion Emily Woodbridge, July 2, 1938, Lynn, Mass. cum:
Cornelia Woodbridge, Nov. 2, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Quinton Oliver Jones, °26.

occuPaTION: Associate professor of Romance languages, Connecticut Col-
lege.

OFFICES HELD: President, Connecticut College Chapter, American Association
of University Professors, 1943-44, 1944-45.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association of America; American Associa-
tion of University Professors, American Association of Teachers of
French.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles in professional journals; textbook accepted
for publication but not yet printed.

THERE is little to record. Five years of secondary school teach-
ing convinced me that college work was what I really wanted.
My experience since I received my doctorate has simply
strengthened that conviction. Politically I am an unrepentant
Republican and proud of it. By no means unaware of the failings
and weaknesses of the G.O.P., I still think it superior to any other
political party. After all, any government is tyrannical in the
sense that it must say no at one time or another to almost every-
one, But the government which says so least is the best one. The
tendency shown by the state in the last sixteen years to interfere
in almost every division of our lives, private and public, is danger-
ous and to be resisted as often as it shows itself. Liberty may be
dangerous, but it is not nearly so dangerous as the exercise of
power by an impersonal and intolerant government bureau to
control the lives and thoughts of its citizens under its jurisdiction.
Speaking as an educator, I think two things are of prime im-
portance today. One, we teachers must be constantly on guard
against interference with our institutions on the part of officious
and official meddlers of whatever stamp. This means that we are
to be continually on guard against the efforts— not perhaps
strong yet, but bound to be stronger soon — of government to
control us. We must, not give our birthright of freedom in ex-
change for the pottage of security. Nor is it official government
alone that we must watch. There are various pressure groups,
racial, religious, and Jabor, that in one way or another are trying
to dictate to us what we shall or shall not teach. And it may be

[456]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

that the odds are against us, and that we shall go down in defeat.
But, at least, we can die with dignity. .

Two, we teachers must be as aware of our duties and respon-
sibilities as of our rights. We must defend the liberal tradition.
(And this will mean that we shall have as our enemies some
ninety per cent of the people who call themselves liberal now.)
But if we do not defend it, no one will. And no one should know
better than the teacher the value of this tradition.

ROBERT TYRE JONES, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 3425 Tuxedo Rd., N.W., Atlanta, Ga.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1425 Citizens & Southern Bank Bldg., Atlanta, Ga.

BorRN: March 17, 1902, Atlanta, Ga. PARENTS: Robert Purmedus Jones, Clara
Merrick Thomas.

PREPARED AT: Technical High School, Atlanta, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREES: 8.B. IN M.E. (Georgia School of Tech-

nology), 1922; s.B. (Harvard Univ.), 1924.

MaRRIED: Mary Rice Malone, June 17, 1924, Atlanta, Ga. CHILDREN: Clara
Malone, April 18, 1925 (m. William H. Black, 2d, Feb. 12, 1947)3
Robert Tyre, 3d, Nov. 30, 1926; Mary Ellen, Jan. 29, 1931. GRAND-
cup: William H. Black, 3d, Dec. 8, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Called to active duty as captain, Reserve Corps,

_ June, 1942; returned to active duty as lieutenant colonel, September,
1944; Military Specialty Air Combat Intelligence officer; served A-z,
84th Fighter Wing, in England and Normandy.

OFFICES HELD: President, Berkshire Coca Cola Bottling Company, Pittsfield,
Mass.; vice-president, Spalding Sales Corporation, Chicopee, Mass.;
director, Southern Company, Wilmington, Del.; partner, Jones, Wil-

- hams & Dorsey, Atlanta.
MEMBER OF: Atlanta Athletic Club; Peachtree Golf Club; Augusta National;

Royal and Ancient.
PUBLICATIONS: Down the Fairway (with QO. B. Keeler).

EDWIN PRATT JORDAN

HOME AppREss: 2569 Derbyshire Rd., Cleveland Heights 6, Ohio.

“OFFICE ADDRESS: Cleveland Clinic, 202 E. 93rd St., Cleveland 6, Ohio.

BoRN: Nov. 2, 1902, Chicago, Ill. parents: Edwin Oakes Jordan, Elsie Fay
Pratt,

PREPARED AT: University High School, Chicago, Tl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1921-1922. DEGREES: $.B, (Univ. of Chicago), 1923; M.D.

(Rush Medical Coll), 1928.
(457 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

MARRIED: Marjorie Crighton, Sept. 18, 1930, Brandon, Vt. cHILpREN: Debo-
rah Stuart, Sept. 26, 1932; David Crichton, April 30, 1935; Mary Farr,
Aug 26, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Donaldson Jordan, ’18.

occuPaATION: Medical educator, editor and writer.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in medicine, University of Chicago, 1930-33, Rush
Medical College, 1933-37; assistant editor, Journal of the American Medi-
cal Association, 1937-47; director of education, Cleveland Clinic and
Frank E. Bunts Educational Institute, since 1948.

MEMBER OF: American Association for the Advancement of Science (Coun-
cil); American College of Physicians, American Medical Association;
American Rheumatism Association; Institute of Medicine of Chicago;
University Club of Chicago.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, Standard Nomenclature of Disease and Operations;
editor, Primer on Arthritis; numerous articles in scientific publications.

FOR about eight years after leaving college my work was essen-
tially a training period for medical practice in internal medicine.
From 1933 to 1937 I did practise medicine in Chicago and
Winnetka, Illinois. In 1937, however, I became associate editor
of The Journal of the American Medical Association which, al-
though it utilized my medical background, led me into entirely
new and different fields. Stimulating and interesting as it was, I
left that position in 1947 and moved to Cleveland. In Cleveland
my work is principally the development of a program of post-
graduate medical education at the Cleveland Clinic, that is, the
education of physicians who are intending to become specialists
in some particular branch of medicine or surgery.

Aside from this I have done a fair amount of writing and edit-
ing in medical fields and for several years have written a syndi-
cated health column which appears in a number of newspapers in
this country and Canada. This, too, is an activity not without its
intriguing aspects.

There has been time for considerable travel in this country
and, before the war, in Europe. So far as hobbies are concerned,
vegetable gardening is my favorite, though the state of the climate
and the soil of my present abode do not encourage the pursuit of
this hobby. Socially, I like my friends. Politically, my views are
both firm and correct though inconstant.

I have put the less important things first but my family has
been and is my most vital interest and deepest pleasure.

[458 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES MACY JUTTE A

HOME ADDRESS: 380 Landing Rd., S., Rochester 10, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Clothing Co., Main Street, E., Rochester, N. Y.

BORN: June 24, 1902, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: William Charles Jutte, Jane
_ Clara Brokaw.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922.

MARRIED: Frances Watson, April 21, 1924, New York, N. Y. cHipren:

James Watson, April 10, 1925; Noel Watson, Dec. 24, 1930.
occuPATION: Controller, National Clothing Company.
MEMBER OF: University Club, Rochester.

GEORGE KARELITZ

HOME ADDRESS: 34 Lakeview Ave., Haverhill, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 191 Merrimack St., Haverhill, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 15, 1903, Lawrence, Mass. parents: Maurice Wolf Karelitz,
Lena Zukernick.

PREPARED AT: Haverhill High School, Haverhill, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; LL.B., 1927.

MarRiED: Ada Feinberg, Dec. 25, 1928, Boston, Mass. cHmLpREN: Joan M.,
Aug. 22, 1930; Stephen H., Aug. 12, 1934.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Appeal Agent, Draft Board #76, Haverhill.

OFFICES HELD: City solicitor, Haverhill, 1933-35; president, Haverhill Kiwanis _
Club, 1937-38; vice-president, Haverhill Boys’ Club, 1940-48; president,
B’nai Brith Lodge; chancellor commander, Isidore Strauss Lodge,
Knights of Pythias. .

MEMBER OF: Haverhill Country Club; Haverhill Boosters Club; Republi-
can Club of Massachusetts; Haverhill Bar Association; Massachusetts
Bar Association; Aleppo Temple, Boston; Temple Emanuel Brother-
hood; Temple Lodge, AF. & A.M.; Republican City Committee of
Haverhill.

AFTER graduating from Harvard Law School, I decided to
practise in my home city of Haverhill. Even though I had lived
there most of my life, it was a tough struggle for several years.
I began to mix in local politics and finally was elected City
Solicitor by the Mayor and City Council. I was the youngest
City Solicitor in the history of the city and, of course, was per-
haps the most active and ambitious. At any rate, I had some
interesting experiences. I remember in particular one occasion
when I was called upon to investigate the disappearance of some

[459 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

city-owned horses. Hearings were held at City Hall before an
audience of more than fifteen hundred people for two successive
weeks. Public sentiment was on my side and, whenever I entered
the hall, cheers would ring out. The defense attorney was loudly
jeered and criticized. It really gave me the opportunity and
publicity that every young lawyer needs.

The years have been good to me and many of my friends have
helped me to build up my practice. It has been some time since I
have heard the wolf howling at my door.

My daughter is a graduate of Abbot Academy, Andover,
Massachusetts, and is now studying at Rockford College, Rock-
ford, Ilinois, and my son attends Milton Academy, Milton,
Massachusetts. What is most amusing to me is that my daughter
is an artist, whereas I can’t tell one color from another. My son
takes after me in that he is active athletically.

For some years I have taken an active part in aiding under-
privileged children and men and women who are getting old age
assistance. I represent gratuitously an old age club consisting of
eleven hundred members. Any person who is honestly up against
it can feel free to call on me for help in legal matters. I have ex-
perienced great personal satisfaction in being able to help some of
these destitute persons. .

JOSEPH SOLOMON KAUFMAN

HOME appREss: 26 Morton Rd., Swampscott, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 23 Central Ave., Lynn, Mass.

BORN: June 21, 1902, Poland. parents: Max Kaufman, Celia Miller.

PREPARED AT: Lynn English High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

MaRRIED: Bessie Dine, Aug. 25, 1927, Boston, Mass. cuiLpreN: June Gale,
June 27, 1931; Sumner, Aug. 15, 1934.

occuPATION: Lawyer, Industrial Finance.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: District Warden, Civilian Defense, Lynn,
Mass., 1942-45; Red Cross, 1942-45.

OFFICES HELD: Special attorney, United States Department of Justice, 1935-
36; attorney, Legal Division, National Bituminous Coal Commission,
1937; trustee, Prudential Acceptance Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Greater Lynn, Lynn Bar Association; Essex
County Bar Association.

PUBLICATIONS: “Round Table,” a newspaper column, 1943.

[ 460 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FOLLOWING my graduation from college, I entered the law
school, but at the end of the second year there, I discovered with
what ease one can obtain an M.L. (marriage license) as contrasted
with the difficulty in acquiring an LL.B., and I promptly made
the substitution. After my marriage in 1927, I returned to m

other love, the law, and in December of that year, I successfully
passed the Bar examinations. I was admitted to practice in April,
1928, in state courts and, the following year, in the federal court.
However, the excitement of this period was soon to be over-
shadowed by the 1929 crash and the depression that followed. |

The difficulties of the ensuing years were those of all struggling
lawyers trying to find a place in the sun, during the cyclical era
of boom and bust. However, with plenty of time on my hands
and caught up by the fever of the New Deal, I threw myself
wholeheartedly into politics. I organized a local county Demo-
cratic organization which I headed for the first two terms of the
Franklin Delano Roosevelt administration. It was during this
period that I received the two federal government appointments.
Inadequate as the remuneration for these services was, neverthe-
less, it was counter-balanced by the satisfaction of playing a part,
however small, in the most important era in American history
since the Civil War. I also learned a lot about practical politics,
governmental functions and administrative law. At the end of
several years of experience in this field of endeavor, I reached the
same conclusion as did Lord Bryce, I believe (or was it Henry A.
Wallace), who said that the two major parties in the United
States are like two empty bottles with different labels on the
outside. By 1937 I came to the realization that interesting and
self-satisfying as governmental sérvice may be, it will not support
a growing family of two healthy youngsters and a normally
acquisitive wife, and I was perforce compelled to return to my
private practice of law in Lynn, only to find myself back where
I started a decade before.

It was then that I decided to explore another field of activity
to supplement my meager law practice, with the result that I
reorganized my industrial finance business which I had started
several years before, but which remained dormant. And in 1939,
after many disappointments, it was reéstablished just in time to
meet the increasing demands of capital necessitated by the busi-

[ 461 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

ness expansion brought about by the outbreak of war in Europe.
Since then, my time has been divided between the practice of
law and industrial finance, although I managed to find a short
period of time during 1943 to write a column for a local news-
paper covering domestic and foreign problems with the avowed
intention of clarifying the issues involved in the conflict against
authoritarian brutality.

In conclusion, I can only say that I am grateful for the training
I received at Harvard which enabled me to think clearly during
the last twenty-five eventful years, crowded as they were with
prosperity, depression, and war. My only hope now is to see my
son enter Harvard upon his graduation from Exeter, and my
daughter enter the college of her choice next year, so that they
may be able to participate and contribute intelligently to the
progress this great country of ours is bound to make in the

fascinating era of the development of the atomic age which lies
ahead.

KENNETH MAURICE KEEFE

HOME AND OFFICE apprEss: Hillsboro Plantation Inc., Box 38, Belle Glade,
Fla.

BorN: May 8, 1902, Victor, N. Y. parents: Bartholemew Vincent Keefe,
Annabelle E. O'Neill.

PREPARED AT: West High School, Rochester, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1924.

MarrieD: Lydia Fleming, Feb. 10, 1934, Jacksonville, Fla. campren: Flem-
ing, March 15, 1939; Kenneth Maurice, Jr. Nov. 18, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president, Hillsboro Plantation Inc.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: War Production Board, December, 1942, to
October, 1943; director, Wholesale and Retail Trade Division, May 1
to Oct. 15, 1943.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Seminole Club, Jacksonville, Fla.

FOLLOWING my graduation from Harvard I went to work
with Halsey, Stuart & Company, Inc., in New York. I was with
them for about eleven years in their municipal bond department.
In 1936 I established my own office in New York where I spe-
cialized in handling municipal financial problems and I also ad-
vised certain trustees dealing with some real estate in Florida.
During the period 1930-1946, I spent a good deal of my time
in Florida, Following a serious illness in the summer of 1946, I

[ 462 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

decided to give up my office in New York and go to Florida to
live. Through some business connections I became interested in
Hillsboro Plantation Inc., which owns approximately 75,000
acres of land in the Florida Everglades south and east of Lake
Okeechobee.

My present activities, dealing in cattle, trying to grow ramie
and carry on a large-scale farming business are far removed from
the financial district of New York. However, the weather and
its uncertainties which mean so much to us here are no harder to
guess than to judge the actions of securities markets.

GORDON MATLACK KEHLER

HOME apprEss: 85 Griffen Ave., Scarsdale, N. Y.

OFFICE appREss: The Severin Co., 147 Chatsworth Ave., Larchmont, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 13, 1900, Chicago, Ill. parents: James Howard Kehler, Eliza-
beth Marr Osgood.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922. DEGREE: A.B. (Univ. of Chicago), 1942.

MARRIED: Elsie E. Wharton, March 28, 1941, Wilmington, Del. cHILpREN:
Robert Wharton, Oct. 26, 1942; Gordon Randall, July 16, 1944; Charles
Stewart, April 23, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Builder; real estate broker.

I LEFT Harvard at the end of my sophomore year. My father,
who owned a small advertising agency in Chicago, died very
soon thereafter, so I took over his business and carried it on for a
year and a half. I then accepted a position as assistant advertising
manager for a large Chicago clothing manufacturer.

Early in 1925, the opportunity came my way to become assist-
ant to a prominent Chicagoan who was retiring from business
because of ill health. This job, which started out on a six-months’
trial basis, lasted thirteen years. Like all employment, it had its
drawbacks, but it also had attractive compensations. The routine
of managing my employer’s business affairs was relieved by one
extended trip to England and considerable travelling in this coun-
try. Another extra-curricular activity was helping him in the
formation of his collection of books, etchings, and art objects.
During this period, I spent a great deal of time in California with
my employer who was a kind, generous, and altogether delightful
person to be with.

[ 463 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Upon my emplover’s death, I returned to Chicago as executor
of his estate, which was far from being a full-time job, so I de-
cided to complete, or perhaps I should say to start, my formal
education. The informality, not to say irregularity, of my two
years at Harvard was pointed out to me on several occasions by
the Dean. At any rate, I entered the University of Chicago as an
undergraduate and obtained my A.B, degree in ’42, thus reversing
my Harv ard numerals of ’24.

‘Meanwhile, I met the one and only girl while attending Sum-
mer French School at Middlebury College in 1940. We were
married the following spring and now have three sturdy sons, the
oldest of whom will not be ready for Harvard for another dozen
years. Life really did begin, or began all over again, at forty.

When I left the Un niversity of “Chicago, the war was in full
progress, so any other personal plans were shelved in favor of a
war job. I spent the next four years with Sperry Gyroscope
Company where I was in turn training supervisor, employment
supervisor, manpower supervisor, and finally personnel manager
of their Brooklyn plant.

Since the war, two of my minor ambitions have been achieved:
to work close to home, and to see the last of commuter trains.
I have been buying and remodelling old houses with fair success
and have built two new ones. To fill in my time, I am also selling
real estate as manager of the Country Properties Department of
The Severin Company, real estate brokers of Larchmont. The
financial rewards are not great, but I am enjoying life, work only
when and as I please, and I do recognize my children when I see
them. If any of my more prosperous classmates are looking for a

country place in Westchester or nearby Connecticut, I am the
man to see.

GEORGE CAMP KEISER

ADDRESS; 4331 Garfield St, Washington, D. C.

BORN; Nov. 2, 1900, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: George Edward Keiser,
Mary Bigelow Camp.

prieparto AY: Chicago Latin School, Chicago, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGKEES: A.B, 1924; BARCH, (Columbia Univ.),
5G 30.

Mawurp: Nancy Hull, Sept. 16, 1938, Wilton, Conn, ciinoren: Mary
Damaris, July 23, 1945, Anne Blossom, June 28, 1948,

[ 464 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: David Manning Keiser, ’27.

occupation: Architect; chairman of board of governors, The Middle East
Institute, Washington, D. C,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served in Signal Corps, Army of the United
States, 1942-45.

OFFICES HELD: Founder and chairman of board of governors, The Middle
Fast Institute, since 1946; director, Cuban American Sugar Company,
and Guantanamo Sugar Company, since 1925; president Symphony Or-
chestra of Central Florida, since 1940; treasurer, Hispanic Institute in
Florida, 1941-45; secretary, Diplomatic Affairs Foundation, 1946-48.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; Florida Association of Ar-
chitects; Connecticut Society of Architects, University Club, Winter
Park; Harvard Club of Central Florida; Harvard Club of New York;
Wilton (Conn.) Riding Club; United Nations Club, Washington.

SINCE my graduation from Harvard, my life has been divided
virtually into three periods. The first might be termed an ap-
prenticeship period, and was spent for the most part in and near
New York; the second, largely one of development, took place in
Florida; and the third, which I hope will continue for some time
to come, I like to think of as a period of accomplishment, the
chief activity of which has so far been in Washington.

The first of these periods included my introduction into the
world of business, as well as into the profession of architecture,
to the study of which I applied myself initially as an extension
student and then as a full-time candidate for an architectural
degree at Columbia, which I received in 1930, During that com-
paratively calm period of the late twenties and early thirties, I
availed myself of a number of opportunities to travel extensively in
Europe and the nearer Middle East, which in many ways not only
stimulated my interest in my chosen profession, but also awoke in
me a very friendly feeling for a part of the world which at that
time was little known in this country. Just as 1 was ready to start
out in architectural practice, the depression put a damper on my
plans. So having a deep and growing interest in lands south and
east of the Mediterranean, I took rather delightful refuge in
making a thorough study of that area both culturally and
archaeologically, even to the extent of taking up work on the
Arabic language.

In 1934 this period ended. I had an opportunity to go into
architectural practice in Florida with good prospects, and being
unattached at that time, I was in a favorable position to try it out.

[ 465 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

The result is that I now have my own practice not only in this
southeastern state, which still remains my residence, but in Con-
necticut as well. During this period, I had the good fortune to
make many friends of wide experience and interests in the little
town with a cosmopolitan spirit that is Winter Park. It was also
during this period that I had the still better fortune to acquire
my “better half,” though I must admit I had to go back to the
Northeast to get her.

The war terminated this second period just as I had become
well established in my profession. Feeling like so many thousands
of my compatriots, I started out on a quest to find a place for
myself in the Army or Navy, and finally obtained a modest
commission in the Signal Corps of the Army of the United States
which brought me to Washington. My part was not an exciting
or particularly interesting one, except for the many friends |
made among the British Army and Navy officers whose paths
happened to cross mine. Although my duties as first lieutenant
came to an end in 1945, my interest in world affairs, stimulated
by the international contacts I had made, continued to grow; and
at least partly as a result of wishing to be of greater service than
my assignment permitted during the war, I turned my attention
towards building up a better knowledge of the Middle East in this
country. Due to combining these efforts with those of a sym-
pathetic group in Washington, the Middle East Institute was
started in 1946.

While I still maintain my architectural affiliations, the growth
of this Middle East organization has been so satisfactory and its
connections so far-reaching, that I find my vocation and avoca-
tion have, for the time being at least, changed places. This means
that I now find myself spending considerable time in Washington,
enjoying life with my wife and two children, as my Twenty-fifth
Reunion approaches.

ROBERT OLYPHANT KELLOGG

Home appkess: Plattsburg, N. Y.

Bown: Oct. 7, 1900, Platrsburg, N. Y. parents: George Casper Kellogg, ’94,
Grace Vernon Olyphant.

Purpaxrp at: Phillips Excter Academy, Exeter, N. EL.

YEAKS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922.

[ 466 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrigD: Nathalie Louise Hillis, June 12, 1924, Kennebunkport, Maine (di-
vorced 1928); Margaret Upton Palmer, April 15, 1947. cHitp: Patricia
Hillis (m. Howard Clayton Smith), June 12, 1925.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ralph McKenzie Kellogg, ’30 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Retired merchant.

MEMBER OF: Baronial Order of Magna Charta, Philadelphia.

HARRIS LEON KEMPNER

HOME ADpREsS: 4810 Denver Drive, Galveston, Texas.

OFFICE appREss: P.O, Box 119, Galveston, Texas.

BORN: Oct. 6, 1903, Galveston, Texas. parents: Isaac Herbert Kempner,
Henrietta Blum.

PREPARED AT: Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1924.

MarRiED: Ruth Levy, April 24, 1939, Galveston, Texas. CHILDREN: Harris
Leon, Jr., Feb. 6, 1940; Marion Lee, April 16, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Isaac Herbert Kempner, ’28.

occuPATION: Trustee, H. Kempner, family trust engaged in merchandising
of raw cotton, banking, life insurance, sugar refining, farming, and oil
production.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Received commission as lieutenant, June 30,
1942; served in Washington in office of Assistant Secretary; received
honorable discharge as commander as of Oct. 9, 1945. Awarded Legion
of Merit.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chairman, Galveston County Draft Board No.
1, from inauguration of Selective Service until June, 1942.

OFFICES HELD: President, Galveston Cotton Exchange and Board of Trade,
1937-42 and currently, Artillery Club, 1938-39; vice-president, Board
of The Boy Scouts of Galveston Chamber of Commerce, 1927-29,
president, 1929; vice-president and director, United States National
Bank, since 1948, Texas Prudential Insurance Company, since 19393
director, New Orleans Cotton Exchange, 1938-42, Texas Cotton As-
sociation, 1941, 1942; treasurer-secretary, Beach Club, 1931-39.

MEMBER OF: Galveston Artillery Club; Galveston Country Club; Harvard
Club of New York; Army and Navy Club of Washington.

IMMEDIATELY after graduation in 1924, I went to Europe
where I spent a year. The summer was spent in Paris in an effort
_to perfect my French and take various courses at the Sorbonne.
During the rest of the year I visited Switzerland, Italy, Austria,
Greece, Hungary, Germany, Denmark, Belgium, Holland, and
England, spending most of my time in the offices of the represen-
_tatives of our firm in those various countries in an effort to

[ 467 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Cast over such efforts of mine and others remains the threat of
another war, this time waged with the awful energy of the split
atom which man was genius enough to harness but has not yet
shown himself wise enough to control or direct for the benefit of
the race. The continuing responsibility for the successful solu-
tion of this grave problem rests on all of us, but I, in particular,
am grateful to the College which taught me so much about the
democratic way of life, its history and even its defects, Never
has there been greater need for such knowledge and for the
ability to put this knowledge into action.

GEORGE MOSS KENDALL

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Peterborough, N. H.

BORN: Sept. 6, 1901, Willsboro, N. Y. Parents: Charles Pierce Kendall, ’o2,
Jennie Eliza Moss.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923, 1924-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1924(25).

MARRIED: Kate Duncan Smith, Dec. 20, 1938, Southboro, Mass. CHILD:
George Duncan, April 5, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lee Gordon Kendall, ’2 5.

OCCUPATION: Teacher.

THE summons to rise and report on one’s life since the Class of
1924 left Harvard comes like the ring of an alarm clock early on
a dark morning. Is it already time? Can’t I have a few years
more?

There seems very little to report. I live in an uncommonly
pleasant New England town, and I have for much of the time
since college been engaged in teaching. In December of 1938 I
was married to Kate Duncan Smith of Birmingham with whose
tireless and discerning help I direct a boarding school for girls.
It is a small school, happily set in the country. To it we have
devoted quite literally everything we have. Living with our son
(aged eight) and with fifty ’teen-age girls gives one a marvelous
sense of looking with them into the future and an obliviousness
to the passage of time which only a mirror or a call from the
Class Secretary can shatter, Ours is a full life, confining and de-
manding; but in its concern with hopes and promise it is also a
very fortunate one.

[ 470 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I confess that there are times when I look upon our houseful
of adolescents with a sense of keen regret that the advantages
they have are so seldom shared or even approached. It is just
altogether too true that “unto him that hath shall be given.”
Economic position and the enterprise of parents still make far
more difference than they should in equipping a boy or girl to
seize the opportunities of life as they come his way. The con-
tacts I have had with public school people have brought nothing
but respect for the competence and selflessness of great numbers
of them. But from where I do my work, too many seem engaged
in an unequal battle with public apathy and with the tradition of
mediocrity. The difference between what could be done for
most boys and girls and what is done is disturbing to the com-
posure of anyone who believes that youngsters, including other
people’s, are important.

If it is good to be able to work in one of the school groups
where most of the forces touching boys and girls have been
mobilized to help them, it is more than sad to realize how many
youngsters with equal claims are denied anything like an equal
chance. In my opinion the problem of inequality in education
far outweighs any other on the periphery of that much discussed
subject. The great books, the new techniques, the reformed
curricula are simply trivial by comparison. Fortunately some
good strong voices are being raised in behalf of the less favored
majority of the nation’s adolescents. It should be a matter of
pride to us that the best of these voices comes from Harvard.
Certainly, no one in our time speaks and writes of education
with more breadth, humanity, and plain sense that does President
Conant,

++ FREDERIC HEDGE KENNARD, JR.

BorN: March 6, 1902, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Frederic Hedge Kennard,
°88, Sarah Harrison Eisenbrey.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924,

HARVARD BROTHERS; Harrison Eisenbrey Kennard, 25; Robert Martin Perry
Kennard, °26; John Harold Kennard, °32. .

DIED: June 8,.1941, Waverly, Mass.

MOTHER: Mrs. Frederic H. Kennard, 246 Dudley Rd., Newton Center,
Mass.

[471]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

FREDERIC HEDGE KENNARD, JR., entered Harvard as a
member of the Class after completing preparatory work at
Browne and Nichols School. While in college he was active as a
member of the Freshman rso0-Ib. Crew and the 150-lb. Crew
Squad. Receiving his A.B. degree in 1924, he attended the Har-
vard Graduate School of Business Administration for a year.
The following winter he joined the Special Yarns Corporation,
South Boston, which was associated with the Lustron Company
and the Chemical Products Company, and began training as a
salesman. In 1930 he reported being associated with the John B.
Howard Company of Providence, Rhode Island, investment
counsel, Several years later he returned to his home in Boston and
engaged in independent work in investments.

GEORGE LAWRENCE KENNEDY

HOME AND OFFICE appress: Minnesota State School and Colony, Faribault,
Minn.

BorN: June 18, 1897, Minneapolis, Minn. parents: John Francis Kennedy,
Jane O'Dowd.

PREPARED AT: West High School, Minneapolis, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; A.M., 1926; M.D., C.M.
(McGill Univ.), 1932.

marriep: Marguerite Schumacher, June, 1939, St. Cloud, Minn. cnitp:
George Dowd, March 31, 1940. ,

HARVARD BROTHER: Roderick Kennedy, ’17 (deceased).

occupation: Physician and surgeon; senior physician, Minnesota State
School and Colony.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member examining board for Selective Serv-
ice, Washington and Cass Counties.

Member OF: McGill Graduate Society, Harvard Club of Minnesota, Amer-
ican Association on Mental Deficiency, Nu Sigma Nu Medical Fra-
ternity; American Medical Association (fellow); Minnesota State
Medical Society; Southern Minnesota Medical Society, Minnesota
Hearth Association; Elks; Faribault Golf Club.

AFTER Harvard, I received the degrees of Doctor of Medicine
and Mastery of Surgery at McGill, Montreal. After an intern-
ship in New York, | began practice in Minneapolis. Later, I be-
came a contract surgeon for the federal government and was in
charge of several C.C-C. camps in Minnesota. On leaving this
work, [came to my present location,

[ 472 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My responsibilities here are general and I am also assistant to
the superintendent and in direct charge of all the medical and
surgical cases. We have about three thousand patients who are
mentally deficient. In July, 1945, I was appointed senior physi-
cian.

I attend many medical meetings of the American Medical As-
sociation and the Interstate Post Graduate Meetings as well as
those for the mentally deficient. I find my work very interesting
although I am kept busy much of the time.

I find time to play much golf during the summer. I have a small
cottage on a beautiful lake only five miles away where my eight-
year-old son can fish and swim as much as he likes. I belong to a
few social groups of people who enjoy playing bridge during the
winter. |

Several of my friends from this area spend a few months at
Phoenix, Arizona, in February and March, and I hope to go
there this winter for about a month.

I am looking forward to a trip to Cambridge next June. I hope
to get my excess weight down by the use of an Exercycle this
winter. I am wondering if any other members of the Class have
used this machine.

I am hoping that the Class 25th Reunion will be a great suc-
cess and that the spirit of genuine friendship will prevail.

FRANCIS KERNAN

HOME ADDRESS: 163 E. 65th St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: White, Weld & Co., 40 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: June 29, 1903, Buffalo, N. Y. PARENTS: Francis K. Kernan, ’97, Mary
Margaret Spratt.

PREPARED aT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1924; LL.B. 1927.
MARRIED: Maud Tilton, July 20, 1934, New York, N. Y. cHitpren: Francis,
Jr., May 9, 1935; Ann T., Jan. 3, 1940; Benjamin T., Jan. 13, 1942.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Thomas Spratt Kernan, '29; Richard Dickinson Kernan,
"31; Walter Avery Kernan, 736.

occupation: Investment banker; partner, White, Weld & Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Licutenant commander, U.S.N.R.; commanded
destroyer escort on Atlantic convoy duty.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Cardinal's Committee, New York Catholic Chari-
ties; governor, New York Hospital; director, Panhandle Producing

[ 473 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

and Refining Company, White Eagle Oil Company, Interstate Petro-
leum Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Knickerbocker Club; Links Club; Harvard Club of New York.

AFTER graduating from college and Law School, I spent eight
years as a lawyer with Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett, in New York
City. Thereafter, except for three and a half years of active duty
with the Navy during the war, I have been principally occupied
in the financing of natural gas pipe line companies and oil com-
panies and properties. My business activities take me often to
Tulsa, Dallas, Houston, and New Orleans, so that I get some relief
from the tall buildings and feverish existence of New York City.
I spend the summer on Fisher’s Island where I play very bad golf
with our classmate, Tommy Wells.

During the war I started out on sub-chasers and then became
commanding officer of a destroyer escort. My ship v was prin-
cipally on Atlantic convoy duty.

I cannot write about the Class of 1924 without saying how much
I miss and shall miss at the Reunion such very close friends as
Johnny Sherburne, Percy Jenkins, and my roommate, Sid Graves.

LANGLEY CARLETON KEYES

HOME AppREss: 1 Copley St., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE Appress: Harold Cabot & Co., Inc., 136 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 14, 1901, Winchester, Mass. parents: William Keyes, Bertha
Hanson Langley.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; A.M., 19333
PH.D., 1936.

MaRRIED: Marianne Coleman, Dec. 20, 1930, St. Louis, Mo. cHtLpREN: Eben
Wight, 2d, Aug. 6, 1932; Langley Carleton, Jr.. May 19, 1938.

occupation: Vice-president and director, Harold Cabot & Company, Inc.

OFFicks HELD: Assistant dean in charge of juniors, seniors, and out-of-course
students, 1928-34, member of English Department, 1928-30, Harvard
College; copy executive for the Men’s Store, R. H. Macy & Company,
1935-36, vice-president, Badger & Browning, Inc., 1936-42; partner,
Alley & Richards Company, 1945; vice-president, since 1946, director,
since 1949, Harold Cabot & Company, Inc.; class adviser, 1932-35, class
secretary, since 1936, vice-president of Alumni Association, 1936-37,
Phillips Academy; vice-president, 1940-41, president, 1941-42, Class
Scerctaries’ Association, Phillips Academy.

Mesiiea of: Harvard Club of Boston, Thoreau Society, New England Gas
Association, American Marketing Association.

[474]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD,” I said to the old Yale grad I had picked up with
on The Merchants, “Harvard has been directly associated with
every good thing that has come to me in my whole adult life.”

He snorted, as only an Eli can snort who has spent four years
fumbling along the pseudo-Gothic dusk of those endless Yale
corridors in a perpetual, lost-weekend daze.

‘You Harvard Johnnies,” he said, “make me laugh. You rib us
about ‘For God, for Country, and for Yale’ and the Old Yale
Fence stuff. And look at you! The world’s biggest fall guys for
the old Alma Mater racket. Look at the hullabaloo you make
over a mere twenty-fifth reunion — and al] the dough you sink
in it.”

So I laid him out in lavender — skull and bones and all.

I felt I had an incontestable case. Here’s why:

After I took my plunge in the fountain in the Yard on Class
Day night, June, 1924, Frank Kernan and I sat on the steps of
Holworthy Hall for a while, watching other classmates perform-
ing their last undergraduate naked ablutions. The Yard was dim,
warm, benign, satisfying — encompassing with a kind of mysti-
cal beauty. I thought, “Why can’t I go on living these wonderful
years for ever and ever?” I was as nostalgic as F. Scott Fitz-
gerald! .

Ten months later, the magnolias were in blossom on Common-
wealth Avenue, and Newly Wildes and I were driving past them
in his Model T, headed for luncheon at the Harvard Club. I was
working in a Boston advertising agency and had just received a
raise to thirty bucks a week — largely because I had proved com-
petent in shagging cigarettes and lunches for the vice-president
who needed the extra time to carry on with the lush-eyed check-
ing clerk. Newly was, I think, selling space for Life. That was
the old, humorous Life. The new Life is not so funny, but it
carries a lot more advertising, “Life,” said Newly of the old Life,
“has the greatest barbershop circulation in the world — but don’t
quote me!”

He doesn’t speak even so well as that of the new Life. Curtis
men don’t, as a rule, speak well of any printed matter except
what they currently peddle. You see, for some years now, Newly
has been going around painting barn roofs with “Never Under-
estimate the Power of a Woman.”

[475]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

needle work; knowledge of modern poetry, Florentine art, and
Gothic cathedrals; deft handling of rough-housing boys; ability
to serve as president of the college club and as trustee of the
library — but I could go on until Fritz Schwarz would curse the
length of my Class Life even more loudly than he will now.

But at long last, before I close here, I feel impelled to make
some very secret admissions. It seems to me that the Class Re-
port, as a multiple human document, gains in significance as it
reveals to a more than ordinary degree each member’s mind and
heart. I'll call my confession, Things I Enjoy: being with old
friends on New Year’s Eve; rising early and taking a jog with
the springer; tramping the back-country in a snow storm; heart
dinners at home; meditating on the nature of God — Mind,
Spirit, Principle; the Theatre Guild with my wife; reading every
day in the great books of all time; writing just for the pure,
thrilling pleasure of it; long swims at flood tide in the gentle July
sea; chocolate ice cream sodas; art galleries; second-hand book
stores, good woolens; English hats and shoes; talking with boys,
helping younger men find the right job; rowing a skiff in lively
weather; shopping junkets for our sons; the swift perception and
subtlety of an intelligent woman’s mind, bulb gardening; explor-
ing deserted beaches and wild creeks, Cape Cod strawberries,

pruning; my study; the English sonnet; Henry David Thoreau and
his Concord country; reading aloud with the best of friends before
an open fire, saddle-soaping and greasing heavy shoes, receiving
letters from my wife; giving and receiving unexpected gifts; trim-
ming a Christmas tree; the Yale game; returning to Andover;
ushering in church, salt water in the sun; children at play with
dogs; watching vigorous elderly people; Kreisler,; working and
doing business with good friends; intensely busy, well ordered
days; picnics and open-fire evenings with my family; pondering
on the Perfectibility of Man; foreign travel, faces with unusual
character, intelligence, beauty; a good knife; splicing rope; New
England weather of all kinds, the southwest wind over Buzzards
Bay; all bird flight; first fox sparrow music in March; a warbler
wave in Mt. Auburn at dawn; western movies; hemlock trees,
charcoal-broiled steak, rare, cooked on the beach at sunset;
cream of chicken soup, my wife’s way; mingled scent of bay-
berry and sweet fern; the sense of home my wife creates; cold

[ 480 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

showers; reading the New York Times and the Christian Science
Monitor, watching the incredible speed, grace and endurance
exemplified by modern swimming; meditating on the beneficence,
dependability, and longevity of Harvard University in the midst
of enormous change.

JOHN McKINSTRY KIMBALL

HOME appRESS: Cumberland Foreside, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Townsend, Dabney & ‘Tyson, 184 Middle St. Portland,
Maine.

BORN: Jan. 4, 1902, Newton Center, Mass. parents: John McKinstry Kim-
ball, Sally Burnside Small.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

marriED: Lillian Henry Rose, Jan. 3, 1930, Sewickley, Pa.

OCCUPATION: Investment broker.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Financial consultant and priorities analyst for
Maine, War Production Board, October, 1941, to July, 1942.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Portland Community Chest,
1938-41 (vice-chairman, 1938 campaign, Rex Corporation), director,
Animal Refuge League, 1938-39, Children’s Service Bureau, 1945-47,
Family Welfare Society, 1945-47, Children’s Home, member, Board of
Governors, Portland Country Club, 1940-43, chairman, Greater Port-
land 4th and 5th War Bond Drives; trustee, Warren Memorial Founda-
tion, since 1942; corporator, Maine General Hospital, since 1946; mem-
ber, Finance Committee, Child and Family Services, since 1947; chair-
man, Finance Committee, Greely Institute Scholarship Fund, since
1947; president, Harvard Club of Maine, 1948, Bond Club of Maine,

1936; vice-president, Maine Investment Dealers Association, 1939.

MEMBER OF: Cumberland Club; Portland Yacht Club; Portland Country

Club.

AFTER graduation I taught school for one year in the Portland
Country Day School. Then, after a brief apprenticeship in the
Brown Company paper mills in Berlin, New Hampshire, I worked
in the company’s sales offices in Pittsburgh and Chicago until
November, 1928, when I returned to Portland to go into the
investment business, in which I have been engaged ever since.

In 1940 I applied for a commission in the Naval Reserve but was
turned down because of sub-acute hearing. I later was appointed
financial consultant and priorities analyst for the War Produc-
tion Board in Maine but had-to resign this work and go back

[ 481 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

to my ‘own business because of the sudden death of my senior
partner. I later went to work for a local war plant as a sort of
priorities specialist and rationing officer, returning again to the
investment business near the end of the war.

I enjoy a happy country life, living as we do about ten miles
outside of Portland. We travel a bit, play a lot of tennis and golf,
fish, hunt duck and upland game, and vote the straight Republi-
can ticket.

STOCKTON KIMBALL

HOME AppRESS: 59 Cleveland Ave., Buffalo 9, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 24 High St., Buffalo 3, N. Y.

BoRN: Aug. 17, 1902, Buffalo, N. Y. Parents: Maulsby Kimball, Harriet
Sarah Stockton.

PREPARED AT: Hutchinson Central High School, Buffalo, N. Y.,; Worcester
Academy, Worcester, Mass. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: S.B., 1924(25); M.D. cum laude
(Univ. of Buffalo), 1929.

MarRIED; Sylvia Lund Becker, June 23, 1936, East Aurora, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Caroline Stockton, Nov. 25, 1937; Margaret Lund, Aug. 16, 1940; Rosa-
lind Sylvia, Nov. 25, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Hoyt Kimball, ’38.

occuPATioN: Physician; dean, University of Buffalo School of Medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant dean, 1944-46, assistant professor of medicine and
dean, since 1946, University of Buffalo School of Medicine; chairman,
board of trustees, Park School of Buffalo, 1948-49; member, board of
directors, Children’s Aid Society of Buffalo, since 1949; president,
Harvard Club of Buffalo, since 1949.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Buffalo; Saturn Club; The Thursday Club;
American Medical Association; American College of Physicians;
American Gastroenterological Association; American Association for
the Advancement of Science.

pusLicaTions: Medical articles and book chapters.

IN MY opinion my course at Harvard proved to be an effective,
if unconventional, preparation for the study of medicine. ‘There
are many roads to medicine. Premedical students individually
and as a group apparently believe firmly that biology and chem-
istry are the golden keys to the door to medical school. I am
happy that at Harvard I prepared for medical school by major-
ing in English literature. That the humanities and other college
courses which give a glimpse into the cultural development of man

[ 482 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

are of like importance to an individual preparing himself to un-

derstand and treat the ills of his fellow-men, is a truth extraor-

dinarily difficult to convey.

In order to demonstrate to myself whether I should study
medicine or teach English, I did have to work at the Massachusetts
General Hospital for six months following graduation from col-
lege; but in the hospital the realization came quickly. For the
remaining months before entering medical school at the Univer-
sity of Buffalo in 1925, I worked for Francis Kernan’s uncle in a
lumber camp — a conditioning process which I would recommend
to anyone preparing for the rigors of the first year of medical
study.

Medical school from 1925 to 1929 was immensely difficult and
intensely stimulating. Then followed hospital training and
wanderjahre —a year in medicine at Guy’s Hospital, London,
and a year and a half in pathology under Aschoff at Freiburg,
Germany, in the Black Forest. This was a period of study not

only of human, but of political pathology. Hitler was just rising
to power at this time. It was extraordinary to note the almost re-
ligious fervor with which high caliber medical student youths
were converted to the Nazi cause. I recall the comment of one,
himself the son of a professor, who held out longer than the rest.
One day after listening to a speech by Hitler on the radio, he
remarked, “I was as thrilled as by a Beethoven Symphony. To
calm myself I had to go out afterward and walk for hours
in the woods.” The drive within these boys to follow a leader
whom they could obey implicitly was very strong.

Another Black Forest experience was my first try at skiing —
an all-day trip up the Feldberg, the highest point in the Black
Forest — and down! Fortunately the mountain was bald and the
fine snow was blowing in such a cloud that I could not see far
enough to be afraid. I broke no bones but my muscles for days
after felt as if they had been on the rack.

A still higher point of this European experience was a visit
to Nice in 1932. It was there that I met my wife. The aura of the
Riviera has been with us ever since.

I returned to Buffalo in 1933 and have practised internal medi-
“ine here since then. No profession could be more engrossing or
more rewarding in terms of satisfaction than is medicine.

[ 483 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Sylvia and I were married in 1936. Our three daughters were
born in 1937, 1940, and 1941. My wife is a mountain climber,
musician, and educator by training and avocation. She tried me
out on Blue Mountain in the Adirondacks on our honeymoon
and again in the English lake district on our trip to her home
in England the following year. Nearly every summer we have
been off to the mountains — the Adirondacks, Mt. Desert Island,
the Canadian Rockies, Glacier Park, Sun Valley. All during our
Buffalo winter the sun and hills for the coming summer are
eagerly anticipated, Banking on my old Harvard Glee Club ex-
periences and Sylvia’s English choral training, we have sung in
the Mozart Requiem annually, and last year in the Bach St. Mat-
thew Passion with the Buffalo Philharmonic Orchestra.

I have done clinical and laboratory teaching in medicine and
pharmacology in the Medical School here since 1933 — inter-
rupted in 1943 by a period of study of tropical diseases at the
Army Medical School in Washington and a jaunt to tropical hos-
pitals i in Central America. In 1944 I became assistant dean and
in 1946, dean of the University of Buffalo School of Medicine,
thereby, I presume, fusing the interests in medicine and teaching
which were still in conflict while I was studying at Harvard.
Arduous decision was involved in accepting these appointments
because the challenge of the active practice of medicine is not
easily put aside. Medical education in a changing social order is
itself so much under challenge, however, and the problems of stu-
dent selection, curriculum, scope, staff and financial support of
medical schools are today so immense that I have found myself
very fully occupied in my new job. We are happy to have in this
medical school six full-time department heads who received their
professional training at Harvard.

Another engrossing aspect of education is my interest in the
Park School of Buffalo, a progressive, co-educational country
day school which my daughters attend and which I also attended.
Tam this year president of the board of trustees, and am finding
that the problem of support of private schools is quite as.com-
plicated in its way as is that of universities. The educational op-
portunity open to such a school in these days of standardized
secondary-school education is unlimited. That this school so
well lives up to this opportunity is in large measure due to the

[ 484 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fact that it has as its very able headmaster, M. Adolphus Cheek,
Jr., captain of the Harvard football team of 1925. He has brought
to the school from Harvard a tradition of team work and of
leadership which forms a basis for very effective training for
citizenship in the world of today.

It is a pleasure in this Twenty-fifth Reunion year for me to be
able to serve as president of the Buffalo Harvard Club. This club
gives a freshman scholarship each year to a Buffalo boy attending
Harvard and thereby performs an important service to Harvard
and to the community.

I look back upon my four years at Cambridge — and Boston —
as having been for me a truly educational experience, for which
I am deeply grateful.

ALFRED HERMAN KING

‘HOME appress: 1016 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 78 W. 47th St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 29, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: Herman King, Estelle
Lowenstein.

PREPARED AT: White Plains High School, White Plains, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1924(23); LL.B. 1926
(27).

Marriep: Darryl Alison, Dec. 30, 1945, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1946).
CHILD: Diane Alison, Nov. 30, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Law and real estate.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcoRD: World War II: Lieutenant, U.S.N.R., eighteen
months in South Pacific; U. S. Naval Base Tongatabu; member, Brit-
ish-American Joint. Compensation Board; chairman, Naval Claims
Commission; U. S. Naval Base Noumea, officer-in-charge, Argus Stag-
ing Camp Radar Units; Bu. Aer. Gen. Rep., Wright Field, Dayton,
Ohio; chief historian, assistant contract termination officer; now lieu-
tenant commander, U.S.N.R. (inactive).

OFFICES HELD: Director, Sixth Ave. Association, 1945-47; adjutant, City Ath-
letic Club Post, American Legion, 1947-48; member, legislative com-
mittee, Real Estate Board of New York, 1947; member, Republican
County Committee, County of New York, 1947-48; member, Hous-
ing Committee, New York County, American Legion, 1947-48.

MEMBER OF: Bar Association, New York City; City Athletic Club; Real
Estate Board of New York; Manhattan Chess Club; City Athletic Club
Post, American Legion, RONS Chapter ROA: gth A.D, Republican
Club.

[ 485 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

FRANCIS SYLVESTER KING

HOME ADDRESS: 44 Brush Hill Rd., Newton Highlands 61, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: First Boston Corporation, 75 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 31, 1903, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Francis Sylvester King, Mary
Agnes Harris.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 19243 M.B.A., 1926.

MarRRIED: Eleanor Jean Scribner, June 20, 1934, Newton, Mass. CHILDREN:
William Dana, March 16, 1935; Richard Scribner, April 13, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Vincent King, ’27.

occuPaTion: Vice-president, First Boston Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: President, Charles River Country Club, 1947-48; trustee, Key-
stone Charitable Foundation, Boston.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Down Town Club; Charles River
Country Club; Oyster Harbors Club.

AFTER graduating from college in 1924, I spent the next two
years at the Business School flitting about Cambridge with the
rest of my classmates in search of vacant classrooms where we
orphans could absorb words of wisdom from our instructors. As
you can guess, those were the days before George Baker gave
the money to build the new Business School. In 1925 I concen-
trated in retail store management and planned to work in the
summer of 1925 at Lord and Taylor’s in New York. In June,
out of a clear sky, came an opportunity to play with a ninth
string band of Paul Whiteman’s at a shore resort, so Lord and
Taylor’s never saw me except as a customer later. That easy
summer turned my mind towards an easy career, so upon gradua-
tion I went into investment banking. It may have been easy in the
late twenties but, as some of my classmates can attest, it has been
no cinch ever since.

Since 1926 I have been with the same organization, surviving
three mergers, and delighted that a lazy thought in 1925 should
turn out so well. (I hope my sons don’t accept this as a formula.)

Outside of business my time has been spent in some civic activi-
ties which made me look like a “joiner” for a while. Experience
shows that the acceptance of some duties of this nature brings
the offer of many more. | think the community has been better
off since many of my neighbors have taken over.

Since I married later than many, the last war did not find my
sons old enough to participate. The years ahead pose a challenge

[ 486 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to all of us as many previous years have. I suppose clear thinking
and wise decisions must come from us older men (everybod
feels old as his'25th approaches) if our sons are to find a stable
world in which to live. I hope I can contribute something to-
wards that end.

JOHN ROBERT HUDON KING

HOME apprEss; 3 Linden Pl. Mariemont, Cincinnati 27, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Procter & Gamble Co., Cincinnati, Ohio.

BoRN: Dec 15, 1901, Rome, Ga. parents: Archibald Homer King, Mary
Ann Maroney.

PREPARED AT: Hawkinsville High School, Hawkinsville, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

marrieD: Floride Kelly, July 17, 1925, Central, S. C. (deceased); Ruth
Thoma, Nov. 2, 1940, Lexington, Ky. cuttpren: Patricia Ruth, Jan.
15, 1927; John Robert, May 8, 1929; Ralph Edward, July 12, 1936.

OccuPATION: Traffic management.

OFFices HELD: Member of Council, Mariemont; chairman, Finance Commit-
tee, Mariemont Council, Council Committee on Village Issues; di-
rector, Mariemont Civic Association.

MEMBER OF: Delta Upsilon fraternity; Cincinnati Delta Upsilon Club; Har-
vard Lodge, AF. & A.M.; Mariemont 707, A. & F.M.; Menox Presby-
terian Men; Cincinnati Traffic Club; Cincinnati Harvard Club.

PERHAPS one reason the questionnaires for our Twenty-fifth
Anniversary Report have been coming in rather slowly is because
our Secretary provided so much space for our autobiographies.
Never being much of a windjammer, I find it rather difficult to
supply material for all those blank lines,

My story begins in June of the year 8 B.R. (Before Roosevelt)
or 1924 to you Republicans. It was then that I “commenced”
after having received my honorable discharge from Harvard
with an S.B. degree. Having always had a fascination for travel,
I decided to mold my life work in the field of transportation.

On July 1, 1924, I accepted employment with the Southern
Railway System as a tariff compiler in the general freight office
in Atlanta, Georgia. At that time I believe Sherman and I were
the only Republicans who could boast of having headquarters
in Atlanta. But for me it didn’t last long. One year later the
company transferred me to Washington, D. C., as an executive
rate clerk in the office of the general traffic manager.

[ 487 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I924

Washington was a nice place in those days. On my way to
the office I often saw Calvin Coolidge out for his morning stroll.
That was in the days before Al Smith took his famous walk. In
those days things were cool and peaceful in Washington and I
was still a young man full of pep and vigor.

So one day I took a trip of forty miles to a city called Balti-
more and accepted a position in the transportation division of the
Evans Builders Company. This, as you may suppose, was a build-
ing materials company with special emphasis on building tile,
brick, and sewer pipe. They sent me to Columbia, South Caro-
lina, as traffic manager of their southern plant. This was inter-
esting work, as I was able to travel a great deal and covered
practically all of the South and Southwest. |

On one of my journeys I met a man from Cincinnati selling
a product said to be ninety-nine and forty-four one hundredths
per cent pure. It was a small item called Ivory Soap—not a
sinking soap but one that floats. To me this seemed like a much
cleaner business than working with sewer pipe. Therefore, in
November, 1927 (5 B.R. to you New Dealers), I became affliated
with the Procter & Gamble Company, soap makers to America
since 1830. .

Here, as elsewhere, my work was in the field of transportation.
But with Procter & Gamble the field was practically unlimited.
The company ships to and receives from all parts of the world
and uses all means of transportation, dealing at one time or another
with practically all commodities. In the twenty-one years that I
have been with this company I have been engaged in all phases
of traffic and transportation. At the present time I am in the legal
division of the Traffic Department, handling rate adjustments,
contracts, and matters before the Interstate Commerce Commis-
sion.

That’s all, fellows, except this — tell your sons that Harvard is
a good college and Procter & Gamble is a good place to work.

+ JOSEPEE IRVING KING

BoKN: Jan. 20, 1904, Los Angcles, Calif. parents: Joseph Millen King, Maud
Francis Turner,

perpausy ar: Los Angeles High School, Los Angeles, Calif,
[ 488 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; B.A. (Oxford
Univ.) 1926; LL.B. (Harvard Univ.) 1930; M.A. (Oxford Univ.) 1931.

~piED: June 15, 1948, York, Pa.

sisTeR: Mrs. D. H. Hughes, 2640 Green St., San Francisco, Calif.

JOSEPH IRVING KING began the practice of law with the
firm of McCutcheon, Olney, Mannon & Greene in San Francisco,
Three years later he opened his own office in Los Angeles. In
1939 he wrote that he was the author of “Ihe Enforcement of
Money Judgments,” which appeared in the Southern California
Law Review.

Before the outbreak of World War II, he was assistant to the
general counsel, Treasury Department, Washington, D. C. In
December, 1942, he entered the Army and was assigned to the
Allied Control Commission. In April, 1943, he was sent to French
territory in Africa, and the following September transferred to
Sicily. His sister wrote for our Twentieth Report that he was
working towards getting the Italian Boy Scout movement going
again, and that after the war he expected to be in service for
several years doing civilian rehabilitation work in Europe.

HARRY KISLOFF

HOME AppRESS: 14 Gibbs St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: §3 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 5, 1902, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Samuel Herbert Kisloff,
Sarah Kiniver.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cu? laude, 1924; LL.B. 1927.

MarRRiED: Margaret Pinzur, April 16, 1932, Brooklyn, N. Y¥. CHILDREN:
Daniel Michael, July 27, 1933; Jane, Oct. 18, 1936.

‘OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Law Society; Boston Bar Association.

A QUARTER of a century in retrospect is a matter to be ap-
proached with reflection and caution. After being graduated
from the Law School, I opened a law office in Boston and I must
admit that for many years reflection and study accounted for the
greater part of my time. However, this did not deter me from
acquiring hostages to fortune in a lovely wife, Margaret, and two
children, Jane and Dan. Jane is in grammar school and Dan ts a
sophomore at Tabor Academy.

[ 489 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Since 1932 I have specialized in the trial of maritime cases in
behalf of seamen and have gained a wide experience in all phases
of the subject; the most interesting of which are the seamen,
their problems and philosophies. They have a dual personality,
one if on land and another if on sea, and hence are to be judged ac-
cordingly. Their problems are never routine and their philosophy
truly epicurean. It is a source of satisfaction to feel that my efforts
in this field have contributed to their welfare.

Thus far my life has been too busy with work to have acquired
a proper balance in the art of living. I find that it is not uncommon
to become absorbed in work and to overlook much that is im-
portant. However, 1 hope this can be corrected in the near
future. In summary, perhaps it would be more succinct to
say that I have derived a great deal of pleasure from my successes
and a certain amount of philosophy from my mistakes.

JOSEPH EDWARD KLAU

HOME appress: 463 Cornwall St. Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE appREss: 36 Pearl St., Hartford, Conn.

BORN: July 25, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents; Max Klau, Rachel Fellner.

PREPARED AT: Hartford Public High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924, DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1924; LL.B.
1927.

MARRIED: Sadie Palten, March 30, 1928, Hartford, Conn. cHitpren: Arnold,
Oct. 30, 1932; David, Dec. 1, 1934; Ruth and Eleanor (twins), Nov.
16, 1939.

occupation: Attomey.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Government Appeal Agent, Draft Board.

orFices HELD: Judge, Court of Common Pleas, State of Connecticut, 1941-43;
president, Connecticut Zionist Region, Zionist Organization of America,
since 1947; member, board of directors, Mount Sinai Hospital, since
1941, Emanuel Synagogue, since 1941, Hartford, Conn.

MEMBER OF; Phi Beta Kappa.

FOLLOWING graduation from the Harvard Law School in 1927,
I pursued the normal activity of practising law in Hartford until
1933. The beginning of the Roosevelt era was also the start for
me in my association with the New Deal. From 1933 to 1937
I was in the Public Works Administration in Washington. There-
after I came in close personal relationship with Robert A. Hurley,
who became Governor of Connecticut in 1941. During his term

{ 490 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of office I was active in preparing legislation which brought
Connecticut in line with the liberal national legislation of the
preceding years. In 1941 I was appointed by Governor Hurley
as a judge of the Court of Common Pleas. This office I held until
1943 when a change of administration resulted in the termina-
tion of this appointment. Since 1943 I have resumed the practice
of law. During this period my interest in Zionism as a solution
of the Jewish problem became intensified and after 1943 I be-
came an active participant in the movement for the establishment
of a Jewish state in Palestine. What then looked like an aspira-
tion not to be realized in our times became an actuality by the
march of events and the devoted efforts of thousands of indi-
viduals.

From this brief account my interest in politics and activity in
liberal causes is apparent. The need for further efforts to preserve
a balance between dictatorships from the left and right is also
apparent to me.

In the meantime two active boys and two equally active twin
daughters with the usual number of animals and pets provide a
constant background of motion and movement. There have been
few dull moments.

HOWARD CLAY KNAPP

HOME ADDRESS: 8073 W. Main St., Belleville, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 234 Collinsville Ave., East St. Louis, Ill.

BoRN: Aug. 7, 1901, Washington, Ind. parents: Adam B. Knapp, Olive Mary
Graham.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1924; M.D. (Johns
Hopkins Univ.), 1928.

MARRIED: Anne Marie Buschman, Aug. 9, 1930, Baltimore, Md.

OccuPATION: Physician and surgeon, specializing in diseases of the eve.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Reserve commission, 1934; active duty, Feb. 1,
1941, to Feb, 24, 1946; Army Air Forces Flight Surgeon; 7th Air Fighter
Command; Central Pacific, three and one-half years; relieved of active
duty as colonel,

OFFICES HELD: Assistant in ophthalmology, Johns Hopkins Hospital, 1928-303
assistant in ophthalmology, Washington University, Barnes Hospital,
1930-32; member of staff, St. Vincent De Paul Hospital, St. Louis,
1931-33, Evangelical Hospital, St. Louis, 1931-33, St. Mary's Hospital,
East St. Louis, since 1933, Christian. Welfare Hospital, East St. Louis,

C491]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

since 1933; ophthalmologist for the Hlinois Public Aid Commission,
since 1936, ophthalmologist, Missouri Commission for the Blind, 1932-
33; secretary, St. Clair County Medical Society, 1935-38; charter mem-
ber and first president of local chapter of the National Aeronautic
Association of the U.S, 1939-40.

MEMBER OF: National Board of Medical Examiners (Diplomate); American
Board for Ophthalmic Examinations, St. Louis Ophthalmic Society;
American Medical Association, Phi Chi Medical Fraternity.

PuBLicaTIONS: Articles on ophthalmological subjects in professional journals.

AFTER graduation I set about preparing for the practice of medi-
cine which included the usual four years at medical school fol-
lowed by four years of training in diseases of the eye. I began
private practice in 1932 and have gone along satisfactorily from
the professional and financial points of view. World War II, dur-
ing which I served with the Air Corps, took five years of my time.
This was profitable to me in the way of personal training in air-
craft operations. For the past tw elve years private flying has
been my hobby. Before many more years pass, I hope to retire
to the pursuance of this hobby.

ERNEST FREDERIC KNAUTH

Home appress: 28 E. 17th St, Brooklyn 26, N. Y.

orFice aporrss: Garficld Tea Co. 313 41st St., Brooklyn 32, N. Y.

BorN: June 15, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: Ernest Frederic Knauth,
Fifine Orange Herle.

paepareD AT: Commercial High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: 8.B., 1924.

marrizn: Cecil Adelia Spence, Oct. 21, 1943, New York, N. Y..

OCCUPATION: President and treasurer, Garfield Tea Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, 1947-48, member Scholarship Committee, 1946-48,
Harvard Club of Long Island.

MeéMape or: Harvard Club of Long Island; American Management Asso-
Clation,

ISTARTED at the Law School the September after college, but
halfway through the first year [ was called back to New York
to stick my finger in the dike and help stop leaks in the family
business. This digital involvement kept me ticd down for almost
nineteen years, Finally, after my father dicd, I persuaded my
uncle to close up the firm and retire. That enabled me to wash my
hands of the hospital supply business,

P went out looking fora job. Ever try looking for a job in a

[ 492 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

new field at the age of forty-two? Mighty interesting, in a way,
but very deflating.

I got into my present job, like Koko, “by a set of curious
chances.” It’s a small concern I’m with now, but one with a wide
reputation in its field, and it has been interesting to orient myself
to totally unfamiliar surroundings and to work such reorganiza-
tions as have seemed most needed.

In turn, ve done time in each of the three largest institutions
in New York — Columbia, College of the City of New York, and
New York University. Night courses in specialized business sub-
jects, mostly.

Pve been singing in one chorus or another almost all the
time since I left Cambridge. Schola Cantorum, Dessoff Choirs,
Vecchi Singers, and now the Oratorio Society, which does the
B-minor Mass every year. The Vecchi Singers was a small chorus;
we presented a long X VIth-century musical monument — surpris-
ingly, never before performed in this country—and were so
fortunate as to have “Doc” Davison summon us to Cambridge in
193§ to sing it there.

I was married in 1943 to the sister of a man who was assigned
to my table in “Mem” in 1922. We thought we had trouble find-
ing an apartment five years ago; thank goodness we don’t have that
chore confronting us today.

For the last couple of years, I’ve been privileged to interview
high school graduates who want to go to Harvard on the Harvard
Club of Long Island and the Kaltenborn Scholarships. It’s fas-
cinating work, and very rewarding, but the boys are so brilliant
and so poised that at times they rather overawe me.

Off and on, I’ve been able to get back to Cambridge about a
dozen times since graduation. Ive always enjoved the trips, and
I’m sure the 1949 pilgrimage will be the most enjoyable of all.

JOHN WARREN KNEDLER, JR.

HOME apprEss: Moscow, Pa.

OFFICE AppREss: New York University, University Heights, New York $35
N. Y.

BORN: April 29, rgot, Elmhurst, Pa. parents: John Warren Knedler, Sallie
Kate Greiss.

[ 493 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

PREPARED AT: Moscow High School, Moscow, Pa.; Bloomsburg High School,
Bloomsburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B. €1¢708 daude, 1924; A.M. 19273
PH.D. 1937.

occuPaTION: College teaching and administration.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in English, 1929-34, 1935-38, assistant professor of
English, 1938-43, associate professor of English and assistant dean, since
1946, University College, New York University; assistant professor of
physics, 1943-46, executive secretary, Physics Department, 1944-46,
College of Engineering, New York University; secretary, 1933-34,
president, 1936-37, New York University Faculty Club; president,
1934-39, New York University Faculty Glee Club.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association; National Council of Teachers
of English; Moscow Civic Club; Harvard Club of New York.

pusLicaTions: “The Girl Without Hands: Latin-American Variants,” His-
panic Review X, No. 4, 1942; Masterworks of Science, Doubleday and
Co., Garden City, N. Y., 1947.

FOR me, these have been twenty-five years of education — in
the most literal sense. I spent the first year after graduation in the
Harvard Law School; then I studied, sometimes full-time, some-
times rather less, for four years in the Graduate School. In 1929
I became an instructor in English at University College, New
York University. After five years of teaching English composition
and literature, I returned to Cambridge for a year in the Widener
Library. During the next two years, while again teaching at
University College, I wrote my Ph.D. thesis in folk-lore and medi-
eval romance. Then I began to re-educate myself to teach Ameri-
can literature, and had scarcely familiarized myself with the
material when the war began to take men from our staff in such
numbers that I had to educate myself again to do emergency
work. First, [ made a transition from Americana to Shakes-
peariana. That was easy. Then, the emergency tightening, I was
haled into teaching elementary physics to Army and Navy
officers and cadets in special meteorology curricula. I had another
period of self-education. Presently, 1 became what was gro-
tesquely called a “retrained” physicist. The war continued to rob
our faculties of men, especially of physicists. Eventually, for two
years I headed a Physics Department laden with multiple
duties of training meteorologists, engineers, A.S.T.P. lads, and
pre-medical students,

When the war ended and I looked forward to the comparative

( 494]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

rest of a normal academic life, I was summoned into the adminis-
trative family of the college. For three years now I have been
busy learning the manifold duties of an assistant dean’s office —
controlling the recorder’s work, counseling students, managing
class schedules, advising on curricula changes, etc., ad infini-
tum.

Fortunately, this spate of administrative work has not separated
me from the real job of a college teacher. I still meet classes, and
I still go on with my “formal” education. For now I am occupied
with lectures on contemporary British literature, and, as so often
before, I am depressed and elated to discover how much there is
to learn.

Residence in New York for eighteen winters has not yet
sickened me. I find theatres and concerts and galleries and parties
and the splendid associations with college friends — some of them
classmates — as enthralling as ever they were. My work has
allowed me almost an undergraduate’s time for such pleasures,
and for the excitements of summers in Europe or California or
Vermont. Latterly; my holiday time has sped most swiftly, for
I have cultivated a garden. In the Pocono Mountains the growing
season begins in June and ends in September. It almost co-termi-
nates with the college vacation. There I grow my iris and hemer-
ocallis, my roses and chrysanthemums—and my beans and
carrots, too. The season moves swiftly, with momentary reminders
that I have much to learn. There is never a day to spare.

Really, in these twenty-five years, there never has been a day
to spare. Merriment and sorrow, public worry and private anxi-
ety, general repining and personal elation have so shouldered
one another that, in my retrospect, 1924 is yesterday. And I
have studied so long that I am forever in the habit, with no
genuine prospect of graduation.

GRINNELL KNOWLES

HOME ApprEss: P, O. Box 763, Shelby, Mont.

BORN: Sept. 16, 1901, New Bedford, Mass. parents: John Webster Knowles,
87, Lydia Grinnell.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924.

MARRIED: Dorothy Upton, Feb. 6, 1924 (divorced 1927); Eva Joan Wallock,

[495]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Dec. 23, 1940. cuttpreN: Frederick Grinnell, Nov. 13, 1924; John Upton,
July 17, 1926; Rosalyn Wallock (adopted) (m. Parley R. Stokes);
Eugenia Wallock (adopted) (m. Merlyn D. Irgens). GRANDCHILD:
Patric Knowles Irgens, July 12, 1948.

occuPaTiON: Farming and ranching; raising thoroughbred horses and pure-
bred Hereford cattle.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Montana Thoroughbred Breeders and
Racing Association, Inc. since 1947 (director, since 1948); vice-
president and director, Montana Saddle Clubs Association, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Alpha Sigma Phi; B.P.O.E.; Great Falls Saddle Club; Shelby
Saddle Club.

AFTER graduation I worked for the New Bedford and Agawam
Finishing Company at East Wareham, Massachusetts, until the
summer “of 1925. Moved then to the Mount Hope Finishing Com-
pany at Taunton, Massachusetts, where I worked until the spring
of 1927. |

Then came to Montana and worked on a cattle ranch for about
a year. In 1928, went into partnership on a cattle ranch with my
brother, John E. Knowles. In 1940 we separated and I moved to
Shelby, my present location.

My present business is raising thoroughbred horses for racing
and hunting, Hereford cattle and farming. Besides my thorough-
breds, \Irs. Knowles has a small band of choice well-bred Palo-
minos. What with the stock and farming we find plenty to keep
us busy.

I am secretary-treasurer and a director of the newly formed
Montana Thoroughbred Breeders and Racing Association, In-
corporated. This organization has as its two main objects the
promotion of better racing and racing conditions in Montana,
and the raising of better thoroughbreds to run. I am vice-presi-
dent of the Montana Saddle Clubs Association, Incorporated.
This organization is an association of saddle clubs throughout the
rate for the promotion of good will between clubs and to further
interest in good saddle horses and horseback riding in the state.
This organization is the first of its kind in the United States so
far as we know.

We put on, at Helena, Montana, on August 28 and 29, 1948,
the first annual strate Gymkhana. This meet was attended by
members of many clubs in the state. A travelling trophy was
offered by the association to the club winning the most points and

[ 496 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

individual trophies were donated by the clubs for the winner of
each event. "

I was chairman of the committee to put on this show and was
ably assisted by Mr. Carl Hibarger of Helena and Mr. Kenneth
Mortag of Lewistown.

The show was a great success and is the first of its kind held
in the United States to the best of my knowledge.

Mrs. Knowles and myself have both been very active in saddle
club affairs and have helped in the organization of several clubs
and gymkhanas throughout the state.

Guess that about brings things up to date, except I am now a
grandpa. I sure don’t like being called same, as I don’t feel that old.

ROBERT PURINGTON KOENIG

HOME ADDRESS: Carmel, Ind.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 105 S. Meridian St., Indianapolis, Ind.

BoRN: April 26, 1904, New York, N. Y. PARENTs: Frederick Otto Koenig,
Margarette Davis Purington.

PREPARED AT: Franklin School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1924.

MarRiED: Aileen O'Brien, May 15, 1928, Inspiration, Ariz.,; Angela Pow,
1946. CHILDREN: Robert Julian, 1946; Harold Otto, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederick Otto Koenig, Jr., ’22.

occuPATION: Mining engineer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: April, 1942, to August, 1945, with Corps of Engi-
neers, final rank of colonel, G.S.C.; last assignment, chief, Solid Fuels
Branch, G-4, SHAEF.

OFFICES HELD: Delegate, representing Bituminous Coal Mine Emplovers,
London, 1945, Geneva, 1947, Coal Mines Committee, International
Labor Organizations (appointed by President of the United States);
member, President’s Committee on Foreign Aid (Harriman Commit-
tee), 1947, U. S. Chamber of Commerce Committee on Natural Re-
sources, 1947-48, Committee on Labor Relations, 1948; special con-
sultant to United States ambassador to Great Britain, 1947, to Economie
Codperation Administration mission to Great Britain on coal and coal
mining, September-October, 1948; acting director, Industry Division,
Economic Coéperation Administration, April-May, 1948; vice-president

_and president, Electric Shovel Coal Corporation, 1936-39; president,
Ayrshire Collieries Corporation, since 1939; director, International
Mining Corporation, since 1947.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Mining and Metallurgy; Mining and
Metallurgy Society of America; Harvard Engineering Society; Min-
ing Club of New York; American Alpine Club; Flarvard Club of New

[ 497 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

been often and more ably stated by others, and the personal satis-
faction arising from such efforts is generally known. Neverthe-
less, I do not feel that it is out of place here to state my belief
that the orderly evolution of the society in which we live — and
which has been extraordinarily good to us— will depend to a
significant degree on more and more active participation in
national and international affairs by a larger and larger segment
of our people. Not only must we take an active interest, but we
should do something about what we think and believe. This takes
up one’s time, bothers one’s family, and costs money in the bar-
gain, but on balance is well worth while.

HENRY LOUIS KOHN

appress: Room 2703, 135 §. LaSalle St., Chicago, Ill.

BORN: Nov. 9, 1902, Chicago, Ill. parents: Louis Henry Kohn, Caroline ~
Hart.

PREPARFD AT: The Harvard School, Chicago, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1924; LL.B. 1927.

MARRIED: Kate Hirschberg, Aug. 25, 1932, Glencoe, IIl.

OCCUPATION: Law.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Chief boatswain’s mate, Coast Guard Temporary
Reserve, Ninth Naval District, February, 1943.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Kohn did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

FRANK LOUIS KOZOL

HOME appress: 117 Clinton Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 30 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: May 10, 1902, Russia. ParENTS: Louis Kozol, Rebecca Schneider.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREES: A.B., 1924, A.M., 19253 LL.B. 1927+

Masnisp: Mildred Helen Wechsler, Feb, 12, 1929, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Joel Asher, April 16, 1930; Lee Hyam, March 14, 1933; Robert David,
April 13, 1938.

HaRvaKh $0N: Jock Asher Kozol, °51.

HWaRvaep BroTHER: Harry Leo Kozol, '27,

oo tpsnios: Lawyer.

WARTIME COVERNMENT Posts: District warden, Civilian Defense, Brookline,
Mass., 1942~45.

Offices Het: ‘Prustee, chairman of education, head of religious school, com-

[ 500 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mittee member, Temple Israel, Boston; member, board and several com-
mittees, Associated Synagogues, Boston, delegate and member of sev-
eral committees, Union of American Hebrew Congregations, diréctor,
Bureau of Jewish Education, Boston; director of many corporations;
trustee of several charitable foundations.

MEMBER OF: Shawmut Lodge, AF. & A.M., Boston Bar Association, sev-
eral clubs and societies.

THIS quarter-century, for me, has been the story of a practising
lawyer in Boston, with a growing family. Since graduation from
the Law School in 1927, I have been in the practice of law with the
firm of Friedman, Atherton, King & Turner. I was admitted to
partnership in 1934 and since that time have been devoted to law
work of ever increasing responsibility and consequence in the
courts, before the several administrative agencies, and at my desk.
For several summers our boys went to a boys’ camp in Mfaine.
Other summers we spent at one or another of nearby beaches.
The summer of 1947 we spent on a motor trip throughout the
entire country, Coast-to-coast.

We live in Brookline, which is a lovely, well-governed town,
and have been fortunate in our surroundings, our friends, and
our neighbors. During the war I served as a Civilian Defense
warden. Our social life has been pleasant. Politically, we have
been quite independent, voting for men and on issues, rather than
on party lines. Our religious life centers in and about Temple
Israel of which I have been a trustee for the past nine years. That
responsibility made it possible for me to work with one of the
great religious leaders of our day, the late Dr. Joshua Loth Lieb-
man, whose love and friendship will remain one of our richest
treasures. I have been very active in the religious, educational, and
community affairs of the Jewish community in Boston, It has
been my privilege to be head of the Religious School of Temple
Israel for the past nine years, as chairman of education, and I
have developed the school to a position of pre-eminence among
all the schools of its kind in this country. We give religious in-
struction to about 1,000 children, with a faculty of about fifty
highly-trained teachers. My wife has devoted herself to com-
munity activities, largely charitable organizations, especially those
relating to the care and hee of children.

Ours has been a busy, happy existence, rich in satisfactions,

[ sor]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

with our greatest joy and concern being the healthy progress of
our boys. My son Joel graduated from Andover cm laude, and
is on the Dean’s list at Harvard; he was on the freshman soccer
team and wrestling team. My son Lee is now an honor student at
Andover and plans to follow the family tradition and go to
Harvard. Robert, my youngest son, will follow his brothers to
Andover, and then also to Harvard. I can count many good
friends, clients, and co-workers in causes of common interest.
This may all appear to be the simple story of a lawyer and his
family in an American city. For us it has been a happy, significant,
and rewarding way of life.

HENRY ADAMS LA FARGE

HOME ADpREss: Wahackme Road, New Canaan, Conn,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Art News, Inc. 136 E. 57th St., New York, N. Y.

BorN: May 27, 1902, Beverly Farms, Mass. PARENTS: Bancel La Farge, Mabel
Hooper.

PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Afary Lathrop Allen, Oct. 19, 1946, New York, N. Y. cHizp:
Beatrice, Dec. 17, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Louis Bancel La Farge, ’22.

occupation: Book and magazine publishing.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

puBLicaTions: Lost Treasures of Europe, Pantheon Books, Inc., 1946.

IN 1946, feeling practically as young as in June, 1924, I took
upon myself the responsibilities and satisfactions of married life.
After three years — and the birth of a daughter —I am beginning
to feel somewhat nearer in age to my contemporaries, certainly
nearer in understanding. The experience has thrown into
perspective my previous scale of values and has immeasurably
increased the enjoyment of life, perhaps more than if I had entered
this blissful state at a more tender age. Looking back on those
earlier years, [ am sometimes tempted to think that my share of
lost opportunities and consequent disappointments has been more
than usually great; but these things are so difficult to assess (and
are probably more common than many are willing to admit —
but this is no confession) that I can judge the past only by present
felicity. Upon graduation, it was my inimediate intention to

{ 502 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

develop certain cultural interests (of which I had many) by
pursuing whatever creative artistic abilities I had, and this I did
without regard for the practical considerations of existence up
to about 1930. Around that time, I began to have a greater sense
of integration in the community, not to speak of economic ne-
cessities. As a result, exerting myself towards these objectives, I
returned to Harvard for graduate work in the history of art, after
which, during the thirties, I engaged in various museum and
library activities wherever the opportunity arose to make myself
useful. The result was that, by 1939, I found myself director of
- the Providence Athenaeum, one of the oldest libraries in America,
in a New England community alive with ancient traditions and
modern developments. The war put an end to that when I
resigned to engage in administrative activities in airplane produc-
tion with United Aircraft. Since the war, I have been in book
and magazine publishing in New York, first with Pantheon Books,
Incorporated, for whom, among other things, I was executive
editor of Lost Treasures of Europe, which describes the great
monuments and works of art destroyed during the war. I am
now with Art News, Incorporated, as associate editor, in a
monthly review of events in the world of art, which brings to a
full circle the story of my activities since leaving Cambridge.

OLIVER LA FARGE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 647 College St., Santa Fe, N. Mex.

BORN: Dec. 19, 1901, New York, N. Y. Parents: Christopher Grant La
Farge, Florence Bayard Lockwood.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; A.M., 1929; A.M.
hon, (Brown Univ.), 1932.

MarRRIED: Wanden E. Mathews, September, 1929 (divorced 1937); Consuclo
Otille C. de Baca, Oct. 14, 1939, New York, N. Y. cumpren: Oliver
Albee, April 20, 1931; Povy, Aug. 17, 1933.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Christopher La Farge, ’20; Francis Willing La Farge, °25.

OCCUPATION: Writer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Historian, AAF Air Transport Command, Sept.
12, 1942, to March 2, 1943; commissioned captain and assigned as chief,
Historical Division, A.A.F,, A.T.C, March 2, 1943; separated, as licu-
tenant colonel, Aug. 30, 1946. European, Pacific and American Ribbons;
Commendation Ribbon; Legion of Merit,

[ 503 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

OFFICES HELD: President, Association on American Indian Affairs, 1932-41,
since 1948; assistant in ethnology, Tulane University of Louisiana, 1925-
28; research associate, Columbia University, 1931-32, University of
Pennsylvania, 1929-31, since 1947; field representative, U. S. Office of
Indian Affairs, 1936; trustee, Museum of Navajo Ceremonial Art, since
1938; fellow, American Association for the Advancement of Science,
since 1938.

MEMBER OF: Century Association, Coffee House; American Anthropological
Association; Spanish Guitar Club of North America, Authors’ League
of America; American Anthropological Association; Air Force Asso-
ciation; P.E.N. Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Scientific: Tbe Year Bearer’s People; Santa Eulalia; The Re-
ligion of a Cuchumatan Indian Town; The Changing Indian; A Sym-
postum (editor); Popular: Laughing Boy (Pulitzer Prize Award);
Sparks Fly Upward; Long Pennant; The Enemy Gods; Raw Material.

THE idea of summarizing the last twenty-five years appalls me,
partly, I think, because all of us reflect the tumult around us, so
that our own lives are little more than a part of the world’s
torment. We who are fortunate are the small people who have
been able to maintain private happiness and satisfactions in the
face of a world in misery. When one turns to the purely per-
sonal —I should not, for instance, for any consideration launch
into a description of a marriage which ended unhappily, and I
am not able to describe the extremely happy marriage which has
blessed these past ten years.

There are curious contradictions: I set out to be a scientist,
specifically an ethnologist, specializing in the Maya Indians of
Central America and Mexico. As a scientist, my life was rather
glamorous, involving as it did expeditions to remote and difficult
places. Then I had a large popular success with my first novel,
Laughing Boy, and thereupon became a writer. As a writer my
life has been much more monotonous and less interesting to any-
one but myself.

There are two principal elements in the life of a writer of m
particular type. One is the slow but relentless arrival of the
realization that, as one enters middle age, one may be a good
writer, competent, skillful, one may have been blessed with a few
inspired moments, but one will never be great. The dream one
had at the beginning is still achingly real, but it will never be
fulfilled. The other is the endless struggle to pay the rent, the
Necessity of writing pot-boilers, the eternal uncertainty as to

[ 504 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

whether this month’s work will bring a couple of thousand dollars
or nothing at all. I have said in one of my books, and I say again,
the remarkable person is not the writer, but the wife who is
willing to stick with him in so uncertain and irregular a mode of
living.

In the world as it has been through all our time, the happy man
is the one who loves change, who likes to have things happening.
So far, I am lucky enough to like change. For people of our age,
the biggest change of all was entry into the armed services. |
was disgracefully lucky in my service. As Historian of the Air
Transport Command I was stationed in Washington, lived with
my wife, and miserable though Washington was and monotonous
the office grind, I had all the comforts of Stateside duty. At the
same time I was constantly being sent on tours of overseas duty,
so that in the end I literally girdled the world, saw most of the
theatres, and even had a very mild experience of combat. The
important thing, however, was the total change. Writers and
scientists are solitary workers. They are inclined to associate
principally with their own kind. They control their own hours
and methods of work. The Army Air Force provided a violent
contrast. I was a member of a large headquarters, I had to learn
to play on the team. I had to work with men from totally alien
backgrounds, and had the delight of becoming fast friends with
many of them. Aviation had never interested me; it was essential
for me to become something of an expert on it. TI'wo hundred
and fifty-odd people, in the United States and overseas, worked
under me. I had to become an administrator, an organizer, and
something of a politician, In every way, life was different, and
although I am now back at the old stand, life remains different
Nothing better, I think, could happen to a man in his forties.

As to postwar life, in the personal realm there has been great
happiness and tragedy. But what does the personal realm matter?
We confront situations as serious as any war; we need to re-
awaken the same spirit which united and guided us after Pearl
Harbor. Ar home we see selfishness, self-indulgence, panicky
witch-hunting and gratifying signs that America is beginning to
grow up not only to the position it occupies in the world but also
to realities that confront us. If we cringe with shame over the
un-American actions of the Un-American Activities Committee,

[ 505 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

we begin to be proud of unity in foreign affairs, For myself, if I
were offered my choice of gift to receive on our Class’ twenty-
fifth anniversary, I should ask it to be the knowledge that every
member of my Class was actively and positively doing his duty as
a citizen of the United States and a fellow-man in the world.

CORLISS LAMONT

HOME ADDRESS: 450 Riverside Drive, New York 27, N. ¥.; Ossining, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 450 Riverside Drive, New York 27, N. Y.

BorN: March 28, 1902, Englewood, N. J. parents: Thomas William
Lamont, ’92, Florence Haskell Corliss.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1924; PH.D.
(Columbia Univ.), 1932.

marriep: Margaret Haves Irish, June 8, 1928, Troy, N. Y. cuiLpren: Mar-
garet Hayes, Sept. 2, 1930; Florence Parmelee, Nov. 2, 1933; Hayes
Corliss, Nov. 15, 1935; Anne Sterling, Dec. 6, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Thomas Stilwell Lamont, ’21; Austin Lamont, 727.

occupation: Author, teacher, lecturer.

orFices HELD: Instructor in philosophy, Columbia College, 1928-32; lecturer,
New School for Social Research, 1940-43, Intensive Study of Contem-
porary Russian Civilization, Cornell University, 1943, Harvard Graduate
School of Education, 1944; lecturer in philosophy, Columbia School of
General Studies, since 1947; director, American Civil Liberties Union,
Spinoza Foundation, Trade Union Service, Gaer Associates, Inc.;
chairman, National Council of American-Sovict Friendship, 1943-46.

MEMBER oF: American Humanist Association, American Philosophical Asso-
ciation; New York College Teachers Union; Phi Beta Kappa, Columbia
Faculry Club, Harvard Club of New York.

puaLicaTions: The Illusion of Inmmortality, 1935; You Might Like Socialism,
1939; The Peoples of the Soviet Union, 1946; A Humanist Funeral
Service, 1947; Humanism as a Philosophy, 1949; Editor, Man Answers
Death: An Anthology of Poetry, 1936.

DURING the past fifteen years, besides expanding my progeny
to a total of three girls and a boy, I have concentrated fairly
consistently, through writing, teaching, lecturing, and organiza-
tional activity, upon four main objectives, These are (1) the
defense and extension of civil libertics and democracy in the
United States; (2) the development of American-Sovict under-
standing and codperation; (3) the cause of a planned and demo-
crane socialist system in America and the world; and (4) the
spread of the Efumanist philosophy.

[ 506}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Actually, I have given the major proportion of my time to
writing. Since my earlier book, The Illusion of Immortality
(1935), I have been working through to an inclusive and full
rounded view of life and the universe and have finally embodied
my conclusions in Humanism as a Philosophy, published in the
winter of 1949. This Humanism which I support discards all
forms of religious myth and supernatural belief; and sets up as the
chief end of human endeavor the this-earthly happiness, freedom
and progress — material, cultural, and ethical — of all mankind
within the abundant Nature that is our home.

In the social and economic sphere I have long been convinced
that the way out of capitalist crisis, depression, and war, for
America and the world, is a planned and democratic socialist
system in which there is public ownership and operation of the
main means of production and distribution. This thesis I devel-
oped ten years ago in You Might Like Socialism. 1 dedicated this
volume “to my friends of the Harvard Class of 1924,” but have
yet to hear that I made any converts from among them. The
chief economic goal of American socialism would be so to in-
crease and distribute the productive wealth of the nation, espe-
cially in terms of consumers’ goods, that every family would
enjoy a material and cultural standard of living at least as high,
let us say, as that of the average Harvard graduate today. As in
England under the leadership of the Labor Party, the transition
to a new social-economic order in the United States can be made
through peaceful and democratic procedures. My position is that
of an independent and moderate radical who favors socialism in
economics, democracy in politics, and Humanism in philosophy.

While I have backed in general the progressive New Deal
measures advocated by Harvard’s greatest alumnus to date, Presi-
dent Franklin D. Roosevelt, and by the Democratic party, I do
not think that any efforts to save poor old ailing capitalism can
succeed in the long run. Certainly an atom- bomb war against
Soviet Russia is no solution for the capitalists, since it would be a
catastrophe for everybody and would leave the world*in such a
terrible state that socialist and communist regimes would take
over almost everywhere. Peace and understanding between
America and Russia is the greatest international need for our time
and can still be achieved, in my opinion. Both the American and

[ 507 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Soviet governments have made mistakes, and compromises on
both sides are necessary.

In the writing of The Peoples of the Soviet Union (1946), my
interest in Soviet Russia and in racial democracy coalesced. ‘This
book shows how in the U.S.S.R., with its more than 150 different
ethnic groups, discrimination on the basis of race or nationality
has practically disappeared. Though the Russians certainly lag
in the establishment of civil liberties and political democracy and
have many other shortcomings, they lead the world in respect to
racial equality. Until America has done away with racial preju-
dice and injustice toward Jews, Negroes, Indians, and other
minorities, our democracy will remain woefully inadequate.

Meanwhile, I have continued my teaching of philosophy —
at the New School for Social Research and Columbia University.
In pleasant summer sessions, I have given general courses on Soviet
Russia at Cornell and Harvard. Year in and year out I have been
active on the board of directors of the American Civil Liberties
Union in the battle for freedom of speech and have personally
fought the anti-Democratic and anti-American House Committee
on Un-American Activities, which had me cited for contempt
of Congress when I refused to surrender my constitutional
prerogatives.

On the whole I have enjoyed immensely my twenty-five years
since graduation, doing work that is thoroughly congenial to me
and that seems fairly important. Obviously I have not been idle
in pursuing happiness on the personal and domestic level. My
four children, my wife, and I continually enjoy the incomparable
cultural advantages of New York City, but we also spend much
time in recreation and outdoor life beyond the confines of Man-
hattan. Skiing trips in the winter, tennis and swimming in the
warmer seasons, and hiking all year ’round are favorite pastimes.
In the summer of 1948 we took a two months’ tour through the
Rocky Mountains and Far West, going through several of those
marvelous national parks and driving down the Pacific coast from
Portland to Los Angeles and thence to the Grand Canyon and
Santa Fe. It was a superlative experience and we came to know
at first-hand the infinite beauty and grandeur of this country. It
is good to live in America.

[ 508 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN HARRIS LAMSON

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Drury Lane, Worcester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sawyer’s, 66 Lincoln St., Worcester, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 4, 1902, Everett, Mass. parents: Fred Josiah Lamson, Agatine
Gowen.

PREPARED AT: Everett High School, Everett, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1925. DEGREE: S.B. IN E.E. AND BUS.ADMIN., 1925.

MarrieD: Lesa Hilliard, April 25, 1928, Meriden, Conn. cump: Charlotte
Ann, Sept. 3, 1931.

occuPaATION: Merchandise manager, Sawyer’s.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: First lieutenant, 13th Company, M.S.G.

OFFICES HELD: Director, 1938-41, secretary-treasurer, 1944-47, Vice-president,
1947-49, president, since 1949, Harvard Club of Worcester; treasurer,
University Club of Worcester, 1941-44; treasurer, Player’s Club of Wor-
cester, since 1947; team captain, Worcester Community Chest, since 1946.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Worcester; University Club of Worcester;
Worcester Community Chest; Player’s Club of Worcester; Laymen’s
League; Galilean Lodge, AF. & A.M.

FOR the past few years I have seen my teen-age daughter
struggling with compositions on assigned subjects (she inherits
her dislike for this sort of thing from her father) but never did I
think I would again write a “composition” until now.

When you sit down to think about it, twenty-five years is
certainly a short while. In living from day to day and year to
year, there is just no keeping track of time. To think that twenty-
four years ago this fall I went with the New England Insurance
Exchange to learn the fire insurance rating business. Then fol-
lowed seven years of moving from place to place as the Exchange
applied new rating techniques to state after state. And, of course,
it was in the middle of these years that I met Mrs. L., my wife,
at one of the way stations in Connecticut.

In the depth of the depression and just after the birth of our
one and only, I changed jobs, the only real change that I’ve made.
It was significant because it involved moving into the selling field
and ultimately into merchandising where I am today. I’ve been
with Sawyer’s, a Worcester concern selling everything that goes
with the building business, from the concrete in the foundation
to the draperies at the windows, for some fifteen years,

We've travelled some but for the most part our pleasures are
derived from the social, cultural, and civic life of our community,

[ 509 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

plus a little of Cape Cod in the summer. I like my work extremely
and our small family likes its adopted community, not that
Charlotte had too much to say about where she was to grow up.
There are a lot of Harvard men in Worcester but no one else
from our Class, a fact I’ve always thought a little strange. The
community is well represented in Cambridge right now, however,
and with its share of athletics and scholars. The Harvard Club
of Worcester does its part by providing an annual freshman
scholarship,
It will be grand to renew again in June many friendships of
twenty-five years ago, some of which have lapsed through distance
or sheer inertia.

EDWARD LINCOLN LANE

HOME ADRESS: 105 Grovers Ave., Winthrop, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Lane & Lane, 25 Pemberton Sq., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 4, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Patrick James Lane, Catherine
Agnes Pomfret.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; LL.B. 1927.

marrieD: Ann Grady, July 16, 1932, Boston, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Everett Hale Lane, ’2q.

occupation: Attomey-at-law.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member, executive committee, blackout officer,
Winthrop Public Safety Committee.

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive committee, board of trustees, Winthrop
Community Hospital, 1930-48.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Musical Association; Boston
Bar Association; Federation of Insurance Counsel; Massachusetts Con-
veyancers’ Association.

I HAVE practised law since 1927, in partnership with my father
and brother until the death of my father in 1940 and the retire-
ment from the firm of my brother, and since then individually.
My practice has been general with some emphasis on probate
work and trial of life insurance cases. A deficiency in hearing
prevented acceptance of a commission in the United States Navy
during World War II, and confined my war activities to the
work of civilian defense. Apart from the law, my main interests
have been in Jirerature and music and the concerts of the Harvard
Musical Association, which have been and continue to be ex-

[510 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ceptional in their field. I have had no inclination towards hob-
bies, but, having started collecting bells by the gifts of my late
sister, I have now a collection too large for my home and
representing almost every country in the world. As a hobby
it is most interesting and pleasantly noisy.

I have continued to be interested in fencing, particularly in
the Harvard Fencing Team, and, due to my close friendship with
the present fencing coach, René Peroy, I have had the opportunity
to work a little with each team since 1924. I may state that, while
my knowledge of the sport has remained at least constant, the
passage of years has made the actual fencing a fine barometer of
the decline of physical ability with the increase of age. It is very
difficult for a member of the Class of 1924 to face the energy of a
member of the Class of 1950. This association over the period of
years has been a very happy one. :

I can say no more than that the past twenty-five years have
been kind to me in family, friends, and living.

EVERETT HALE LANE

HOME aApprEss: Pleasant Street, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Boston Mutual Life Insurance Co., 160 Congress St, Boston,
Mass.

BORN: June 4, 1904, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Patrick James Lane, Catherine
Agnes Pomfret.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; LL.B. 1927.

MarRiED: Sara Elizabeth Wirt, Oct. 3, 1931, Bloomsburg, Pa. cup: Sally,

Dee. 11, 1933.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Lincoln Lane, ’24.

occupation: Executive vice-president, secretary and treasurer, clerk of the
corporation, Boston Mutual Life Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1931-41, chairman, 1933-41, Winthrop, Mass., School
Committee.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Boston Bar Association; Boston
Chamber of Commerce.

I PRACTISED law in Boston from 1927 to 1936 in the firm of
Lane & Lane, the other members of which were my father,
brother, and sister. Ten years of general practice afforded an
interesting experience. My father, until his death, was associate
counsel of the Boston Mutual Life Insurance Company and I

[511]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

worked with him on a number of company cases. In 1936 Jay R.
Benton, Harvard ’o8, became executive vice-president, and I
worked with him on a legal problem in the southwestern states.
I then became assistant to the president of the Boston Mutual
Insurance Company and left the active practice of law. In 1940
I was elected assistant secretary-treasurer and in 1945, a director
and secretary-treasurer, and in 1948, executive vice-president,

We have quite a Harvard family. Leo H. Leary, Harvard ’os,
is a vice-president, and our classmate, Arthur C. Bliss, is executive
assistant. |

In 1941 we moved to Dover, Massachusetts, and have a fine
colonial house built in 1753 and over four acres of land. Mrs.
Lane’s interest in horses and riding has been communicated to
me, and to a much higher extent to my fourteen-year-old daugh-
ter. We keep two saddle horses and, being in the heart of fine
riding country, have ample opportunity to use them. My riding
is indifferent but my daughter has had the opportunity to ride
with the celebrated horseman, Captain T. Fred Marsman, director
of the riding deparrment at the Dana Hall School, which Sally
attends. It is most amusing to find that my daughter is far beyond
me in this sport.

I did fence for nine years on the fencing team of the Boston
Athletic Association and, as in college, my brother was also a
member of the team. During that period the team won both the
National Foils and the National Duelling Swords Championships.
My removal to the country and my other interests ended my
active fencing days.

For part of the war years I served as a member of the Winthrop
Draft Board and for ten years was on the School Committee of
that town, eight of these years as chairman.

Circumstances have changed the course of my business life but
I find enjoyment in my work, and the country affords a most
welcome and interesting experience.

JOHN STERLING LANE

aponess: P.O, Box 103, Hemet, Riverside Co., Calif.
woes: Oct 18, 1903, San Francisco, Calif. PARENTS: Paul Garrard Lane,
Franc Sterling.

[512]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922~23. DEGREE: c.E. (Michigan State College), 1932.

marrieD: Martha Faull, April 15, 1933, Los Angeles, Calif. camp: John Faull,
June 2, 1937.

occupation: Construction engineering.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Major, Corps of Engineers, engaged in military
construction of airfields, cantonments, and internment camps; in charge
of construction of Army Air Fields at Phoenix and Chandler, Ariz.;
Fl Paso, Lubbock, and Abilene, Texas; Hobbs, Roswell, Clofis,
Alamogordo, and Deming, N. Mex.; Internment Camps at Roswell and
Lordsburg, N. Mex.; cantonments at the foregoing and at Fort Bliss,
Texas, 1941-43; October, 1943, assigned to Procurement Division of
Military Supply, Washington, D. C.

MEMBER oF: American Society of Mechanical Engineers (associate).

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Lane did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

WILLIAM HARRISON LARKIN, III

HOME ADDRESS: 50 Ausable Ave., Staten Island 1, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDREss: Sturtevant Division, Westinghouse, 420 Lexington Ave.
New York 17, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 5, 1903, Portland, Maine. parents: William Harrison Larkin,
Jr., Cordelia Gertrude Fessenden.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1925. DEGREES: S.B. IN MECH.ENGIN. AND BUS.ADMIN.,
1925; M.B.A., 1933.

MARRIED: Agnes M. Christiansen, July 1, 1933, Staten Island, N. Y. CHILD:
Richard Fessenden, May 5, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Eliot Larkin, ’ 32.

OCCUPATION: Power apparatus manager, Eastern District, B. F. Sturtevant
Division of Westinghouse.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Committees to Visit the Graduate School of Engi-
neering, and the Department of Engineering Sciences and Applied
Physics, Board of Overseers of Harvard College, 1948-49; president,
Harvard Engineering Society, 1948-49; president, 1947-48, member,
executive board, since 1941, New York State Society of Professional
Engineers; member, board of directors, 1946-47, executive committee
of board of directors, 1947, chairman of publications committee, 1946-
47, National Society of Professional Engineers; chairman, nominating
committee, 1945, member, admissions committee, since 1948, American
Society of Mechanical Engineers, founder, past chairman, New York
Engineers Committee on Student Guidance; member of Mavor's com-
mittee for the commemoration of the Golden Jubilee of the City of
New York.

MEMBER OF; Harvard Engineering Society; Harvard Business School Club;

[513]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Engineers Club of New York; American Society of Mechanical Engi-
neers; National Society of Professional Engineers; New York State
Society of Professional Engineers.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor-in-chief, Yearbook of the New York State Society of
Professional Engineers, 1946-47.

MY ENGINEERING Society activities have carried me into
many states of the Union, north, south, and west. As chairman of
convention committees in New York, it has been my pleasure to
meet many interesting men, to form lasting friendships, and to
learn a great deal about the many activities that make New York
tick. Committee work has presented many speaking opportuni-
ties, ranging from large groups of high school students to skeptical
college seniors and charitable gatherings of practicing engineers.

Compared to large engineering schools, the Graduate School
of Engineering at Harvard is small indeed, if considered only
from the point of view of enrollment. However, I have seldom
failed to find at least one of its graduates active in professional
society work wherever I visited. The school, through its gradu-
ates, is making itself felt on those frontiers of social change which
affect the welfare of engineering as a profession. It can be proud
of the men it has trained, and they in turn can be thankful for the
breadth of their education received at Cambridge. Engineers in
general and Harvard engineers in particular are a grand group to
know.

The family summer home at Goose Rocks, Maine, burned to
the ground last October in that great fire which swept over large
portions of the township of Kennebunkport. To rebuild for
1948 occupancy was a challenge not to be ignored. The cool
summer climate of Maine offers much needed relief from city
heat and humidity for the youngest member of the clan.

January found us with completed plans and specifications,
March added a builder with a firm price, and by April we had
foundations completed. During this time I became a week-end
commuter to Boston, Portland, and way stations. We travelled
the byways of Old Orchard, Saco, Biddeford, Kennebunk, and
Wells to tie together all the elements needed to complete our
project. Promptly on July first we moved in, had light the next
day, and power for the stove and water heater before the end of
the week. Thus our cottage was completed on schedule in spite

L514]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of a very wet spring, material shortages, and the difficulties of
week-end supervision from Staten Island.

Dick has voiced his wholehearted approval of the finished
project. He objected strenuously to leaving for Staten Island
after Labor Day. Goose Rocks has been a summer haven for
three generations of Larkins over a period of sixty-five years.
Now the fourth generation approves and it looks as though father
will have no compromises to worry about when vacation plans
are made.

LEONARD CURTIS LARRABEE

HOME appress: Bedford Road, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: Harvard Treasurer’s Office, 140 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Jan. 19, 1900, Chicago, Ill. parents: Rollin North Larrabee, Bertha
Curtis.

PREPARED at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924.

marrieD: Peggy Smith, May 23, 1925, Concord, Mass. cHILpREN: Edward
Allen, April 26, 1940; Reuel Williams, Jan. 4, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Rollin Larrabee, *19.

occuPATION: Assistant to Treasurer, Harvard University.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Private, U. S. Marine Corps, October, 1918-
March, 1919; Massachusetts State Guard, February, 1941-February,

1946.
OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Commissioners of Trust Funds, Lincoln, Mass.;

trustee, Bemis Lecture Fund, Lincoln.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

I HAVE spent most of my business life in the one business which
upon graduation looked the least attractive to me — the invest-
ment business. I started as an apprentice in a carpet mill. After
three years I was sent to Chicago to sell the wretched things. A
year later I thought it would be easier to sell bonds — it was not,
and is not. Like almost everyone else in this business, I have been
with several firms, in my case three investment houses and an
investment counsel.

In 1939, however, I was happy to get on the other side of the
fence as assistant to the treasurer of Harvard College, William H.
Claflin, Jr. I am again in a period of transition from Mr. Claflin,
now retired, to Mr. Paul Codman Cabot, the new treasurer. To
obtain an additional income, I “ghost write” a financial article
five days a week.

C515]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

RALSTON BOND LATTIMORE

HOME AND OFFICE appress: Fort Pulaski National Monument, P. O. Box 204,
Savannah Beach, Ga.

Bors: May 9, 1901, Savannah, Ga. parents: Harry Hays Lattimore, Eliza-
beth LeHardy Bond.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

marriep: Mildred Maxwell Crow, Jan. 3, 1942, Savannah, Ga. cuitp: Mary
Elizabeth, Dec. 31, 1946.

occupation: Superintendent, Fort Pulaski National Monument, Cock-Spur
Island, Georgia (National Park Service, United States Department of
the Interior).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Private, United States Army Air Corps, Sept. 4,
1942; private first-class, 326th Fighter Squadron, Hamilton Field, Calif.
June, 1943, corporal, August, 1943; Transportation Corps Officer Can-
didate School, New Orleans, La., May, 1944; commissioned 2nd lieu-
tenant, November, 1944, New Orleans Port of Embarkation, rst lieu-
tenant, January, 1946, inactivated, March 19, 1946, spent ten months as
transportation officer in Southwest Pacific, Philippines, and Japan.

MEMBER OF: Cotillion Club; Oglethorpe Club; Society of Colonial Wars in

the State of Georgia. ;

AS I write these few lines, I believe that I can truthfully say that
I can now see ahead the goal which for so many years has always
remained just beyond the range of vision.

I have never made a fortune, the necessary adjunct of a perfect
life, but now I need very little money. I am King of Cock-Spur
Island.

From the battlements of my fortress I command the full hori-
zon. From my moated sanctuary I watch the ships sail down to
the sea, but I care not whence they come or where they go. On
my sand bars, mud flats, and marshes, I am the law and the birds
of the shore do me homage. At night I own the sky.

This small allegory reflects my present happiness. (I do not
mention the mosquitoes, the gnats, the rattlesnakes, or the hot
winds that sweep across my wide savannas.)

The National Park Service of the United States Department of
the Interior has permitted me to return as superintendent to Fort
Pulaski National Monument, which, in case no one knows, lies on
an island in the mouth of the Savannah River about seventeen

miles from the place where I was born. My domain includes a
moated fort of rose-colored brick, a hundred acres of sand

[516]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

covered over with exotic plants, and several thousand acres of
quaking marsh.

My career over the past twenty-five years has been interesting,
but not distinguished. I have been a newspaper reporter and I
worked at advertising real estate. In my earlier days I travelled
a bit in Europe, Asia, and the lands of the Pacific. Since 1934 I
have been employed by the National Park Service, in which I
have been a junior, assistant, and associate historian; acting super-
intendent of Fort Pulaski National Monument in charge of
restoration, superintendent of Hopewell Village National Historic
Site in Pennsylvania, information specialist in Washington,
D. C., and chief of publications of the United States Travel
Division.

I enjoyed my war experience, but it was a little rough. I was
drafted on September 4, 1942, when I was in my forty-second
year. In due time the Army made me an aircraft armorer, and I
was attached to the 326th Fighter Squadron at Hamilton Field,
California, until May, 1944, when I was sent to the Transportation
Corps Officer Candidate School at New Orleans, Louisiana. Com-
missioned in November of that year and attached to the New
Orleans Port of Embarkation, I got in nearly a year of service in
the Southwest Pacific, the Philippines, and Japan before the show
was over.

I cannot predict how long my present tour of duty at Fort
Pulaski will last but I am willing to remain here forever.

FRANK DOLAN LAURAN

LAST KNOWN AppREss: 5 Concord Ave., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 7, 1902, Troy, N. Y. parents: Lawrence Joseph Laughran, Rose-
mary Dolan.

PREPARED AT: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

OccuPATION: Education.

LAURAN has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since
our Sexennial Report.

[517]

_ a stan ms .

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

ALBERT SUMNER LAWRENCE

HOME ADDRESS: 12 Everett St., Chevy Chase View, Kensington, Md.

OFFICE appREss: National Labor Relations Board, 815 Connecticut Ave.,
Washington, D. C.

BORN: Sept. 24, 1902, Fitchburg, Mass. parents: Harry Albert Lawrence,
Agnes Evelyn Smith.

PREPARED AT: Fitchburg High School, Fitchburg, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 19243 A.M., 1926; LL.B.,
1920.

marrieD: Gladys H. Morrill, Sept. 1, 1930, Fitchburg, Mass. CHILDREN:
Eleanor Anne, April 18, 1932; Albert Sumner, Jr., July 21, 1936.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, D. C.; Sons of American Revo-
lution; Society of Mayflower Descendants.

UPON graduation from college in 1924, I had thought of taking
up teaching as my career. With this in view, I continued in the
Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences the study of
Romance languages which had been my field of concentration
while in college.

During the next two years I took various graduate courses in
French and Spanish, including Old French under Professors Ford
and Grandgent, and at the same time taught French as an in-
structor in Harvard College.

However, in 1926, having obtained a degree of Master of Arts,
I decided that law offered a more interesting and varied career
than was to be had through devotion to a lifetime of teaching.
Accordingly, I entered Harvard Law School from which I was
graduated in 1929.

The following year I married and established a home in the
vicinity of Boston. From 1930 through 1941, 1 was engaged in
the practice of law in Boston, and was associated during this
period with several Boston law firms, the most recent association
being with the firm of Choate, Hall & Stuart.

In 1941, while still with Choate, Hall & Stuart, I received an
appointment as an attorney for the National Labor Relations
Board at Washington, D. C. I entered the service of the federal
government in January, 1942, and obtained Civil Service status —
through having passed a qualifying examination in September of
the same year.

[518 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

‘Since 1942 I have continued with the same agency and now
occupy the position of legal assistant and supervisor on the staff
of a member of the National Labor Relations Board.

I live with my wife and two children in a Maryland suburb,
approximately ten miles from Washington. My daughter is a
senior in Bethesda-Chevy Chase High School, and my son is in
the seventh grade of Kensington Junior High School.

EDWARD SHERA LAWSON

HOME ApprEss: Water Street, Foxboro, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Penton Publishing Co., Cleveland, Ohio.

BORN: Sept. 11, 1901, Mexico City, Mexico. PaRENTs: William Elsworth
Lawson, Florence Ann Shera.

PREPARED AT: Foxboro High School, Foxboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREE: A.B., 1924(25).

MARRIED: Dorothy A. Pitt, Oct. 8, 1926, Newton, Mass. cumpren: Edward
Pitt, Sept. 12, 1927; James Archibald, Feb. 2, 1931.

HARVARD SON: James Archibald Lawson, ’52.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Wilbur Lougheed Lawson, ’31,; Robert Barrett Lawson,
"32.

OCCUPATION: Publishing.

OFFICES HELD: President, Technical Advertising Association, 1936-37; chair-
man, Foxboro Sea Scout Town Committee, 1939-42, Foxboro Advisory
Committee, 1944-46.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; National Industrial Advertising
Association; Industrial Advertising and Marketing Council.

AFTER leaving college I travelled to Latin America, earning
my passage as a seaman. A year of teaching at Kimball Union
Academy followed. I learned engineering as assistant to the very
able plant engineer of the Slatersville Finishing Company, and
cost accounting at Gillette Safety Razor Company. After many
years of advertising at the Foxboro Company, I went into pub-
lishing. My work takes me throughout New England and New
York.

It has been my good fortune to be a member of as fine a crew
as there is on the Atlantic Coast. We cruise each summer in a
yawl, and a better way to vacation is unknown to man. In winter
I ski, usually in lower New Hampshire where I built a cabin with
the helping hands of friends back when lumber did not cost a

[519]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

fortune. My favorite indoor sports are contract and straight
draw poker.

Although never active in politics, I served my town for several
years as a member of the Advisory (finance) Board. This was a
most interesting and instructive experience, liberally seasoned
with defeats at the hands of “professional politicians.” However,
it gave me an abiding faith in democratic processes. Politically, I
belong to that group which always votes but never for a winner.

I have never been one to look backward, but with one son a
junior at Bowdoin and another a freshman at Harvard, I am
reliving the days we spent in Cambridge. But true to American
tradition, everything seems to be bigger today, especially the
bursar’s bills.

Having a great many friends and little ambition, my interesting
and active life spells happiness.

RICHARD SIGMUND LAWTON

HOME appress: 1105 Lincoln Ave., Highland Park, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2100 Dempster St., Evanston, III.

BoRN: Sept. 6, 1902, Chicago, Ill. parents: Sigmund Lawton, Leona Hart-
man.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MarRiED: Maxine Eppenstein, July 3, 1931, Evanston, Ill. cumpren: Ann,
Oct. 10, 1932; Thomas Richard, May 30, 1940.

occuPATION: Manufacturing.

OFFICES HELD: Supervisor in charge, Chicago Price Adjustment Field Office,
Office of the Chief Signal Officer; renegotiation of war contracts, 1943-
47-

CLARENCE ALPHONZO LEE

ADDRESS: 3426 Vernon Ave., Chicago 16, Ill.

BORN: July 27, 1895, Chattanooga, Tenn. parents: James Theodore Lee,
Mary Jackson.

prepanep at: Wendell Phillips High School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924, DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

OCCUPATION: Education.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Lee
did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

[ 520 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES JACKSON LEE

HOME ADpREss: Muttontown Road, Syosset, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFIce ApprEss: Lee Higginson Corp., 40 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 22, 1900, Newton, Mass.: parents: George Cabot Lee, ’94, Made-
line Jackson.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

MARRIED: Emily Dorothea Schniewind, April 10, 1926, New York, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Emily Dorothea, Sept. 16, 1927 (died Oct. 11, 1945); James
Jackson, Jr., April 13, 1929, Henry Borland, April 20, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHERS: George Cabot Lee, Jr., ’21; Nelson Borland Lee, 728.

OCCUPATION: Investment banking.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned captain, Army Air Force, May,
1942; two years’ foreign duty in North Africa, England, and Continen-
tal Europe; promoted lieutenant colonel, Army of the United States;
released from active duty, March, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Lee Higginson Corporation,
sice 1936; director, Penn Anthracite Collieries Company, 1932—46;
member, 1940-42, secretary, 1946, president, since 1947, board of trus-
tees, The Green Vale School, Roslyn, N. Y.; trustee, Incorporated
Village of Muttontown, N. Y., since 1946.

MEMBER OF: The Creek Club, Inc., Locust Valley, N. Y.; The Lunch Club,
New York, N. Y.

IN THE fall of 1924 I returned to college as an assistant football
coach under Bob Fisher. It was obviously an unremunerative
job, yet it did postpone settling down to the permanent grind
of business life. Then in December, 1924, I went to work for
Lee, Higginson & Company, investment bankers, the fourth gen-
eration to go to work for the firm. The early days of training
seemed interminable, particularly as I was anxious to get married,
which could not be effected on the salary paid a trainee.

A most interesting break in my early business life came when
I was sent to London to study English methods of investment
banking and become acquainted with our English connections.
Having just been married, it was also a delightful and extended
honeymoon of about a year and a half.

In the fall of 1927 I returned to this country and, because New
York was the center of activity for the investment banking busi-
ness, I gravitated to where there appeared to be the greatest
opportunity. Often I have questioned the wisdom of this move,
but it is a question which will never be satisfactorily answered.

[521]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

To describe the investment banking and brokerage business of
the late twenties and early thirties, and then the late thirties is
unnecessary! Suffice to say the peaks and valleys were very
much marked.

There has been only one interruption to the mad whirl of —
business and that was wrought by World War II. Having several
dependents, I wasn’t subject to immediate draft, yet I felt the
same urge that was experienced by many of our classmates.
With dependents, it was a question of being able to get a com-
mission, and much to my astonishment, an application for one in
the Army Air Force was only two weeks forthcoming. My initial
assignment was a swivel-chair job in, of all places, Wall Street.
It was of short duration, and was followed by several weeks at
the Intelligence School at Harrisburg. I was fortunate in being
requested, and from December, 1942, until January, 1945, served
on the staff of a general who had various commands, first in North
Africa, then in England, followed by an important command at
the time of the invasion of Continental Europe. If anything that
pertains to war can be considered interesting, these two years of
service overseas were vital and gripping. And yet I was, con-
tinually torn by the desire of returning home where our eldest
children were growing from adolescents to young persons, know-
ing that never would they relive those months and years.

At the end of the war it was a difficult decision to make to r
return to the same business. Yet twenty-one years in a specific
field cannot be thrown aside, and I decided finally. I had no
alternative, nor was it the course of least resistance. At any rate
I was back with my family, and business was secondary. It was
difficult to realize how much of their lives I had missed; the extent
to which they had matured was most exciting. In the fall of
1945, when it seemed as though life was on the threshold of some
happy and settled years, our eldest and only daughter was taken.

It seemed to extinguish some of the lights, and yet they still shine
brightly.

 

[522]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOSEPH HAIM LEVI

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: Via Piedigretta, Naples, Italy.

BORN: Nov. 14, 1899, Italy. parents: Haim Levi, Shimha Lazary.
PREPARED AT: De Witt Clinton Hebberd School, Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1921.

OccUPATION: Mercantile business.

LEVI has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since July
31, 1940.

JOSEPH B. LEVIN

HOME ADDRESS: 169 Naples Rd., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 244 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 29, 1899, Hartford, Conn, parents: Morris Levin, Jennie Kun-
itza.

PREPARED AT: Hartford High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921~1922.

MARRIED: Hannah Markowitz, Sept. 18, 1923, Hartford, Conn. crip: John
Bernard, Sept. 13, 1924.

HARVARD SON: John Bernard Levin, °45.

OCCUPATION: News editor, Boston Globe.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War I: Private, U. S. Army, Oct—Dec.,
1918.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Globe Unit, Newspaper Guild of Boston; delegate,
Boston City Council, CIO; editor, Boston Guildsman.

PUBLICATIONS: Hundreds of newspaper stories, articles, features, and edito-
rials,

SCHOUL LEVISON

HOME ADDRESS: 38 Waumbeck St., Roxbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: U. S. Civil Service Commission, Post Office & Court House
Bldg., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 24, 1903, Boston, Mass. parents: Max Levison, Leah Schlosberg.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. ¢umt laude, 1924; M.p. (Univ. of
Paris), 1935.

HARVARD BROTHER: Leo Levison, °30.

occupaTION: Physician, consultant neurologist and psychiatrist.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Chief, Medical Division, United States Civil
Service Commission, 1943-45.

MEMBER OF: Neurological, psychiatric, and medical societies.

PuBLicaTions: Articles in neurological and psychiatric publications.

[ 523]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

I SPENT the year 1924 to 1925 in the Graduate School at Har-

vard, In 1929 I matriculated in the Medical School at the Uni-
versity of Paris, France, and received my M.D. degree from that
institution. I held a fellowship in psychiatry and neurology at
that university for three years and worked at the Charcot Clinic
in Paris. I was president of the Fondation des Etats-Unis, Cité

Universitaire, Paris, from 1932 to 1935. Three times I was

honored by my colleagues at the Fondation by being elected their

president. I was instrumental in fostering good relations be-
tween French and American scholarship. I visited the main
landmarks of French civilization and organized excursions for

French and American scholars to the chief centers of interest in

France.

I returned home in 1936 and was almost immediately licensed
to practice in the State of Massachusetts. I began the practice of
neurology in my office on Commonwealth Avenue in Boston.

In 1941 I became consultant in psychiatry at the main induction
center in Boston for the examination of inductees into the armed
services. In February, 1943, 1 became chief of the medical
division of the United States Civil Service Commission. I am
still consultant for the government’s central personnel agency.

During the war I devoted my energies to the rehabilitation
and employment of the physically handicapped. I recommended
the services of the handicapped to the government and to private
industry. I am extremely proud of this work and consider it a

most worth-while achievement. I am still devoting a good deal of
energy to this program. The satisfaction has been high in observ-
ing what the blind, the maimed, the deaf, and the dumb can do
When given a chance. I consider this work very worth while
indeed!

Besides this goal, it is my ambition to open new vistas of
achicvement in neurology and psychiatry. There are so many
psychiatrically ill at this time who do necd help. It appears that
the complexities of life are conducive to mental and emotional
disorders, The discovery and treatment of these disorders are
imperative for the community as well as the individual,

[ 524]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM SAMUEL LEVY

HOME ADDREsS: 49 Smithfield Rd., North Smithfield, R. L.

OFFICE apprEss: 70 Main St., Woonsocket, R. I.

BORN: Feb. 13, 1901, Providence, R. I. parents: Israel Louis Levy, Gussie
Kerstein.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Providence, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1921. DEGREE: M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1926.

occuPATION: Physician and surgeon, specializing in urology.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: First lieutenant, Medical Reserve Corps, 1929-
41; active duty, Medical Field Service School, Carlisle Barracks, Pa., 1940.

OFFICES HELD: Intern, Mt. Sinai Hospital, Milwaukee, Wis., 1926-27; assist-
ant dermatologist, Miriam Hospital, Providence, R. [., 1927-34, member
of staff, Milford Hospital, Milford, Mass. R. I. Hospital, Providence,
R. I., St. Joseph’s Hospital, Providence, R. I., Homeopathic Hospital,
Providence, R. I., Notre Dame Hospital, Central Falls, R. I.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Rhode Island; E. L. Freeman Lodge No. 41,
A.F. & A.M., Pawtucket, R. I; Square and Compass Club; Public Health
League of America; American Medical Association; Rhode Island
Medical Society; Woonsocket Medical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: “Nephrosis, a Refutation,” Rhode Island Medical Journal,
1931. |

HARVARD COLLEGE knew me only as a freshman. After one

quarter of a century, without jogging my memory, I can visualize

Gore Hall on the Charles River, Sever Hall, Boylston Hall,

Memorial Hall, University Hall, Appleton Chapel, and, of

course, the Yard and Harry Elkins Widener Library and its steps.

I recall Professor Geist in English A, Professor Cabot in social

ethics, Professor Osgood in mathematics, Professor Raiche in

French conversation (he carried on all the conversation), Pro-

fessor Hall in chemistry. I have forgotten my professors in

zodlogy and in botany. Permit me to reminisce and record one
small episode upon which I pique myself. Professor Geist saw fit
to read in toto to the Class my short story. So it must have con-
tained a modicum of an augury of my future self. Freud said we

are what we are because we were what we were, And thus I

honor myself with this my own encomium.

Brown University had me for a sophomore.

My M.D. degree from Tufts College Medical School in 1926
assured me of being fully cognizant of all the scientifically avail-
able knowledge at the time (1926) of Tay Sachs Disease or
Amaurotic Family Idiocy and its Tay’s Cherry Red Spor, for

[525]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

which I am perennially, eternally and futilely looking — for that
and Gouty tophi.

After a one-year internship at Mt. Sinai Hospital in Milwaukee,
served under my resident, Dr. David V. Elconin, I went into
general practice; and then to specialization in urology at Colum-
bia University under Professor Joseph F. McCarthy. Then to
Europe for more urology with Professor Swift-Joly in London
(it was said he wasn’t so swift and not so jolly), Professors von
Lichtenberg and Sauerbruch in Berlin, and Professors Leguen,
Papin and Heitz-Boyer in Paris.

The National Board of Medical Examiners of the United
States of America gave me certificate No. 1148 as a Diplomate
member. I hold licenses to practise medicine in eight states:
Rhode Island, Wisconsin, Vermont, Kansas, Arkansas, Massa-
chusetts, New York, and the District of Columbia.

Having missed the epithalamium bus, as avocations I read
catholically, my eye looks for genre art, and lately in my own
dilettante way, I have discovered in myself a penchant for philol-
ogy and things semantic, even semantic dementia (Cleckley) and
general semantics. (Don’t test me yet till I get well over my
novitiate.)

In precis, my twenty-five years have been prosaic to the point
of sporadic ennui when, at its nadir, all things relevant and irrele-
vant would seem awry, agley, askew, amiss, and galley-west.

And in conclusion, before my threnody, I prescribe for a sick
world the renascence of the immemorial apothegm of the Four
Loves as a corollary to the Four Freedoms. They are irrevocably,
indispensably, and indisputably; LOVE for God, LOVE for
country, LOVE for family, and LOVE for self.

AARON WILLIAM LEWIN

HOME AppRESS: 575 Park Ave. New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ApvREsSS: A. W. Lewin Co., 40 E. goth St., New York, N. Y.

Boan: Aug. 31, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: Julius Lewin, Ida Magnus.

varparED at: Townsend Harris Hall, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920—1924. DEGRFE: 8.B., 1924.

MaxwitD: Jane Carol David, Oct. 11, 1931, Roselle, N. J. (divorced 1945);
Cyrilla Dorn, July 3, 1947. cH: Jane David, Feb. 23, 1934.

ocuPaTion: Advertising.

[ 526]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Member Board of Governors, Children’s Home, Newark,
N. J., American Association of Advertising Agencies, New York Coun-
cil, 1945-47; member, New Jersey State Chapter, National Conference
of Christians and Jews; publicity committee, American Red Cross, New
Jersey Chapter, 1946-48, chairman, Publishing and Advertising Group,
Community Chest, New Jersey.

WELL, well, well, twenty-five years have rolled around. I can
hardly believe it, because to me it is more like months than years.

This commentary on the passing of time brings me back to our
senior class days. Only recently I was scanning through the
1924 Class Album and I was particularly interested in observing
the professions, businesses, and various fields of endeavor which
Class members planned to follow after they graduated from col-
lege. The whole gamut of businesses and professions was repre-
sented in these little reviews — journalism, teaching, banking,
medicine, law, industry, and architecture. They were all there!
Now, as we convene for our Twenty-fifth Anniversary, most of
us have found our niche in a lifetime endeavor and I am wonder-
ing how closely we have come to our original plans and anticipa-
tions. It seems to me that if the Secretary of the Class or those
who are editing the Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report could have
made such a study, it would have been most revealing and inter-
esting.

For my own part, I have hewed to the line. I was still a sopho-
more, as I recall, when I decided to go into the advertising busi-
ness. Then and there I subscribed to Printers Ink, and the
publisher has received my subscription every year since then.

I think most of us sit down to write an autobiography of this
kind with a great deal of trepidation, and I’m sure I’m included in
this classification. I would love to be able to sit down and write
a chapter of my life which is colorful and exciting but, alas, while
life is pleasant it is more or less routine —even though in the
advertising business a routine life involves a steady procession of
crises.

I’m reminded of Thomas Jefferson’s comment on the lack of
color he was experiencing in his life at Shadwell while he was
still a very young man. “All things here,” he said, “appear to
trudge on in one and the same round: we rise in the morning
that we may eat breakfast, dinner, and supper, and go to bed

[527]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

again that we may get up the next morning and so the same: so
that ¥ ou Never saw two peas more alike than our yesterday and
today.’ .

Yet, I do feel amply rewarded for selecting the business in
which I find myself. Advertising is not as glamorous as Holly-
wood depicts it on the screen, especially with such romantic
characterizations as portrayed by Cary Grant, et al. But it is,
nevertheless, an exciting and challenging business. In going from
client to client, I find that I have to be conversant and as much at
home in discussing food products, for instance, as watches, lug-
gage, or even electronics, as the case may be.

When you're in the advertising agency business, your work is
never through; so that when I close my office door and head
home, the inevitable portfolio goes with me. But portfolio or no,
ideas are born in strange places, when the mind is relaxed.

I find a great deal of pleasure spending time with my family,
which includes my wife and growing daughter. When she is not
attending school at Dana Hall in Wellesley, we spend our week-
ends and holiday time in Connecticut, quite deep in the country.
I'm learning to be handy around the farm and enjoy using my
hands and limited brawn. Strangely enough, I somehow envy the
vigorous, outdoor life led by my neighbors, most of whom are
native to the countryside. There is a nice quality of contented-
ness about them, and in contrast to the hectic and pressing life
which is indigenous to the advertising business, I find that this

atmosphere brings a fine feeling of self-sufficiency and peace.

JAMES FRANK LEWIS

HOME appress: 710 W., Fssex St. Kirkwood 22, Mo.

orrice appress: Shell Oil Co., Inc. Shell Bldg., 1221 Locust St., St. Louis,
Mo.

Bors: June 12, 1901, Dublin, Texas. parents: John Frank Lewis, Irene Smith.

reeparto AT: Dublin High School, Dublin, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1921-192}.

Makkiro: Belle Fitzgerald, Oct. 23, 1926, Denver, Colo. critpren: Diane,
Jan. 17, 1935; Nancy, April 7, 1939.

occeparios: District manager, St. Louis Division, Shell Oil Company, Inc.

MrMinea or: Fxecutive Association of St. Louis; Downtown Kiwanis Club,
soo Plus Club; Chamber of Commerce, Sc. Louis; Oil Men’s Club of
Greater Se. Louis.

[ 528 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

TRUE to the Album, stating that I expected to “engage in the oil
business,” I have done just that ever since, although in a consid-
erably different way than originally visualized. At that time my
father owned oil production in Texas and I expected to be asso-
ciated with him in the operation of the company. However,
shortly after my leaving Harvard he drilled too many dry holes,
and I was on my own from a financial standpoint. I started to
work for Continental Oil Company in Denver in 1925 as a service
station helper. Better pay and opportunity were offered by Shell
Oil Company, so on August 1, 1929, I went with them as a tank
car salesman at Kansas City and have since been with Shell in
various Capacities in many parts of the country. The last three
and one-half years in St. Louis have been the most enjoyable.
The whole family are in hopes that we shall stay here indefinitely.
Our thirteen-year-old daughter has ambitions as a pianist and
has appeared on television and on a local radio program, but Papa
would prefer that she marry a Harvard man so the Lewis family
can attend the Fiftieth Reunion and enjoy a visit with their
grandson, Harvard 1978.

+ JACKSON STEWARD LINCOLN

BORN: Feb. 28, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: Lowell Lincoln, Jr., Anna
Jackson Steward.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; A.M. (Univ. of California),
19323 DR.PHIL. (Univ. of London), 1935.
MarriED: Eleanor Clifton, Feb. 20, 1931, Berkeley, Calif.
piep: May 2, 1941, Guatemala City, Guatemala.

JACKSON STEWARD LINCOLN entered Harvard after com-
pleting preparatory study at St. Paul’s School. In college he was a
member of the Signet Society, Cercle Frangais (treasurer, 1923-
24), Institute of 1770, D.K.E., S.K, Club, Hasty Pudding Club,
Spee Club, and the St. Paul’s School Club. During his college
course, he spent a half-year studying at the Sorbonne and at
the University of Grenoble. After receiving his A.B. degree with
the Class, he spent a year in Washington preparing for foreign
Service, then studied economics and international relations at
Columbia University before becoming associated with the EL.
Russell Brand Laboratories. Ill health forced him to spend a year

[529]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

on a ranch in Wyoming and Arizona, during which he spent a
great deal of time writing for laboratories. He continued this
work and in 1930 assisted in promoting the automatic restaurant
devices which the laboratories manufactured. After spending two
years in Furope doing research work in psychology, he began
applying the discoveries and theories of present-day psychology
and anthropological data and in 1932 was awarded an A.M.
degree by the University of California. He studied for his doctor-
ate at the University of London, receiving the degree three years
later and returned to the United States to engage in anthropologi-
cal research and writing.

He was the author of The Dream in Primitive Cultures and a
fellow of the Royal Anthropological Institute of Great Britain
and Ireland.

JOHN STOCKTON LITTELL

HOME ADDRESS: 3957 Sacramento St., Apt. 12, San Francisco 18, Calif.
OFFICE appRESS: Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 4oo Sansome St,
San Francisco, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 22, 1903, Wuchang, China. parents: Samuel Harrington Littell,
Charlotte Moeller Mason. .
PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1924; A.M. (Colum-
bia Univ.), 1928.

maraiep: Charlotte Leviseur Stanfield, Sept. 27, 1928, New York, N. Y. (di- |
vorced 1940); Catherine Ann Nabours, Sept. 11, 1948, San Francisco,
Calif. camp: John Harrington, Dec. 29, 1933.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Mason Littell, 726

occupation: Correspondent, Savings Bond Department, Federal Reserve
Bank; interest in William J. B. Waite Co., Inc., exporters and importers.

oFrices HELD: President, San Francisco Bach Choir, since July 1, 1947.

MEMBER OF: Commonwealth Club of California.

JUST before graduation, 1 received an offer to teach at the
Kuling American School in China. I had taken a pre-medical
course and been admitted to the Harvard Medical School, with
the idea of being a medical missionary in China; this was largely
due to the influence of Dr. (later Commander) Wassell, an asso-
ciate of my father’s. Hlowever, when the crucial moment for
decision came, I did not feel a strong enough sense of “vocation,”
and temporized by accepting the teaching offer. After one year

[ 530]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in Kuling, I taught Chinese students for two years in Central
China University, Wuchang. At the end of that time the capture
of Wuchang by Chiang Kai-shek and his then Communist allies
made the future of missionary education there Jook extremely
doubtful. I left via the Trans-Siberian Railway and took an
A.M. degree in International Relations with the idea of eventually
returning to Central China University as a professor.

Just before getting my A.M., three things happened: (1) more
or less as a “lark,” I took the ‘American Foreign Service exami-
nations, and came out third in the country; (2) the president of
the Central China University told me he would not require my
services for an indefinite period; and (3) I became engaged.
Next thing I knew I was married and en route to the American
Legation (now Embassy), Peiping, as attache for language
study. After completing the two-year course in ten months, I
was assigned as vice-consul to Tientsin, which I had to leave on
account of the serious illness of my wife. After a year on the
League of Nations desk in the division of Western Furopean
Affairs, I was assigned to Mexico City, where I was later pro-
moted to consul. Next I was sent in that capacity to Shanghai,
where again I was forced to leave on account of my wife's illness.
Next I was sent to Kingston, Jamaica, where for some time I was
in charge of the consulate; finally I was assigned to the Division
of Controls, which handled arms licenses at the outbreak of the
war. .

Meantime, neither my domestic nor my professional life was
going smoothly, and my divorce and resignation occurred prac-
tically simultaneously. After a futile couple of months in New
York City, I left for San Francisco to visit my son for a couple of
weeks; that was over eight years ago, and I am still here. This
complete change of scene, while of course foreshadowed by a
desire to make a clean break with the past, was facilitated by
(1) meeting an importer who needed my help; (2) a position
with the Federal Reserve Bank when Pearl Harbor ruined the
import business; and, most recently, (3) my romance with and
marriage to the daughter of a retired professor at Kansas Stare
College, who herself had recently moved to San Francisco. After
a two weeks’ honeymoon in the Santa Cruz mountains, we are
now adjusting ourselves to each other and to a tiny apartment.

[530]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

I consider myself extremely fortunate to have recovered from
my difficulties in the East, and to be able to start an entirely new
life in the West. One thing which I was able to retain was my
interest in music, which I was able to express by singing in the
San Francisco Municipal Chorus, which appears with the Sym-
phony and I even made a Red Seal record with Marian Anderson,
and later with the San Francisco Bach Choir, in which I have
been successively librarian, treasurer, and now president. I was
also able to continue my interest in international affairs through
membership in the Commonwealth Club and by attending their
meetings and discussions,

* THOMAS GARDINER LITTELL

BorN; March 14, 1902, Brockport, N. Y. parents: John Stockton Littell,
Gertrude Wilson.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1924; A.M., 1925.

pirp: June 11, 1929, Cambridge, Mass.

THOMAS GARDINER LITTELL entered Harvard after com-
pleting preparatory study at Kent School. While in college he
was a member of St. Paul’s Society, the Liberal Club, and the
Glee Club. After receiving an A.B. degree with the Class, he
entered the Graduate School and a year later was granted a
Master's degree in history. He spent the following year travelling
and studying history, and in 1927 accepted a teaching post at
the Hoosac School, Hoosick, New York.

WHITTEMORE LITTELL

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Fountain Valley School, Colorado Springs, Colo.

hows: March 22, 1901, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: Philip Littell, ’90, Fanny
Whittemore.

peeparro at: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YELAKS IN COLLEGE! 1920-1924, DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

Macao: Helen Livermore Folsom, Sept. 13, 1924, Jamaica Plain, Mass.
cantons: Sarah Farnsworth, Dec. 24, 1927; Susan, Nov. §, 1934; Robert
Whitremore, May 5, 1939.

HaRvARD BaoTHER: Robert Littell, 718.

GcUpanion; Teacher of physics and mathematics in boys’ boarding school.

[ 532 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Executive secretary, New Hampshire State
Council of Defense, 1941-42.

MEMBER OF: Dartmouth Scientific Association, Rocky Mountain Harvard
Club; Cheyenne Mountain Country Club.

AFTER graduating I went to work for the New England Tele-
phone Company, first learning the business from the ground up,
literally, as I started digging a manhole in Worcester and from
there graduating to the top of a pole in Northampton. A year
later, I transferred to the New York Telephone Company which
I found to be less congenial than the New England Company.
Having been married a year, my wife and I decided it was as good
a time as any to see the world, so I gave up my job, and we went
to Europe for two months. On our return in the fall of 1925, I
started out to make a fortune as a realtor in New York City.
After ten months of trying to rent cheap apartments at a high
rent, I decided that the business world was not mine and jumped
at the opportunity to work for the Commonwealth Fund, a
philanthropic foundation in New York. From 1926 to 1941, first
as assistant director and then as director of the division of educa-
tion, | administered the fund’s fellowships for British students in
the United States. This was a fascinating, congenial, and well-
paid job entailing frequent visits to the better American universi-
ties and several trips to Great Britain. I felt I had found a secure
and interesting job and became more and more complacent. This
all came to an end because of the war. As I owned a place in New
Hampshire, I decided to see what I could do there and in the fall
of 1941 went to work for the State Council of Defense and had
the doubtful honor of being appointed executive secretary of the
Council on December 8. By the end of 1942 it was apparent that
New Hampshire was in little danger of being bombed, and the
armed services showing no interest in my repeated applications in
triplicate, I finally put my Harvard education to practical use
and joined the physics staff at Dartmouth as assistant professor
helping to instruct Navy and Marine trainees. I found teaching
very good fun, decided to continue, and at the end of the war
came out to my present position, My twenty-five vears have
been hardly exciting, but I have enjoyed them very much.

[ 533 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

WILLIAM HORACE LITTLEFIELD

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 29 Depot Ave., Falmouth, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 28, 1902, Roxbury, Mass. pARENTs: Samuel Horace Littlefield,
Ernestine Tamagne.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

OccUPATION: Artist.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Drafted, October, 1942; discharged, April, 1945;
rank of private; basic training, M.R.T.C., temporary assignment, Com-
pany Day Room Murals, M.R.T.C, and Post Headquarters, Camp
Pickett, detached duty, prisoner of war escort guard, Prisoner of War
Camp, Camp Pickett; special services, Camp Lee, Va.; basic training,
Combat Engineers, and reproduction branch, Special Services, Camp
Claiborne, La.

AS A medium for the exchange of ideas, painting presents to a
painter the problem of a compromise between his training and
environment and the person he has since discovered himself to be.
It is often said either that an artist is trained for a world of ideas
and ideals that no longer exist or that the world is almost unaware
of the existence of the ideas for which he is trained. The situation
is that instead of being formed and sustained by his culture, he
must either try to represent its meaning through himself or com-
promise himself to find some formula that can be profitably used
by a world that otherwise rather pointedly ignores his function.
That function is almost purely the exposition of idea. Art is a
rhetorical hortative having an ethical implication. As a polemic,
it just is. Ir simply proposes itself but proves nothing. As artists,
we are said to represent and creat ourselves and our environment,
and possibly recreate both. It is even said that the values repre-
sented are potentially eternal, though the product is mere mer-
chandise. This function of art as idea and value of social use is a
responsibility and a discipline for which we are simply mediums
of exchange. Such an elevated sense of mission certainly does not
occupy much of one’s daily thought and instead the question is —
have you cleaned your brushes? We do talk only about our
means because painting itself is a total and simultaneous experi-
ence on a non-verbal level. But in art an end is implied as a
determinative of means, whercas in life around us the general
means have quite superseded all private ends. The lamentable

[534]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

truth seems to be that like Carthage, America has a civilization
without a culture. Since Americans are preoccupied with an
invidious moral concern for the general extension of civilized
habits and are without sympathy or understanding for the ethical
values of the various concrete differences of intent that determine
cultural processes, the artist is turned back upon himself to find
the necessary subjective phase of his experience. Who he is and
what he does are apparently up to him alone and no one else.
And since he is obliged to adapt his environment to himself, much
of his former training has had to be superseded and now appears
negligible.

When I say training, I give Harvard the benefit of the doubt,
for I recall from my orals one of those answers that cut the
ground from under me. It was, “But oh, we don’t train people to
be artists!’ — just parasites of art I presume, to whom the artist
is but a poor relation, minus their professional guile, yet some-
what too perspicacious for comfort. He only lives the experience
of their painting, and cannot possibly know any facts about
pictures themselves! If we are too near, they are too far — much
too far.

Obviously, the thing to do in 1924 was to go to Europe. I
stayed there until 1929 and, of course, encountered Maurice
Grosser, Virgil Thompson, and others more and less well known.
My first work of any importance was a set of lithographs of
boxing, published by the Editions des Quatre Chemins, Vladimir
Walter, the editor, and Desjobert, the printer. It was a result of
two things, a small exhibition at the Galerie Zborowski and a
couple of reproductions George Antheil had published in
Querschnitt. 1 saummered in St. Tropez, travelled in Italy every
spring, and wintered in Paris, sharing a studio with S. W. Hayter.
John Becker and Carl Zigrosser bought my work and exhibited it
in New York. John became my dealer. The work sold mod-
erately well and was even bought and presented to various
museums thanks to Lincoln Kirstein, Monroe Wheeler, the late
Mrs. Paul Mellon, and Mrs. J. D. Rockefeller, Jr. When John
went out of business, I naively tried to sell my work upon its own
merits through travelling shows of drawings and paintings. It
seems that the art world is largely ruled by the ballyhoo of pub-
licity, and for lack of distinct criteria the dealer makes (and

[535]

HARVARD CLASS OF [924

breaks) the artist. Instead of finding another and suitable dealer,
I occupied mysclf until 1942 with perfecting my ability in figure
and portraiture, since landscape no longer seemed to offer any
difficulty.

The army sought to make me a soldier — the bright cloud was
scattered. In order to be able to continue with painting I remained
a private and managed to do quite a bit of work, principally a
rather grandiose classical subject and an excellent portrait of the
dancer, José Limon. Upon this subject of an artist in the Army
I have been tempted to write a book, which, if published, will
explain all this quite fully for those interested. My purpose was
perhaps as much therapeutic as educational — to find myself again.

I realize here but few particular events or points of view. Not
all my “children” are orphans and some have been adopted by
quite ‘respectable people. My * wife” and I get along very well.
I have never turned her out into the streets to make money for
me. Despite our separation when a soldier, she even visited me in
camp. Of our relation somewhere between the given and the
chosen I have learned forebearance, and I trust I am not wholly
wrong.

My work may be seen at various university museums — Har-
vard, Smith, Vassar, Michigan, the Lockwood Library of the
University of Buffalo, as well as at the Boston Museum of Fine
Arts, the Worcester Art Museum, Andover Gallery, the Nelson
Gallery of Kansas City, and the Museum of Modern Art of New
York.

CHARLES FIFE LIVINGSTONE

Home apourss: 52 Watkins Lane, Clarksburg, W. Va.
ornice apparss: 124 5. Third Se, Clarksburg, W. Va.
ms: April 7, 1903, Gilmore, Md. parents: Hugh Fife Livingstone, Mar-

garet Edwards,

respawn at: Washington Irving High School, Clarksburg, W. Va.

VEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1914. DEGREE: §.B., 1924.

Mawnan: Ruby Irene Cork, July 4, 1943, Winchester, Va.

oo tration: Merchant, men's clothing and haberdashery.

Wccitn cospesseene posts: Head, Consumers’ Goods Scction, Price Di-
sinion, OP A,

AP TLR graduation Twas associated with my uncles in the retail
shoe business. We opened a new store and I spent from 1924 to

(535 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1938 in charge of the operation. In 1938, having grown some-
what restless, I left the shoe business and went to Europe for a
few months, where I visited my relatives in Glasgow, Scotland,
and spent some time on the Continent. On my return I purchased
the business I now operate — men’s clothing and haberdashery.
In 1942 I was in the first call of the second draft. I didn’t pass
the physical examination but felt sure I could be used in some
capacity. I received a call from the state office of the Office of
Price Administration, requesting that I take the job as price
specialist in the field of apparel. I spent three and one-half years
commuting 165 miles each weekend in order to take care of mv
job with the O.P.A. and supervise my business. I was married
in 1943, have no children, and spend most of my time working,
leading a quiet home life, and growing a few flowers.

I am reluctant to express my views as to social, political, or
religious convictions. However, I might say that my greatest
consolation is that should I go broke in business, I can always run
for President.

WILLIAM MASON LLOYD

HOME ADDRESS: 1018 Main St., Melrose Highlands, Mass. (temporary).

OFFICE ADDRESS: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., Clarendon St.,
Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 6, 1902, Poultney, Vt. parents: William Edwards Lloyd, Ola
Mason.

PREPARED AT: Forest City High School, Forest City, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924.

MARRIED: Bertha Marie Taylor, Baltimore, Md. cHtwpren: Gloria Jeanne,
April 11, 1925; William Mason, Jr., Feb. r6, 1930.

occupation: Manager, statistical research, group insurance.

ON STANDING at the threshold of that part of life where it
becomes necessary to earn one’s living, I learned of a then com-
paratively new field of insurance which sounded attractive —
probably because it involved travel. Asa result, Ebecame a group
insurance field representative instead of the chemist which [ had
studied to be. I certainly wasn’t deceived about the travel, and if
station-calling was the principal requirement for being a train-
man, I could have qualified on any railroad.

The area of travel diminished as the business grew, but the

[537]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

territory changed periodically. Consequently, my family has be-
come intimately acquainted with a number of cities and leisure
time has been occupied in pursuing hobbies which have interested
us — books, stamps, antiques, music, sports, and the theatre.

The bump of curiosity which once caused me to think of be-
coming a chemist has now led me into statistical research on prob-
lems encountered in the various forms of social insurance.
Although it is a far cry from test tube and retort, I find research
by means of calculators and 1.B.M. equipment to be exceedingly
interesting, albeit rather confining.

Our son is currently “travelling” for Uncle Sam as an army
bandsman. When his enlistment expires he intends to pursue a
course in business administration. Our daughter has selected
merchandising as a career and is continuing her education in that

field.

LUKE BURNELL LOCKWOOD

HOME ADDRESS: Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

BorN: Oct. 31, 1901, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Luke Vincent Lockwood,
Alice Gardner Burnell.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924, LLB., 1928.

MarkieD: Dorcas Washburn, June 30, 1928, Worcester, Mass. (divorced
1945); Marion Miner Adams, Oct. 30, 1948. CHILDREN: Dorcas Wash-
burn, May 17, 1929; Luke Vincent, 2d, June 1, 1931.

occupation: Lawyer, member of firm of Carter, Ledyard & Milburn.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RecoRD: United States Naval Reserve, April, 1941, to
1944; sea duty, Atlantic-Pacific, anti-submarine warfare, convoy duty;
commanding officer, U.S.S. Sea Otter 2, 1941, U.S.S. PC 483, 1942,
U.S.S. PCE 867, 1943, U.S.S. Baker DE 190, November, 1943, to July,
1944; shore duty, Navy Department, Washington, D. C., 1944-453
awarded Legion of Merit.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Counsel, Office of Procurement and Materiel,
Navy Department, 1945; special assistant to Under-Secretary of the
Navy, 1940-41. ‘

orrices HELD: Member, Greenwich Town Plan Commission, 1936-40, Green-
wich Representative Town Meeting, 1934-38, Greenwich Community
Chest, director, Greenwich Boys’ Club, Boy Scout Council, Marine Mu-
scum City of New York, Interval Instruments, Ox Fibre Brush Com-
pany, Benedict Realty, Merchants & Masters Steamship Company.

Mesuer OF: Field Club of Greenwich; Indian Harbor Yacht Club, Cruis-

[ 538]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing Club of America, New York Yacht Club; Down Town Associa-
tion; The Lunch Club; Verbank Hunting & Fishing Club; Foreign
Policy Association; Bar Association of the City of New York.

A LIVELIHOOD from practising law in New York from a com-
muter’s vantage point in Greenwich, with sailing and hunting as
hobbies and local civic activities in Greenwich for a do-good
line, summarizes my career up to the war. Lots of water in the
Atlantic and Pacific for the first three and a half years of the war
with lots of desk work in the Navy Department for the last year
covers the war period.

A divorce and a second marriage plus a struggle to build a new
home against the income tax rate, together with reéstablishing a
law practice (without benefit of sailing) account for the postwar
period. |

RHODES LOCKWOOD

HOME ADDRESS: 333 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Emery, Wait & Smith, 92 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 2, 1902, Concord, Mass. parents: William Niles Lockwood,
Mabel Gray.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederic Gray Lockwood, ’18.

occuPATION: Architectural draftsman.

THE years from 1925 to 1927 were spent studying architecture
—at Harvard the first year, the Atelier Umdenstock, Paris, the
second, and the third year at a school in the Place des Vosges —a
graduate school of the New York School of Fine and Applied
Art in Paris.

Returning to Boston in time for our Third Reunion, I was for-
tunate to get a job with William T. Aldrich, then building a
French type of house for himself opposite the Brookline Coun-
try Club.

After two years in his office, a chance was offered to me to
learn the interior decorating business. With what experience I
had, I thought it might be “opportunity” knocking, and decided
to make the change. It was not long before I had enough clients
to warrant opening a small office of my own, where I carried on
a fair little business until 1942.

[ 539]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

I applied to take a course offered by the Navy to teach drafts-
men to make maps from aerial photographs, but was not accepted.
Later, I tried to join the Navy in preference to being drafted by
the Army, but was turned down. I closed my office in December,
1942, to work at Stone & Webster as a clerk, keeping records of
blueprints sent to the various T.N.T. plants they were building.

When finally called before the Draft Board, I was rejected
temporarily —to be examined again in six weeks. As Stone &
Webster didn’t want me back till the Army made up its mind, I
worked at the Induction Center from October till December,
helping the doctors with their reports and taking blood pres-
sures and pulses of the men going through. One of the doctors
was kind enough to say I was very “malleable” and recommended
the Medical Corps as a good place for me to be useful, if I should
pass the next examination. Before this examination, the age limit
was changed and the Army lost all interest in me.

By that time Stone & Webster didn’t need me, so I got a job at
the Simplex Wire & Cable Company in Cambridge, where I
stayed for the duration. It was a most interesting experience.
The plant had about two thousand employees turning out war
orders. It had been honored in having both the Army-Navy “E”
award and the Maritime award.

My initiation period was spent dissecting all kinds of cable,
and taking measurements with micrometers and a pin-gauge of
all the component parts, keeping records of these for the en-
gineers so that they had a daily check of the material manufac-
tured. After a year and a half of this, | was given a job with some
responsibility, being put in charge of the records of all matter
made for the Navy.

This gave me the run of the plant, as I had to collect samples
from the machines for Navy inspection, and see that the tests
were made in the chemical and electric laboratories. No material
was released until after dissection check and tests witnessed by
the Navy personnel stationed at the factory.

Since leaving Simplex, I have been renewing my youth over a
drafting board — first at Coolidge, Shepley, Bulfinch & Abbott
from November, 1945, until June, 1947, when I changed to Cram
& Ferguson, | am now with the architectural associates, Emery,
Wait & Smith. | have not considered going back into the deco-

[ 540 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

rating “game” as I hear it has become more or less of a “headache”
with materials hard to get and Jabor sky-high. I enjoy, too, the
lack of responsibility and the absence of “overhead,” and know
I am lucky to have this alternative of drafting, and more than
fortunate to have found work with two such fine firms.

I look forward each year to my vacation at Marion on Sippi-
can Harbor with kind relatives who have an interesting old house
hanging over the water. The swimming and sailing are wonder-
ful, and it is the perfect place to relax and rest after a year in

the city.

HENRY CABOT LODGE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 275 Hale St., Beverly, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Senate Office Building, Washington, D. C.

BORN: July 5, 1902, Nahant, Mass. parents: George Cabot Lodge, ’95, Ma-
tilda Elizabeth Frelinghuysen Davis.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass. ;

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREES: a.B. cum laude, 1924; Lt». (North-
eastern Univ.), 1938.

MARRIED: Emily Esther Sears, July 1, 1926, Beverly, Mass. curtpren: George
Cabot, July 7, 1927; Henry Sears, Aug. 17, 1930.

HARVARD SONS: George Cabot Lodge, 50; Henry Sears Lodge, ’52.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Davis Lodge, ’25.

occupation: United States Senator from Massachusetts.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active reservist since 1925; had reached the
grade of captain when on Aug. 1, 1941, went on extended active duty
in 2nd Armored Division. May, 1942, in Libya, as major, 1st American
Tank Detachment, serving in operations near El Adem and in retreat
from Tobruk to El Alamein. After resignation from Senate, deputy
Chief of Staff, IV Corps, Italy; lieutenant colonel, chief, Liaison Section,
southern Group of Armies, France and Germany. Awarded Legion of
Merit Medal, Bronze Star Medal, Legion d’Honneur (French), Croix
de Guerre with palm (French).

OFFICES HELD: Representative in Massachusetts Legislature, 1933-37; United
States Senator from Massachusetts, elected for term 1937-43, re-elected
for 1943-49; resigned February, 1944; elected for term 1947-53; chair-
man, Committee on Resolutions, Republican National Convention,
1948.

PUBLICATIONS: Newspaper articles in Boston Evening Transcript and New
York Herald-Tribune, 1923-32; magazine articles in Harpers, Army
Ordnance, New York Times Magazine, Fortune, Saturday Evening
Post, American Magazine, Collier's, Life, Look; book, The Cult of
Weakness, 1932.

[ 541 ]

.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

man of the police state looked to the hypnotism of a “leader,” the
young man of America drew strength from his own self-respect.

The Divine concept of the dignity of man gives meaning to
our material existence, courage to us when we are in battle, and
hope to all as we advance into the future.

JOHN LANGELOTH LOEB

HOME ADDRESS: 730 Park Ave., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 61 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 11, 1902, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Carl Morris Loeb, Adeline
Moses.

PREPARED aT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N. J.; Horace Mann
School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1924.

MarriED: Frances Lehman, Nov. 18, 1926, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Judith Helen, Sept. 11, 1927 (m. Richard Norton Beaty, May 28, 1948);
John Langeloth, Jr. May 2, 1929; Ann Margaret and Arthur Lehman
(twins), Sept. 19, 1932; Deborah Frances, Feb. 19, 1946. GRANDCHILD:
Richard Norton Beaty, Jr., April 20, 1949.

HARVARD SON: John Langeloth Loeb, Jr., ’52.

occuPaTION: Partner, Carl M. Loeb, Rhoades & Company, investment and
merchant bankers.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Assistant director, Procurement Division, in
charge of Lend-Lease, Treasury Department; special assistant to sur-
plus property administrator, Office of War Mobilization; temporary
staff of director general, U.N.N.R.A.

orFices HELD: Director, Empire Trust Company, New York, since 1948,
Rome Cable Company, Rome, N. Y., since 1937, National Radiator
Company, Johnstown, Pa., since 1945, Pennsylvania-Central Air Lines, .
1937-44; trustee and treasurer, Montefiore Hospital, New York, N. Y.;
trustee, Valeria Home, Oscawanna, N. Y., Louis J. & Mary E. Horo-
witz Foundation, New York, N. Y.; president, Frances L. & John Loeb
Foundation.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York, Dartmouth College Club, New
York, City Midday Club, New York, Century Country Club, White
Plains, N. Y.; Sons of the American Revolution; Empire State Society.

HAMILTON WARNER LORD

HOME Appkess: go Wilson Ave., Amityville, N. Y.

ovnick avpress: Fairchild Fngine & Airplane Corp. Farmingdale, N. Y.

mors: Dee, 18, 1yo1, Waterbury, Conn, parents: Archie Ely Lord, Mildred
Warner,

[ 544]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Adelphi Academy, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1921,

MarrieD: Elizabeth Lillian Siegmann, Sept. 21, 1929, Brooklyn, N. Y. cu-
DREN: Hamilton Warner, Jr., Aug. 13, 1931; Elizabeth Ely, Oct. 4, 1939.

OCCUPATION: Assistant comptroller, Fairchild Engine & Airplane Corpora-
tion.

FRANTIC Appeal No. 4 worked, Of one segment of my philoso-
phy I am certain, that is that I live for the future and not for the
past, using the word “live” in its fullest sense. Thus, when I at-
tempt to look back over twenty-five years in response to “goads”
and “appeals,” I wonder where all the time went and what really
was accomplished. I can summarize it this way — from beer to
bullets to bombers. The first eight years were a series of mundane
and prosaic jobs; maybe I learned something and maybe I didn’t.
This was followed by eight years as treasurer and assistant general
manager of the Lion Brewery, exposed to alcohol, if nothing else.
Beer was followed by bullets, representing six years with the
Remington Arms Company as their plant comptroller, first at
King’s Mills, Ohio, and later in Denver, Colorado. Big operations,
too big. Growing overnight, expanding, contracting. A remark-
able experience from which I learned two things — that big busi-
ness is competent and efficient and can meet emergencies, and
that people are individuals, and as individuals are entitled to
individual respect. .

The last three years bring me up to the present, as assistant
comptroller of the Fairchild Engine & Airplane Corporation. I
am presently located at their Farmingdale, Long Island, plant
where we have been engaged on a secret rocket-powered guided
missile, a ship-to-air machine, whose flight is automatically con-
trolled. All other data with respect to this missile are cloaked in
secrecy under Navy security regulations. .

** RICHARD TUTTLE LORING

BORN: Feb. 7, 1g00, Newtonville, Mass. Parents: Richard Tuttle Loring,
’92, Mary Amory Leland.

PREPARED AT: Newton Classical High School, Newtonville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B, 1924(25)3  S.T.B. (Episcopal
Theological School, Cambridge), 1929.

MarriED: Helen Dexter, June 25, 1928, Concord, Mass. cHttpren: Richard

[ 545]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Tuttle, 3d, Oct. 23, 1929; Christopher, May 17, 1932; Timothy, Sept.

19, 1935.
ssarvand PROvHERS: Oliver Leland Loring, ’26; John Caleb Loring, ’31.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Truck driver, American Red Cross, 1918-19.
orp: April 16, 1948, Springfield, Ill.
RICHARD TUTTLE LORING entered Harvard after com- |
pleting preparatory study at the Newton Classical High School.
In college he was active as a member of the Freshman 150-Ib.
Crew (1921), Freshman Orchestra, Harvard Mission Committee
(1922-24), Musical Club (treasurer, 1923-24), Pierian Sodality
(vice-president, 1922; president, 1923-24) and the Pierian Sodality
Orchestra. He received the Price Greenleaf Aid in 1920 and held
the Laymen’s Committee Scholarship of the Episcopal Church
during 1920-21 and 1922-23.

After receiving his A.B. degree in Architecture with the Class,
he attended the Harvard Graduate School and then was associ-
ated with the firm of Cram & Ferguson, architects, working on the
St. John the Divine Cathedral in New York and the Provident
Mutual Life Insurance Building in Philadelphia.

It was after the death of his father, the Reverend Richard
T. Loring, that he became interested in the ministry and entered
the Cambridge Seminary, graduating in 1928. While attending
school, he assisted the Reverend Smith O. Dexter of Concord.
His first parish position was at the Church of the Good Shepherd,
Waban, Massachusetts, and in 1933 he received the state appoint-
ment as chaplain to the staff of the Boston Psychopathic Hos-
pital. In 1937 he was sent to St. David’s Church, Baltimore, and
served there until elected fifth Bishop of the Protestant Episcopal
Society of Springfield, ten years later, While in Baltimore, he
was a member of the board of trustees of the Roland Park
Country School, Church Home and Infirmary, the Standing Com-
mittee of the Diocese of Maryland and also served as treasurer
of the Mental Hygiene Society of Maryland and of the Maryland
Ciuzens Committee.

In addition to his many activitics, he contributed numerous
articles to church magazines and did much writing and lecturing.

(545 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DARRAGH LOUDERBACK

ADDRESS: 39 Southard Lane, Babylon, Long Island, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 6, 1902, Highland Park, Ill. parents: William Johnson Louder-
back, Jane Charlotte Darragh.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1924(25).

MARRIED: Constance Marie Clemons, Oct. 12, 1929, West Islip, Long Island,
N. Y. CHILDREN: Peter Darragh, July 16, 1931; Joan Gunther, Sept. 2r,
1935.

OCCUPATION: Finance. .

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Air raid warden; instructor, first aid, Red Cross.

MEMBER OF: First Separate Battalion, 5th Brigade, New York State Guard.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Louderback did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

“HERBERT GOODMAN LOWENSTEIN

HOME AppREsS: 31 W, 11th St. New York, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREss: Chanel, Inc., 35 W. 34th St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 20, 1903, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Albert Benjamin Lowen-
stein, Sophia Goodman.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN .COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. #agna cum laude, 1924; LLB.
(Univ. of Pennsylvania), 1930.

MARRIED: Emma Mae Newman, June 18, 1947, Philadelphia, Pa.

OCCUPATION: Executive assistant to president, Chanel, Inc.; vice-president,
Bourjois, Inc., and Barbara Gould, Inc.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant (junior grade), United States Naval
Reserve, March 29, 1943, to May 1, 1944; lieutenant, May 1, 1044 to
Nov. 11, 1945; Office of Strategic Services, Nov. 26, 1943, to Sept.
10, 1945; Naval Indoctrination School, Fort Schuyler, N. Y. March
to May, 1943; Basic Naval Intelligence School, Frederick, Md., May
to June, 1943; Advanced Naval Intelligence School, New York, June
to July, 1943; Naval Intelligence Office, 4 N.D., July to November,
1943; Office of Strategic Services, Washington, D, C.. November, 1943,
to January, 1944, May to September, 1945; security officer, Mediter-
ranean Theatre, Office of Strategic Services, stationed at Oran, Algiers,
Caserta, Siena, and Florence, Italy, January, 1944, to Mav, 1945; Naval
Officers’ Separation Center, Washington, D. C., September to Novem-
ber, 1945.

OFFicrs HELD: Member, Procedural Rules Committee, Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania, February, 1940, to December, 1941; Pennsylvania com-
mentator, American Law Institute Model Code of Evidence, January
to June, 1942

[547]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

concerns in New York City, where my official duties utilized
my knowledge of foreign countries and languages as well as my
law training. I now act as a kind of clearing-house for the han-
dling of legal and other affairs of the concerns by which I am em-
ployed, both in the United States and abroad.

And now, as the result of all this reminiscing, I feel like a two-
faced Janus, looking to the future with the hope that it may renew
some of the more pleasant aspects of the past. I hope to travel
again. I look forward to continued contacts with the friends of
the varied periods of my life — Harvard, Philadelphia, the armed
services, and New York. Books and the theatre have never lost
their charm. Perhaps (shades of Professors Chase and Edgell, not
to speak of Mr. Churchill), I shall even indulge a lurking desire
to paint! If there is any lesson I have learned from the kaleido-
scopic scenes of these twenty-five years, it is this — that there is
no contentment to be found or purchased, it must come from
within one’s own mind and heart.

GEORGE HARRIS LUCHINI

HOME ADpDRESS: 383 Eastern Ave., Lynn, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Public Works, Traffic Division, 100 Nashua
St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: March 5, 1900, Milford, Mass. Parents: Luigi Luchini, Caterina
Guglielmi.

PREPARED AT: Milford High School, Milford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

MarRiED: Josephine M. Calderara, Aug. 25, 1940, Lynn, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Luchini, 714.

OccuPATION: Traffic and fiscal studies, Commonwealth of Massachusetts
Highway Planning Division.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Students’ Army Training Corps, Harvard Unit,
1918,

MEMBER OF: Lynn Fish & Game Protective Association, Inc.

AS MANY others have done, after graduation I went through the
paces in my father’s business of general contracting. Thus, from
1924 to 1934 I had a hand in the building of sunken gardens,
swimming pools, tea houses, etc., for those whose incomes in-
creased by leaps and bounds during those fantastic years of the late
twenties. In a sense, our business was linked with Wall Street

[ 550]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and the association turned out to be rather unhealthy. However,
it was good while it lasted.

I then tried teaching and selling insurance and in 1939 I landed
back in construction work for the Signal Corps in the rehabilita-
tion of the harbor defenses of Boston and New Bedford. In view
of what was to follow, this was a most interesting assignment.
I stayed on with the Signal Corps during the war as civilian in
charge of procurement activities at the Boston Signal Depot and
later was in charge of the stock and inventory control division
which includes all posts, camps, and stations within the First Ser-
vice Command. In 1945 began the deactivation of camps, centrali-
zation of the depots, and the problems of return materiel and
surplus property disposal. I spent the rest of my government
service in helping to dispose of the voluminous inventories of
materials and equipment which I had previously helped to pile up.

In August, 1947, came the end of my services to Uncle Sam
during and after World War II. Not having had any appreciable
time off since before the war, I felt the need of a little relaxation
and so during the next three months, I was able to catch up on
some fishing.

After all these years, I am now back again in highway work and
with a firm resolve to spend more time with my wife and my
fishing tackle as time goes on.

TRUMAN HOPKINS LUHRMAN

HOME aporeEss: 40 Gilford Ave., Jersey City, N. J.

OFFICE aDDREss: Wood, Molloy, France & Tully, 25 Broad St., New York,
N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 15, 1902, Jersey City, N. J. parents: John Luhrman, Lillian
Hopkins. ,

PREPARED AT: Lincoln High School, Jersey City, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1924; LL.B. (Colum-
bia Univ.), 1927.

MarRRIED: Joyce Walser, July 7, 1932, Jersey City, N. J. cump: Thomas
Hopkins, Nov. 10, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

FOLLOWING graduation from college, I entered Columbia
Law School, from which I was graduated in 1927 with the degree
of Bachelor of Laws. The following fall I became associated

[s51]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

with the law firm of Wood, Molloy & France in New York City,
with whom I have been ever since. I am a member of the Bar of
New York and New Jersey and practise in both states.

EDGAR GOTTFRID LUNDIN

HOME appREss: 428 Brook Rd., Milton, Mass.

OFFICE appress: New England Tel. & Tel. Co., 50 Oliver St., Boston, Mass.

Bors: April 4, 1902, Quincy, Mass. parents: Andrew Edward Lundin,
Augusta Swanson.

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

marriep: Gunhild Ahlstrom, June 30, 1928, Quincy, Mass. CHILDREN: Joan,
May 18, 1934; Doris, Feb. 8, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Enor Edward Lundin, 714.

occupation: General accountant, New England Telephone & Telegraph
Company.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Air Raid Warning Service.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Central Baptist Church, Quincy, 1939-46.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on accounting subjects in Telephone Topics.

a

THE remembrances aroused by a telescopic view of twenty-five
years in retrospect are many and happy. First, a job in the tele-
phone business, where I have now attained stature as a “pioneer”
with twenty-four years of continuous service. Early in my busi-
ness career I enjoyed several years of travel with long sojourns
at Atlanta, Richmond, Omaha, and Chicago, and somewhat shorter
stays at such delightful spots as New Orleans, Louisville, Minne-
apolis, Washington, and Philadelphia. This opportunity to be-
come acquainted at first-hand with locales far removed in spirit
and space from cold-roast Boston resulted in many interesting
experiences and lasting friendships. Since resettling in Boston
a dozen years ago with the New England Telephone Company,
I have worked in a number of different capacities dealing with
various technical and administrative phases of telephone account-
ing. I have served as methods accountant, general revenue account-
ant, division auditor of receipts at Providence, and assistant auditor.
At present, as general accountant, I am charged with special du-
tics in analyzing and presenting the financial results of the com-
pany’s tclephone operations, The current inflationary cycle on the
one hand, and the stringent rate restrictions imposed on public
service utilitics by regulatory commissions on the other, form the

[552]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

horns of the dilemma which has kept me busy from early morn to
late at night. However, it is exciting and intriguing work.
Second, a happy marriage, family, and home help to complete
the retrospective panorama covering the past twenty years. A
lovely wife and two growing girls speak for themselves much
more effectively than words of mine might try to picture them.
Third, I must append a note about the predilections I have de-
veloped in the course of the past quarter-century. They comprise
chiefly a love for the outdoors (amateur ornithology, fishing,
gardening, and golfing), and bibliomania. The latter includes
not only the collecting, but also the reading of books — particu-
larly if they relate to Thoreau, Lincoln, the Adams family, or the
novels of Anthony Trollope. For this love of books and reading
I shall ever be grateful to the guidance and training received at
Harvard during that delightful period from 1920 to 1924.

JACOB LURIE

HOME AppRESS: 24A Trelawn Terr., Plainfield, N. J.

OFFICE ADpREss: Ablon Finishes, Inc. 8g Waydell St, Newark 5, N. J.

BORN: July 16, 1902, Minusinsk, Siberia. PARENTS: Michael William Lurie,
Bella Tartakovskaya.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: S.B. cust laude, 1924.

MaRRIED: Elsie Wolfield, March 2, 1927, Dayton, Ohio. cuipreN: Robert
Jay (M.LT. ’50), Aug. 14, 1928; Ruth Bella, July 10, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and general manager, Ablon Finishes, Inc.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Member, Phenolic Coating Resins Industry
Advisory Committee; adviser at Massachusetts Institute of Technology
on a wartime project involving organic coatings.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor on Protective Coatings, Massachusetts University
Extension, 1940-41.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Federation of Paint and Varnish
Production Clubs; New England Paint and Varnish Production Club
(honorary member).

PUBLICATIONS: “An Analytical Survey of the Synthetic Resin Industry.”

ON THE whole, mine has been a very simple but a happy life —
centered almost entirely on taking care of my little family, mak-
ing friends, and getting ahead in my chosen life’s work, the
chemistry of organic protective coatings. For varietv, I do some
reading, travelling, gardening, piano “playi ing , bridge playing,

and golfing.
[553]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

This quiet, homey life was punctured rudely on two occasions
—in 1938 by the passing away of my dear mother, and just
recently by the sudden passing of my eldest brother, my only
uncle, and my closest friend, all occurring within the past few
months. It has been a shock which does not seem to diminish
with the passing days, for all three were such good men.

However, I feel very deeply also about the disturbing times in
which we live; not so much for myself, perhaps —I am getting
old — as for my children and their young friends and the little
folks everywhere. If only I and other silent ones had the courage
and the ability to speak up for the good things in life — for peace
on earth, good will to men. It can be done! Some day this will
be the kind of world we oldsters preach about and our youngsters
dream about! But when?

JOHN McANDREW

HOME apprEss: Liverpool 88, Mexico City, Mexico.

OFFicE appREss: Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass.

BORN: May 4, 1904, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: William McAndrew, Susan
Irvine Gurney.

PREPARED AT: Riverdale Country School, Riverdale-on-Hudson, N, Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude, 1924; M.ARCH,,
1941.

OCCUPATION: Education.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor, Vassar College, 1932-37; visiting lecturer,
Institute of Fine Arts, New York University, and Vassar College, 1937-
41, Universidad Nacional de Mexico, 1942, Wellesley College, 1945,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, since 1947, University of South-
ern California, 1949; curator of architecture, 1937-41, member of ar-
chitecture committee, 1941-47, Museum of Modern Art, trustee, Amer-
ican Laboratory School of Design, 1939-41; recipient of grant from
Co-ordinator for Latin-American Affairs, 1941; Sachs Research Fel-
low, Harvard, 1941; director and member of exhibition and _publica-
tions committce, 1943-48, co-founder, Sociedad de Arte Moderno, Mex-
ico; professor, Escucla del Instituto Nacional de Antropologia e His-
toria, Mexico, 1944; associate professor, Wellesley College, since 1946;
director, Farnsworth Museum, since 1946; member of art committee,
Instituto Mexicano-Nortcamericano de Relaciones Culturales, 1944-46,
Biblioteca Benjamin Franklin, Mexico, 1944-47.

MEMBER OF: Sociedad de Arquitectos Mexicanos (honorary and correspond-
ing); American Society of Architectural Historians, College Art As

[554]

rH REI OC IRR TERT IE REN AREA TEN RIE A 2 IIE ET EEA OE oR! ESS

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sociation; The Athenaeum, New York; American Association of Uni-
versity Professors.

PUBLICATIONS: Guide to Modern Architecture, Museum of Modern Art,
1940; Alvar Aalto, Architecture @ Furniture, 1938 (editor); A New
House, by Frank Lloyd Wright (editor), 1938; many articles published

.in Art Bulletin, Art News, Hispanic American Historical Review,
San Carlos, and the publications of the Museum of Modern Art, Edi-
tions des Musées Nationaux de France, and Sociedad de Arte Moderno.

AFTER three years of architectural school at Harvard (where |
learned little), three years of practice in New York (where I
learned more), and a year abroad (where I learned very much
more), I was overtaken by the depression, and discouraged from
trying to survive as an architect. A chance came to try teaching,
which always seemed a close second choice for a career; after a
year it became clear that it was not second but a very welcome
first choice. I have been at it, off and on, here and in Mexico ever
since, with time out for building a few houses, for work in the
Museum of Modern Art (museum work is third choice), for or-
- ganizing a number of exhibitions, for writing on a long book
in Mexico, and for a great deal of travel in Europe, Mexico, and
the United States. So far, I have been fortunate in almost identi-
fying what I have to do to earn a living with what I would want
to do anyway for myself and for others.

EDWARD KING McCAGG

‘ apprEss: Sarles Street, Mount Kisco, N. Y.

BORN: May 29, 1901, New York, N. Y. PARENTs: Louis Butler McCagg, ’84,
Edith Edgar King.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923.

Marriep: Rosalind Barnum, Feb. 21, 1928, New York, N. Y. cuttoren: Peter
K., March 6, 1929; G. Gordon, Feb. 8, 1931; Lauriston H., Jan. 23,

1934.
OCCUPATION: Education.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
McCagg did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

[555]

HARVARD CLASS OF I9Q24

THEODORE MecCLINTOCK

HOME appress: 350 W. ssth St, New York 19, N. Y.

Bors: Oct. 28, 1902, Topeka, Kans. parents: William Starrett McClintock,
Martha Belle Whaley.

PREPARFD AT: Topeka High School, Topeka, Kans., Westport High School,
Kansas Citv, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

makrriep: Lillian Lustig, Sept. 12, 1937, New York, N. Y.

occupation: Editor and writer.

MEMBER OF: League of American Writers; Book and Magazine Guild (Lo-
cal 18, United Office and Professional Workers of America, C.1.Q.).

PUBLICATIONS: “English and American Sport Terms in German,” American
Speech, December, 1933; “The Underwater Zoo,” 1938.

IN THE past my work has been largely editorial; from now on I
hope to do more writing.

THOMAS EDWARD McCORMICK

HOME Appress: 16 Danville St., West Roxbury 32, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: City Planning Board, Room 43, City Hall, Boston 8, Mass.

BorN: March 29, 1897, Boston, Mass. ParENts: James McCormick, Maria E.
Conlon.

prepareD at: Everett High School, Everett, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1926. DEGREE: S.B, IN C.E. 1926.

MarRiED: Kathleen Benedicta Landrey, Sept. 27, 1941, West Roxbury, Mass.
cuiLp: James Landrey, Dec. 15, 1944.

occupation: City planning engineer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL ReEcoRD: Private, oth United States Infantry, Mexican
Border Service, Feb. 10, 1917-April 5, 1917; active duty, United States
Amy. April 6, 1917-October 14, 1919; commissioned 2nd_ lieutenant,
Sept. 25, 1918; in France with qth, sth, and 7th United States Army
Divisions; Defensive Sector, June, 1918, Meuse-Argonne, October,
1918, awarded Purple Heart, Oct. 12, 1918.

oFFices WELD: Chairman, City of Everett Board of Zoning Appeal, 1928-33;
Grand Knight, Everett Council No. 97, Knights of Columbus, 1932-33.

MeMper oF: Amcrican Institute of Planners; American Society of Planning
Officials, Harvard Engineering Society, Massachusetts Society of Pro-
fessional Engineers; American Congress on Surveying and Mapping,
Catholic Alumni Sodality.

puBLicaTioss: Report on a geodetic survey for Boston, 1942.

FROM one point of view, the past twenty-five years of my life
have been similar to the first twenty-five in that rather than at-
tempting to point my efforts in life in any selected direction, |

[ 556 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have trouble enough meeting or avoiding my “as is” problems,
small as they are.

After some delay in obtaining my degree in 1926, I spent
several years on highway construction until 1931, when I was
employed as a topographic map draftsman by the Boston City
Planning Board. Oddly enough, I had little to do with topog-
raphy until 1936, when I found myself directing a geodetic sur-
vey of the City of Boston, It was a Works Progress Administra-
tion project, money was no object and we trained men from all
walks of life in the varied duties of a surveyor. Fortunately,
there were some men on the job who had good training and some
assistants with the “do or die” spirit who made the precise sur-
vey phase of the job click. Late in 1940, when a change in opera-
tions at headquarters took place and we again began to receive
bartenders for transitmen, I decided that I had had enough and
went back to my desk in City Hall as Planning Engineer.

In the summer of 1944 I became executive director and since
then have been trying to fill the requirements the job entails in
bringing ‘about the orderly development, or, rather redevelop-
ment, of a central city that is ninety per cent built up.

There are plenty of plans and the desire to plan is universal.
The problem is that of getting agreement on a plan, and providing
the devices and means to effectuate it, two reasons why the
planned rebuilding of our cities will not be easily or quickly solved, |

The sequence of events in my life, I think, does not conform
with the Class pattern. War experiences to me are those of
World War I, then college, followed by finding a place in life,
marriage, not until 1941, a little son in 1944, and another expected
addition to the family early in 1949. Life begins at forty!

GEORGE ARTHUR McDERMOTT

HOME AppREss: 110 Mackey Ave., Port Washington, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREss: Appleton-Century-Crofts, Inc, 35 VW. 3znd Sc, New York,

BoRN: Aug. 20, 1901, Dorchester, Mass. parents: William John McDermott,
Louisa M. Weiss.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924, DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

MarriED: Mary Louise Boland, Oct. 27, 1926,*Dorchester, Mass. (died Dec.

[557]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

16, 1931); Virginia Boswell Smith, Aug. 20, 1937, New York, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Richard, Jan. 6, 1929; George Arthur, Jr., Aug. 7, 1943;
Emily Ann, Jan. 7, 1947.

occuparion: Editor, Medical Book Department, Appleton-Century-Crofts,
Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of Boston.

AFTER the deaths of Louise and my second son at the time of his
birth in 1931, I continued in the textbook publishing business
and thought the pattern of my life with my son was pretty well
settled. Then, I approached Virginia Smith at State College with
the hope that we might publish the book she was writing. Well,
to make a long story short, I did not get her book to publish,
but I did get her. We married in 1937 and I started life all over
with a Phi Beta Kappa and Ph.D. southern beauty to show me the
way. There’s nothing like two small children to keep you young.
With Richard at the University of Virginia, I have started a Har-
vard indoctrination course for George, Jr., but he tells me that
he is going to kindergarten, Harvard, and University of Virginia.
The order shocked me, but, he explains, Virginia is a university.
There is still some hope, however, since the latest news is that he
will go to Harvard because he wants to be a fireman,

To get back to publishing, it is a fascinating business although
not likely to make me wealthy, if money alone is considered
wealth. I have enjoyed it all. Now that I am in medical books,
after being in the textbook and dictionary departments and repre-
senting all departments, including trade with the federal govern-
ment during the war, I want to publish good medical books. My
travelling takes me far and wide to obtain manuscripts, but I did
not get to publish the Kinsey report.

MILTON WILLIAM McGREEVY

HOME aporess: 5707 Oakwood Rd., Kansas City 2, Mo.

orrice apprrss: Harris, Upham & Co., 912 Baltimore Ave., Kansas City 6,
Mo.

BONN: Jan. 27, 1903, Chicago, Ill, parents: Milton Cornelius McGreevy,
Dora Achenbach.

vurparep at: Westport High School, Kansas City, Mo.

VRAKS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924, M.B.A., 1926.

Manip: Barbara James, April 17, 1929, Kansas City, Mo. ciinpren: Jean,

[558]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Feb. 11, 1930; Thomas James, March 20, 1932; Barbara Ann, Jan. 26,
1938; Gail, March 15, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Donald Hamilton McGreevy, °31.

occuPaTioN: Partner, Harris, Upham & Company, members, New York
Stock Exchange.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Finance Committee, Kansas City Board of Trade;
secretary and treasurer, Grain Clearing Company; member, New York
Stock Exchange, Chicago Board of Trade, Kansas City Board of Trade,
and Advisory Board of University of Kansas City, vice-chairman,
Board of Trustees of Sunset Hill School, president, Westport Fund;
vice-president, Dundee Realty and Investment Company; president,
The Friends of Art (Kansas City), 1946-47; director, Flour Mills of
America, Inc., Mid-Continental Airlines, Inc. Gleaner Harvester Corpo-
ration, Kansas City Life Insurance Company, C. J. Patterson Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Kansas City; Harvard Club of New York;
University Club, Kansas City; Kansas City Country Club; Mission Hills
Country Club; Kansas City Club.

AFTER graduation I came back to Harvard to the Business
School, receiving a degree in the spring of 1926. Following the
boat races that year, I returned home to Kansas City and promptly
entered my father’s firm, Strandberg, McGreevy & Company,
members of the New York Stock Exchange. This became Mc-
Greevy & Company in June, 1929, just two months after my
wedding. The second and third quarters of that historic year
found me taking on the responsibilities of family life, becoming
a partner in a business at the age of twenty-six, and helping
guide its course through the stock market crash of September
and October. In 1930 I became a partner in Harris, Upham &
Company and I have continued in that position for the nineteen
succeeding years down to date, managing the Kansas City office
and our other offices in the Southwest. I have had the fortunate
experience of being in a reasonably successful business and one
that I have found congenial both in its routine operation and in
my associations.

I have a fine wife and four nice children. My daughter, Jean,
currently is finishing her sophomore year at Vassar College, and
my son, Tom, is at the Country Day School in Kansas City and
hopes to enter Harvard after one more year there. My daughter,
Ann, is finishing the sixth grade and my daughter, Gail, is in the
first grade. They are a lively crew and there are few dull mo-
ments around home,

[559]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

I have done a little shooting but my principal outside athletic
activities have been squash racquets and golf, and with the ad-
vancing weight of years, it looks like golf from here on out.

I have been happily busy with a good many activities and find
them interesting and stimulating.

I live in a white shingle house on a wooded hill in eastern Kansas,
I am about half a mile from two good golf clubs and I can drive to
my office in eighteen minutes. Sometimes I feel a little removed
from the center of things, being 1800 miles from “The Hub
of the Universe” and 1600 miles from Wall Street where my busi-
ness interests center, but there are fully offsetting compensations
in living out here where the skies are a little bluer.

ALEXANDER MACKAY-SMITH

HOME AND OFFICE apprEss: Lucky Hit Farm, White Post, Va.

BORN: Jan. 31, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: Clarence Bishop Smith,
Catherine Ireland Cook.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1924; LLB.,

1928(29).

MarRiED: Joan Higginson, June 16, 1928, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1948).
CHILDREN: Alexander, Jr., March 31, 1929; Mehitable, Aug. 22, 1931;
Matthew Page, Sept. 15, 1932; Amanda Joan, Jan. 25, 1940; Justin, Sept.
25, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Carleton Sprague Smith, °27.

occupaTION: Farmer and stockbreeder; farm consultant, writer on agricul-
tural subjects; public relations; real estate.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chief observer, White Post, Va., Observation
Post, Aircraft Warning Service, U. S. Army Air Forces; member,
Selective Service Advisory Board.

OFFICEs HELD: Member legal staff, St. Lawrence Power & Development
Commission, 1930-31, Reconstruction Finance Corporation, in charge
of low cost housing program, 1932-33; president, Shenandoah Valley
Polled Shorthorn Breeders’ Association; director, Virginia Beef Cattle
Producers’ Association; delegate, American Shorthorn Breeders’ Asso-
ciation, Democratic committeeman, Clarke County, Va.; associate
editor, The Chronicle, Middleburg, Va.; vice-president and county
chairman, Shenandoah Council, Red Cross Camp and Hospital Service.

MEMBER OF: Blue Ridge Hunt, Clarke County, Va. (M.F.H.); American
Horse Shows Association (vice-president); Clarke County Historical
Association (president); Virginia Horsemen’s Association (director);
Cleveland Bay Society of America (secretary-treasurer); Cleveland
Bay Horse Society of Great Britain (vice-president); Horse and Mule

[ 560 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Association of America (advisory board); International Musicological
Association; Harvard Club of Virginia.

PUBLICATIONS: Legal Report, St. Lawrence Power & Development Commis-
sion, State of N. Y., 1931; over three hundred magazine articles on horse
breeding, fox hunting, hounds, and livestock farming; The Thorough-
bred in the Lower Shenandoah Valley, 1785-1842, Winchester, Va.

1948.
DURING the summer following graduation I travelled in Eng-
land with my family. My father, an ardent genealogist, piloted
us to many of the old houses and castles owned by my ancestors.

The following winter was spent in Paris studying violin. In
England and France I collected many contemporary editions
of eighteenth-century authors, along the lines of study developed
in college, where I majored in the history and literature of the
eighteenth century. I aslo began at that time a collection of
chamber music of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. Dur-
ing the summer, I followed my violin teacher to Gargilesse in the
mountains of the Puy de Dome, a little village with a colony of
painters, writers, and musicians, begun by Chopin and George
Sand.

In the autumn of 1925, I came back to Cambridge to the Law
School. I was particularly interested in labor relations and during
the summers of 1926 and 1927, worked as a laborer; the first in a
shoe factory in Manchester, New Hampshire, the second in an-
thracite mines near Nanticoke, Pennsylvania. While in the mines
I had an unusual opportunity to observe the inner workings of
labor union politics and the techniques of stirring up unrest in
connection with the Sacco-Vanzetti case.

I went abroad after my marriage in June, 1928, and visited
England, Ireland, Holland, Germany, and France, in the course
of a tour that included the Olympic Games and more book and
music collecting.

In the autumn I went to work asa law clerk in New York for
the firm of Rounds, Dillingham, Mead & Neagle, and became a
member of the Bar of the State of New York. In 1930 I resigned
and, with Charlie Poletti, became a member of the legal staff of
the St. Lawrence Power & Development Commission. We con-
cluded this work the following year with the publication of the
legal report establishing the rights of the State of New York in
the water power and navigation of the St. Lawrence River.

[ 561 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

FRANCIS KERENS McKENNA

LAST KNOWN apprEss: 162 Maplewood Rd., Riverside, III.

BORN: July 4, 1900, St. Louis, Mo. PARENTS: Frank Boursmann McKenna,
Kathryne Kerens.

PREPARED AT: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922.

MARRIED: Helen Ives Palmer, Oct. 14, 1925, Wilmette, Ill. cHitpREN: Joseph
Richard, June 25, 1928; Stuart, Oct. 20, 1930.

OCCUPATION: Journalism.

McKENNA has been carried as a “Jost” man on our records since
October 5, 1948.

JOHN McKITTRICK

HOME ADDRESS: 215 Cedar Rd., New Milford, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Chase National Bank, 18 Pine St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: May 17, 1902, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Hugh McKittrick, Grace
Kennett.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1925.

MARRIED: Trudeau Fischer, March 29, 1930, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Hugh, April 23, 1933; Lawrence, Feb. 19, 1935; Judith, March 28, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Kennett McKittrick, ’19.

occupation: Banking.

OFFICES HELD: Worshipful master, Mountain Lakes Lodge, No. 258, F. &
A.M., 1944; grand chaplain, F. & A.M., New Jersey, 1946.

HUGH McMILLAN

HOME apprEss: 5 Woodland Pl., Grosse Pointe 30, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2878 Penobscot Bldg., Detroit 26, Mich.

BorN: Aug. 15, 1900, Detroit, Mich. parents: Hugh McMillan, Josephine
Warfield.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-10922.

MaRRIED: Kathryn Rohnert, Jan. 14, 1925, Detroit, Mich. (died Jan. 16,
1945); Jane Olmsted Houghton, June 21, 1947, New York, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Hugh, Jr., July 19, 1926 (m. Mary Woodcock, July 16,
1948); Jan, Jan. 21, 1930.

OCCUPATION: Retired.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman executive committee, 1941-45, director, Detroit
Chapter, American Red Cross; trustee, Grosse Pointe Country Day
School, 1940-44, Charles Godwin Jennings Hospital, since 1944.

[ 566 ] "

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES FRANCIS McMULLAN

HOME apprEss: 616 W. Upsal St., Mount Airy, Philadelphia 19, Pa.

OFFICE apprEss: Clark, Brown, McGown, Fortenbaugh & Young, 1900
Girard Trust Bldg., Philadelphia 2, Pa.

BorN: April 21, 1903, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: James McMullan, Helen
Punderson.

PREPARED AT: William Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; LLB., 1927.

MARRIED: Hazel Milne Shennan, Sept. 10, 1928, New Bedford, Mass. cui-
DREN: Susan Arnett, June 1, 1929; James Francis, Jr., Feb. 20, 1931;
Franklin Shields, Dec. 21, 1932; Bruce Whittaker, July 27, 1934.

occupation: Law.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Volunteer, aircraft warning service.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Pennsylvania Bar Association,
Philadelphia Bar Association.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
McMullan did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

CHARLTON MacVEAGH

HOME ADDRESS: 425 Oakwood Ave., Webster Groves 19, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mallinckrodt Chemical Works, Second & Mallinckrodt Sts.,
St. Louis 7, Mo. .

BORN: Dec. 6, 1901, New York, N. Y. parents: Charles MacVeagh, Fanny
Davenport Rogers.

PREPARED aT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1924; B.A.

' (Univ. of Oxford), 1926.

MaRRiED: Adele K. Merrill, June 15, 1929, Bedford, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Clarissa, Dec. 18, 1930; Charles, Feb. 14, 1932; Charlton, Jr., and Adele
(twins), March 22, 1936; Priscilla, Aug. 8, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Rogers MacVeagh, "10 (deceased); Lincoln MacVeagh,
13; Ewen Cameron MacVeagh, '18; Charles MacVeagh, Jr., ’19 (de-
ceased); Francis Wayne MacVeagh, ’21.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chief, detinning section, Tin-lead Division,
War Production Board; member, War Trade Staff, Board of Economic
Warfare, August, 1942, to September, 1943, deputy director, Read-
justment Division, Headquarters Army Service Forces; chief, Read-
justment Branch, Resources Division, chief, Readjustment and Procure-
ment Division, AC/AS-4, Headquarters, Army Air Forces, September,
1943 to January, 1946; holder of War Department Commendation for
Exceptional Civilian Service and Presidential Certificate of Merit.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant to the chairman, Republican National Committee,
1936; vice-chairman, Eastern Division, Republican National Committee,

yo [ 567 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Look back through history and honor those,
Whoever they may be, who kept the dream
And added to its stature and its life:
Washington, Lincoln, and the suffragettes,
The Jabor unions, Roosevelt, and Wilson,
Hoover, and Willkie, Franklin Roosevelt,

And Harry Truman, irrepressible
As only an American can be.

Strange team-mates, often enemies, but still
Alike in this, that sometimes they did good.

To do well always is not quite as hard
As to do good sometimes.

* 8 @

We have been saved because men dared to die,
And still protected by such living men
We are allowed at ease to meet and dine,
While distant millions scarce exist at all.

Perhaps we should not be ashamed,

For friendship is a holy thing;

But what, some twenty years from now
Will be our final offering?

By now we should have hit our stride,

The apogee of all our powers — .

How shall we use them in the time

That’s left us — measured now in hours?

DONALD McVICKAR

HOME aAppRESS: 419 E. 57th St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Anderson, Davis & Platte, 50 Rockefeller Plaza, New York,
N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 16, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: Henry Goelet McVickar,
Janet Suffern Lansing.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MarRRIED: Camilla Woodward Livingston, July 9, 1927 (divorced 1943);
Elinor Guthrie Neff, 1943.

[570 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Lansing McVickar, ’o8.

occupation: Advertising Agency.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active duty, June 15, 1941, lieutenant, United
States Naval Reserve; duty, 90 Church St., until February, 1942; execu-
tive and navigating officer, U.S.S. Eagle 19 until July, 1942; commanding
officer, U.S.S. PC 552, until December, 1942; commanding officer,
USS. Cythera PY 31, until May, 1943; commanding officer, U.SS.
Baron DE 166, until November, 1943; commanding officer, U.SS.
Eisner DE 192, until November, 1944; Brooklyn Navy Yard, until
February, 1946.

MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club, New York; Ad Men’s Post 209,
American Legion, Veteran Motor Car Club.

MY LIFE since graduation has been interesting and full and I do
not necessarily mean spirit-ually, or do I?

I graduated from both St. Mark’s School of Southboro, Massa-
chusetts, and Harvard College of Cambridge, Massachusetts. The
cumulative effect of so much education so geographically con-
centrated was more than I thought was good for me. I felt that
it behooved me to get some of this out of my system and make
myself more “as other men.” So, I took a job as a truck driver.
Anyone who has hobnobbed around with the shrinking violets
who make up the average run of truck drivers will readily under-
stand that I was fast on my way to ridding myself of a consider-
able amount of the education for which my good parents had spent
considerable dough. By contrast it deeply impressed upon me
how extremely fortunate I had been during the previous ten
years. Just try driving a broken down dumper truck between
Long Island City and Mineola the afternoon of the Harvard-Yale
boat race the first year you are out of college!

The last four months of this education for which my family
spent their good money was definitely unnecessary. I have, I
think, a unique record: I was on probation for four months after
I graduated. This was actually due to three things:

(a) A little elementary German trouble.

(b) A little Thanksgiving cut trouble.

(c) A great deal of very stern Dean trouble. |
However, I did manage to graduate in February of my senior
year and I received a mail-order diploma from the faculty in
June, 1924. The truck company for which I started driving went
bust with a slight odor about a year and a half after I started

[571]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

with them and when I was about to become assistant superin-
tendent of the factory. To the best of my knowledge and belief,
this was due to no fault of mine.

I then went into the investment business where I had some
excellent training and experience winding up with my own little
firm which was a very active member of the New York Curb
Exchange.

Later, it seems that I did a Belshazzar re-take and saw some sort
of handwriting on the wall because I closed up shop and, as many
of my friends would then have had me believe, I became the
Benedict Arnold of the brokerage business. In other words, I
started working for the Securities and Exchange Commission.
This was a sudden and drastic strain on what I laughingly refer
to as my brain. For some time prior to this change, one’s major
occupation on the Curb was reading the funny papers and giving
people hot feet. When I found myself working for the Securities
and Exchange Commission, I suddenly found I had to think —
and work.

This status lasted until I made the greatest sale I have ever made.
That was to sell the United States Navy, in 1940, a bill of goods
that they needed me as a senior lieutenant.

I reported for active duty in June, 1941. Four days after this,
I was detailed to Staten Island to become supply officer, general
procurer and chief instructor in navigation for a school of some
forty-five young men who had just graduated from the Annapo-
lis ninety -day wonder school or the Naval Reserve Officer Train-
ing Corps. This had its elements of humor. I had not had a
sextant in my hand for seventeen years and then only on the roof
of a building in Cambridge using the balcony of another building
as a horizon (Astronomy 1A and 1B).

In February, 1942, I went to sea as Navigating Officer and Ex-
ecutive Officer of the U.S.S Eagle 19. This had its elements of
tragedy. The commanding officer — of the regular Navy — was
more than disappointed in my inexperienced presence. It had been
his misfortune on his previous sea duty to run a brand new de-
stroyer smack into the middle of Cuba, It has always been a ques-
tion in my mind whether it was the German submarine menace
or that of my Skipper which caused me to lose thirty pounds
during my first three months at sea.

[572]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT ~*

Later I was privileged to become the “old man” of four different
vessels (listed under service history).
In short, after the Navy was over, I joined Anderson, Davis &
Platte, an advertising agency — and am as happy as a clam.
P.S. Family: A very successful wife.
Travels: During recent unpleasantness about 175,000 miles.
Hobbies: The water — whether it be on it or in it or fishing
things out of it.
Social Convictions: | believe that people are about the most
interesting things in this world.
Political Convictions: I believe in the best man (as of October,
1948 — Republican).
Religious Convictions: I believe in God.

THATCHER MAGOUN

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: Hanover, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 9, 1900, Pembroke, Mass. PARENTS: Henry Norcross Magoun,
Cornelia Blanche Waite.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922.

MarrigeD: Ann Eddleston, Feb. 15, 1926, Port Chester, N. Y.

occuPaTION: Mercantile business.

MAGOUN has been carried as a “Jost” man on our records since
October 5, 1948.

DAVID KELSO MAIRS

HOME ApprEss: 1375 Monroe St., N.W., Washington, D. C.

OFFICE AppREss: Atlantic Bldg., 930 F St., N.W., Washington, D. C.

BORN: July 28, 1901, Waltham, Mass. parents: James Kelso Mairs, Grace
Almina Reed.

PREPARED AT: Wilbraham Academy, Wilbraham, Mass.,; Huntington School,
Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

MarRIED: Katherine Mary Delaney, Aug. 10, 1929, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Mary Jean, May 18, 1930 (m. C. Paul McBride, Nov. 21, 1947); Julie
Iris, July 6, 1931; James Kelso, Feb. 11, 1933; William Cunningham,
Sept. 17, 1934.

OccuPATION: Foreign trade; insurance.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Chief master-at-arms, United States Army Trans-
port Service, carrying combat troops from the European Theatre

[573]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

through Le Havre and Marseilles to eastern seaboard ports in United
States during last year of the war.
WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: In charge of, and later aided in, formulation

of security procedure for Correspondence Section, War Production
Board.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant secretary, Boston Casualty Company, 1925-393 secre-
tary, Amger Company, New York, since 1947, Potter, Mairs & Com-
pany, Washington, since 1949; associate, Trimble, Olson & Company,
Washington, since 1949.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington.

CONSIDERING the readjusted values we live by today, I believe
that life has been reasonably kind to me and to my generation.
We were born to uncertainty in a peculiar time. Since the year
of our graduation we have been under the constant challenge of
change. There has been no surcease and it now appears that
there never will be in our lifetime. However this uncertainty may
have increased our difficulties, it has been good for most of us in
that we have been granted little leisure in which either to pout
or to preen. In my memories of the University and the great
men under whom we were privileged to learn, I have found a
never-ending source of solace in my days of tribulation.

Until the commencement of World War II, I served as either
an officer or sales manager of the Boston Casualty Company,
which had been founded by my father. During the war I was
associated with the War Production Board for several years, then
served as a petty officer in the Army Transport Service until
after V-J Day. Upon returning to Washington, I entered the
field of international trade which I have found interesting and
reasonably profitable.

My chief assets are a lovely wife, two charming daughters,
_ and two rugged sons. We live in Washington, having concluded
with the late George Apley that “happiness is a rare commodity,
especially in New England.”

This is, in short, the thumbnail sketch of an average man who
has achieved sufficient serenity to realize that there have to be
some of us left to vote for the Cabot Lodges and to tead the |
books of the van Wyck Masons of this world.

[574]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ARTHUR BRADFORD MALONE

HOME apprEss: 84 Parker St., Chelsea.50, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: State House, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 31, 1898, Chelsea, Mass. PARENTS: James Edward Malone, Mar-
garet Lillian Bradford.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE! S.B., 1924.

. OCCUPATION: Senior bank examiner, Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Tank Corps, 1918; Reserve Officers’ Training
Corps, Colby College, 1918.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chairman, Protection Division, Civilian De-
fense, Chelsea, 1942-43.

OFFICES HELD: Teacher of government, Chelsea Evening High School,
1925-26; finance officer, Post No. 34, American Legion, Chelsea, 1929-
48; delegate, 1930-34, auditor, 1932-33, Suffolk County Council, Ameri-
can Legion; delegate, American Legion Departmental Convention,
1930-32; chairman of committee, American Legion National Conven-
tion, Boston, 1930; treasurer, Chelsea Housing Authority, since 1948.

MEMBER OF: American Legion (life member); Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity
(life member); Voiture Locale No. 543, La Société des 4o Hommes et
8 Chevaux; Bank Officers Association of the City of Boston; Catholic
Alumni Sodality of Boston.

PUBLICATIONS: Various reports on the liquidation and reorganization of
banking institutions in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

IN WRITING an account of my life I cannot present a varied and
colorful canvas, nor can I claim to be the child of immigrant
parents who, after an arduous struggle, graduated from Harvard
and subsequently rose to become a financial tycoon.

However, this is not the usual autobiography, for it is unique
in its simplicity. Following my graduation I spent eighteen
months working in the various departments of a bank to discover
what makes it click. On July 1, 1926, I accepted an appointment
to the bank examiners’ force of the Commonwealth of Massachu-
setts as a junior examiner. I have been there over the years and
now find myself at the top of the heap —a senior examiner. In
my career I have examined all types of banks chartered under the
Massachusetts banking laws— credit unions, codperative banks,
savings banks, Morris Plan companies, banking companies, and
trust companies.

My extracurricular interests have consisted mainly in partici-
pation in American Legion activities — local, state, and national.

[575 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

For nineteen years I served as finance officer of my local post
and was recently awarded a life membership.
During W orld War II, I was appointed chairman of the Pro-
rection Division of our Civilian Defense organization and I am
now serving as treasurer of the Chelsea Housing Authority, a
board which administers the problems of veterans’ housing.

+ THOMAS PROCTOR MANDELL

BORN: Nov. 19, 1901, Beverly, Mass. parents: George Snell Mandell, ’89,
, Emily Proctor.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922.

smarriep: Geraldine Clark, Sept. 29, 1923, Brookline, Mass. (divorced).
cuitpren: Geraldine (Mrs. Cyril Craig), May 27, 1925; Ann (Vassar,

7, April 6, 1927 (died Aug. 7, 1947); Harriot, July 25, 1928 (died

Aug. 7, 1947).

HARVARD BROTHERS: Samuel Pierce Mandell, 2d, ’19 (deceased) ; James Proctor
Mandell, ’z9 (deceased).

piep: Aug. 7, 1947, Everett, Mass.

THOMAS PROCTOR MANDELL entered Harvard with the
Class after completing preparatory work at St. Mark’s. While in
college he was a member of the Freshman Jubilee Committee, the
Institute of 1770, D.K.E., Iroquois Club, and the Delphic Club.

During 1922-1923 he took a trip around the world and on his
return became employed in the advertising department of the
Boston Evening Transcript. He was associated with several
other departments of the paper, in addition to the advertising
department, while learning the business. In 1939 he noted in the
Fifth Class Report that he was a sales engineer with the Boston
Filto Company and later reported becoming a sales engineer and
member of Carrier-Mandell, Incorporated. He was associated
with this firm at the time of his death.

Mandell, with his two younger daughters, was killed when the
priv ate plane in which they were returning from Canada, crashed
into an incinerator chimney at the Colonial Beacon Oil Company
in South Everect.

He was the son and grandson of the publishers of the Boston
Evening Transcript which his father, George S. Mandell, had
continued to manage almost until che time it ceased publication.

[576 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

His eldest daughter, Geraldine (Mandell) Craig, and his former
wife, Geraldine Clark Mandell, survived him.

_BENJAMIN FRANKLIN MANIERRE

HOME ADDRESS: 205 E. 6oth St., New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDREss: Bank of New York & Fifth Avenue Bank, 530 Fifth Ave.
New York 19, N. Y.

BORN: July 30, 1900, East Hampton, Long Island, N. Y. parents: Alfred
Lee Manierre, Cornelia Putnam Lockwood.

PREPARED AT: Ridgefield School, Ridgefield, Conn.; Pomfret School, Pomfret
Center, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924.

markiED: Ethel Barclay Chard, Sept. 5, 1927, Cazenovia, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Cornelia de Lancey, July 11, 1929; Ethel Netherclift, Dec. 12, 1934.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alfred Lee Manierre, ’27.

OCCUPATION: Trust administrator and statistician.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; The Amateur Comedy Club,

Inc.; Cazenovia Club.

WHEN I first left college I took a trip abroad with my brother
and my cousin, George B. Carpenter, ’24. We covered western
Europe and then returned home. I went to work as a civil engi-
neer for Sanderson & Porter. That job lasted about four months,
and I came back to New York and found employment with the
Bankers Trust Company as a statistician. In 1930 I moved to the
Fifth Avenue Bank of New York in the ‘Trust Department, where
I have been ever since.

I have been an Episcopalian and a Republican all my life, al-
though the latter has not been of much use for the past sixteen
years.

During the war I became an air raid warden for my apartment
house, a “block leader” for the C.D.V.O., and did what I could
to help the war effort as I could not pass the physical examination
for the armed forces.

ROBERT COLGATE VERNON MANN

HOME appress: Locust Valley, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1 Wall St., New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 10, 1901, Quogue, Long Island, N. Y. parents: Samuel Vernon
Mann, ’95, Helen Wagstaff Colgate.

[577]

HARVARD CLASS OF I924

parparep at: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923.
marnieD: Margaret Stone, June 19, 1926, Locust Valley, Long Island, N. Y.

(divorced 1941); Adele Jenkins, July 20, 1943, Botwood, Newfound-
land.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lloyd Onderdonk Vernon Mann, '25.

occupation: Broker.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Joined Royal Canadian Air Force, June 17, 1942;
transferred to U. S. Army Air Transport Command, May, 1944; dis-
charged, February, 1945. -

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Racquet & Tennis Club, New
York; Piping Rock Club, Locust Valley; Knickerbocker Society.

BIRDSALL THOMAS MANNING

HOME ADDRESS: 17 Carmel Ave., Brewster, N. Y.

OFFICE apDpRESS: 2 N. Main St., Brewster, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 21, 1900, Carmel, N. Y. parents: Thomas Manning, Jennie Carr.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923.

MarRiED: Regina M. Wheeler, May 1, 1926, Brewster, N. Y.

OccUPATION: Insurance and real estate. .
orrices HELD: Second assistant chief, Volunteer Fire Department, and presi-

dent, Fire Company, Brewster, secretary-treasurer, Brewster Lions
Club.

MEMBER OF: Brewster Fire Department; Lions Club.

ROBERT JOSEPH MANSFIELD

HOME appress: 84 Chauncy St., Cambridge 38, Mass.
OFFICE Appress: Davies, Rose & Co., Ltd., Boston 18, Mass.

Boun: Feb. 4, 1904, Boston, Mass, parents: Charles John Mansfield, Joanna
Frances Coughlin.

preparrp At: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YPARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; A.M., 1925.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Richard Mansfield, ’24.

OCCUPATION: Chemist.

oreices HELD: Director, Davies, Rose & Company, Ltd., since 1940.

MEMuFR OF: Association of Harvard Chemists, American Chemical Society;
American Pharmaccutical Association; Harvard Club of Boston.

THIE fall of 1924 found me back in the chemical laboratory at
Harvard working for a Master's degree in my ficld of concentra-
tion. Since June, 1925, when I received that degree, I have been

[578]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

happily associated with Davies, Rose & Company, Limited, phar-
maceutical manufacturers.

WILLIAM RICHARD MANSFIELD

HOME ADDRESS: 12 Old Middlesex Rd., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Mica Co., Waltham, Mass.

BorRN: Feb. 4, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Charles John Mansfield, Joanna
Frances Coughlin.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; A.M., 1926.

MARRIED: Grace M. Whitehead, June 29, 1943, Waltham, Mass. CHILDREN:
William Richard, Jr., Jan. 1, 1945; Katherine Mary, Feb. 23, 1946; Mary
Grace, Feb. 24, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Joseph Mansfield, ’24.

OccuUPATION: Plant manager, New England Mica Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston, American Chemical Society.

AFTER graduation I returned for graduate study in chemistry,
receiving my Master’s degree in 1926. I continued on at the
Chemical Laboratory for another two years doing industrial re-
search as well as interesting editorial work on scientific journals
and a chemical dictionary.

In 1928 I took a position as chemist with the New England
Mica Company in Waltham, doing both control and research
work. It has been my good fortune to be closely associated
during these years with Mr. Willis Boughton, former assistant
_ director of the Chemical Laboratories, and Professor Chester
Dawes of the Graduate School of Engineering, with whom I have
had a part in making a number of advances in the field of electrical
insulating materials. My field of activity is relatively specialized
and with my associates I have written several articles and been
granted a number of patents.

My work has become increasingly more administrative and
at present consists chiefly of plant management with its many
ramifications. I have, however, maintained an active interest in
_Tesearch and development.

In 1943 I married Grace M. Whitehead and we have become
happy suburbanites, surrounded by our young family of a son
and two daughters.

[579]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

HAROLD SCUDDER MARCHANT

HOME ADDRESS: 80 Seward Ave., Detroit 2, Mich.

orFice appress: Detroit College of Law, 130 E. Elizabeth St., Detroit 36,
Mich.

BoRN: June 17, 1903, Milton, Mass. PARENTS: Freeman Marchant, Mary B.
Rea.

preParrpD AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922, 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1924(27); LL.B. (Wayne

| University Law School), 1941.

marrgigp: Henrietta Mason, Feb. 4, 1932, Detroit, Mich.

occupation: Professor of law.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Price attorney, Office of Price Administration,
Detroit.

MEMBER OF: Michigan State Bar, Detroit Bar Association.

AFTER I was graduated from Harvard, I wandered somewhat
aimlessly through the business world, deriving neither particular
pleasure nor substantial profit from my undertakings. In 1937 I
found myself on the accounting staff of Chrysler Corporation,
and for want of something better to do, I began studying law in
night law school. Much to my amazement, I found that at long
last I had stumbled upon something which appealed to me, and I
persevered through four long years of night-time study and day-
time work, eventually graduating at the head of my class in 1941
with an LL.B. degree. From early in 1942 until late in 1943, I
served as price attorney in the Detroit office of the Office of Price
Administration. By that time, the conflict between the principles
of that noble experiment and the principles of economics (Taus-
sig) which I studied at Harvard had become too much for me to
endure, and I returned to Chrysler as a member of the resident
legal staff. On January 1, 1948, I left Chrysler and in September
was appointed professor of law at the Detroit College of Law
where I now teach torts to 276 eager freshmen and in my spare
time teach a couple of senior courses. Thus far it has been a
pleasant and rewarding experience, and I am inclined to believe
that I shall continue teaching rather than return to the active’
practice of law.

My hobby is photography, which I practise as best I can in the
Cloudy and soort-filled armosphere of Detroit, Our vacations have
Leen spent in the Fast, gencrally in the Big Moose region of the

[ 580 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Adirondacks, with occasional short trips to New England. Last
winter we were able for the first time to visit Florida; and, al-
though I was born and raised in New England and have always
thought I should like to return there some day to live, I must
confess that my allegiance is wavering. I can now think of no
more pleasant existence than teaching law in Florida from
September to June, and spending the summers in New England.
Florida Law School deans, please note!

MARDIROS KRIKOR MARDIROSIAN
HOME ADDRESS: 3048 Kingsbridge Terr., Bronx, New York 63, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Port of New York Authority, Holland Tunnel, Canal and

Varick Sts., New York, N. Y.
BORN: Sept. 14, 1892, Mamurat-ul-aziz, Harpoot, Armenia. parents: Krikor

Mardirosian, Yesgoohi Apkarian.
PREPARED AT: German-Armenian High School, Mamurat-ul-aziz, Harpoot,

Armenia.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1916-1917, 1919-1924. DEGREE: S.B. IN C.E., 1924.
MarRRIED: Araxi H. Kazanjian, Aug. 28, 1928, New York, N. Y. cuitp: Aram

Haig, Aug. 20, 1931.
occupaTION: Engineering; maintenance foreman at Holland Tunnel.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Private, Medical Department, Detachment Base
Hospital 53, overseas service in France, World War I.
OFFICES HELD: President and trustee, Armenian Evangelical Church Building

Committee, 1946-49.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society of New York.
NEW YORK is a fascinating city, its gigantic buildings, bright
lights, and machine-like motions can easily intoxicate a person.
I guess I got drunk! I walked the streets for days, then something
happened to me. I fell into a hole from which by my own choice
I was never to leave — people call it the Holland Tunnel.

Life is tedious these days without stimulant. Outstanding
speeds are not only attained in the air. If you do not believe this,
come to this Fair Town and see for yourself.

In 1928 I married and we have lived happily ever since. In
1931 our only child, a boy, was born,

Believe me, fellows, my life is nothing revolutionary nor ts it
marked for a Hollywood script. Bur this is neither here nor
there; after three goads I think I owe you something.

My travels are very extensive. I have travelled this whole city

[ 58r ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

over and over — have travelled to every interesting borough and
have even ventured to Cambridge a few times.

As for my hobbies I have many — such as rebuilding things
which have not fully served their purpose. I enjoy putting things
off, and I love to sleep —a sort of rest — the latter seems to take
up most of my spare time, since the first makes it possible.

I agree wholeheartedly with the statement on our social

rogress, “Jt is steadily progressing.”

Politically I am a neutral— one who sees things through the
glass called “for the good of the country,” and changes his stand-
ing, and I realize that this is at times impossible for all — therefore
T'll drop out all politics, and “I do not choose to run.”

Seriously speaking, the world is in a tense situation. It may be
more perilous than generally thought of, but [ll give it time to
work itself out, I guess that is all I can give. Our position as a
world power is an important one. We are competent to deal
with utmost care and our foreign policy today seems to fill that
bill.

My son is graduating from high school this June and I know
Harvard is his destination.

I think it is about time to settle back and take things lightly, It
seems to me that I have yet quite a bit to which to look forward.

THEODORE ABRAHAM MARKSON

HOME AppRESS: Naples, Maine.

MAILING ADDRESS: P. O. Box 723, Miami Beach, Fla.

BORN: April 26, 1904, Lowell, Mass. PARENTS: Maurice Markson, Mildred
Markson.

PREPARED AT: Portland High School, Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MarRIED: Agnes Childs, 1942, Washington, D. C.

OCCUPATION: Economist; tax consultant.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II: Air Corps.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chief, Regulations Analysis Branch, Rent De-
partment, O.P.A.; economist, Division of Tax Research, Treasury.

GERALD LAWRENCE MARQUSEE

HOME AppRESS: 225 E, 74th St., New York, N. Y.
orFice appress: United Factors Corp., 1412 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

[ 582 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Born: April 15, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: Julius Marqusee, Anna
Haskins.

PREPARED AT: Clark School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Elsé Isaacs, Sept. 14, 1927, New York, N. Y. (died July 20, 1947);
Barbara Lee Banks, Dec. 3, 1948. cHmLp: Joan (Sarah Lawrence Coll.
*s51), July 17, 1929.

occupation: Officer of United Factors Corporation. .

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Temporary Reserve, United States Coast Guard,
World War II.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Emanuel Brotherhood; secretary, United Factors
Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Woodmere Club, Woodmere, Long Island, N. Y.

MY PERSONAL history since 1924 is punctuated by the follow-
ing most significant events: in 1927 my marriage, in 1929 the birth
of my daughter and the shattering of my illusion that I was a born
money-maker, in 1947 the death of my most beloved wife, in
1948 my second marriage, and now, the profound wish for an
emotional and economically secure future., The intervening
episodes were mostly conditioned by the economic hills and
valleys and the typical satisfactions and frustrations which I am
sure are characteristic of most of my Class. Above all, the most
meaningful of my experiences was the privilege of living for
twenty years intimately in the presence of the beauty and good-
ness of my wife, Elsé, who died at the very zenith of her
emotional and aesthetic development.

As for politics, I am liberal enough to ‘be militantly anti-
communist.

+ CHARLES THOMAS MARTIN

BORN: Dec. 28, 1902, Boston, Mass. parENTs: Charles William Martin, Ethel
Gertrude Hughes.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924, DEGREE! A.B., 1924.

piep: Aug. 17, 1924, Big Moose, N. Y.

CHARLES THOMAS MARTIN entered Harvard after com-

pleting preparatory study at Newton High School and a year at
Boston University. He attended college for three years with the
Class and received an A.B, degree in 1924.

[ 583 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

FRANCIS van WYCK MASON

HOME apprEss: “Gunner’s Hill,” Riderwood, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 920 St. Paul St., Baltimore 2, Md.

BoRN: Nov. 11, 1901, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Francis Payne Mason, Erma
Arville Coffin.

. PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

marrieD: Dorothy Louise Macready, Nov. 21, 1927, New York, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Francis van Wyck, 2d, Sept. 19, 1928, Robert Ashton, Aug.
10, 1930.

HARVARD SON: Francis van Wyck Mason, 2d, ’5r.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Coffin Mason, ’25 (deceased).

occuPaTION: Novelist.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Second lieutenant, Interpreters Corps, United
States Army, American Expeditionary Force, 1918-19; sergeant, Squad-
ron A, 1orst Cavalry, N. Y. National Guard, 1924-29; 1st lieutenant,
r1oth Field Artillery, Maryland National Guard, 1930-33; major, Army
of the United States, January, 1942; lieutenant colonel, December, 1942;
general staff, SH.A.EF., October, 1944-July, 1945; colonel, May, 1945.
Awarded Medaille de Sauvetage; Croix de Guerre; Palmes d’Academie;
and Legion of Honor.

OFFICES HELD: Junior vice-commander, Loyal Legion, 1948.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of Maryland;
Racquet & Tennis Club, New York; Maryland Club, Baltimore; Army
& Navy Club, Washington; Rolling Rock Club, Ligonier, Pa.; Ameri-
can Geographic Society (fellow); American Society of Historians.

PUBLICATIONS: Three Harbours; Stars on the Sea; Rivers of Glory; Eagle in
the Sky; Cutlass Empire; Castle Island Case; Fighting Americans; six-
teen Captain Major North stories; several juveniles; and many others.

IN REVIEWING the past twenty-five years, the truth of an ob-
servation made by a Maine fisherman becomes apparent. “Life
weren't meant to be easy, but you can make it interesting.” And
life has indeed been interesting and then some, at times progressing
smoothly and at others lending one the sensation of a puppy that
had been played with by small boys.

Having learned the truth of the dictum that a man must eat, I
departed for New York and perforce took the first job I could
land, not, alas, in the foreign service as I had hoped, but wrapping
wall paper in the basement of a firm in that city. That summer I
prefer to forget. No one I knew was in town and I got so lonely
I bought a goldfish I saw swimming alone in a great big tank.

[ 584 ]

ona

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

His name was Tigellinus, and he saw me through the throes of
founding my own importing firm.

In the interest of Van Wyck Mason & Company, I travelled
extensively through the countries which now lie behind the Iron
Curtain and North Africa, which I was to see again under very
different conditions, Already I had perceived the fact that few
men get rich working for anybody else, and also that one never
works harder than in one’s own interest. So, being essentially a
lazy creature, I kept building the import company.

While returning from one of these trips I met that brave, if
foolhardy, person who consented to become my wife, and who
has presented me with a pair of very hungry young men, one of
whom is a sophomore at Harvard at the present writing.

I took up writing at the insistence of an instructor I had at
college, and to my amazement sold my first eighteen stories with-
out a rejection, The year 1928 was a good time to start out,
incidentally. There was plenty of money about and the pulp
magazines, for which I wrote for some six years, would buy al-
most anything that made sense. It was only after I found that
my income from writing far exceeded that gained from importing
that I reluctantly disposed of the business and devoted my full
time to authoring.

Deliberately, I experimented on various types of stories. In
the magazines you get a very quick and accurate reaction and I
knew that I had a vast amount to learn about story writing.

In 1930 I published my first book, introducing the redoubtable
Captain North, who has been on my payroll ever since, to the
extent of some sixteen books of intrigue.

Life was interesting in New York in the 1920's but a trifle
hectic, so my wife and I removed to the Green Spring Valley
north of Baltimore, where the living was saner and ducks and
quail handier.

It is lonely for a Harvard man in Baltimore, where most
of the inhabitants are Princetonian. In fact, “lonely as a Har-
vard man in Baltimore” has been one of my favorite similes
for years. The fact that I am Republican by birth and con-
viction has made any effort to mingle in politics as futile as
pounding sand in the well-known rat hole. My activities have
been pretty much limited, therefore, to the National Guard

[ 585 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

in which I served some seven years both in Squadron A in
New York and the Field Artillery down here, and more recently
the United Nations.

After about ten years of self-schooling, I decided to try my
hand at a really serious book and wrote Three Harbours, which,
to my immense surprise and gratification, went to the head of the
national best seller list and stayed there long enough to put some
meat on the skinny ribs of my bank account.

Three Harbours was followed by three other books on the
American revolution, books in which I made an earnest effort to
inform, as well as to amuse, the American public on the early days
of our history. It has long been a matter of grief to me that
history had been so wretchedly and unimaginatively taught in
our schools that the vast majority of our people know little, and
care less, about the principles upon which this country was
founded. These books and the Major North stories, incidentally,
have been translated into some fourteen foreign languages, which
proves I know not what.

On the day of Pearl Harbor, I applied for a re-issue of my
commission and soon found myself in the Bureau of Public Rela-
tions of Washington where I had the dubious pleasure of handling
the Army’s relations with all the magazines and weekly news-
papers of the country. The Pentagon was more than I could
take, so I snapped at a chance to attend the School of Military
Government, with the result that in July, 1942, I found myself in
London doing liaison with the Free French. Presently, I was
appointed to COSSAC, which eventually became SHAEF, and
there was entrusted with the task of collecting the data from
which the various allied governments would write their histories
of Civil Affairs and Military Government. It proved a most
interesting assignment in that I was practically my own boss and
had some thirty-five French, British, and American officers to
direct.

The end of the war found me in Germany and admiring a pair
of shiny new eagles. Upon my return home, it behooved me to
get to know my sons once more; two and a half years make quite
a difference between the ages of thirteen and sixteen and eleven
and fifteen. Consequently, the whole tribe migrated to Montana
fora three months’ re-appraisal, Since then I have been back at the

[ 586]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

old stand writing and travelling and getting in a bit of shooting
between stories.

Life indeed has been, and promises to remain, an interesting and
challenging business.

OSCAR MALCOLM MASON

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 91 Esmond St., Dorchester 21, Mass.

BoRN: Feb. 7, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: Joseph Bernard Mason, Sarah
Romberg.

PREPARED AT: Waltham High School, Waltham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

marrieD: Lillian Peters, June 22, 1942, New York, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Saul Selig Mason, ’25; Henry Romberg Mason, "39.

occuPATION: Oil refining.

DURING the war I served as a civilian in oil transportation.
I had had no experience and no training courses, and I give credit
to my associates for developing in me the skills of the business in
about two years.

In that short time I risked and almost gave my all on several
occasions. Picture me, one midnight in a blinding snowstorm,
climbing a ladder stretched from a barge to a ship, both swaying
in a terrible wind, and both me and the ladder about to topple
into the sea; and later one November afternoon, I fell in and was
rescued. The next summer I had a similar experience.

In those days most of our activity took place away from the
docks in the waters of the harbor. When orders came we departed
in all kinds of weather, and it was as likely to be 2 a.m. as 2 p.m.
One ship we went to was a seized Italian merchantman,
ready to sail for Murmansk loaded with ammunition below decks
and the whole upper deck covered with casks of sulfuric acid.
Before seizure by the United States that ship had been stripped
and sabotaged. It was repaired by our government and made
ready to sail. No member of the crew assigned to it had ever
sailed it before, added to which it carried a cargo of acids and
explosives. I want to say now that our Merchant Marine deserves
more gratitude for its courage and heroism than it has been
getting.

[ 587 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

ROBERT MONTGOMERY MAYNARD

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Chicle Co., S40 Paulo, Brazil.

BORN: Jan. 20, 1902, Dallas, Texas. parENTs: Louis Cole Maynard, Margaret
Montgomery.

PREPARED AT: Terrill School, Dallas, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1923.

marriED: Louise Gilman.

OccUPATION: Foreign Factory Operations, American Chicle Company.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Board of Economic Warfare, Washington,
D. C.; Foreign Economic Administration, Washington, D. C.

HAVE been travelling quite a bit but have nothing ‘of interest
to report.

MOSES KIBBE MAZER

HOME ADDRESS: 40 Stirling St., Longmeadow, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 128 Liberty St., Springfield, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 1, 1903, New Haven, Conn. parents: Michael Mazer, Esther
Fannie Gerstein.

prepareD AT: Central High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1924; LL.B. (North-
eastern Univ.), 1929.

MarrieD: Florence Selma Bilsky, Oct. 17, 1937, Springfield, Mass. CHIL-

DREN: Harvey Etamar, Nov. 7, 1938; Edward Louis, Oct. 24, 1941.
OCCUPATION: Paper merchant.

MEMBER OF: Masonic Fraternity; B’nai B'rith.

AFTER graduation in 1924, I joined my father in the Standard
Paper and Merchandise Company, Inc., a wholesale paper busi-
ness in Springfield, Massachusetts. In 1925 I entered Northeastern
Law School and in 1929, upon completion of my law course,
became a member of the Massachusetts Bar. I continued my
interest in the paper business, but for a short time engaged in the
practice of law. However, in 1935, I became New England sales
agent for Hudson Pulp and Paper Corporation of New York.

Politically, I am an independent. I have always voted for the
man, My travels have been limited. In 1931 I went to Germany,
France, Switzerland, and Italy. In 1937 I visited Cuba. In 1947
I went to South America. I have enjoyed travelling, but for the
most part, it has made me appreciate my own country all the
more.

[ 588 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In 1937 I married Florence S. Bilsky of Springfield. We have
two fine boys, Harvey Etamar and Edward Louis. | am a member
of Temple Bethel and a trustee of the congregation. I have few
hobbies beyond my business. Shortly after I married, I enjoyed
building my first house. I am presently engaged in building a
new house at 42 Clairmont Street, Longmeadow, Massachusetts.
Both building and furnishing this house are affording my wife and
me a great deal of pleasure.

I look forward to seeing many of my friends at the Reunion

this June. OO oat

VAUGHN FRANCIS MEISLING

HOME ADDRESS: 5931 Sherwood Drive, Oakland 11, Calif.
OFFICE apprEss: Office of the Military Attaché, American Embassy, Nanking,

China.

BORN: Sept. 8, 1902, Copenhagen, Denmark. parents: Aage Alvild Meisling,
Johanne Jiirs.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

occuPaATION: Major, U. S. Army.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, A.U.S., Dec. 18, 1942; major, Feb. 24,
1944; lieutenant colonel, Sept. 7, 1946; separated from Army, Nov. 5,
1946; recalled to active duty, Dec. 14, 1946, with rank of major; served
thirty months in China and India, 1943-46, now serving in Peiping.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chief, Chinese section, Overseas Broadcasting
Branch, Office of War Information, San Francsico, September-Decem-

ber, 1942.
MEMBER OF: Peking Club, Peiping (life member); American Club of Hong-
kong (life member); Press Club of San Francisco; University Club of

Washington.

ISTARTED as a reporter on the staff of the New Orleans Times-
Picayune in January, 1925; came to China in 1933; was Associated
Press correspondent in Hongkong when the Japanese took that
colony in December, 1941; was interned at Stanley Prison, Hong-
kong; repatriated in August, 1942; and shortly thereafter was
commissioned in the Army.

I returned to China in October, 1943, joining General Stilwell’s
headquarters at Chungking. Later I served on the Yellow River
front. At present I am assistant military attaché stationed at
Peiping. In the summer of 1948 I was stationed at Mukden,
Manchuria, now captured by the Communists,

[ 589 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

EDWIN KATTE MERRILL

HOME appreEss: Bedford Hills, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREss: Brown Brothers, Harriman & Co., 59 Wall Street, New York
5, N.Y.

BORN: Nov. 22, 1902, Bangor, Maine. parents: Edwin Godfrey Merrill,
Adelaide Isabel Karte.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. Cum laude, 1924.

MARRIED: Helen Phelps Stokes, Oct. 13, 1928, Bedford, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Edith Minrurn, Sept. 10, 1929; Edwin Katte, Jr.. March 5, 1932; Helen
Penelope, May 29, 1936; Newton Phelps Stokes, Nov. 14, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Dudley Merrill, 26.

occuPATION: Manager, Investment Department, Brown Brothers, Harriman &
Company.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Administrative officer, Office of Strategic Serv
ices, New York, 1943-45.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer and trustee, Phelps Stokes Fund, since 1936; direc-
tor, North American Reassurance Company, since 1939, North Amen-
can Casualty and Surety Reinsurance, since 1943, North American Fire
and Marine Reinsurance, since 1943, City and Suburban Homes Com-
pany, since 1938; trustee, Community Service Society, since 1939,
Children’s Aid Society, since 1945; treasurer, Union Free School, Dis-
trict 7, Bedford, N. Y., since 1946.

MEMBER OF: Down Town Association, New York; Harvard Club of New
York; Squadron A Association, New York.

THANKS to an excess of ardor that had me planning to breeze
through college in three years, I made it in three and a half and
was able to spend the ensuing six months abroad, mostly in
France. This provided just the preparation for a career in an
ancient international banking house where knowledge of foreign
countries would be so important that my subsequent business
experience has never taken me further afield than Buffalo, New
York. Despite the restricted scope of this orbit and never firing
_ myself or being fired from the firm with which I started out in
October, 1924, the job has not been without variety and growth
of interest.

The heydays of the twenties and their dreary sequel provided
somewhat edifying highlights on the more ephemeral aspects of
our capitalist society. My vantage point was the treasurer’s office
of a speculatively capitalized investment trust, run under the
most conservative and respectable auspices, in full confidence in

[ 599 J

¥

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the basic premises of the period although judiciously skeptical

of its more frothy excesses. The collapse of security values re-
sulted in acquisition of the dominant interest in the company by
some of the shrewder buccaneers emerging from the wreck of
the storm. After a short-lived victory in fighting off their first
bid for corporate control, the inevitable was acknowledged and
the company surrendered to an allied band of shoestring operators
who subsequently used it as a major foundation stone in the
erection of an extensive hotel and office building chain now graced
by the respectable purple of some of Boston’s leading tycoons.

This course in business training was followed by less flashy,

but on the whole more satisfactory, application to the investment

advisory business, which, in varying capacities and with the

interruption of a two-and-a-half-year war interim in government

service, I have followed ever since. One solid conviction emerges
—— that, in relation to the services rendered, competent and honest
investment counsel is a far less expensive financial service than
virtually any other incurred in the management of property in-
cluding legal, fiduciary, insurance, or various other kinds which
many accept without questioning the cost while considering in-
vestment counsel a luxury beyond their means. With this plug for
business, I shall be glad to see any classmate any time.

In addition to business, I have devoted a good deal of time
during the past twenty years assisting in the development of an
individualized service for homeless and penniless boys in New
York. It has been both an experimental and practical project
producing tangible results of literally nationwide, as well as local,
importance. It is nevertheless relatively small in size. Known as
the Bureau for Men and Boys, it operates as a unit of the Com-
munity Service Society of New York. I have also been treasurer
for a number of years of a small foundation, The Phelps Stokes
Fund, set up under the wills of two great-aunts of my wife’s for
two explicit purposes. The first is the improvement of housing
conditions in New York and the second, the education of and,
by inference, improvement of inter-racial relations with Negroes
(and Indians) in this country and in Africa, Although a small
fund, it has served in many ways as the focus and central point
for action in these fields for the participation of very much larger

funds, It not only has added considerably to my own education

[591 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

JAMES EDWARD MERRILL

HOME ADDRESS: 240 Central Park, S., New York 19, N. Y.

oFFIce appreEss: Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Beane, 70 Pine St., New
York, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 15, 1900, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: John Merrill, Catharine Mc-
Kenna.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

MARRIED: Claire Leness, July 11, 1941, New York, N. Y. cHiLpReNn: James
Stephen, Aug. 1, 1942; George Vanderneth, July 2, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Leo Merrill, ’10.

occupation: Partner, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Beane, underwriters
and distributors of investment securities and brokers in securities and
commodities.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member, Local Draft Board, 1942-44.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, New York Athletic Club; Club
of New York City.

FOR three years I was a sales representative in the East for the
International Shoe Company. Since then I have been in the
investment banking business. At present I am a member of the
New York Stock Exchange, handling commission orders for our
firm.

After almost continuous travelling in my early business years,
I enjoy being permanently resident in New York City. It has
given me an opportunity to maintain a fairly close contact with
many members of our Class.

ANTONIO LIBERO MEZZACAPPA

HOME appress: 100 Wildwood St., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Northeastern University, Boston, Mass.

BorN: Oct. 7, 1899, Monaciliori, Italy. parents: Domenico Mezzacappa,
Felicia Gosue.

PREPARED AT: Wakefield High School, Wakefield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1924; A.M. 19293
PH.D., 1935.

MarrieD: Venezia Cecilia Amari, June 19, 1932, Lexington, Mass. CHILDREN:
Felicia Anne, Jan. 17, 1934; Damon Placido, March 15, 1936.

OCCUPATION: Associate professor of Romance languages at Northeastern
University.

orFices HELD: Instructor, Westbrook Seminary, 1924-25, Hobart College,
1925-30; tutor and instructor (part-time), Harvard University, 1930-

L594]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

35; head, Department of Romance Languages, Boston College Gradu-
ate School, 1935-40; assistant professor, 1940-44, associate professor,
since 1944, Romance languages, Northeastern University.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association of America, New England
Modern Language Association.

puBLicaTions: “An Italian Sequel to Les Idées de Madame Aubray,” Italica,
June, 1938; “The Love Lyrics of Pomponio Torelli,” Italica, June, 1940;
“The Preposition a<ab and its Use in La Divina Commedia,” P.M.L.A.,
June, 1942; “Why God Resides in Heaven,” Italica, June, 1944.

SINCE graduation from college I have engaged in my chosen
profession of teaching Romance languages and literatures — one
year in a preparatory school, four years in a small liberal arts col-
lege, five years on a part-time basis at Harvard while studying
for my doctorate, five years in a Jesuit institution, and nine years
at Northeastern University. In between my heavy teaching du-
ties I have managed to take three trips to Europe and to engage
in occasional research and writing.

Until now, except for the five years spent at the Jesuit institu-
tion, my career has been a thoroughly satisfying experience and
one that I would not exchange for any other. Despite the fact
that during these postwar years it has been rather difficult to
maintain a high standard of living, I am happy with the thought
that in a small way I, too, am engaged in the noble fight against
ignorance, superstition, materialism, and am attempting, though
perhaps futilely, to bring about a better world. In addition I am
happy with my family, as well as with a few intimate friends
whom I have acquired throughout the years.

One should not ask for more.

MORRIS MICHELSON

HOME ADDRESS: 78 Evans Rd., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 148 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 22, 1903, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Benjamin Michelson, Lena Le-
bow.

PREPARED AT: Everett High School, Everett, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924} LL.B. 1927-

MARRIED: Harriet Steinberg, July 3, 1932, Brookline, Mass. curren: Mark,
April 28, 1935; Stephen, Feb. 28, 1938.

OccuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFices HELD: Chairman, New England Zionist Emergency Council, Mav,
1946-October, 1948.

[595]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

landings. Israeli chemical industries and medical facilities were

placed freely at the disposal of our Army and the British Army.

After the war, the Jews of Palestine became the forgotten al-
lies. They asked only the right to provide a home for the sur-
vivors of Nazi gas chambers, but the British Navy instituted a
blockade. Displaced persons fleeing a Europe which was the
charnel house of their loved ones were called “illegal immi-
grants” and turned back or sent to concentration camps.at Cy-
prus. These events stirred me deeply.

When the blockade was impending, I was elected to the chair-
manship of the New England Zionist Emergency Council, a
body of representatives chosen by organizations interested in
Palestine to codrdinate and direct public relations. An Associated
Press correspondent called to ask what I thought of the block-
ade. I said it would be tantamount to an act of war. The next
day, I found the statement on the front page of the Boston Her-
ald and repeated in newspapers throughout the country. From
then on I was a “Zionist leader,” a “communal leader,” a ‘Zion-
ist chief.” I spoke at public meetings and over the radio. I sup-
plied editors with background information. I acted as a liaison
with the New England American Christian Palestine Committee.
I addressed its executive committee at monthly luncheons. I or-
ganized a speakers’ bureau. I called mass demonstrations. ]
headed delegations to Senators and Representatives. I presided at
meetings. Often I would reach home at midnight or after and
then sit down to put the finishing touches on the preparation of
a case for trial or argument in court the next morning.

On November 29, 1947, led by the United States, the Assem-
bly of the United Nations by an overwhelming vote approved
a plan for Israeli statehood. By the fall of 1948, Israel was a state
recognized by seventeen nations. It had defended its own bor-
ders against aggression. It had kept order internally. It had set
up a stable government, issued an inspiring declaration of inde-
pendence and prepared a forward-looking constitution. I had
held office for two and a half years. Believing that rotation in
office is desirable both for the organization and the individual, I
declined to accept re-election.

Perhaps now I shall have time to write the book for which a
publisher has asked on the preparation and trial of civil cases.

[ 598 ]

eo pa

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN LEE MIDDLETON

HOME apprEss: 60 Larchwood Drive, Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: White, Weld & Co., 111 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 15, 1901, New York, N. Y. parents: John Alexander Middleton,
Lily Seel.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923.

MARRIED: Lauralee McCann, Oct. 7, 1924, St. Paul, Minn. cHILpREN: John
Lee, Jr., Sept. 25, 1925; Angela Joy, June 2, 1930.

occuPATION: Investment analyst.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcoRD: Civilian Air Raid Warning, First Fighter Wing,
Boston; First Motor Squadron, M.S.G.

IN 1924 the practice of holding a 25th reunion seemed to me a
kindly gesture because it gave the few surviving members of
that group of ancients a last opportunity to “remember when”
before making a final accounting to St. Peter. Moreover, Id un-
derstood that the twenty-fifth-year class was accorded preferen-
tial treatment in the allocation of tickets for the Yale game. Thus
for twenty-four years they could dream of feasting their tired
old near-sighted eyes from a vantage point somewhere inside the
end zones! That privilege still does have a very strong appeal
for me and I gloat over a mental picture of myself rubbing el-
bows with the great who sit on the 50-yard line, high up! But
I’m in no way ready for that accounting — not to the Class, and
much less to St. Peter! Why, I’m only just getting started! My
son, who graduates from Amherst this June, hasn’t completed
my education yet and neither has my daughter, a freshman at
Smith, completed the program she has for me. I’ve only begun to
have a few faint guesses as to what life’s all about and how to get
real values out of it. A bit slow? Perhaps, but I never was cut out
to be a student, so I had to learn the hard way.

In college I thought the answer to all life’s problems lay in the
making of a fortune, so, on leaving Harvard, I sold my talents to
the advertising business which was then considered a very prom-
ising field. As long as canny Cal Coolidge was in the White
House, I made reasonable progress towards my objective. But
the Great Depression followed by the ascension of the Great
White Father to the national throne, altered my course a couple
o’ p'ints to sta-a-board, and I found myself engaged in the busi-

[599]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

ness of concocting a mystic potion calculated to make the Amer-
ican Woman more beautiful, if possible. An upstart outfit called
Procter and Gamble and some of its competitors are rumored
to have found several million dollars of profit in a similar product,
but what came my way was: 1) definitely no fortune; 2) a great
deal of valuable and amusing experience; and 3) some piffling
knowledge. For example, did you know that women shampoo
their hair up-side-down?

Bloody but unbowed, I withdrew from the chase of the
Golden Fleece and undertook to set an example for the National
Administration by balancing my budget. This I did, believe it or
not, by finding employment in what the Securites and Exchange
Commission has left of the investment banking business. (And
by reducing the budget a bit, too.) Now after eight years with
my firm, I feel that this j is the work I always really “wanted to do.
It’s fun — with pay — and that’s my idea of the ideal job.

I'm not a superstitious man, but I have always subscribed to
the feeling that the poker player who counts his chips is not
likely to win any more pots. So, having already set forth my sat-
isfaction with my present business life, I won’t detail my smug
sausfaction with my family and life at home.

Since 1949 finds me feeling considerably less ancient than |
thought in 1924 I would be, I look forward with gusto to the
twenty-five wonderful years ‘til we meet again for our fiftieth!

DAVID JACOB MINTZ

HOME appRESs: 82 Ormond St., Mattapan, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: David J. Mintz & Co., 89 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: April 1, 1902, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Karl Mintz, Ida Davidson.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: S.B. 1924; M.B.A. 1926.

marie: Edith Dvlinsky, Aug. 19, 1929, Somerville, Mass. cHitp: Lee Abi-
gail, April 23, 1935.

oceuPATION: Certified public accountant.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Government appeal agent, Selective Service.

ovrices HEED: Member, Board of Registration of Certified Public Account-
ants, Massachusetts, since 1947; treasurer, Central Credit Union Fund
of) Massachusetts, 1940-48, Hecht Neighborhood Plouse, since 1946;
delegate, Republican National Convention, 1948, district deputy grand
chancellor, Knights of Pythias, 1939.

[ 600 }

a

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER oF: American Institute of Accountants, Massachusetts Society of
Certified Public Accountants; Republican State Committee.

IN 1927, fortified with a degree of Master of Business Adminis-
tration from Harvard Business School and some public account-
ing experience, and having passed the state examination to be
registered as a Certified Public Accountant, and of course, pos-
sessed with an abundance of optimism, my decision to develop a

ublic accounting organization under my own name could not
fail to follow.

In the practice of all professions a great deal of skill and under-
standing and knowledge is acquired, but in the practice of public
accounting some of us are afforded an opportunity of studying
human nature under varying conditions of economic endeavor.
We see the energy, the emotion, the study, and the skill exerted
by men in business so that their endeavors shall be a success.
Many enterprises have succeeded for the public good only be-
cause of this private interest. If this were understood more by
the public, there would be less agitation for government control
in matters that are better under private management. The nature
of business and the laws of economics seem to be very little un-
derstood by the public. I believe some of our classmates who
are gifted with a literary talent could make a valuable and worth-
while contribution to society if they wrote on this subject in
fiction and in this way familiarized and educated ordinary lay-
men on this problem and, perhaps, also educate the businessman.

I have acquired, by accident, a hobby that few men have. By
helping a friend in his campaign for election to public office, ‘|
found myself in the very lively field of politics where all the
public forces meet, crash, mix, and blend. I have seen how pub-
lic opinion at times has been improperly swayed, influenced, and
-beguiled on both sides of the fence by trickery and distortion.
Some of us might believe that this will always exist in a democ-
racy. It has occurred to me that by education in public schools
the general public could be enlightened as to the arts and meth-
ods that are employed by the politicians to influence the public's
opinion, As the chicanery becomes known, it will be uscd less.
To give effect to this thought in part, when I have made my for-
tune (or if you have made yours, you can do it) I intend to set
up an impartial rating bureau of radio and news commentators

[ 6o1 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

and candidates for national office. They will not be given a
Hooper rating but a logic rating based upon the accuracy of their
statements, the degree to which they do not distort the facts,
the correctness of their reasoning, and the extent to which they
will vacillate with the times. Good old Jeremy Bentham of
Phil. 1 fame will be called in to assist in listing the various in-
consistencies.

My political hobby resulted in my election as a delegate to the
Republican Convention in Philadelphia. This was another great
experience in the study of the forces that influence our fellow-
man and consequently our government. I also was surprised with
the November result. However, probably it was all for the good.
Now the members of the Class of 1924 can look forward to 1952
when, without chicanery but with a program for the public
good, we shall try to succeed with “Lodge in ’52.”

FLOYD LE ROY MONIGER

HOME apprEss: 5046 N. Hamlin Ave., Chicago 25, Ill.

OFFICE appREss: Great Lakes Carbon Corp. 8210 Austin Ave., Morton
Grove, Ill.

BORN: June 10, 1901, Chicago, Ill. parents: Harry Sheldon Moniger, Nellie
Flizabeth Bruns.

PREPARED AT: Lake View High School, Chicago, Ill.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922.

occupaTion: Purchasing agent, Research and Development Division, Great
Lakes Carbon Corporation.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Three years in Army Air Force, World War II.

AFTER leaving school I became an organist for the movies and
was located in Cheyenne, Wyoming, for six years. In 1930 I
switched to piano with theatre and dance bands and travelled
quite extensively around the country. I entered the Army in
1942, took my basic training at Miami Beach, and never got away
from there for the duration. I must say that I enjoyed my Army
life greatly. The Army Air Force set-up at Miami Beach was
very fine. At first I was assigned to the 2oth Air Force Band, and
later was transferred to Special Services. Our living quarters were
beautiful ocean-front hotels and our meals the very finest. We
had very few daytime duties, so were able to spend most of every
day on the beach.

[ 602 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

When I left the Army, I studied purchasing and then got a job
as purchasing agent for the Research and Development Division
of the Great Lakes Carbon Corporation, a position I still hold.
All in all, I must admit that I have accomplished very little, but
have lived a very pleasant life (and can still easily pass for thirty
years old!).

JOHN PEABODY MONKS

HOME aAppREss: Bedford Road, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: Grant Study, Hygiene Department, 13 Holyoke St., Cam-
bridge 38, Mass.

BORN: June 24, 1901, Boston, Mass. parents: George Howard Monks, ’75,
Olga Eliza Gardner.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; M.D., 1928.

mMarRrieD: Ann Letchworth Smith, Oct. 26, 1933, Louisville, Ky. cHmpren:
Mary Macauley, March 15, 1936; Olga Gardner, Oct. 3, 1937; Ann En-
dicott, April 30, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Gardner Monks, ’21.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: First Lieutenant, Medical Officers’ Reserve
Corps, United States Army (inactive duty), 1928-33; commissioned
lieutenant commander, Medical Corps, United States Naval Reserve,
Sept. 15, 1941; went on active duty Dec. 20, 1941, at Naval Training
Station, Newport, R. I.; served at Naval Receiving Station, Boston,
Office of Naval Procurement, Boston, Naval Hospital, Chelsea, Mass.;
attached to Corps Evacuation Hospital #2 (Marine Corps organiza-
tion) while training in North Carolina, California, and Guam, par-
ticipated in invasion of Okinawa; released to inactive duty Jan. 31, 1946,
with rank of captain. At present, commanding officer of Volunteer
Medical Division 1-13 (inactive status).

OFFICES HELD: Medical house officer, 1929-31, assistant in medicine, 1931-38,
assistant physician, since 1938, Massachusetts General Hospital; assist-
ant in medicine, 1936-41, instructor in medicine, 1941, 1948, Harvard
Medical School; assistant medical adviser, 1936-38, 1939-46, physician
to Grant Study, 1946, physician, since 1947, Hygiene Department, Har-
vard; secretary, 1937-39, Suffolk District Medical Society; member of
council, 1937-41, chairman of council on medical education, 1941, Massa-
chusetts Medical Society; trustee, since 1947, Concord Academy; mem-
ber of Cathedral Chapter, since 1939, St. Paul’s Cathedral, Boston;
vestryman, since 1947, St. Anne’s Church, Lincoln.

PuBLications: Physician’s Handbook of Community Resources in Metro-
politan Boston together with Certain Legal Aspects, book with others;
“Personal History in a Student Health Program,” article with others;

[ 603 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

“The Nature of Career Selection in a Group of Harvard Undergradu-
ates,” article with others; “The Grateful Relief of Scrotal Dropsy by
the Use of a Southey Tube,” article with others; “Human and Social
Factors in Caring for Patients.”

IT SEEMS that Harvard has been a greater or lesser part of my
existence ever since the first exploratory contacts in the fall of
1920. For the first eight years it taught and examined me on the
success of its educational efforts. Latterly I, in my turn, have
been trying to impart to its medical students some scattered bits
of experience and questionable academic knowledge, while con-
ducting extensive explorations into the minds and bodies of its
undergraduates. Being a member of a University-wide depart-
ment (the Hygiene Department) as opposed to a department
limited only to the college or one graduate school, it has been
my somewhat frustrated desire to sap and mine some of the redic-
ulously high and wide walls which separate most parts of the
University. At present, I am learning to write while producing
my first book, a trying experience, particularly for my secretary.
The subject is a detailed analysis of various aspects of the war as
they affected the individual lives and thoughts of some 258 for-
mer Harvard graduates. This is part of the life-time “follow-up”
of these men who were originally intensively studied in the
Grant Study by various scientific disciplines while they were
undergraduates, and who had originally been selected as presum-
ably “normal” subjects. My professional interests ever since
emergence from medical school have steadily migrated away
from considerations of disease to those of health, and from treat-
ment to those of prevention, from practice to research, from the
physical aspects only to the consideration of the individual as a
whole and as a part of society.

My roots, fairly deeply buried in Massachusetts soil, have suc-
cessively been transplanted, without real uprooting, to a pro-
gressively more rural residence, the present house in Lincoln being
of “modern” design, looking out at the southern New Hampshire
mountains. Though my technical knowledge is scanty, my de-
light in nature is great. An axe, a camera, a bridle rein, and a tennis
racquet lie easily in my hands. Cruising in small boats is an-
other delight, but for ten years due to hurricane and war I have
been pretty much “land-locked.” The business of living with the

[ 604 ]

y

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

romping activity of three growing daughters and a wide sam-
pling of various intellectual fields has filled the lives of my wife
and myself.

The danger of Massachusetts provincialism has been luckil
lessened in my case by pre-war travels to practically all the
United States and the provinces of Canada, to some of western
Europe, including the Baltic countries, and, on various occasions,
to Yugoslavia, Egypt, and the Sudan, and through a trip around
the world.

During the war unprecedented good fortune allowed me to live
at home, however, while serving at three different duty stations
over a period of two years. Eventually an unguarded comment
regarding a World War I emotional yearning for the Marine
Corps caused me to change the color of my uniform during the
eighteen months’ expected Pacific duty. The influence of my past,
however, was far from left behind for included in the gear of the
hospital to which I was attached, as it went ashore in the invasion
of Okinawa, was a pair of wooden frames on which to dry my
socks, and carefully guarded in the heavy office safe were several
as yet unread two-month-old copies of the Christian Science
Monitor!

The passage of twenty-five years has of course left its print
upon me. “Man” as such is my consuming interest. It has be-
come vividly apparent to me that a little more self-knowledge,
a little less concern with self-interest, a little more genuine effort
in relation to social units devoted to unselfish purposes, a little
more out-going, a little less claiming things as an “American
right,” a little less insistence that “what’s good enough for gran’pa
is good enough for me” — you and everybody else — all these
traits and a comparatively small amount of them practised by a
large number of people could change much of the genuinely un-
happy face of the world overnight.

MATTHEW THIBAUD MOORE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 1813 Delancey St., Philadelphia 3, Pa.

BORN: Sept. 12, 1901, Philadelphia, Pa. Parents: Joseph B. Moore, Sarah
Gottlieb.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923. DEGREE: M.D. (Temple Univ.), 1927.

[ 605 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

MARRIED: Stella Maris Chalfin, Feb. 2, 1927, Media, Pa.

occupation: Physician.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Examining neuropsychiatrist, Selective Serv-
ice, Philadelphia.

OFFICES HELD: Neuropathologist, John L. Eckel Memorial Laboratory, assist-
ant professor of neuropathology, Graduate School of Medicine, Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania; attending psychiatrist, Philadelphia Psychi-
atric Hospital; neuropsychiatrist, Doctor’s Hospital, Philadelphia; asso-
ciate in neurology, Jewish Hospital, Philadelphia.

MEMBER OF: Philadelphia County Medical Society; Pennsylvania Medical
Society; American Medical Association (fellow); Philadelphia Neuro-
logical Society; Philadelphia Psychiatric Society; Northern Medical
Association; National Conference on Family Relations, National Com-
mittee for Mental Hygiene; International League against Epilepsy;
Association for Advancement of Research in Multiple Sclerosis;
American College of Physicians; Philadelphia College of Physicians;
American Association of Neuropathologists; Association for Research
m Nervous and Mental Diseases, American Society for Research in
Psychosomatic Problems; American Psychiatric Association (fellow),
American Physicians Art Association, Pennsylvania Psychiatric Soci-
ety (fellow); American Association for the Advancement of Science.

puBLicaTions: Author and co-author of over forty published articles in the
field of neurology and psychiatry; author of several treatises in which
a form of epilepsy known as abdominal epilepsy has been formally
described and enunciated, and which has been honored by the eponym
“Moore’s Syndrome.”

MY MOTHER told me I was a premature baby. This eagerness
to see the world we live in was repeated in 1923, when reluctantly
I was spawned from the protective womb of Mother Harvard’s
Class of ’24 because of “economic necessity.” The dream of be-
coming a doctor seemed irrevocably torn from the pattern which
dominated both my conscious and unconscious mind.

But, because of the unique fabric that is America, an under-
standing and deeply humanitarian dean of medicine admitted me
to the freshman class of Temple University School of Medicine
on the promise to pay the tuition when and how I could. And so,
long nights as a hospital telephone operator and the days in
class, summers as a waiter, short-order cook, cab driver, in short
a repetition of the earlier years as newsboy, salesman, electrician,
piano teacher, postal clerk, with numerous other odd jobs which
provided the rather tenuous assurance of an education, finally
secured me the privilege I now enjoy as an M.D. As I look back
upon my education in these two schools, one intramural and for-

[ 606 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

_ mal, the other extramural and very informal, I realize that the
former built the foundation and framework, but the latter pro-
vided the architectural embellishments of human experience in
many walks of life, which made the structure of neuropsychiatry
in which I now dwell so fascinating and increasingly interesting.

In this twenty-fifth year after graduation, the western world
is psychiatrically conscious and the man on the street has been
expecting the psychiatrist, in some mystical way, to remodel the
genus homo into a sweeter, less aggressive, more harmoniously-
acting entity, or at least to offer some magic shibboleth which will
guarantee man’s salvation. Being man, the psychiatrist can do no
such thing. But the all-too-evident need of world-personality re-
habilitation will stimulate the efforts of psychiatrists, psycholo-
gists, political scientists, educators, sociologists, clergymen, an-
thropologists, social workers, philosophers, and all those vitally
interested in the fate of man, to a more rational way of life than
has been afforded thus far by our formal statesmen. It will be
no easy task — and by no means a certain outcome — to harness
the hostile and aggressive impulses of man, and transform them
into useful energy creating a harmoniously integrated and amiable
functioning “one-world.”

My neurological interests lie both in the clinical and research
fields. As to hobbies or relaxing interests, these include photog-
raphy, travelling, painting, and collecting canvases by con-
temporary artists. That part of the questionnaire concerning
my convictions can be answered more adequately than I can
ever hope to, by borrowing from Harry Dexter White, former
Secretary of the Treasury of the United States, who made the
following statement of reaffirmation of American democracy
before the “Thomas Un-American Committee.”

“My creed is the American creed. I believe in freedom of re-
ligion, freedom of speech, freedom of thought, freedom of the
press, freedom of criticism, and freedom of movement. I believe
in the goal of equality of opportunity, and the right of each
individual to follow the calling of his or her own choice, and the
right of every individual to an opportunity to develop his or her
capacity to the fullest. I believe in the right and duty of every citi-
zen to work for, to expect, and to obtain an increasing measure
of political, economical, and emotional security for all. I am op-

[ 607 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I924

posed to discrimination in any form, whether on grounds of .
race, color, religion, political belief, or economic status. I be-
lieve in the freedom of choice of one’s representatives in govern-
ment, untrammelled by machine guns, secret police, or a police
state. I am opposed to arbitrary and unwarranted use of power
or authority from whatever source or against any individual
group. I believe in a government of law, not men, where law is
above any man, and not any man above law. I consider these
principles sacred, I regard them as the basic fabric of our Ameri-
can way of life, and i believe in them as living realities, and not
mere words on paper. This is my creed.”

VINCENT JAMES MORANZ

HOME ADDRESS: 2235 Kalia Rd., Honolulu, T. H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bishop Trust Co., Ltd. King and Bishop Sts., Honolulu,
T. H.

BORN: Oct. 27, 1903, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Rudolph Bartholomew Mo-
ranz, Beatrice Eleanor Maguire.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: S.B., 1924; LL.B., 1928(29).

marRiED: Ann Byrne Speece, Dec. 27, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Trust officer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active duty, lieutenant to commander, United
States Naval Reserve, from Aug. 3, 1941, to Oct. 15, 1946; Silver Star
Medal, Iwo Jima, February, 1945; Bronze Star Medal, Okinawa, March,
1945.

orFices HELD: Chief Deputy Coroner, County of Philadelphia, Jan. 1, 1934,
to Aug. 3, 1941.

AFTER Harvard Law School, I practised in Philadelphia until
August, 1941. I spent the next five years in Naval Intelligence,
underwater demolition team, emerging as commander, United
States Naval Reserve. I am now trust officer, Bishop Trust Com-
pany, Limited, in Honolulu.

ROBERT LANG MOREHOUSE

HOME appress: Oakwoods, N. C.

BorN: Feb, 8, 1901, Quezaltenango, Guatemala, C. A. parents: Herbert
Harrison Morehouse, Emma Margaret Lang.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: 8.B., 1924.

[ 608 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MaRRIED: Kathleen Salisbury Moore, July 1, 1926, Providence, R. 1. crt-
DREN: Mary Stewart, Jan. 29, 1929; Peter Richmond, Feb. 10, 1931.

HARVARD SON: Peter Richmond Morehouse, ’52.

occuPATION: Apple grower.

MEMBER OF: Kiwanis Club,

FARMER and Kiwanian? My word!

GEORGE PALMER MOREY

HOME apprEss: 90 N. Hancock St. Lexington, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 201 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: March 3, 1899, Boston, Mass. ParENts: George Palmer Morey, ’98,
Emily Jane Davis.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MaRRIED: Ruth Winchester, April 9, 1928, Pittsburgh, Pa. cumpren: Pru-
dence, Sept. 25, 1930; George, Aug. 3, 1933; Samuel Winchester, Dec.
22, 1936.

OccUPATION: Manager, Boston office, R. W. Pressprich & Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted, June 4, 1917, discharged, April 11,
1919, American Expeditionary Force.

. WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chairman, War Finance Committee of Lex-
ington and Somerville, Massachusetts.

OFFICES HELD: Town meeting member, Town of Lexington, Massachusetts;
trustee, Symmes Arlington Hospital; director, Lexington Community
Chest; past president, Old Belfry Club.

MEMBER OF: Down Town Club, Boston; Harvard Clubs of New York and
Boston; Lexington Golf Club; Lexington Historical Society.

MY TRADE, being a Boston-bound salesman, is the last occupa-
tion I would have predicted for myself when I was in college and
Lexington the most unlikely place in which I would live, but I
have, I think, become typical of the place and of the manner of
making a living.

I married Ruth Winchester (Radcliffe ’27) in April, 1928, and
moved directly to Lexington, having acquired an apple orchard,
the chief utility of which is giving us a reasonable amount of
privacy.

I had a couple of quick jobs, and in December, 1925, entered
the Schoo] of Corporate Finance of the Guaranty Company of
New York. I came to Boston to coax dollars out of the town for
Wall Street. In January, 1940, T opened a Boston office for R
W. Pressprich & Company, members of the New York Stock

[ 609 ]

er tite _ oo fa

HARVARD CLASS OF I924

Exchange and security dealers specializing in institutional busi-
ness, which has prospered moderately.

As for our three children, Prudence, who is a freshman at Duke
University, was born in 1930, and George and Samuel at three-
year intervals. They are all normal and healthy. The boys are
in Lexington High and Junior High.

We have taken an active part in the activities of the town. A
great satisfaction comes from having helped create the Lexing-
ton Community Chest and, as chairman of the finance committee,
of having expanded the staff and functions of the Lexington
Visiting Nurse Association. I think that Mrs. Morey has derived
a great deal of pleasure from being on the Lexington School
Committee, of which she is still a member. The Republicans.
Unitarians, local hospital, social clubs and golf club have made
us a part of the local scene.

If I have a hobby, it is probably running an amateur employ-
ment agency where many of the denizens of Boston’s financial
district find jobs or people to fill them. It is satisfying to know
that you are responsible for finding a living for people or improv-
ing their lots.

My golf is usually in the nineties, which, considering the time
spent on it, is disappointing. However, this year I shall be sur-
prised again if it is not constantly in the eighties.

CHARLES HILL MORGAN, II

HOME ADDRESS: 317 S. Pleasant St., Amherst, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Amherst College, Amherst, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1902, Worcester, Mass. PARENTS: Paul Beagary Morgan, Les-
sie Maynard.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1924; A.M., 1926;
PH.D., 1928; A.M. hon. (Amherst Coll.), 1938.

Marrigp: Janet Barton, Sept. 14, 1928, Worcester, Mass. cHiLpREN: Audrey
Elizabeth, Nov. 13, 1930; George Sumner Barton, Nov. 17, 1932; Pru-
dence Gilbert, Aug. 24, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Philip Maynard Morgan, ’18.

OccuPATION: Professor of fine arts.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned rst lieutenant, A.A.F., May 13,
1942; served with oth Air Force from Sept. 6, 1942, to Sept. 6, 1944,
and with ist Allied Airborne Army from Sept. 6, 1944, until Oct. 23,
1945, in combat intelligence. Legion of Merit.

[ 610 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Assistant and tutor, Harvard, 1924-275 lecturer, Bryn Mawr,
1929-30; assistant professor, 1930-34, associate professor, 1934-38, pro-
fessor, since 1938, Amherst; assistant director, 1935-36, director, 1936-
38, vice-chairman of managing committee, since 1948, American School
of Classical Studies at Athens; trustee, American Farm School, Salo-
nica, since 1938.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Century Club, N. Y.; Archaeological
Institute of America; Greek Archaeological Institute.

PUBLICATIONS: “Corinth,” Vol. XI, The Byzantine Pottery, 1942; articles in
archaeological magazines.

DEAN CHASE has influenced an infinity of Harvard men. I
doubt that many others can look back and see how clearly his
wisdom and his deft touch have shaped their careers. It was he
who first called my attention to the fact that Harvard was not
the entire world; I have been trying to see the rest of it ever since.
It was he who suggested that a year or two of teaching would
be good experience and thereby supplied me with a profession.
For both of these ideas I shall be eternally grateful.

Probably the salient feature of my life since graduation has been
a change of pace every four years or so. The interval seems to
have been set by educational custom — four years of prep school
and four years of college seem automatically to have led to four
years of graduate school. Then an irregular two-year period of
adjustment set the pattern for the future with a year’s honey-
moon and study at the American School of Classical Studies at
Athens, Greece, and a year of teaching at Bryn Mawr which was
hard work but had its compensations. Then the rhythm re-
established itself: three years at Amherst setting up a department
of Fine Arts and one year in Athens as visiting professor at the
school with lots of time for excavation in Corinth and in Athens
itself; then one year at Amherst to pick up the threads only to
drop them again for three years in Athens as assistant director
and director of the school. These were wonderful years but at
the end of my term it was quite apparent that the pleasant alter-
nation of the past could not be continued indefinitely. With a
growing family that would soon need an American education,
and a generally poor.opinion of the genus expatriate, the decision
was not a difficult one. We returned to Amherst for good, we
thought, and for the first time in our married lives spent four
successive years in the same place.

[ 611 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Before we left Greece, World War II had seemed inevitable.
The Air Force had always appealed to me, and college professors
who had travelled or lived abroad appealed to Air Force Intelli-
gence. The four years after Pearl Harbor were spent largely in
that extraordinarily fascinating branch. Good luck in assignments
led to participation in ten campaigns beginning with heavy bom-
bardment in Egypt before Alamein and a year in the Libyan
desert, which is an archaeological paradise, as Combat Intelli-
gence officer for Ninth Bomber Command; then the job of Chief
of Combat Intelligence for the Ninth Air Force (medium
bombers and fighters) trying to outguess the Germans before,
during, and after the Normandy invasion; next Executive G-2
and later G-2 for First Allied Airborne Army (transport planes
and airborne troops) during the drops in Holland and across the
Rhine; finally to Berlin with the first American convoy to serve
successively as leg man for the Chief of Staff of the housekeeping
troops during the Big Three Conference at Potsdam and then
as American Chief of Staff at the Allied Kommandatura with the
task of setting up this new and complex organization in four dif-
ferent languages.

Reconversion was hard, but seems to have been accomplished.
We have been settled at Amherst for nearly three years now. So

long a period of calm is beginning to seem unnatural in the Mor-
gan family. °

JOHN CASIMIR MORGAN

HOME ApprEss: 30 Sherwood Ave., Madison, N. J.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Hyatt Bearings Division, General Motors Corp., Box 71,
Harrison, N. J.

BORN: June 8, 1900, Old Forge, Pa. parents: Stanley Mrowca-Morgan,
Elizabeth Tatarzynska.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. cun2 laude, 1924.

mareieD: Marjorie Elizabeth Slade Kingman, Jan. 24, 1925, San Francisco,
Calif. crmpren: John Casimir, Jr., Aug. 26, 1927; Elizabeth Ann, June
10, 1931.

HARVARD SON: John Casimir Morgan, Jr., ’52.

occupation: Administrative assistant to the chief engineer, Hyatt Bearings
Division, General Motors Corporation.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served in the United States Navy, June, 1917,
to August, 1920.

[ 612 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN HEATH MORGAN

HOME apprEss: 55 Ave. Kléber, Paris 16°, France.

OFFICE ApDDREss: American Embassy, 2 Ave. Gabriel, Paris, France.

BoRN: Dec. 6, 1901, Lynn, Mass. parents: Edward D. Morgan, Martha Am-
bler Heath.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

. YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Katherine Louise Whelchel, June 16, 1926, Washington, D. C.
CHILDREN: Louise Longstreet, June 12, 1927; John Heath, Jr., June 4,

1935.

OCCUPATION: Foreign Service officer; first secretary of embassy,

OFFICES HELD: Vice-consul and consul, Budapest, 1926-31; consul, Berlin,
1931-33, Vienna, Germany, 1938-39; Department of State, 1934-37,
1944-48, second secretary, Vienna, Austria, 1937-38, Madrid, 1939-42,
Bogota, 1942-43; first secretary, Paris, since 1948.

IT’S getting to be a long story from the early peaceful days in
Budapest, through Hitler’s rise to power in Berlin, the State De-
partment’s “Spanish desk” during the civil war, the Anschluss,
the first years of the Franco régime, political unrest in Colombia,
a political desk in the State Department again with interests rang-
ing from Iceland to Indonesia, and finally to postwar Paris. What
comes next is unpredictable but my desire finally to settle per-
manently in the United States becomes increasingly strong as the
years go by. Just where to do so is a question, however. I would
once unhesitatingly have said “somewhere in New England” but
in my declining years the Massachusetts climate as I remember
it seems a little rugged.

*- JOHNSON EDWARD EVERETT MORRIS

BorRN: April 1, 1903, Columbia, S. C. parents: Joseph White Morris, Ella
Roberta Williams.

PREPARED AT: Allen University, Columbia, S. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

DIED: July 25, 1929, Vienna, Austria.

JOHNSON EDWARD EVERETT MORRIS entered Harvard
_ after two years’ preparatory study at Allen University. After
receiving his A.B, degree with the Class, he went abroad to con-
tinue the study of medicine. He attended the University of Er-

[ 613 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

langen and the University of Berlin, before entering the Univer-
sity of Vienna. He died within a few months of completing the
requirements for his degree in medicine.

ROBERT MARTIN MORRISON

HOME ADDRESS: 96 Columbia St. Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Morrison, Stickells & Mahoney, 161 Devonshire St., Boston,
Mass.

porN: March 25, 1904, Everett, Mass. parents: Morris L. Morrison, Etta
Levin.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; LL.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Norma S. Falk, April 15, 1932, Brookline, Mass. cHILDREN: Rich-
ard Jay, Feb. 1, 1934; Eliot Falk, March 6, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Ralph Fllis Morrison, ’26; Sidney Lawrence Morrison,
"33:

occuPaTION: Lawyer; president, Live-Pak Seafoods Company; general man-
ager, Multiple Breaker Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Second lieutenant, Field Artillery Reserve,
1925-30; 1st lieutenant, Field Artillery Reserve, 1930-35.

OFFICES HELD: President, Jewish Community Center of Brookline, Old South
Historical Society.

MEMBER OF: Major General Henry Knox Lodge, A.F. & A.M.

PUBLICATIONS: “Direct Loss by Fire”; “Outline of Fire Insurance for Mort-
gagees in Massachusetts”; “Fire Insurance — Outlines and Discussion
Problems”; numerous articles in insurance publications.

THE great reluctance with which I face the demands of the
blank page before me—a reluctance which apparently I share
with a large proportion of our Class — stems from a strong feel-
ing that the past quarter-century in my life holds little worthy
of being noted on the record. Those achievements that seemed
so commendable in their hour of accomplishment, those victories
and defeats that highlighted the passing hour, the positions oc-
cupied, the community responsibilities imposed and met — some-
how all of them seem not so important when brought out of the
storehouse of memory and evaluated on their worthiness of being
recorded as history.

It seems of little import that my shingle has been hanging out
for almost twenty-two years, offering my services to those need-
ing legal counsel, or that during that same period my energies
have also been spent in such diverse sidelines as management of a

[614]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

company whose business consisted of manufacturing canned
drinking water, writing books, and teaching courses in insurance
and insurance law, and heading a concern which ships live lobsters
hermetically sealed in tin cans —and takes them out alive.

Even as I write, I begin to realize that the importance of the
past twenty-five years — if they have any importance at all — lies
not in the things that I have done, but rather in the thoughts
that I have thought and the emotions that I have felt, in the love
of a little wife I still call “Snooney” and in the companionship of
two growing sons, wholly lacking in adequate respect for their
father, but thrilling to watch in their growth and development. —
These have served to fill in the years with such a warmth and a
richness of pattern that I can truthfully say:. “They were good
years; their passing has not been in vain.”

Of such things it is difficult to write. But to those members
of our Class who have experienced with me those “good things of
life,” I feel certain that I have told a complete story. With them
I face the arrival of the twenty-fifth in happy anticipation, en-
joying a rich sense of fulfillment.

ADDISON CHAPIN MORSE

HOME ADDRESS: 17 Fairview Ave. Chicopee, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 Center St., Chicopee, Mass,

BoRN: April 2, 1901, Chicopee, Mass. parents: Hiram Austin Morse, Mary
Ella Carter.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

MaRRiED: Gladys Irene Eldridge, Oct. 24, 1934, Portland, Maine. CHILDREN:
Susan Gay, July 7, 1936; Bertha Mary, July 25, 1938.

occupation: General insurance agent and real estate.

CAME graduation in June, 1924, and then to general insurance in
the business my father had built.

Life has been routine and well ordered, but at times infinitely
good and fine. Insurance agent, realtor, savings bank trustee, Re-
publican, Kiwanian, Unitarian — in those spheres are my outside
interests and in some I have held office. Inside interests are a
lovely wife and two beautiful girls. I hope that the girls have
the opportunities Harvard gave me!

[615 ]

2st onesie AOA Senaean ite aaatam CCAIR Ati Asal TCA Aa tL Etat Is cise

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

This records not only my graduate life but prophesies that the
profitable outside interests shall be pursued to benefit, broaden,
and mature these inside interests.

MALCOLM MORSE

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Old Farm Rd., Newton Center, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Protective Association, 1128 Little Bldg.,
Boston, Mass.

porN: July 27, 1902, Brookline, Mass. parents: Edward Wendell Morse,
Florence Teresa Anita Leigh.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: AB. 1924(25).

MarRiED: Thalia Simmons, Aug. 30, 1924, Hanover, Mass.; Irene Stowell, Jan.
§, 1938; Mary Kathleen Stowell, Sept. 3, 1942, New York, N. Y. cHit-
DREN: Malcolm, Jr., March 8, 1926; Priscilla Alden, Oct. 2, 1930; Marilyn,

July 3, 1933; Michael, Nov. 25, 1934; Molly Florel, Aug. 19, 1943; Teresa
Leigh, 1947.

occupation: General agent, accident, health, and life insurance, establishing
and maintaining agencies.

OFFICES HELD: General Agent, Massachusetts Protective Association, 1929-48;
master, Brookline Lodge, AF. & A.M., 1934-35; officer, St. Paul's

Chapter, 1944-48; vice-president, Oak Hill Improvement Association,
1948,

MEMBER OF: Charles River Country Club; Oak Hill Improvement Associa-
tion, all Masonic bodies including Aleppo Temple.

MY AMBITION, as expressed in the year book in high school, was
to “succeed.” Somehow I thought that “success” was an answer
in itself. But as I have gone on these twenty-five years, it has been
demonstrated forcibly that success is not in merely accumulat-
ing material things (although it helps to make a little money), but
in the solid satisfaction that comes from building as we go along.
My work has been creative in the sense that I have helped to
establish and maintain agencies —-my building has been in man-
power and directing young salesmen, Frankly, I have enjoyed
the latter most, for 1 have had the opportunity to assist in the de-
velopment of several hundred families. Their problems have been
mine and my responsibility has grown with theirs.

I went to work the day after graduation as a cub agent selling
life and accident and health insurance. My work at first carried
me into the various towns and communities of eastern Massachu-
setts, and after five years my chance came for promotion. There

[ 616 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

being no free agencies at that time, I was allowed to create one.
Territory was added from time to time until I was operating in
Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, and Rhode
Island.

Came the war, and many of my men were within the draft age.
They were forced into the Army or defense work — but a nu-
cleus remained and the territory was rapidly rebuilt. Finally
it became top heavy, causing constant travel and supervision, so
that I finally decided to break it into units. Giving the chance
to several of my strongest men, we developed four additional
agencies.

Today I am happy and proud to be the parent of so many
flourishing groups, and look forward to the creating of several
more.

Along the way I have acquired a bit of philosophy, and learned
to appreciate the smooth waters which flow out of troubled
springs. I guess I have had my share of disturbances and worries,
but I have seen the law of compensation operate, and chase away
the shadows in deep valleys, which have obscured the view of
high mountains. |

Today a happy home, wife, and healthy family and a certain
sense of peace is my compensation for these stormy years.

My wife and I plan to visit some different place each year or
two, so that we can realize an ambition to travel and see people
and new things. Some of these trips we have already enjoyed, and
we look forward to many more.

Harvard meant a lot to me because I went through it the hard
way — always some job necessary to make things work out. But
I feel that I acquired more of the meaning of things at that time
— lessons which have been invaluable in the present. I have always
believed that right thinking brings about right action, and right
action would correct many of the world’s ills —I still think so —
but have suffered from the “indifferentitis” of people (even among
the best). Now, while not cynical, I believe that it takes more
than just thoughts to stir people to right actions. My interest in
people has led me into various groups, and my work in the Masonic
fraternity has been most stimulating and satisfying. Politics scare
me —as I feel I would be too naive to hold my own in this
modern scheming. My wish would be that we of a quarter-

[ 617 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

century of contemporaneous experience might get together more
often to think out a pattern for our fast-moving life.
Here’s looking forward to our Fiftieth Reunion!

SANFORD HIRAM MOSES

HOME apprEss: 8 Prospect St. Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 15 Dix St., Winchester, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 15, 1903, Troy, N. Y. parents: Sanford Hiram Moses, Elizabeth
Maria Kennedy.

PREPARED AT: Troy High School, Troy, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1924; M.D, 1928.

MarrieD: Anne Etter Kearney, Sept. 4, 1926, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Elizabeth Anne, Dec. 2, 1929; Sanford Hiram, Jr., Sept. 28, 1934.

occuPaTION: Obstetrician.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman of staff, Winchester Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Boston Obstetrical Society;
New England Obstetrical and Gynecological Society; Corinthian Yacht
Club; Harvard Club of Eastern Middlesex; Rotary Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Warious medical papers.

MY DAUGHTER is now in her sophomore year at Radcliffe and
my son is in his first year at Winchester High School. I suppose
that should have prepared me for a Twenty-fifth Reunion, but
somehow I don’t seem to feel old enough. It hardly seems possi-
ble that twenty-five years have gone by and that we now stand
where the Class of ’99 stood in 1924.

The years have been busy ones for me. After Harvard Medical
School and internships on the Second Surgical Service at the
Boston City Hospital and finally at the Boston Lying-in Hospital,
I settled in Winchester. I opened offices both there and in Boston
for the practice of obstetrics and gynecology. Winchester is a
wonderful town. We have a very well-trained, friendly, and co-
operative group of doctors and an excellent hospital. Some years
ago a few of us bought and remodelled an old club-building so
that we now have a very pleasant professional office building.

Summers are spent in Marblehead where we have a home on
the rocks with a broad sweep of the Atlantic Ocean in front of
us. It is within seventeen miles of the Winchester Hospital which
makes it easy to travel back and forth. This is very forunate for
me as I have been so busy that other travel has been of the arm-
chair variety. During the war I was classified as essential to the

[ 618 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

civilian population. I had been in the Medical Reserve and fully
expected to be called but no replacement for me was ever found.
I have never been quite sure whether I was glad or sorry, In some
ways it was a good miss but, while I was kept much too busy, it
was not too pleasant to sit on the sidelines while the big game was
being played.

Looking backward, I find that I have not accomplished nearly
as much as I planned. I am afraid that I have added little to the
glories of Harvard, but with every passing year I become more
proud of our college. Living so near, I have been able to keep
somewhat in contact with Harvard. I have cheered as loudly as
any undergraduate at football and basketball games and so on.
While victories have not been so common that they lost their
sweetness, I have never seen a Harvard team that I could not
respect. In the more important fields, Harvard is, I think, pre-
eminent, Of course, I am biased but I believe that the opinion is
justified by the facts. In the many, many various fields of knowl-
edge covered by the university, Harvard is among the leaders in
virtually every field. The man who taught some of us organic
chemistry has made a superb president. I know from report and
personal contact that many of our faculty are inspiring teachers
and men of outstanding ability. All in all, I think Harvard has
improved steadily in the last twenty-five years and more than
ever I am proud to be classed as a Harvard man.

+ DONALD ALDRICH MURDOCK

BORN: Aug. 28, 1902, Leicester, Mass. PARENTS: Lester Bigelow Murdock, ’96,
Alice May Aldrich.

PREPARED AT: Moses Brown School, Providence, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Virginia W. Hall, Oct. 25, 1924, Providence, R. I. CHILDREN:
Meredith, Nov. 6, 1926; Donald Aldrich, April 22, 1929.

Diep: Aug. 19, 1932, Providence, R. I.

DONALD ALDRICH MURDOCK entered Harvard after com-
pleting preparatory work at the Moses Brown School and during
college was a member of the Styx Club and Alpha Sigma Phi
fraternity. After receiving an A.B. degree with the Class, he
became assistant manager of the Pawtucket Public Market, In
1929 he was elected director of the Providence Public Market

[619 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Company, which operated a number of large food stores in
Rhode Island and Massachusetts.

GEORGE ANDREW MURPHY

HOME ADDRESS: 74 Bradwood St., Roslindale, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 68 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 29, 1903, Boston, Mass. parents: Frederic J. Murphy, Mabel G.
Leonard.

PREPARED AT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1924(25)3 LL.B. 1927+

marriep: Anna C. Maguire, June 26, 1932, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Frederic
J. March 28, 1934 (died Oct. 10, 1937); Ann, Feb. 3, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Attorney associated with firm.

MY LIFE has been the routine life of a trial lawyer, varied only
to the extent of family life with its sicknesses and deaths.

JAMES ALBERT MURRAY

HOME ADDRESS: 12 Fells Rd., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 23, 1902, Cambridge, Mass. parents: William Alfred Murray,
Mary Belle Forsyth.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: S.B. IN IND.ENGIN. cum laude, 1924.

MarrieD: Rhoda L. Jelley, Sept. 17, 1927, Summerside, Prince Edward
Island, Canada. cHipren: Donald William, Sept. 8, 1939; Judith Lois,
March 29, 1941.

OccUPATION: Associate professor of materials.

NEWBY. MURRAY.

HOME ADDRESS: 533 E. 82nd St. New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 32 E. 57th St.. New York 22, N. Y,

BORN: Aug. 26, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: Timothy Murray, Anna
Kennedy.

PREPARED AT: Riverdale Country School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920~1924. DEGREE: A.B, cum laude, 1924.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Dowdney Murray, ’21 (deceased); Allan Ken-
nedy Murray, ’23.

OCCUPATION: Interior designer and decorator.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U.S.N.R., June, 1942;
Naval Training School, Harvard University, July-August, 1942; Naval
Training Station, Newport, R. 1, September-November, 1942;
US.N.R. Midshipmen’s School, New York, N. Y., November, 1942-

[ 620}

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

December, 1945; Naval Training Center, Bainbridge, Md. December,
1945-February, 1946, released from active duty, February, 1946, with
rank of lieutenant commander.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Decorators.

MY LIFE has pursued a placid course from graduation in 1924
until now, barring war’s interruption. In 1931 I established my
own business of interior decoration. The succeeding years, rather
lean ones for a luxury business, held me close to my work. In June,
1942, commissioned lieutenant, United States Naval Reserve, on
short notice, I reported to the Naval Training School at Harvard
for a two-month indoctrination course. So, billeted in Matthews,
messing in the Union, drilling in the Yard and Soldiers Field, I
had, after eighteen years, another taste of Cambridge life. Such
leisure as there was, was passed in defending the New England
and Eastern way of life against the slurs of men from every other
part of the country.

Released from active duty in February, 1946, I anticipated a
period of relaxation, but was immediately involved in business,
which has held me fast ever since. However, the work is varied
and interesting, with much opportunity for travel, so I consider
myself a fortunately situated person.

OGDEN NASH

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 4300 Rugby Rd., Baltimore to, Md.

Born: Aug. 19, 1902, Rye, N. Y. parents: Edmund Strudwick Nash, Mathilde
Chenault.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1921.

MARRIED: Frances Rider Leonard, June 6, 1931, Baltimore, Md. cuHmpREN:
Linell Chenault, March 26, 1932; Isabel Jackson, Sept. 30, 1933.

OCCUPATION: Writer.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; Elkridge, Baltimore.

PUBLICATIONS: 1'72 a Stranger Here Myself; Good Intentions: Many Long
Years Ago; Versus.

JAMES R. P, NASON

HOME ApprEss: Twin Lanes Farm, North Street, Fairfield, Conn.

OFFICE AppREss: Kelly, Nason, Inc., 247 Park Ave, New York 19, N. Y.

BoRN: Nov. 6, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: Daniel Nason, Caroline
Townsend Plum.

[ 621 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

PREPARED AT: Allen Stevenson School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

MaRRIED: Mary Wood Harmon, April 19, 1929, Fairfield, Conn. CHILDREN:
Jane Farnsworth, Feb. 9, 1930; Caroline Townsend, April 22, 1931;
Sarah Harmon, July 12, 1935.

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president, treasurer, and director, Kelly, Nason,
Inc. (advertising agency).

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, United Cities Realty Corporation,
Wood Harmon Corporation; director, World Travel Institute.

MEMBER OF: Fairfield County Hunt Club; Pequot Yacht Club; Fairfield
Country Club; Harvard Club of New York.

MIGUEL ANGEL NAVARRO

apprEss: Tegucigalpa, Honduras, C. A.

BORN: Jan. 19, 1902, Guatemala, C. A. parents: Miguel Angel Navarro,
Asuncion Navarro,

PREPARED AT: Instituto Nacional, Honduras, C. A.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923. DEGREE: A.M. (Boston Univ.), 1925.

OCCUPATION: Education.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Navarro did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

PEARSON ELLIS NEAMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 1200 Fifth Ave., New York 29, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Battle, Levy, Fowler & Neaman, 30 Broad St., New York 4,
N. Y.

BorN: Nov. 29, 1903, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Harry Isaac Neaman, Sophia
Beatrice Frankle.

PREPARED AT; Westinghouse High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; LL.B., 1927.

MargiepD: Annabel Bennett Neiman, Sept. 15, 1927, New York, N. Y. cHIL-
DREN: Peter, Feb. 19, 1936; Sophia, Feb. 16, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Milton Robert Neaman, ’33.

OccUPATION: Lawyer, member of firm of Battle, Levy, Fowler & Neaman,
vice-president, director, and member of the executive committee of
Freeport Sulphur Company.

WARTIME COVERNMENT Posts: Member, Industry Panel, Regional War Labor
Board.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Bentley School, Inc.; member of executive committee
and vice-chairman, New York Chapter, American Jewish Committee;
vice-chairman, administrative committee, Free Synagogue of the City
of New York.

[ 622 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Bar Association of the City of
New York; New York State Bar Association; American Bar Associa-
tion; New York County Lawyers Association; Cloud Club.

I HAVE been very fortunate. My family gives me many reasons
to be thankful. I have a comfortable home. My work is enjoy-
able and rewarding and I have the illusion that it is important.
I have happy business associations. I have good friends. I see the
better plays, hear good music, read some of the good books, and
make reasonably frequent visits to museums and galleries. I have
enjoyable vacations. I have done a fair amount of travelling —
Europe, Mexico, and Cuba, each several times, and most of the
United States. I am able to give time to matters of community
interest. Politically speaking, I am pretty much of a New Dealer.
I do not believe we are living in the best of all possible worlds,
but I believe we are living in the best world there is today and
I gratefully acknowledge that I have had much more than my
share.

+ DAVID DIE NEIMAN

BORN: Jan. 1, 1903, Farrell, Pa. PARENTS: Jacob Neiman, Lottie Blier.
PREPARED AT: Farrell High School, Farrell, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

piep: Nov. 14, 1940, Youngstown, Ohio.

DAVID DIE NEIMAN entered Harvard after preparatory
study at Farrell High School and a year at the University of
Pennsylvania. In college he was a member of the Track Squad
(1922-24) and Tau Delta Phi fraternity.

After receiving his A.B. degree in 1924, he attended Harvard
Law School for two years, but withdrew to accept a temporary
position with the Joseph Lorange Company. He became engaged
in the general practice of law in Youngstown and later was a
partner in the firm of Kaufman & Neiman. From 1932 to 1934
he served as secretary of the Mahoning County Bar Association.

+ CURTIS NELSON

BORN: Nov. 9, 1902, Hubbard Woods, Ill. parents: Murry Nelson, ‘gt,
Mery Kilborn Brown.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

[ 623 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREES: A.B. 1924(23); M.D. (Univ. of Chi-
cago), 1927.

marRiED: Alice Little, 1928. cuiLp: Murry, 1930.

prep: March 3, 1934, Barrington, Ill.

CURTIS NELSON entered Harvard after completing his pre-
paratory study at Milton Academy. In college he was a member
of the Wrestling Team (1922, 1923), Speakers’ Club, Pi Eta
Society, Institute of 1770, and D.K.E. After completing the re-
quirements for graduation in three years, he received an A.B. de-
gree in 1923, as of 1924.

Since his interests lay with the field of medicine, he entered
Northwestern University Medical School, but after a year trans-
ferred to Rush Medical School of the University of Chicago, and
in 1927 was awarded his M.D. degree. He took a two-year in-
ternship at the Presbyterian Hospital, Chicago, and then went
abroad to do advanced work in Austria and “Hungary. In 1930
he returned to Chicago and carried on a year of postgraduate
study at the Passavant Memorial Hospital before establishing
his own practice in Evanston, Illinois. A year later he and his
family moved to Barrington, Illinois, where he was in general
practice at the time of his death.

He was survived by his wife and son.

JAMES MONTGOMERY NEWELL, JR.

HOME appress: 28 Denny Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 35 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 6, 1902, Swampscott, Mass. parents: James Montgomery New-
ell, °89, Alice Norton Blake.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MaRRieD: Rives Stuart, Sept. 8, 1928, Essex Fells, N. J. cuitpren: James
Montgomery, 3d, Nov. 14, 1933; Francis Lee Stuart, Sept. 28, 1935.

occuPaTION; Investment counsel, associated with Edward T. Brackett.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Civilian employee, U.S. Navy Dept., in District
Intelligence Office, First Naval District, Boston, August, 1942—August,
1946.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Warden, civilian defense, Brookline, Mass.,
1941-42.

orrices HELD: Member of board of managers and executive committee,
Home for Aged Women, commiuceman, Troop 12, Chestnut Hill,

[ 624]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Boy Scouts of America; treasurer, Parents League of the Rivers Coun-
try Day School.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston, Lake Sunapee Yacht Club, The Coun-
try Club, Brookline, Mass.

THE wheel has turned and in its turning brings us back into each
other’s focus once again. Much has happened since we parted in
1924, some bad, some good.

At the time of our Sixth Reunion, the depression was getting
well underway. Perhaps most of us did not realize at our
Fifteenth Reunion the cataclysm which was about to engulf the
world, and our Twentieth never did take place. It would be nice
to think that we are now in calm seas, but such seems not to be
the case.

But there has been good also. Twice in our lifetime this coun-
try with all its fads and apparent weaknesses has proved its in-
herent strength to the world. It is good that we can speak or
write our thoughts and that we can disagree and yet be free.
It is good, too, that we can still bring up our children in those
beliefs which we were taught and that they still can find this a
land of opportunity.

My own experiences since graduation are probably of lirtle
general interest except to myself. My life has been centered
largely in the Boston area. There were two interesting trips to
Europe in the years immediately following graduation. From
then until 1941 I was in the investment business. The following
four years were spent as a civilian employed by the United States
Navy. As one looks back on that experience, there were a few
unforgettable moments and many more of necessary routine.
Perhaps the outstanding memory in that connection was the as-
sociation with men of all ages (though they were mostly
younger) coming from all parts of this country, and once again
learning that despite some outward differences, our thoughts
and beliefs were much the same. One rather amusing aspect was
that as a civilian I sometimes acted as a liaison between yeomen,
who were civilians at heart, and officers whose main desire was to
get the job finished and to become civilians again.

For the past year, I have been engaged in investment counsel
work. .

With my wife and boys, life at home has been cast along

[ 625 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

pleasant lines, The boys are growing up and the elder has gone
off to Exeter this year. Of late years, our summers have been
spent in New Hampshire where we all get enjoyment out of
gardening, sailing, fishing, and swimming, My principal hobbies
consist of reading, within the home, and fishing, outside. The last
two provide much enthusiasm, even though the results may not
be impressive.

+ JOHN EDWARD NEWELL

BORN: June 12, 1899, Sherborn, Mass. parents: Thomas Edward Newell,
Agnes Genevieve Kelley.

PREPARED AT: Dean Academy, Franklin, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922. ,

pieD: June 15, 1925, Holliston, Mass.

EN EDWARD NEWELL entered with the Class after com-
pleting preparatory study at Dean Academy. A member of the
Class for two years, he withdrew in 1922 and became engaged

in the insurance business. He was in that business at the time of
his death.

CAMPBELL NEWHALL

HOME appress: Rural Delivery, Magnolia, Del.

BORN: Oct. 19, 1901, Baltimore, Md. parents: Thomas Newhall, Honora
Guest.

PREPARED aT: Taft School, Watertown, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924(25).

MARRIED: Margaret Elizabeth Thomas, March 15, 1937, Cleveland, Ohio.
cHiLp: Honora, Aug. 13, 1939.
occuPATION: Poultry raising and farming.

SINCE 1924 I have travelled extensively in the United States and
South America for several large corporations. In May, 1948, I
purchased a farm near Magnolia, Delaware, and am now raising
chickens,

WALTER MANGOLD NEWMAN

HOME Appress: 1511 Denniston Ave. Pittsburgh, Pa.
orFice avpress: Walker & Newman, 406 Law and Finance Bldg., Pittsburgh,
Pa.

[ 626 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

porN: March 11, 1904, Milwaukee, Wis. PARENTS: Samuel S. Newman, Bertha
Livingston.

PREPARED AT: Peabody High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MarRRIED: Marian Levin, Aug. 25, 1937, Baltimore, Md. cutvpren; ‘Walter
Mangold, Jr., Nov. 23, 1942; George S., May 3, 1945. > -.

occuPATION: Lawyer. “

OFFICES HELD: President and director, Keystone Grinder & Manufacturing
Company, Pittsburgh; director, United Vocational & Employment
Service, Pittsburgh; parmer, Walker & Newman.

MEMBER OF: Bar Associations, Harvard Club of Western Pennsylvania,
Standard Club of Chicago.

TAKING space in proportion to my achievements (or want of
them) permits me to return unused most of the space you have
allotted to recount them. I regret the fact that I can report no
outstanding personal successes, but I do find great satisfaction
in just being a part of a class which includes so many illustrious
members,

The serious work of helping to found a law firm and keep its
practice growing and progressive, at the same time managing the
destinies of a hardware manufacturing business, has taken no
small amount of my time. Perhaps by reason of this work my
two candidates for admission to Harvard in the 1960’s will find
themselves better able than I to keep in close contact with univer-
sity matters.

Far west of the Harvard Yard, I am pleased to report that even
the steel curtain of Pittsburgh has not shut us off from the music,
theatre, and general cultural activities which have seldom thrived
in heavy industrial centers. And [ still enjoy regular sessions
at the Steinway. Although they disclose utterly no improvement,
rumor has it that with my helpmate’s patient efforts my golf and
bridge have after all these years improved almost to the level
of mediocrity, —

Time has not been heavy; yet I wonder whether we shall ap-
pear as venerable to the boys of ’49 as the boys of ’99 appeared
to us in 1924.

FREDERICK HUMPHREY NICHOLS

HOME AppRESS: 161 Leroy Ave. Darien, Conn.
OFFICE appREss: Pepperidge Farm, Inc., Norwalk, Conn,

[ 627 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

porx: April 27, 1902, Paris, France. parents: Humphrey Turner Nichols,
97, Edith Seabury Allen.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B... 1924(25).

MARRIED: Emily Logan, April 18, 1931, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN: Emily
Croysdale, March 19, 1934; Humphrey Turner, 2d, April 10, 1936.

occupation: Sales and advertising director, Pepperidge Farm, Inc., bakery
products.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Darien War Bond Committee, chairman, 1941-
42.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Darien Citizens Union, 1943-47.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Wee Burn Country Club, Darien.

WHRY, as we approach senility, we should be encouraged to ex-
pose our horrid entities to public gaze in this shameful fashion, is
past all understanding!

Is it a kindness to us, who have labored for lo these twenty-five
years to produce this very mouse of a world, to have us now ex-
hibit our shortcomings like so many scallops on a skewer? Is it
decent, polite, or in any sense fitting to pry up the rock of age
under which we slippered pantaloons have sought shelter, and to go
prodding amongst us with a sharp and Schwarzy stick for the
mere satisfaction of watching us squirm and slither our rheumy
selves away from the bright and blinding light of truth? Can't
we meditate on our sins in private, and be forgiven our trespasses?

Who’s to profit from our confessions? Certainly not our chil-
dren. They’re far too busy reading comics. Surely not our con-
temporaries. They’re beyond profit as it is.

No, I fear we're only continuing the process of making suckers
of ourselves for the advancement of the printer, that ubiquitous
Mr. Sinister of our era, with a leer in one eye and a mote in the
other, the stain of ink on his hands and something worse on his
soul for the propaganda he’s been sedulously spooning into a
world mass whose collective brain has become liliputianized in
direct ratio to the gargantuation of its slobbering mouth and
hairy ears.

To the sardonic printer, then, with his insatiable thirst for
“copy ... copy... more copy,” I scamper ventre a terre and
thumb to nose with this perverse eleventh-hour potion.

Paris-born, yet end-result of an eight-generation conspiracy of
Boston preferred stock (including a forebear—H, 1767 —so

[ 628 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

singularly bellicose as to assume a leading part in routing the
British from Beantown and so become appointed by one G.
Washington as his personal aide, and another whose Yankee
skulduggery among innocent inmates of the Indies propelled
him to the presidency of one of Boston’s first banks), it was in-
evitable that I, German-governessed and old-school-tied within
a kilocycle of my green and salad days, having thereafter readily
absorbed the undergraduate delights of lavender and old lace
English and as readily flunked Economics A, should be thrust
upon graduation among the whirling dervishes of Wall Street,
there, according to fond parental hope, to retrieve the family for-
tune as that nice young Mr. What’s-his-name, specialist in leading
myopic widows and mewling orphans to the slaughter. Knowing
an economic thing or two themselves, however, it was they who
picador’d and banderillo’d our budding butcher from the arena,
whereupon he sold his services to the above referred to spoon-
wielding Fra Diabolo the printer.

Followed as unconsciously sophomoric, ulcer-ridden, and ut-
terly vulgar an era of advertising agency flim-flam and assorted
hocus pocus and bad taste as could only have been perpetrated
and matched by ninety-nine per cent of my dear classmates dur-
ing that precise stage of man’s moronic evolution.

A dozen years or so of this, and there arose within me (and the
world in general) so urgent a need for strong drink as to persuade
me to join the subsidiary of an eminently respectable Philadelphia
sugar concern for the purpose of proclaiming to all and sundry
the finer points and characteristics of its profitable by-product,
rum. However, no sooner had I proved to the satisfaction of these
estimable sugar merchants that the proof of the cane was in the
drinking of it, than the highly respectable president of this
highly respectable concern announced that he had, under cover
of darkness, successfully negotiated the sale of its liquid subsidiary,
including myself, to as malodorous a group of ex-bootleggers as
ever hung from a yardarm.

Whereupon I betook myself out of there, planted myself
squarely in front of the nearest mirror, and stood awhile —a
long, long while — in thought. Says I to myself, says I: “Lookee
here, Gaffer Nichols, ’tis a weird, complex, unpredictable thing
it is, this livelihood business as practised in the twentieth-century

[ 629 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Gotham. Verily does it tempt a body to cry ‘Phooey upon it, and
again phooey!’ Why not, then, leave the race for riches to the
redolent rats and, as for yourself, reverse the field? Tote up the
score to date, Brother Fivepence. What might one say you had
gleaned from life so far? And what, precisely, do you now know
the very Jeast about? Come, come, old boy — don’t be bashful!

“In the murky caverns of Wall Street you learned, after all,
perhaps the speediest way of losing money known to man. Then
why not affix yourself firmly to something that’s managed by
somebody who wouldn’t touch a block of ConC&RG cv rst &rfg
sf 2%4’s of 2003 with a ten-foot length of drain pipe? You've
learned to make rather a go of it along advertising lines; then
why not look about for something that has not only had no need
for blurbs but would just as soon get along without any this
morning, thank you just the same! Since you’ve quite accustomed
yourself by now to the hypnotic, soporific swing and sway of the
daily commute, why not forego the delights of the 7:48 to town
and the 6:08 home, and consider the practicality of adding to
your good wife’s woes by dropping by home at midday for a
bucolic bite of lunch? Why not, in short, play the whole dem’d
horrid grind completely in reverse; let the streamlined, big city,
chain reaction razzle-dazzle go harden its own arteries, while you,
Gaffer Nichols, in the mellow wisdom of maturity,. get yourself
some sense and some joy out of life?”

And that, mes amis, is how this classmate of yours has at last
worked it out for himself. Any day you felt so inclined, you could
observe him sauntering forth, say around 8:45 of a morning, after
a full eight hours’ sleep, picking a leisurely nosegay from his
brookside garden, and then driving his unharassed way through
the country sunshine to his “place of business” some fifteen min-
utes from his home. There, on a hemlock and birch encircled rise
of land, you'd see him alight coatless and hatless, to unlock a coun-
try office door on which you might read lettered, old style, the
words “Pepperidge Farm.” And as the door swung open, such an
aroma would issue forth as you hadn’t savored since the day long,
long ago when you toddled down the hall and into the kitchen to
find old Nora drawing a pan of golden brown home-made loaves
of bread from out of the monster maw of her great coal-fed oven.

So now let’s quietly, softly tiptoe away and take our leave of old

[ 630 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Squire Nichols, leaning on his staff of life, surrounded by his flour-
dusted harem of mixing girls, hand kneaders, and oven damosels
drawn from the farms and hamlets of the rolling Connecticut
countryside, and indulging his simple, quixotic whim of furnish-
ing so completely un-modern, non-advertised, under-financed,
anachronistic, unprofitable, but withal so homespun and nostalgic
and honest a loaf of bread as to give pleasure and be made wel-
come among an esoteric minority of good people from Maine to
Mexico and from Vermont to the Virgin Islands.

You who have achieved such immeasurably greater fame and
fortune than he may well wink at his sorry, seedy figure. But as
you sit at home and proudly write that annual stx-figured income
tax draft by means of which you so importantly contribute to the
efforts of our noble President and Secretary of the Treasury to
carry forward to ever greater heights this nation of indolents, im-
beciles, anarchists, and charlatans, or as you feverishly toss off
those last three quick ones to ease the nervous shock of transition
from big-time deals to the 6:08 home, think just a little bit kindly,
indulgently if you will, of Squire Nichols, already attired in his
bathing trunks by 5:15 by the side of his wife, in his hand a tall
glass containing a modicum of Scotch, little ice, and much clear
water, contentedly watching his two fine healthy youngsters
racing each other in from the float off-shore, and, looking mo-
mentarily beyond them towards his thirty-two-year-old sloop
lying cozily at her mooring, contemplating the happy prospect
of still another unhurried family cruise to the east’ard come the .
dog days of summer — the Boston merchant’s private signal of
his great-grandfather’s flying victoriously and unabashed from
her masthead!

LOUIS RHODES NICHOLS

HOME apprEss: Kingsbury Lane, Weston, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: D. J. Cutter & Co., Inc., 420 Freeport St., Dorchester, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 24, 1901, New York, N. Y. parents: Seth Nichols, ’85, Mary
Etta Hodgdon.

PREPARED aT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MaRRIED: Marie Cromwell Dobbs, May 26, 1928, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Louis Rhodes, Jr., May 15, 1929; Cynthia Cromwell, Aug. 2, 1932.

[ 631 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

HARVARD son: Louis Rhodes Nichols, Jr., °52.
HARVARD BROTHER: George Seth Nichols, ’28.
occuPATION: Fuel sales and heating engineering.
MEMBER OF: Weston Golf Club.

AFTER two years in the wool business, I decided to make a
change, so applied for a job through the Harvard Employment
Bureau and soon found myself in the coal business.

While in college, like most undergraduates at the time, I did
not know what line of endeavor I would pursue in the future.
Therefore, the only course which I took that happened to have
any direct bearing on the coal industry was a geology course,
part of which was entitled “Fuels, Fluxes, and Refractories.”

I spent a couple of years with a wholesale coal company and
then became associated with a retail concern which, because of
the trend towards automatic heating, dealt in fuel oil as well as
solid fuels. The sale of fuel oil soon involved the sale of oil burn-
ing equipment and this in turn led to the installation of complete
heating systems. As a result, it was necessary to supplement my
old “Fuels, Fluxes, and Refractories” course with a little practical
experience and study of heating engineering. The fuel and re-
lated heating business is far from static, and for that reason is
interesting even though not highly remunerative.

During the war I tried to effect a conservation of fuels, particu-
larly oil. In addition to my efforts along these lines in business,
most of my evenings were spent in the Town Hall as chairman of
the Fuel Panel of the local Ration Board.

For diversion and pleasure, my chief interests have been cen-
tered on the activities of my family. Our house has frequently
been filled to capacity with weekend guests of my son and daugh-
ter. Since my wife has recently developed a latent talent and be-
come an animal portrait artist and book illustrator, I am now a
self-styled art critic with Fine Arts 1c my only qualification.

RICHARD FREDERICK FULLER NICHOLS

HOME AppreEsS: 10 Oak St., New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association, 522 Fifth Ave.
New York, N. Y.

BorN: July 7, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: Arthur Boylston Nichols, ’91,
Gertrude Fuller.

[ 632 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.; Gilman Coun-
try Day School, Baltimore, Md.; Cambridge High and Latin School,
Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

marrieD: Mabel Manchester, Oct. 29, 1930, Rocky Hill, Conn. cHitpren:
Richard Frederick Fuller, Jr., Oct. 12, 1931; Orient Humphrey, Aug. 15,
1934; Louisa, March 3, 1936; Gertrude Fuller, June 13, 1939; Katharine,
Feb. 2, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Arthur Boylston Nichols, Jr., ’21; Thaddeus Nichols, ’25.

OccUPATION: Assistant in handling security investments of Teachers Insurance
and Annuity Association of America, Carnegie Institution of Washing-
ton, and Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant treasurer, Teachers Insurance and Annuity Associa-
tion; assistant investment officer, Carnegie Institution of Washington
and Carnegie Endowment for International Peace; trustee, Congrega-
tional Church of New Canaan.

I AM very glad to have graduated twenty-five years ago. Present-
day standards seem so much higher that it is highly questionable
whether I could do it today — particularly from Harvard — but
I suppose that is only what time does to you.

After a trip abroad. with my brother, Thaddeus, during the
summer of 1924, I came back to the Business School in an attempt
to get additional education for I knew not what career. I spent
two years there until I felt so stale that I could not crack another
book or take another exam, then went into the securities business
in Boston with the First Boston Corporation. Then I met the girl
and we were married and lived happily ever after.

But to go back — we were married in the fall of 1930 and I
then went to work in New York for the same firm. Then in the
next eleven years came the children, Richard in 1931, Orient in
1934, Louisa in 1936, Gertrude in 1939, and Katherine in 1941,
Richie while we lived in Tarrytown, New York, and the others
after we had bought a little old farmhouse in Lewisboro, New
York, in 1934. It was the kind of place we had always wanted
—on a hill with a view of the Sound, the last house at the end of
a dirt road. We were almost six miles from the New Canaan
railroad station, but the rigors of the commute were as nothing
when at the end of it I had a wonderful family in a charming
house in the dead silence of real country. Mabel and I look back
on those thirteen years now as a perfect period in our lives. But
it probably was a mistake to have stayed as long as we did. The

[ 633 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

children were too far away from their friends. Well, we sold
the place in 1947 and moved into the middle ofithe town of
New Canaan.

In the meantime, I had left the First Boston Corporation and
Wall Street, spent two years in an investment counsel firm, and
then in 1939 went to help manage the investments of several
Carnegie endowed foundations. Ir has been great fun.

So now I stand on the threshhold of middle age with some gray .
hair, no stomach to amount to anything, and a slight jowl. My
son will be ready for college this fall, but they tell me that Har-
vard has changed and the average student whose father and fore-
bears have been there has little chance of being admitted. I hope
I am wrong.

I have amassed no store of worldly goods, as I have preferred to
bring up a large family which has kept me wearing ten-year-old
suits. But my intangible assets, a wonderful wife and grand chil-
dren, are ample recompense. I guess my family has been my
hobby. I am the epitome of provincialism and have never really
travelled west of the Hudson River. Politically, I have been
a Republican but I am beginning to get tired of being offered a
candidate with a set of principles with which I cannot agree.
_ My religious convictions become firmer with every passing day,
but I think I grow more and more tolerant at the same time.

I suppose I hate as much as anyone else to sit down and write
an account of my life since graduation. That’s because my suc-
cesses appear to have been so small, and the might-have-beens |
keep flocking through my mind. But I have been very happy
‘and my life is what I have made it. I have tried to be a success in
my daily life with my family, friends, and the various kinds of
people I meet. I would not sacrifice that for a store of worldly
goods which is the accepted hallmark of success. If I had it to
live over again, I would not want to change it, and that’s not
smugness either.

GILBERT WRIGHT NOBLE

HOME AppRESS: 202 Sherman Drive, Findlay, Ohio.

orFice appress: Ohio Oil Co., Findlay, Ohio.

BORN: Feb. 26, 1901, Winnetka, Ill, parents: James Franklin Noble, Irene
Wright.

[ 634 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Oklahoma City High School, Oklahoma City, Okla.; Worcester
Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; 8.B. (Massachusetts Inst. of
Technology), 1925; s.M. (ibid.), 1934; s.v. (ibid.), 1936.

MarrieD: Alice Estill Williams, Dec. 22, 1926, White Plains, N. Y. cuinp:
Alice Boyd, Oct. 17, 1928.

HARVARD BROTHERS: James Alexander Noble, ’20; Laurence Edmund Noble,
’27; John Martin Noble, ’29.

occupation: Manager, Economics and Statistics Department, Ohio Oil
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor of petroleum engineering, 1937-39, associ-
ate professor of petroleum engineering, 1939-43, Missouri School of
- Mines.

MEMBER OF: American Petroleum Institute: American Association of Petrol-
eum Geologists; American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engi-

_ neers; Sigma Xi; American Statistical Association; American Economic

- *Association.
N

A YEAR of intensive work at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and the added degree connected therewith enabled
me to claim sufficient proficiency as a mining engineer to get a
job in that capacity with the research department of the Marland
Oil Company in the fall of 1925. At Coffeyville, Kansas, during
the next three years I served as resident engineer for one of the
most ambitious projects known to the industry up to that time.
In fair part we were, indeed, a couple of decades ahead of our
times. « .

By judicious planning, after a year on the project I managed

to take time off to get back to White Plains to marry Alice
Williams, Radcliffe, ’24.
In the reorganization and merger of Marland Oil with the
Continental Oil Company, the research department was one of
the first to be dropped as a non-essential frill, so-o-o, I trans-
ferred my talents to an oil sand testing and valuation laboratory in
Tulsa. The Oklahoma City oil field was just beginning to boom
and in the fall of 1928 I was sent there to open up a branch
laboratory to handle Oklahoma City accounts,

In the summer of 1929 I switched to the employ of Sinclair Oil
& Gas Company in the Oklahoma City district — serving vari-
ously during the next year as roustabout, water pumper, oil
switcher, pipeliner, civil engineer, sample grabber, geologist’s
helper, and photographer.

[ 635 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

In the summer of 1930 I went to New York as gas engineer for
Midland Management, a new holding and management company
which had bought a large group of gas producing properties in
West Virginia and Pennsylvania. Times were troublous, though,
in late 1929 and subsequent years — especially for newly organ-
ized and somewhat over-capitalized and over-extended empire
builders. So, early in 1931 I went to Clarksburg, West Virginia,
as district superintendent of the northern West Virginia holdings
of the operating company. I got some excellent field training in
large-scale operation on a shoestring and valuable experience
operating under a receivership with receivers knowing practically
nothing about operating problems and difficulties.

Came the middle of 1933 and conditions in the oil and gas
business were getting no better; so I went back to the Massachu-
setts Institute of Technology for more graduate work — receiv-
ing an S.M. degree in 1934 and an S.D. in 1936. I still think it was
a shrewd move. Never have I known three years when worth-
while jobs in the petroleum industry were scarcer or when ex-
penses of schooling were cheaper. It also gave our daughter a
pretty good educational start in the Cambridge school system.

Just before receiving my Doctor’s degree, I started working
for Standard Oil Company of New Jersey in their New York
office — on cost and interpretive engineering studies of foreign
producing subsidiaries.

After a year in the big city, I had an opportunity to take over
the petroleum engineering option of the Mining Department at
the Missouri School of Mines, Rolla, Missouri. I spent seven
years at Rolla — enjoying the teaching, life, and vacations, but
not always so well satisfied with remuneration.

As war activities intensified and the scope of petroleum teach-
ing activities were more and more encroached upon by basic
military studies, I switched, in 1943, back to the petroleum indus-
try when I moved to Findlay, Ohio, as petroleum engineer for the
Ohio Oil Company. For the next three years I spent practically
all my time on petroleum war industry committee work —
chiefly as detail man, report analyst, and occasional ghost writer
for top committee members, With gradual emergence into the
postwar economy, my duties were shuffled and I was put in charge
of a newly created department of economics and statistics.

[ 636 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Shunted our way also are almost all special company studies or
work that does not clearly belong to any established department.

In retrospect, times have seemed turbulent and uncertain fre-
quently. The pay hasn’t always seemed too liberal considering
concomitant living expenses. But Ive enjoyed the work all
along. Whenever I ceased to be well enough satisfied with any
job, I was always willing and anxious to chuck it and move on to
something else. Looking back, I’ve managed pretty well to move
to better jobs on each shift. Our daughter spent each of the first
five years of her school life in a different state, but hardly seemed
to be handicapped by the process. She had little difficulty pass-
ing entrance exams for Radcliffe in 1946 and, at present writing, is
getting along well enough in her junior year.

+ ALLEN EDWARD NORMAN

BorN: July 21, 1902, Van Buren, Ark. parents: Charles Edward Norman,
Marietta Allen.

PREPARED AT: Van Buren High School, Van Buren, Ark.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Elsie Murray, June 23, 1934, New York, N. Y. cxitp: Allen Ed-
ward, 2d, Feb. 26, 1939.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II: $1-a-year man, War Production
Board; administrator, Order L-z44 (magazine paper limitation), chief,
Magazine and Periodical Section; assistant director, Printing and Pub-
lishing Division.

pieD: Dec. 26, 1948, Scarsdale, N. Y.

ALLEN EDWARD NORMAN attended the University of

Arkansas before coming to Harvard and was with our Class for

two years. After leaving college, his first position was at the

Memphis assembly plant of the Ford Motor Company. He stayed

in Memphis for only a few months and then went to New York

and entered the advertising field in the production department
of the Blackman Company. In 1931 he moved to Detroit as
assistant advertising manager of the Pontiac Division of General

Motors. For one year during the depression he conducted an

agency of his own in Fort Smith, Arkansas.

Later he returned to New York and became associated with

Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn. In 1934 he joined Fawcett

Publications in New York City as sales promotion manager and

[ 637]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

at the time of our 1939 Report he was vice-president and general
manager. In 1944 he listed his occupation as secretary of Fawcett
Publications, Incorporated; Country Press, Incorporated; and
Fawcett Distributing Corporation. During World War IT he was
a $1-a-year man with the War Production Board in Washington
and served as administrator of Order L-24q (magazine paper
limitation), chief of the Magazine and Periodical Section, and
assistant director of the Printing and Publishing Division. He
was a member of the Harvard Club of New York and the Scars-
dale Golf Club.

His death was the result of a fire in his home caused by a short
circuit in electrically-operated Christmas candles.

EDWARD JAMES NORRIS

HOME ADDRESS: 2601 Parkway, Philadelphia, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Mutual Liability Insurance Co. Public Ledger
Bldg., Philadelphia, Pa.

BORN: Oct. 19, 1900, Boston, Mass. parents: Edward James Norris, Louise
Berg.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; M.B.A. Magna cum laude,
1932.

MaRRIED: Katherine M. Digney, April 25, 1925, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Elizabeth Digney, Jan. 18, 1926 (m. Foster Ellingwood, Jr., Sept. 21,
1945); Melanie Louise, Aug. 27, 1927.

occupation: Vice-president, American Mutual Liability Insurance Company.

MEMBER OF: Lambda Chi Alpha; Pen & Pencil Club, Philadelphia, Down-
town Club of Philadelphia, Harvard Business School Club of Phila-
delphia.

THERE is little to add to the vital statistics. The only radical
changes in twenty-five years were in business, from publishing
to insurance, and, as an outcome, the moving of my home and
family from Newton, Massachusetts, to Philadelphia.

I might add that my daughter Bettie followed her mother by
graduating from Wheaton College in 1946. Since she was the first
daughter born to Wheaton’s Class of 1924, it was fore-ordained.
She departed, however, by marrying a veteran of three years’
service as a Marine bomber pilot, who will graduate from Dart-
mouth in June.

My daughter Melanie graduated in June, 1948, from Mary

[ 638 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Washington College of the University of Virginia, and is en-
gaged to William C. Briddell, Jr., of Baltimore who also gradu-
ated in June from the same university. He is in the investment
banking business in Philadelphia.

‘In addition to looking after whatever members of the family
may be in Philadelphia, my wife spends her days in the profes-
sional fund-raising field as editor and consultant in public rela-
tions on the staff of the Philadelphia Community Chest.

We are still devoted to New England and especially to a spot
in Boothbay Harbor where we enjoy fishing and sailing as much
as ever, and where I do a bit of gardening.

I'm still a conservative Republican.

-~ RICHARD GREENOUGH NORRIS

HOME apprEss: 162 Middlesex Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 441 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 19, 1901, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Sumner Norris,
Alice Waterman Greenough.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

marrigD: Mary Linwood Dewey, June 20, 1928, Worcester, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Guy Holden Norris, ’29.

OCCUPATION: President and treasurer, Norris & Company, Inc.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club; Lake Sunapee Yacht Club.

IN THE autumn following graduation, I went over to Europe on
the old Adriatic. The only way you could go was by boat and
the voyage took some eight days, very pleasant and relaxing but
fairly slow going. Today you can board a plane and be there ina
few hours. What tremendous changes have resulted from this
one fact in the brief years since 1924. It is hard to imagine what
will transpire in the next twenty-five years. I don’t know that
I would care particularly to rocket to the moon but I do enjoy
contemporary air travel tremendously,

Reflecting on the daily routine, things seem to have changed
very little. Perhaps we have more free time in which to do as we
choose but along with it are more responsibilities. One pleasure
I enjoy increasingly as I grow older is meeting up with a
classmate and talking things over, be it shop, politics, sports, or
what you will, I get a great kick out of hearing what he is doing,

[ 639 ]

ee,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

out of just seeing him for that matter, and it is a bright spot in
any day.

My own life since graduation holds little of interest. I joined
the Harvard geological group on a trip to Alberta and British
Columbia right after college and then went to Cambridge, Eng-
land. By 1926 I was a factory worker in New York and in 1929
took over the family business. In 1932, with grass almost growing
in the streets, I went to the Harvard Business School for a summer
session —a wonderful experience — and also went back in 1940
and 1941 for the conferences on defense. In the war I moved the
business from Boston to Cambridge and, like others, helped out
in many ways. After the war, we moved back to Boston in a
new plant and are endeavoring slowly to expand our business.

I manage to work in a fishing trip now and then, in fact I am
an ardent lover of the early spring salmon and trout fishing in
New Hampshire and the late surf fishing on the lower Cape. That
I have a classmate who is no less an enthusiast in these pursuits
enhances the pleasure manyfold. To help the waistline, I tennis,
race a Star sailboat, swim, hike, and skate whenever possible in
winter. Reading, classical music, and aeronautical pursuits are my
main delights. I am not averse to gardening and wood chopping.

THOMAS WYATT NORRIS

HOME appRrEss: 2905 E. Belleview Pl., Milwaukee 11, Wis.

OFFIcE appress: Columbian Art Works, Inc., 2300 W. Cornell St. Mil-
waukee 11, Wis.

BORN: March 13, 1902, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: Richard Horton Norris,
Margaret Watson Allis.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922.

MARRIED: Janet Coleman, Feb. 26, 1927, Milwaukee, Wis. cHiLpREN: Thomas
Wyatt, Jr., Dec. 20, 1927; Harrison Coleman, Oct. 15, 1931.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Richard Horton Norris, Jr.,’17; William Allis Norris, 18;
Frank Watson Norris, ’28.

occupaTION: Executive vice-president, Columbian Art Works, Inc.; presi-
dent, Columbian Investment Company.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Rogers Memorial Sanitarium, since 1945.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Milwaukee; Oconomowoc Golf Club;
Oconomowoc Lake Club.

THERE is nothing particularly startling or unusual about my
experiences since leaving college. I worked as a reporter on a

[ 640 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT |

newspaper for a year, then sold insurance for about five years
I entered this manufacturing business on January 1, 1928.

My principal recreations have been hunting and sailing. AJ-
most every year I have gone to the Dakotas for ducks and
pheasants. Now my sons are old enough and want to go along.
We have done a lot of sailing on the inland lakes in Wisconsin.
The boys are experts and J am not. Now I only watch.

I have been reasonably active in club activities, have travelled
around the country quite a bit on business, and have voted

Republican most of the time.

GUY HOSFORD NORTHRUP
HOME AppREss: 136 Charles River Rd., Watertown 72, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: First National Bank of Boston,. 114 Dudley St., Roxbury,

Mass.
BORN: Oct. 13, 1902, Somerville, Mass. PARENTS: James Northrup, Ella May

Hosford.
PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924.
MARRIED: Helen V. Nordberg, Oct. 18, 1941, Pawtucket, R. I.
occuPATION: First teller, Dudley Street Branch, First National Bank of

Boston.
OFFICES HELD: Master, Washington Lodge, AF. & A.M., 1942-43.
MEMBER OF: Washington Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Past Masters Association, 4th

District; Bank Officers Association of Boston.
AFTER leaving college, I joined the Atlantic National Bank of
Boston and, surviving the bank holidays and other financial crises,
became a small part of the First National Bank of Boston, which

small part I still remain.
Travel has been confined to vacation periods and exploring the

United States from Florida to Chicago, and our neighbors to the

north, the Maritime Provinces.
My principal occupation and hobby has been the attempt to

become a contortionist and make both ends meet.
Just an average small town guy.

CHARLES G. NOTARI

HOME ADpRESS: 5562 Hobart St., Pittsburgh, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 907 Jones Law Bldg., 530 Fourth Ave. Pittsburgh 19, Pa.

[641]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

BORN: May 10, 1893, Italy. parents: Anthony Frank Notari, Frances
Guercio.

PREPARED AT: Mt. Hermon School, Mt. Hermon, Mass.

YEARS AT COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; LL.B. (Univ. of Pittsburgh),
1927.

marriED: Philomena Ferri, July 31, 1932, Boston, Mass.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Corporal, Aerial Squadron 240, World War I.

OFFICES HELD: National president, Sons of Columbus of America, since 1940.

MEMBER OF: Allegheny County Bar Association; Masonic Bodies; Harvard
Club of Pittsburgh.

I HAVE spent the greater portion of my time in the general
practice of law.

HAROLD BEECHER NOYES

HOME apprEss: 71 Montclair Ave., Montclair, N. J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Bell Telephone Laboratories, 463 West St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 15, 1902, Jacksonville, Fla. parents: George Harold Noyes
Frances Louise Frigate.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

marriepD: Alice Hitchcock, Sept. 1, 1932, Caldwell, Texas.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Leonard Noyes, '34.

OccUPATION: Telephone transmission engineer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Air Raid Warden, Civilian Defense.

OFFICES HELD: Deacon, Central Presbyterian Church, Montclair, N. J.; sec-
retary-treasurer, Men’s Club of Central Presbyterian Church.

MEMBER OF: Adirondack Mountain Club, New York; Harvard Engineering
Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Technical articles in Bell System publications.

IN THE spring of 1924 I happened to find myself talking with a
stimulating stranger at the Harvard Union. We discussed litera-
ture, symphony, opera, the evils of tobacco, the love of Nature,
in all of which we found a common interest. As I started to leave
he said: “I am on the visiting committee from the Bell Telephone
_ System. I have a job for you in New York, if you want it. By
the way, what courses did you take at college?” This was my
introduction to the System which has since been my main live-
lihood. Four years were spent in floundering somewhat in the
fields of economics and mathematical development. Then a
grand tour of Europe in the summer of 1928 with classmate Wally

[ 642 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Woodworth, taking in the magnificent cathedrals of mankind in
England and France, the cathedrals of Nature in the Alps, and
the Wagner Festival at Bayreuth, settled my mind in favor of
engineering with some part-time graduate study at Columbia.
On returning to New York, I was soon transferred to what is now
the Bell Telephone Laboratories which has kept me occupied
ever since in a semi-research type of work aspiring (used advis-
edly) to prevent interference in telephone circuits and preserve
privacy in them. This work has been in the company of a fine
group of people in the office, the laboratory, and the field.

Mentioning the field reminds me of friends who, on asking
and then being told where I’ve been the last few months, com-
ment: “Join the laboratories and see the world!” Well, not all the
world fortunately, but thus far all but ‘two states in the Union.
These experiences in working and living with all kinds of people
from the swamps of Florida to the cables at the bottom of San
Francisco Bay have helped to revive me from the confinement of
a noisy dirty office in Manhattan. It is strange how many of these
trips ended about vacation time in the vicinity of our various
great national parks and other outstanding points of interest in
North America! For example, the summer of 1941 found my wife
and me with a group of friends hiking the mountains of Glacier
Park, the Canadian Rockies, and Jasper National Park. In other
years we have travelled about the Grand Canyon, Yosemite,
Yellowstone, Grand Tetons, Big Bend National Park in Texas,
Mexico City, the Gaspé Peninsula, etc. These are evidences of
the romantic and colorful world we live in.

The war, without changing my occupation in general, directed
my efforts into the reéngineering of some projects with the
purpose — quite successful, fortunately -—of making a major
saving of strategic war materials and labor and at the same time
increasing desperately needed long distance telephone facilities.
Pear] Harbor day found me in San Francisco where they were
sandbagging the Telephone Building while a materialistically-
minded supervisor (from Harvard) was calling from New York
saying: “Be sure to keep the apparatus safe from air raids.”

A Class Life without a wife is a lifcless life. Finding New
England too small for this type of research, I made the important
discovery deep in the heart of Texas. At the bortom of the

[ 643 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

depression in 1932 we joined forces and that ended my depres-
sion. When she has not been travelling with me, she has been
doing grand work in her chosen profession of teaching the deaf,
In this and in other ways she has been a great inspiration to me;
for this is one of the most discouraging occupations one can
undertake, i.e., to teach the deaf — and to inspire a husband.

My amateur interests have varied from color photography,
music, and woodworking to mountain climbing, church work,
and vicarious organic agriculture. In spite of generally excellent
health, an occasional bout with sinus trouble and creeping signs
of creeping old age have interested me in a new and somewhat
unorthodox science of nutrition. This has made me often wonder
why we have let rushing civilization with its unnatural sophisti-
cated devitalized foods lay us low with arthritis, cancer, heart
trouble, and a host of other degenerative diseases, and even mental
and moral degeneration perhaps, when we could without too
much difficulty put ourselves in the pink of health by learning
from natural nutritional principles of healthy long-lived primitive
races thus far not yet destroyed by our civilized foods. "Tis a
strange sort of culture that is so busy with its own phenomenal
progress that it overlooks a few fundamental truths of simpler,
and in some ways wiser, cultures, and blithely eats itself to
death.

Ny recent growing contact with the church has interested me
greatly. In this topsy-turvy world it looks like a mighty good
recruiting station. We are all undoubtedly convinced of the
need of really practising Christianity at all times in our daily life
and work, and of helping others in this satisfying occupation
wherever possible; and this is where the church comes in. I have
been very much impressed of late by the greatly increasing inter-
est of people in the laymen’s movement, as typified by the Na-
tional Council of Presbyterian Men, for example. Most of the
ministers are doing a good job; but they are merely the officers
in this Christian army. It is we, the laymen, who are the soldiers
in this army and have got to do the brunt of the fighting. Fortu-
nately, large numbers of laymen are realizing the urgency of the
situation and the great satisfaction of doing something about it,
and are making themselves available to their church groups for
whatever their particular talents fit them for. In this direction I

[ 644 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

see some hope. We'll have our Twenty-fifth Reunion, no doubt.
I surely hope we can have a Fiftieth.

CHARLES STANLEY NUTT

HOME apprEss: 1796 Main St., Glastonbury, Conn.

OFFIcE appress: Hartford Empire Co., 333 Homestead Ave., Hartford, Conn.

BORN: Nov. 10, 1899, Worcester, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Nutt, ’90, Ada
Sophia Robinson.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Marjorie Pearl Pratt, July 16, 1927, Lowell, Mass. cHmpREN: Roy,
Oct. 20, 1930; Harriett, Sept. 30, 1933; Charles, Dec. 17, 1935; Samuel,
Oct. 29, 1937.

occupation: Chief clerk in charge of engineering records, drawings, and
blueprints, Hartford Empire Company; part-time masking, Watson-
Cheney Photo Engraving Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: United States Navy, December, 1917, to August,

1919.
MEMBER OF: Choir, First Church Congregational, Glastonbury; Community
Club, South Glastonbury.

MY FATHER was Harvard ’go. In our family it was just assumed
by all that a college education was necessary and that we all would
have it. During grammar school days I thought of going to
Harvard but later prepared for Massachusetts State Normal Art
School.

War intervened and I enlisted in the United States Navy.
Shortly after the armistice was signed, on my last day of a short
furlough, I arrived at the Louvre Galleries only forty-five min-
utes before closing time. By galloping around I saw a surprising
number of the most famous works, but the pertinent incident was
that I listened to a guide lecturing on clay tablets. His talk con-
vinced me that there were things I wanted to know that I would
not learn at art school and in that moment I decided to go to
Harvard.

Not having enough language points to meet Harvard entrance
requirements, I went back for a postgraduate course in high
school. Since my father had died while I was in the service, I had
also to earn some money,

My Massachusetts bonus money, $100.00, outfitted me in
“civvies” and paid for a set of drums and traps. The latrer I did

[ 645 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

details. Personally, I do not yet smoke, drink, chew, or gamble,
but if a little old wine were put away now, perhaps on that
occasion I might celebrate with a drink.

SELDEN SPENCER NYE

HOME AND OFFICE appreEss: Route 1, Brownsville, Texas.

porN: Aug. 6, 1902, San Antonio, Texas. PARENTs: Thomas Jacob Nye,
Florence Trabue Deaderick.

PREPARED AT: Main Avenue High School, San Antonio, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 19243 A.M., 1926.

marrieD: Dorothy Deems, April 24, 1929, Catonsville, Md. CHILDREN:
Thomas Spencer, May 19, 1930; Patricia Anne, Feb. 28, 1933; James
Deems, Dec. 6, 1938; Dorothy Deems, Oct. 22, 1940.

HARVARD SON: Thomas Spencer Nye, ’52.

occuPATION: Geologist; farmer-rancher.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Ground-water geologist with United States
Forest Service during summer of 1943, and United States Geological
Survey (with Miltary Geology Unit during war) from January, 1944,
to March, 1946.

MEMBER OF: Geological Society of America; American Association of
Petroleum Geologists, American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical
Engineers; Society of Economic Geologists; American Geophysical
Union; American Association for the Advancement of Science; Geo-
logical Society of Washington, D. C.; Harvard Club of Washington.

Pustications: “Geology and Ground Water Resources of the Roswell
Artesian Basin, New Mexico,” U. S. Geological Survey Water Supply
Paper 639, 1933, with A. G. Fiedler; various geological reports in the
Eighth (1928), Ninth (1929), and Tenth (1930) Biennial Reports of the
State Engineer of New Mexico, review of the book, Explaining the
Atom, by Selig Hecht, Viking Press, N. Y., 1947, published in the
magazine of the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engi-
neers, Mining and Metallurgy, Vol. 29, No. 497, May, 1948, p. 291.

IT ENTERED Harvard with the intention of becoming a mining

engineer. Before my senior year, my objective became mining

geology. After two years studying geology in the Graduate
School, I entered the United States Geological Survey doing oil

geology, and after the following summer I switched, of necessity,

to ground water geology. In 1931 fate again intervened and I
switched to farming on the Rio Grande below Brownsville, Texas.

The war provided an opportunity to return to my real love —
geology. During the summer of 1943, I worked as a ground

[ 648 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

water geologist for the United States Forest Service in the north-
ern plateau region of Mexico, near Torreon, in search of ground
water for irrigation of guayule. From January, 1944, until the
end of the war, I was with the Military Geology Unit of the
United States Geological Survey as a ground water geologist
helping to prepare reports on foreign areas which the joint chiefs-
of-staff used in planning foreign operations. My particular job
was to evaluate ground water and surface water supplies which
could be utilized by troops in those areas. After the war was
over, I went to Santiago, Chile, for a short time and then returned
to Washington, where I remained just long enough to resign
from the Survey and pack up for our return to the plantation.
I am now switching from vegetable growing (mostly early pota-
toes and tomatoes) to raising Hereford cattle.

We of our Class have been privileged to observe and participate
in a remarkable and critical period of change in human affairs.
Although the material change from the horse-and-buggy era of
our early boyhood to the jet plane and atomic bomb of today is
the most spectacular, I believe the moral change is the most
critical.

Human conduct has never attained perfection, but during our
fathers’ time, which extended through our early boyhood, ethical
standards were dominated by belief in God and belief in a rigid
Christian moral code. A man whose “word is as good as his
bond” was held in high esteem. The first World War, with the
notion that “treaties are but scraps of paper,” ushered in the
present era of ethical standard dominated by ardent admiration
of materialistic success and an elastic moral code. Two world
wars, with an appalling destruction of the world’s human and
natural resources, and intensive preparation for a third world
war with even greater destruction of those resources, are the
result of greed and lust for power unrestrained by belief in God
and belief in a rigid Christian moral code.

When we graduated from college, the “conflict between science
and religion,” highlighted shortly afterwards by the “monkey
trials” in Dayton, Tennessee, was at its height. Many of us, along
with millions of others, succumbed to the common fallacy that
because some religious beliefs were found to be untrue, therefore,
all religious beliefs must be untrue. I became an agnostic. Others

[ 549 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

became atheists. Since then, the spectacular achievements of
science and the fact that many scientists do not believe in the
existence of God have led countless others to agnosticism and
atheism with an attendant breakdown in regard for the Christian
moral code. This is the result either of lack of thought or of
shallow thinking. Even while we were in college, science had
provided definite and compelling evidence of the’ existence of
God, Now, since the explosion of the first atomic bomb in New
Mexico, it has provided, as I pointed out in a review of the book,
Explaining the Atom, published in the May, 1948, issue of Mining
and Metallurgy, a proof of the existence of God. Simultaneously,
by providing the means for a few to control the many, it has also
provided a compelling incentive —self-preservation— for a
return to belief in God and belief in a rigid Christian moral code.
As I stated in Mining and Metallurgy, “It is my belief that if man
allows his ability to reason to be monopolized by the materialistic
aspects of scientific achievement and his inner drive to be domi-
nated by his animal instincts, then man faces a hell on earth.
But if, on the other hand, man allows his ability to reason to
encompass God, and his inner drive to be dominated by love for
God, then man may enter a new era of undreamed-of achieve-
ment and well-being on earth.”

PAUL THOMAS NYHAGEN

HOME appress: c/o Mrs. Earl Decker, Route 2, Sylvia, Tenn.

BORN: Sept. 6, 1901, Manitowoc, Wis. parents: Gustave Andrew Nyhagen,
Arabelle Amanda Windiate.

PREPARED AT: Washington High School, Manitowoc, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923.

occupation: Agriculture.

WHILE still an undergraduate, I had to give up school and live
an outdoor life in the woods at Sister Bay, Wisconsin, during the
summer. My father died shortly after I was taken ill, and now my
mother and I are starting a cattle ranch in Sylvia, Tennessee,
where I can be busy in the winter.

[ 650]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MALCOLM HENRY OETTINGER

HOME aAppress: 645 N. Webster Ave., Scranton, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Economy Furniture Co., 238 Franklin Ave., Scranton, Pa.

BORN: Nov. 2, 1899, Scranton, Pa. PARENTS: Louis Oettinger, Haydee Levy.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Scranton, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920~1922.

MARRIED: Katherine Cameron Brownell, July 1, 1931, Scranton, Pa. cun-
DREN: Malcolm Henry, Jr., Oct. 17, 1932; John Brownell, June 9, 1936.

occupation: Merchant.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: In World War I served as sergeant, Students’
Army Training Corps, University of Pennsylvania.

PUBLICATIONS: Monographs on Hollywood and its inhabitants in Modern
Screen, Picture Play, Motion Picture, etc.; arucles in the old Life,
Judge, New York Herald Tribune, Smart Set and Vanity Fair.

TEN years of free-lancing brought me to the sober realization
that matrimony is more durable. After almost a score of years in
the pretty durance of wedlock, I am still of the opinion that the
lyricist is right: man must find his mate.

Having two sons keeps me in physical trim, if you may call it
that. My wife keeps me at work, which I daresay I like. Leisure
bores me after more than twenty-four hours, just as liquor makes
me sleepy after half a dozen drinks.

I look back on college with warmth. I remember Copey as a
great man. Come reincarnation I hope to do it all over again.

There is no sense in worrying about bombs, atomic or psycho-
somatic. Even though D. W. Griffith has gone to his reward, I
shall always expect the United States Marines to arrive in the nick
of time.

. WILLIAM JOSEPH WALL O’HEARN

HOME appREss: 1060 High St., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 73 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 27, 1902, Charlestown, Mass. parents: John O'Hearn, Katherine
Elizabeth Wall.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; LL.B. 1927.

occupaTion: Lawyer; soldier.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Reserve Officers’ Training Corps, Harvard
College, 1920-24; commissioned 2d lieutenant, Field Artillery, June 20,
1924; member of Battery “A,” rorst Field Artillery, 26th Infantry

[651]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

member of the West African Joint Intelligence Committee, a
body made up of members from the British Army and Navy, the
Belgian and Free French Armies, the British Foreign Office, and
the British Colonial Service.

Never having had the slightest desire to visit Africa, let alone
make an intensive ‘study of its topography and terrain, it was
my duty — and soon became almost a passion—to gather, cor-
relate, and properly evaluate all the information which could be
obtained as to the country, its peoples, their policies, customs,
habits, handicrafts and opinions, so that, ultimately, I came to
know the Gold Coast, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, and the Gambia, as
well as French West Africa, better than I knew my native New
England; and, as for French Morocco, I hold it as,a place of beauty
with its native cities unspoiled and its natural features unchanged.

With the progress of events, I was transferred to Headquarters,
United States Forces in the Middle East, in charge of Ground
Force Intelligence, Joint Intelligence Collection Agency for the
Middle and Near East, and as such came to know and know well
the Mediterranean area, Egypt, Palestine, Trans-Jordania, Leba-
non, Syria, and Iran. For one gifted or afflicted —as one may
choose — with a desire to seek out the ancient culture and native
handicrafts indigenous to such countries, such lands furnished
inexhaustible sources of joy; and the names of the cities —
Teheran, Aleppo, Hama, Homs, Bailbek, Damascus, Latakia,
Acre, let alone Jerusalem, Jaffa, Port Said, and Cairo, conjure up
before me most treasured memories.

Recalled to the War Department in the fall of 1944 for service
in the Far East, I ultimately found myself in the Philippine Islands,
and, on September 25, 1945, landed on the beach at Wakayama,
Island of Honshu, Japan.

Attached to the First Corps, based at Osaka, I had the pleasure
of assisting at the turn-over of the Osaka Naval Supply Base and
the rehabilitation of Osaka for the use of United States forces;
and then, on November 6, 1945, 1 was ordered to Headquarters,
XXIVth Corps, in Korea.

As a member of the Headquarters group of the military gov-
ernor of South Korea, it was my function to pursue duties similar
to those which I had conducted in Africa and the Middle and
Near East; and, as chief of the Statistical Research Division, it

[ 654 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fell to me to prepare properly evaluated information of Korea —
something which had never before been done in modern history,
except perhaps by the Japanese — for the use of the higher com-
mand. This was a task surrounded by almost insurmountable
obstacles. ‘The Japanese had destroyed all records, the Koreans
had none; all superior and key officials had been Japanese and
had all been removed, driven out or fled at the surrender of
Japan; communication was practically non-existent; transporta-
tion was at a standstill; the people were not initiated in operating
or administering government either at the national or local level;
and the country, cruel in topography, did not lend itself to easy
access.

From November, 1945, to August 15, 1947, I pursued such
duties in Korea under hardships which appear almost impossible
—as I look back— but, although the experience was a severe
one, I feel that the results — born after severe travail — will fur-
nish those who ultimately settle the destinies of Korea with a
basis for re&sonable and intelligent thought.

I was released from active military service as a colonel in
October, 1947. It would seem that “History and Government”
from 1920-24 had no relation to 1925-47, but I am not of such
opinion. Rather would I say that “History and Government” was
maturing in 1925-40, reached its maturity in 1940-47; and I am
now, in 1948, once again starting the practice of law, but my study
of peoples, their policies, habits and customs continues — with a
background of experiences given to but few — to the end that I
may blend my activities with theirs and their activites with mine,
successfully, pleasurably and, last, but not least, peacefully. Such
is not inconsistent with the law; rather, in my mind it is symbolical
of the ideal of the law, because the scales of justice are maintained
level not by litigation, but by peace.

WILLIAM REED OLIVER

HOME AppREss: 711 Devonshire St., Pittsburgh, Pa.

OFFICE AppREss: Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp., Pittsburgh, Pa.

BorN: May 12, 1899, Pittsburgh, Pa. PARENTS: William Oliver, Anna Martha
Reed.

PREPARED BY: Private Tutor.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

[ 655 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

marrieD: Caroline Lysle Hunter, May 15, 1925, Pittsburgh, Pa. CHILDREN:
Joan Lysle, Jan. 8, 1929 (m. John Taylor Wynne, Sept. 8, 1948); Mary
Hunter, July 14, 1931 (m. Phillip Gittings, Aug. 31, 1948).

occuPATION: Manager of collections, Jones & Laughlin Steel Corporation.

MILITARY OR NAYAL RECORD: Service in World War I.

OFFICES HELD: Past-treasurer, Pittsburgh Branch, Committee to Defend Amer-
ica by Aiding the Allies; founder, local branch, American Committee
for the Defense of British Homes; past-president, Harvard Club of
Western Pennsylvania; treasurer, Pittsburgh Branch, American Asso-
ciation for the United Nations, and Allegheny County Committee for
Displaced Persons; assistant treasurer and publicity chairman, Visiting
Nurse Association; president, Morewood-Shadyside Civic Association,
chairman, finance committee, Pittsburgh Zoological Society.

MEMBER OF: Philological Society of Pittsburgh.

puBLicaTions: A few articles concerning angling and angling literature;
discourses on neighborhood planning and preservation.

FOLLOWING graduation, I joined the steel company which
still sees fit to employ me. In spite of a job that requires con-
siderable application, I have some extra hours which give me
time for several activities. °

Prior to the war, it was my good fortune to work with Fred-
erick C. McKee, a Princeton man, who was the national treasurer
of the Committee to Defend America by Aiding the Allies.
Pittsburgh was somewhat slow in recognizing the nature and
the objectives of Adolf, but it eventually became aware. My
interest in international affairs persists, and I am assisting in a
nationwide effort to obtain support and financial aid for the
United Nations.

Locally, as well as nationally, I find there must be organization
much as many of us deplore the necessity for it. Not a little of
my time is given to the civic association of a residential neighbor-
hood which is trying to preserve itself in the face of persistent
commercial aggression. In this I am extremely fortunate in having
united community support.

The recreational side of my life has been most satisfying. It
was my good fortune when young to spend my winters in
Thomas Barbour’s ‘Vanishing Eden” and to learn the values
accruing to the angler in both salt and fresh water. Since then
fishing has taken me from the Keys to the Maritimes and to-
morrow I leave for an Everglades expedition with Princeton men.
(For some reason or other I have found Harvard, Yale, and

[ 656 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Princeton men the most congenial in the world, an admission
which is an indication of inexcusable provincialism.)

My interest in angling has led me to collect china depicting
sporting scenes, together with some hundreds of angling books,
none of which excels Bliss Perry’s Fishing with a Worm, nor do I
know of anyone who better combines angling and literature.
The sport also led me to angling prints and to friendship with
that great Philadelphia connoisseur, Evan Randolph, who has one
of the great world collections of fishing prints.

Last year I assembled for the Carnegie Institute a show of some
500 sporting prints and paintings together with china, stamps,
coins, and other objects exhibiting sporting scenes. I am now
working on several more shows for the same institution, includ-
ing an exhibit of “Mammal Paintings” from which we hope to
secure illustrations for a book to be entitled The Manuals of
Pennsylvania which is a joint Carnegie Institute and Pennsylvania
Game Commission project. The second show will display the
artifacts and the methods of the sporting man through the ages,
while the third show is entitled “The Book in Pittsburgh” which
will deal with the writing, publishing, typography, and illustra-
tion of books in this “Gateway to the West.”

I have not mentioned my interest over many years in antiques
(but in this I do not pretend to aspire to the expertness of John
Ricketson). Many journeys have been made enjovable by the
acquisition of a Sheraton chair, an Adam mirror, or even a
Staffordshire angling plate.

This is more than enough of my life and interests. In conclud-
ing, I wish to express my gratitude to Harvard which only re-
cently threw open to me the Widener stacks, shelving the great
Daniel Fearing collection. Like all Harvard men, I return to her.

RUDOLF RUPRECHT OSGOOD

HOME ApprEss: 35 Eaton Rd., Lexington, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Massachusetts Memorial Hospitals, 750 Harrison Ave., Bos-
ton, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 12, 1901, Cambridge, Mass. parents: William Fogg Osgood, °86,
Theresa Marie Ruprecht.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1921, 1922-1924. DEGREES: 8.B. crm Jande, 1924; M.D.
(Rush Medical Coll.), 1929.

[ 657 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

marRieD: Margaret Kent, Dec. 31, 1927, East Orange, N. J. cup: Theodore
Kent, Sept. 24, 1931.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Ruprecht Osgood, ’17.

occupation: Physician, pathologist, Massachusetts Memorial Hospitals;
assistant professor of pathology, Boston University School of Medicine.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Medical Examiners (diplomate); Ameri-
can Board of Pathology (diplomate); College of American Pathologists,
New England Pathological Society; American Medical Association
(fellow); Massachusetts Medical Society; Middlesex County Medical
Society; New England Pediatric Society; American Association for the
Advancement of Science; Harvard Club of Boston.

PuBLicaTIONsS: “Comparative Effects of Phenobarbital and Dilantin Sodium
in the Treatment of Epilepsy,” L. J. Robinson and Rudolf Osgood,
Journal of the American Medical Association, Vol. 114, 1940; “Cessa-
tion of Epileptic Seizures and the Electroencephalogram,” R. Osgood
and L. J. Robinson, Archives of Neurology and Psychiatry, Vol. 43,
1940; “Brilliant Vital Red as Anticonvulsant in Treatment of Epilepsy,”
R. Osgood and L. J. Robinson, Archives of Neurology and Psychiatry,
Vol. 40, 1938; “Defective Pericardial Sac and Interatrial Septum, and
Atresia of Pulmonic Orifice,” R. Osgood and B. Spector, American
Journal of Diseases of Children, Vol. 61, 1941.

IN MY senior year I began to question my early decision to go
into medicine, and my feeling of uncertainty became so great that
after graduation I took a year off and went to California, got a
job in the printing business, and soon became convinced that my
youthful ambition was correct. In due course I was graduated
from the Rush Medical School (1929). In my second year of
medical school, the course in pathology had a special appeal for
me, and this subject dominated my future medical career.
Through the kindness of Dr. S. Burt Wolbach, professor of
pathology at the Harvard Medical School, I had the privilege of
being a student assistant in the Pathology Department of the Peter
Bent Brigham Hospital during the summer of 1926, after my
second year in medical school. At the end of that summer, Dr.
Wolbach asked me to let him know if I would like to come back
to the Brigham after graduation from medical school. I eagerly
accepted a year’s appointment as house officer in pathology. This
was followed by a year as resident in pathology at the Children’s
Hospital, and then a year as resident at the Brigham. In my
fourth year of training I was resident at the Boston Lying-in.

In the fall of 1933, I entered the Department of Pathology and
Bacteriology of the Tufts Medical School; in 1936 I went to the

[ 658 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Monson State Hospital in Palmer, Massachusetts, where there
was opportunity to study interesting neurological lesions; and in
1939 I returned to Tufts for two years. From 1941 to 1945 I was
in Fall River, as pathologist to several hospitals and also bacteriol-
ogist for the City Health Department. In the latter part of 1945,
Dr. Charles F. Branch, pathologist of the Massachusetts Memorial
Hospitals and professor of pathology at Boston University School
of Medicine, appointed me as his assistant; and on his unexpected
resignation a few months later, I succeeded him as pathologist to
the hospitals, and was appointed assistant professor of pathology
in the medical school. These positions are stimulating and fun,
and a constant source of inspiration and satisfaction, I have been
fortunate in having a very fine group of interns and residents,
and have enjoyed my close association with them, and the op-
portunity of giving them a bit of guidance and instruction in
pathology. My only regret is that I cannot give them more of my
time.

In 1927 I was married. My wife was graduated from Radcliffe,
and did graduate work at Smith where she obtained the degree
of Master of Social Science. She continued her vocation as
psychiatric social worker until 1931 when our son was born.

As the years go by, I lead a busier and more routine life, de-
voted almost entirely to my work; and there seems to be less and
less time for a game of tennis or photography except in vacation.
However, there is nothing I enjoy more than looking through my
“double-barrelled” microscope. I don’t feel any older than I was
twenty-five years ago, and am pleasantly reassured of my cardio-
vascular status each summer by climbing a few mountains in New
Hampshire with my son, after sitting on my fanny all year!

WILLIAM WINTERSON OWENS

HOME ADDRESS: 34 Ridge Croft Rd., Bronxville 8, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 100 Broadway, New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 5, 1903, Baltimore, Md. Parents: William Alexander Owens,
Grace Taylor Winterson.

PREPARED AT: Baltimore City College, Baltimore, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREES: A.B. cw laude, 1924; MBA. 19253
LL.B, cum laude, 1928.

MaRRIED: Katherine Helena Collett, April 4, 1931, Cambridge, Mass. cHIL-

[659]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924 |

pREN: William Winterson, Jr. Oct. 13, 1935; Katherine Collett, Feb. 26,
1938.
occupation: Member law firm of Dwight, Harris, Koegel & Caskey.
MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; New York State Bar Association;
Association of the Bar of the City of New York, Siwanoy Country
Club; Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Business School Club of
New York.

MY LIFE has been uneventful. After graduating from law school
in 1928, I came to New York City and engaged in the general
practice of law. In 1937 I became a member of my firm and have
continued in the general practice of law.

I am astounded by the number of classmates I come across
from time to time whom I cannot recall having known while I
was in college. I wonder whether the Class was too large or
whether I failed to pay enough attention to the social amenities.
It is probably the latter.

My son wants to go to Harvard if he can get in. That pleases
me although I have not attempted to influence him in that respect.
While the memories of life in Cambridge may grow more pleas-
ant after twenty-five years, I was aware that it was a happy
existence while I was still there. I wish that I were back again,
living in the Yard and taking a year of postgraduate work in snap
courses — if they still have any.

+ ALFRED WHITE PAINE

BORN: June 9, 1903, Dorchester, Mass. parents: George Lyman Paine, '96,
Clara Adelaide May.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924(25).

marriepD: Carola Winter, April 19, 1933, New York, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Lyman Paine, Jr., ’22.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Merchant Marine. Commissioned lieutenant,
U. S. Naval Reserve, July 20, 1942; assigned to coastal duty off New
London, Conn., November, 1942, to February, 1943; assigned convoy
escort duty on D-E. 158, SS. Chase, in North Atlantic to Africa and
Mediterranean, taken ill, Dec. 31, 1943; died Jan. 1, 1944, at Guan-
tanamo Bay, Cuba. Decorations: North American Defense Ribbon,
European Theatre of Operations Ribbon.

pieD: Jan. 1, 1944, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

winow: Mrs. Alfred W. Paine, 113 E. 55th St.. New York, N. Y.

[ 660 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALFRED WHITE PAINE entered Harvard after completing
preparatory studies at Phillips Academy. In college he was active
as a member of the Chess Team (1921), the Speakers’ Club, and
Phoenix Club. After receiving his A.B. degree in 1924, he spent
ten weeks as a messenger in the Second National Bank, Boston,
and then joined Houghton, Mifflin & Company. During the
summer of 1926, he sailed in the “Fastnet Race” and spent a few
weeks in London selling advertising. He returned to the pub-
lishing business, but a year later chose to devote his entire time
and interest to sailing. His first sailing trip was a cruise among
the Bahamas, and in 1929 he joined a friend who was sailing from
Hamburg to England on an eighty-foot schooner. They cruised
up the west coast of England and in September decided to sail
to the United States, arriving in Nassau near the end of November.

In 1930 he opened a small basement bookshop in New York.
The shop specialized in books relating to salt water and became
such a success that after a few years he moved to larger quarters
on Lexington Avenue.

In July, 1942, he entered naval service as a lieutenant and was
first assigned to coastal duty off New London, Connecticut. He
was assigned to duty on the D.E. 158, the S.S. Chase, in February,
1943, serving in North Africa and the Mediterranean.

RENE EVANS PAINE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 650 Woodstock Rd., San Mateo, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 351 California St., San Francisco, Calif.

BORN: Aug. 4, 1901, Brookline, Mass. parents: René Evans Paine, ’94, Beulah
Price. ,

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1919-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; S.B. (Massachusetts Inst. of
Technology), 1927.

MarrieD: Eleanor Scott, April 14, 1928, Washington, D, C. cuitpren: Ed-
ward Scott, July 30, 1946, Carolyn Evans, Feb, 18, 1948.

occupation: Civil engineer, Gold Dredging Company.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Civilian engineer, U. S. Corps of Engineers,
San Francisco.

[ 661 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

RAYMOND EMILE PANNIER

HOME appreEss: 127 Gillette Ave., Springfield, Mass.

oFFicE aporESS: Gilbert & Barker Manufacturing Co., West Springfield, Mass.

BorN: July 22, 1902, Springfield, Mass. parents: Gustave Adolph Pannier,
Elisabeth Catherine Riga.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924, DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1924; M.B.A. (Boston
Univ.), 1928.

married: Ruth Olivia Stephan, May 18, 1929, Gloucester, Mass. cHILpREN:
Ruth Elisabeth (Mount Holyoke, ’51), May 16, 1930; Stephan Richard,
Oct. 27, 1932; Joan Eleanor, Jan. 27, 1938. .

occupation: General sales office supervisor.

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive committee, Trinity Methodist Church,
Springfield, 1945-48.

THE only other time I was ever asked to write an autobiography |

was in the fall of 1920 when we had such an assignment in Fresh-

man English A. No doubt I was reluctant to admit it, but there

really was nothing much to record at the time. Perhaps I should

be even more reluctant to admit today that during the intervening

years — years that have been crowded with depression, war, and

the birth of the atomic age— my life has been singularly un-

eventful.

It has followed the familiar pattern of work, love, marriage,
home, children, and more work. And I enjoy it all, marvelling at
my good fortune, but half-wondering at times whether in this
distraught world there may be something criminal in the enjoy-
ment of such simple pleasures.

RAOUL PANTALEONI

Home aporess: Arlington, Vt.

Born: May 28, 1903, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Guido Pantaleoni, Ellen Mor-
ton Colladay.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B, magna cum laude, 1924.

MarrigD; Elizabeth J. Robinson, Nov. 15, 1939, Gloucester, Mass. CHILDREN:
Valerie Ellen, Dec. 13, 1940, Lucinda Mary, July 18, 1942, Christopher
Armstrong, May 1, 1944; Jonathan Robinson, June 22, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Guido Pantaleoni, Jr., ‘21 (deceased).

{ 662 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

° EDWARD CORTLANDT. PARKER

HOME ADDRESS: 3301 O St., N.W., Washington, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1025 Connecticut Ave., N.W., Washington, D. C.

BoRN: Aug. 19, 1901, Morristown, N. Y. Parents: Chauncey Goodrich
Parker 85, Dora Mason Wright.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1024. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; LL.B. (National Univ.),
1928.

marrieD: Charlotte Symington Riggs, Oct. 5, 1928, Baltimore, Md. (di-
vorced 1944); Helen A. Hussey Bailey, 1945, New York, N. Y. cum-
DREN: Edward Cortlandt, Jr. July 28, 1930; Riggs, April 18, 1933;
Anthony Butler, May 17, 1939; James L. Bailey, Nov. 2, 1927 (step-
child); Nolen Bailey, Jan. 20, 1939 (stepchild); Edith L. Bailey, July 1,
1940 (stepchild).

HARVARD BROTHER: Chauncey Goodrich Parker, Jr., 718.

OccUPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned rst lieutenant, United States Ma-
rine Corps Reserve, June 2, 1932; assigned Organized Reserve, Sixth
Marine Reserve Brigade, Washington, D. C., November, 1934, inactive;
August, 1941, promoted captain, United States Marine Corps Reserve,
October, 1941, called to active duty; assigned Production Division,
Bureau of Aeronautics as Security Officer; August, 1942, promoted
major, United States Marine Corps Reserve, same duty; October, 1943,
promoted lieutenant colonel, United States Marine Corps Reserve,
Commanding Officer, Marine Aviation Detachment, Naval Air Tech-
nical Training Center, Norman, Okla.; April, 1945, Army School for
Special Service, Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Va.; May,
1945, assigned Corps Special Services Officer, III Amphibious Corps,
FMF, Pacific; January, 1946, inactive.

OFFICES HELD: Director and member, Executive Committee, Washington
Community Chest; chairman, Special Gifts Unit, Community Chest
Federation, National Capital Area, two years; director, Naval League
of United States; president, Potomac River Naval Command Region
and District of Columbia Council, Navy League of United Srates.

MEMBER OF: Bar of the District of Columbia; The Barristers; Bar Associa-

. tion of the District of Columbia; Chevy Chase Club; 1925 F Street Club;

Navy League of the United States; Marine Corps League; Military

Order of World Wars; Georgetown Citizens Association; Columbia

Historical Society; Marine Corps Reserve Officers Association; Harvard

Law School Association.

WHEN confronted with telling the Class all about my family, I
find myself thinking of the atomic bomb. Not long ago when
transferring a piece of property owned by my grandfather, who
died in 1906, I found that the deed required sixty-seven signatures.

[ 663 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

I always found myself at Christmas time attending family func-
tions with my in- -laws at which there were never less than forty-
eight present. While the then members of my family never were
actually successful in splitting the atom, they did manage to
produce some very devastating explosions. Having weathered
this situation for many years, gone completely bald and acquired
three fine sons, of whom I am extremely proud, I set out on a
new venture. This time I looked up the definition of a family.
Corpus furis gives it as a collective body of persons who form
one household under one head and one domestic government.
A big order in any man’s world, and utterly impossible to accom-
plish. alone. When I met Helen, and, after outlining some of the
problems, made the suggestion that she undertake it with me,
her willingness convinced me at once that I was on the right
track. The results after several years prove this to be a certainty.
Jimmy Bailey, a sophomore at Brown, Nolen Bailey, a sopho-
more at Princeton, Cortlandt, Jr., in the Fifty-first Fighter Group
at Okinawa, Edith Bailey, aged eight, Helen and I comprise the
collective group of persons who form one household. This group
is subject to change by substitution of Riggs at Hotchkiss and
Tony at Harvey when beds and space permit. Needless to say, I
am the one head and Helen administers the one domestic govern-
ment with the skill of a true master.

Helen and I take two weeks off to rest up after each holiday
period, a procedure which we find essential to restore our equi-
librium. We figure that about two years more will release us to a
year-round enjoyment of each other without interruption from
the young. Until then we must be satisfied with the occasional
opportunities that come to be completely alone with each other
far from the madding crowd.

My hobbies are golf and sailing. 1 do more of the former than
the latter. I find as I grow older that I seem to be more relaxed
and that my game has compensation for loss of prowess in other
fields as old age approaches.

As for my social, political, and religious convictions, I am an
Episcopalian, a Republican and a lawyer. My professional career
has been punctuated by politics and war. From 1928 to 1933 1
served as assistant counsel of the old United States Shipping
Board under Mr. Hoover, When Mr, Roosevelt’s breath got too

[ 664 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

hot on my neck, I resigned (?) and set up my own law practice
in Washington in association with my father and Joe Wyatt
under the firm name of Parker & Wyatt, which later became
Parker, Wyatt & Ferguson. This continued for nine years until
October, 1941, when the Marine Corps flagged me down. Dur-
ing the war-my father died and my law firm was dissolved.
When terminal leave was up, I hung out my shingle again and
have been at it ever since. [’m not getting too rich but I am
helping to educate and bring up six youngsters, all of whom I
hope will be inculcated with a whole-hearted belief in God and
America now and forever.

I still think that Cab Lodge should prevail over Corliss Lamont
in the general field of society. I think that the late Mr. Roosevelt
permitted his ego to overcome his judgment and I think that in
spite of Mr. Truman, come hell or high water, the United States
is the only country in the world worth living in. I sincerely hope
that by the time our Anniversary Report is published that some of
the stumbling blocks to world peace will have been hurdled and
that the ever-present feeling of uncertainty as to the future will
be supplanted by the knowledge that peace in our time and in
our children’s time is assured.

HOWARD LEWIS PARKER

HOME ApprEss: 7712 E. Jefferson Ave., Detroit 14, Mich.

OFFICE appREss: M. A. Manley & Co., 648 Buhl Bldg., Detroit 26, Mich.

BORN: July 22, 1903, Chicago, Ill. parents: George Howard Parker, Wanda
Kordelia Radix.

PREPARED AT: Lake View High School, Detroit, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

marriep: Maribel E. McKnight, June 29, 1929, Detroit, Mich. (divorced
1948); Nena V. Phil, Nov. 16, 1948, Detroit, Mich. cHiwp: Howard
Lewis, Jr., Jan. 17, 1935.

occuPaTION: Partner, M. A. Manley & Company, investment bankers,
brokers, dealers, and members of Detroit Stock Exchange.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Member, War Loan Committee for Michigan,
Banking Division; director of war loan sales, The Detroit Bank; Civilian
Defense warden, Second District, Grosse Pointe, Mich.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Harvard Club, 1925-28; secretary, 1047, president,
1948-49, Harvard Club of Eastern Michigan; ensign, Naval Board,
Detroit Boat Club, 1927-29; director, 1943-46, president, 1944, Bond
Club of Detroit; president, Men's Club, Christ Church, Cranbrook, 1947;
chairman, District 1, Boy Scoucs of America, 1945; member, board of

[ 665 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

trustees, Edwin S. George Foundation, since 1945; delegate, Republican
County Convention, 1940-41, Republican State Convention, 1941-42.
MEMBER OF: Bond Club of Detroit, Security Traders of Detroit & Michigan,
Municipal Forum of New York; Harvard Club of Eastern Michigan;
Oarsmen's Club of Detroit; Orpheus Club of Detroit (associate member),

THIS portion of the Class Life I approach with trepidation. How
I envy those of our Class who may have lived dangerously, star-
tlingly, or inspiringly! True, I have done what I could that was
there to be done at the time, but I fear my experiences do not
differ greatly from many of my fellows. That may be the reason
that “instead of the past, I prefer to look to the future, for that’s
where I have to spend the rest of my life.”

Upon graduation at what now seems the tender age of twenty,
and with leanings towards finance, I perhaps should have stayed
in one of the Eastern centers of such activity instead of returning
to Michigan and a summer vacation. However, in October, 1924,
with mild surprise I found myself a member of the bond depart-
ment afhliate of one of our local banks —I had merely intended
investigating a few of the local firms through a bank, not to go
to work for one. Having spent the time through the wild twenties,
the bank merger era, the depression, and several organizations to
gain necessary experience in the securities business, I find I’ve
been in it too long to get out of it even if I wanted to. So here I
am, still in Detroit, a slightly graying partner of a local security
firm. As to business philosophy, mine is exactly what you would
expect from one in an industry so dependent on the freedom of
the enterprise and profit system. I long to see some return of that
theory in strength, but, like so many others, still seem to struggle
vainly to bring it about.

Other portions of life have had their share of high and low
spots. After a severe drubbing financially in 1929, shortly after
my marriage in June of that year, my star never again pointed in
that direction, but there have been satisfactions and interests, My
son’s birth in 1935 was and has been a source of great pride in the
development of a fourteen-year-old Harvard prospect who far
exceeds his Dad’s abilities in many directions. That called for
cubbing and scouting and participating together in many allied
activities.

The intervening years have brought a fair share of travel, at

[ 666 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

least within our own borders, to the east, south, west, and north.
There have been some years of outside service in civic and com-
munity projects, at one time to a point where my boy said one
evening, “My gosh, Dad, are you free tonight?” ‘That was the
signal and since then I have tapered off to a point where from
here on my business and some Harvard contacts will constitute
the only outside factors to a life enjoyed at home and with my
family. My recent marriage to a girl who feels the same way
should do much to enhance the prospects of a full and enjoyable
life in the future. Again, I look forward to comparing notes at
our Twenty-fifth.

THEODORE HENRY PARKER

HOME ADDRESS: 17 Haynes St., Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hartford Courant, Hartford, Conn. »

BorN: April 7, 1904, Holyoke, Mass. parents: Theodore Henry Parker, Flla
Louise Schulze.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Elvira Dolores Guidone. cyto: Teresa, July 1, 1929 (m. William
Killeen).

occuPATION: Dramatic and music critic, Hartford Courant.

I WAS assistant suburban editor of the Hartford Times from
1924 to 1929. I then became afhliated with the Associated Press,
where I remained until 1930. I was with Dickie-Raymond Ad-
vertising Agency in Boston from 1930 until 1932, and then was
assistant to the director of the Museum of Fine Arts in Springfield,
Massachusetts, from 1932 to 1933. Since 1933 I have been dramatic
and music critic for the Hartford Courant.

- JOHN FAIRBANKS PARTRIDGE

HOME ADDRESS: 90 Chapman St., Canton, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: Preston, Moss & Co., 24 Federal St., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 24, 1903, Jamaica Plain, Mass, parents: George Fairbanks Part-
ridge, ’85, Elenora Rose Clare.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREE: A.B. Cur laude, 1924.

MARRIED: Anna Sumner Dunbar, June 3, 1933, Canton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Helen Howard, Aug. 26, 1936; Ann Fairbanks, May 26, 1939; John

[ 667 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Fairbanks, Jr. April 16, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Clare Partridge, ’19.

OccUPATION: Investment management.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Canton Red Cross Campaign, 1943-48; president of
Trustees, Howard Funds, West Bridgewater (Howard Seminary),
(president since 1941, trustee since 1936). .

MY FAVORITE interest has been common stocks ever since col-
lege days. I entered the investment business in February, 1924, in
the corporation department of Harris, Forbes & Company, two
years later moved to Blyth & Company (under Jerome Preston,
1919) and in 1932 started with the new firm of Preston, Moss &
Company. Over the years I have devoted an excessive amount of
time and mental effort to the development of a procedure of
stock appraisal and selection. The problems of investment man-
agement provide perpetual challenge and make it a difficult but
very interesting business.

My family have been a comfort and joy, my travels slight,
and my hobbies insufficient. I have been in numerous plays, and
particularly like singing high tenor in a quartet. We enjoy our
summer place on Monhegan Island, Maine.

As to convictions, I believe in continued non-redeemability of
money in gold, high corporation taxes (varying somewhat with
size), low tariffs and low interest rates; I am strongly opposed to
socialism. In religion I am Unitarian, and am particularly inter-
ested in reasons for a religious and moral attitude to life found
outside the Bible, whose authority I believe is accepted with
reservation by many people. Such reasons seem to me the
mystery of life and unlimited space and time; the importance of
our freedom of will and unique position in the universe; the
strength that people have found in faith and prayer; the epic
struggle of good and evil, wisdom and folly; our own future’s
dependence upon society’s future, the soundness of living in
harmony with others, need for self-respect, self-control and a
personal policy; elusiveness of happiness directly and selfishly
sought; and the desirability of others’ love or high regard.

CHARLES WHITAKER PEARSON

HoME apprEss: 40 Athclstane Rd., Newton Center §9, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Conservatory of Music, Boston, Mass.

[ 668 ]

ae ae yeermmaeecectepgert 4 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BoRN: Oct. 6, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: Charles Lusby Pearson, Cath-
arine Whitaker Pickett.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREES: Dipl. (New England Conservatory of
Music), 1925; Soloist Dipl. (ibid.), 1926.

marrigp: Claire Eleanor Sandquist, Sept. 8, 1928, Springfield, Mass. cum-
DREN: Janice Claire, Oct. 13, 1930; Charles Whitaker, Jr., Oct. 10, 1936.

OCCUPATION: Singer; teacher of voice, New England Conservatory of Music.

OFFICES HELD: President, New England Conservatory of Music Chapter,
American Association of University Professors, 1947.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Gamma Chapter, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Alpha
Chapter, Phi Mu Alpha, Sinfonia (musical); Pi Kappa Lambda (honor-
ary musical); Fraternity Lodge, Masons, Newtonville, Mass.; American
Association of University Professors, National Association of Teachers
of Singing.

I TRANSFERRED from Harvard in 1923 to the New England

Conservatory of Music in Boston, graduating in 1925. I received a

Soloist Diploma in 1926, From 1927 to 1929 I was head of the

Voice Department and conductor of the College Choir and the

Madrigal Club at Illinois Woman’s College (now MacMurray

College For Women), and also conducted the Men’s Glee Club

at Illinois College for Men — both schools in Jacksonville, [llinois.

During 1929 and 1930 I was professor of voice and history of

music and conductor of the Glee Club at DePauw University,

Greencastle, Indiana. From 1930 to 1934 I was staff artist with

the National Broadcasting Company in New York City, singing

under many noted conductors including Walter Damrosch,

Frank Black, Cesare Soderno, Erno Rapée, Gustave Henshen,

Nathaniel Shilkret, Wilfred Pelletier, Harold Sanford, Charles

Baker, Reinald Werrenrath, and many others. For the next four

years, until 1938, I was with radio station WTIC, the Travelers

Insurance Company’s 50,o00-watt outfit in Hartford, Connecticut,

on their business staff and doing special singing and announcing.

From 1938 to 1940 I started a recording company in Boston, and

discovered it took more money than I had to put across. In the

meantime, pupils kept coming to me for singing instruction, and
in 1940 I went back to the New England Conservatory to teach
singing, radio technique, and vocal normal.

‘I have been soloist in a number of leading churches, such as

Trinity Church, Boston, St. Stephens, New York City, Temple

Israel, Boston, Asylum Avenue Congregational Church, Hartford,

[ 669 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Central Christian Church, Jacksonville, Illinois, and others, and
have directed a number of choirs and choruses. I still do some
singing, although this has been limited in recent years by a busy
teaching schedule.

My daughter, Janice, now eighteen, entered Skidmore College
this fall wich ambitions to study for the theatre and radio. My
son, Charles, Jr., (“Scooter”), aged twelve, promises to be quite
a fair athlete, and his present ambition is to join the Boston Braves!

We may not make much money, but we have fun!

HAROLD THEODORE PEARSON

HOME ADDRESS: 14 Summit Ave., Somerville, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Federal Reserve Bank, 30 Pearl St., Boston, Mass.; Tremont
Temple Bapust Church, 80 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 27, 1901, Cohoes, N. Y. parents: Alexander Henry Pearson,
Eliza Down.

PREPARED AT: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

MarRIED: Gladys Amelia Powell, Oct. 7, 1925, Chelsea, Mass. CHILDREN:
Donald Robert, May 13, 1927 (m. Hazel Morash, June 5, 1948); Barbara
Louise, March 25, 1930; Diane Carol, Dec. 27, 1945.

occupation: Financial statistician, Federal Reserve Bank of Boston; organ-
ist and choir master, Tremont: Temple Baptist Church.

IN NOVEMBER, 1924, shortly after graduation, I obtained
employment in the research and statistics department of the
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. Shortly thereafter, after learn-
ing the details of banking statistics, I became financial statistician.
In this special banking research field, we have published many
bank studies, which bankers tell us are extremely interesting and
useful to them.

In the meantime, I kept up my music which I started when
seven years old (with the piano). During the first few years after
graduation I taught piano after bank hours, but soon gave that
up — due to lack of patience. During college years I had been
organist at Mount Bellingham Methodist Episcopal Church in
Chelsea. There I met my wife. Shortly before our marriage, I
became organist in the Holliston Congregational Church, where
I stayed for about three years. Then I became organist and choir
director in the First Baptist Church, Chelsea. In 1933, learning

[ 670 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

that Tremont Temple, the largest Baptist Church in New Eng-
land with the largest and best-toned organ in New England,
needed an organist, I tried for the position and was chosen from
over seventy candidates. After a few years, on the resignation of
the choir director, I became also choir master. Last year I organ-
ized a male quartet as an added attraction. Thus, with a choir of
some fifty voices, a male quartet, a soprano soloist, a trombonist,
and a piano soloist, I am trying to uphold the best musical stand-
ards in a church long famous for its music and preaching. One
of my hobbies at the present time is arranging music for the male
quartet.

My son, Donald, was a boy soprano. At maturity, his voice
changed to tenor. After gaining several years’ experience singing
in various churches, he became, last year, my tenor soloist at
Tremont Temple. My daughter, Barbara, sings soprano in my
choir.

Last year I organized a glee club at the Federal Reserve Bank
where I work. We have almost seventy members and have al-
ready put on several concerts which have been well received.

Thus, between bank statistics and music I am somewhat busy.
I have missed only four church services (exclusive of vacations)
in about twenty years. I have travelled very little, but last year
I did go to Canada for a week.

Politically, we are Republicans. If we live long enough, we
may help elect a president yet.

If you have read so far, you will have guessed that we are of
the Protestant faith. My wife and Donald are Methodists, Barbara
is Baptist, and I am Congregationalist with Baptist convictions.
The musical staff at ‘Tremont Temple cannot be members of that
church.

Outside of music, my hobby is reading, not novels but history,
archaeology, anthropology, etc., especially as these subjects
pertain to the Bible or religion. For diversion I read short, very
short, detective stories.

DOYLE STARR PECKHAM

HOME apprEss: 628 Woodrow St., Taft, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Taft Junior College, Taft, Calif.

[ 671 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924
BORN: July 4, 1899, Watsonville, Calif. parents: Henry Clark Peckham,
Susan Rebekah Hopkins.
PREPARED AT: Watsonville High School, Watsonville, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922, DEGREES: A.B, (Stanford Univ.), 1923; A.M.
(abid.), 1933. .
MarrieD: Helen Katherine Schardin, July 14, 1924, Sacramento, Calif. cxm-

prex: Harry Schardin, June 5, 1925 (m. Lorraine Mitchell, Sept. 7,

1946); Marian Elizabeth, Oct. 14, 1928 (m. William Verne Christensen,

Feb. 29, 1948). GRANDCHILD: Cynthia Carole Peckham, Oct. 30, 1948.
OCCUPATION: Education.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcoRD: Students’ Army Training Corps, October to
December, 1918.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in English, Taft Junior College; head of English
Department, Taft Union High School and Junior College, since 1927.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Taft Camera Club, Taft Chapter, Toastmasters
International.

UPON leaving Stanford in 1924, I married Helen Schardin of
Sacramento, also a graduate of Stanford, and became a teacher of
English in Taft Union High School and Junior College, where I
have been ever since. Our son and daughter have both grown up
and married, the former now one of the veteran fathers-at-college
and the latter eagerly awaiting the discharge of her husband
from the Navy so that he may enter Stanford in the fall.

Taft is in the desert foothills of the southwestern San Joaquin
Valley and, coming as I did from the coastal area, I thought I
could never tolerate the barren hills and sagebrush of the desert
oil fields. But I have learned to love the great open spaces and
feel confined whenever I am forced to endure the urban jam.
My favorite hobby is landscape photography, and the Sierra
Nevada Mountains and the Mojave Desert are my favorite recrea-
tion spots. My wife is also a camera fan, and we make frequent
trips across the Tehachapi Mountains to the country of ancient
hills, sand dunes, and joshua trees. A 46 Ford station wagon,
with built-in sleeping accommodations, provides comfortable
transportation and independence from tourist hotels. All in all,
it’s not a bad life.

ROBERT THOMPSON PELL

appress: Via Casa Rotte 5, Milano, Italy; Dept. of State, Washington, D. C.
BoRN: March 9, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: Stephen Hyatt Pelham Pell,
Sarah Gibbs Thompson.

[ 672 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922, 1924-1925. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1924(25).
marriED: Alice Harding, Sept. 7, 1922, Pride’s Crossing, Mass.; Thecla Ade-

line Caroline Mordaunt-Barker, Oct. 11, 1936, Reno, Nev. cHitpren:

Stephanie, Sept. 4, 1923, William Harding, July 18, 1926, Anthony

Douglas Reginald Mordaunt, July 8, 1938.
occuPATION: Government service, Department of State.
AFTER graduating from the Institute of High International
Studies (Faculty of Law) in Paris and Harvard, I worked for two
years as the diplomatic correspondent of the Foreign Affairs News
Service in Washington. In 1928 I entered the Department of
State and was assigned to Paris as secretary and press assistant to
the Honorable Walter E. Edge, the ambassador. Special assign-
ments between 1928 and 1933 included: special assistant to the
Honorable Henry L. Stimson, Secretary of State, during his
European negotiations; special assistant to Secretary of the Treas-
ury Mellon during the “moratorium” negotiations; and special
assistant to the Prime Minister of France during his American
visit. In 1932 I was assigned as press officer of the American
delegation to the General Disarmament Conference, and I also
represented the United States at the press conference in Copen-
hagen and Madrid and was adviser to the American Delegations to
the Communications Conference in Madrid and the Pre-Economic
Conference in London. In 1933 I was named chief of the Euro-
pean Information Center in Paris, and in this capacity visited
most European countries, and also accompanied the Honorable
Norman H. Davis, ambassador-at-large, on his European tour.
In 1934 I was adviser at the London Naval Conference and in
1936 I was assigned to the Western European Division of the
Department of State. In 1937 I served as an adviser at the Nine
Power Far Eastern Conference in Brussels and in 1938 as adviser
to the Honorable Myron C. Taylor at the Evian Conference on
Political Refugees. During 1938 and 1939 I was vice-director of
the Intergovernmental Committee for negotiation with the Ger-
man Government, in point of fact Marshal Goering’s office, and
went back and forth between London and Paris and Berlin until
the outbreak of the war in Europe.

In 1939 I was named assistant chief of the European Division

and in 1941 acting chief of the Special Liaison Division of the
Office of Strategic Services and the Office of War Information.

[ 673 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

In 1944 I was named assistant to the political officer at SHAEF,
London, and later assistant political officer at SHAEF, Paris,
and so on, for assignment with the Oriental Counter-Intelligence
branch for special operation throughout Western Europe and
Germany to the roundup of the Japanese missions in Czechoslo-
vakia. In 1945 I resigned to become co-publisher of the Euro-
pean edition of the New York Post. In 1947 the Post closed and
I served as assistant to the Honorable Myron Taylor, the Presi-
dent’s personal representative to His Holiness the Pope, and from
September, 1948, to January 1, 1949, I served with the United
States Delegation to the United Nations Assembly and Security

Council. On January 1, 1949, [ took up my present assignment in
Milan.

DOUGLAS HUNTINGTON PENNOYER

HOME appress: 81 Orchard Rd., Chatham, N. J.

OFFICE appREss: Bell Telephone Laboratories, 463 West St., New York 14,
N. Y.

BORN: June 4, 1903, Springfield, Mass. paRENTs: Lucius Huntington Pen-
noyer, Maude Elizabeth Fuller.

prepareD at: Central High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B. IN E. E. cum laude, 1924.

marrieD: Gerda Elizabeth Selling, Nov. 29, 1930, New York, N. Y. cui-
DREN: Douglas Huntington, Jr., March 13, 1936; John Christian, Aug.
12, 1941.

occupation: Electrical engineering; member of technical staff and super-
visor of group of engineers designing telephone switching circuits, Bell
Telephone Laboratories.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, local chapter, United World Federalists, since 1948;
trustee, Chatham Fish & Game Protective Association, 1940-43; Profes-
sional Engineer, New York State.

MeMzeR oF: American Institute of Electrical Engineers, Harvard Engineer-
ing Society.

ABOUT a month after the sheepskin ceremonies, I packed slide

rule in satchel and went to New York City as an embryo engineer

in the employ of Bell Telephone Laboratories. Here I have
contributed, in some measure at least, to the development of
telephone switching equipments for modern dial offices and am
at present in charge of a group of engineers engaged in the design
of circuits for this purpose,

During the early part of the war, I was responsible for the

[ 674]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

development of certain radar equipment for the Army. Later,
during 1943 and 1944, I was in Los Angeles for seven months
supervising the installation and testing of special telephone facili-
ties required to handle the heavy traffic from the war industries
there.

Whatever promptness was displayed initially in finding a job
was not apparent in the matter of connubial choice, for six years
elapsed before I wooed and wed Gerda Elizabeth Selling. Our
life has been a very happy one and has been blessed with two
lively sons, as fine and unrefined as any who ever let go a flying
saucer across Mem Hall. It is our hope and expectation that both
will in due course bring to Harvard that small amount of knowl-
edge which, as President Lowell used to say, can be expected of
incoming freshmen.

Since 1933 we have lived in Chatham, a pleasant commuting
town with at least the average amount of culture and cocktails.
Life rolls along so smoothly, for the most part, that one is apt to
neglect some of the serious issues which must be faced and solved.
I am particularly concerned about such problems as the settling
of international disputes.and am convinced that some form of
world government must be the solution. With this in mind, I
have joined the United World Federalists and hope to have a small
part in achieving the success of its purposes.

As I sit back now and look ahead, it seems that my principal
personal objective is to provide the maximum opportunities for
our youngsters as they grow up and to enjoy their development
and accomplishments.

Were I to offer a brief word of advice to old classmates, it
might be summed up by the ancient Chinese proverb: “Enjoy
yourself; it is later than you think.”

GUIDO RINALDO PERERA

HOME ADpRESS: 12 W. Cedar St., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ApprEss: Hemenway & Barnes, 73 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: April 21, 1902, Brussels, Belgium. parents: Gino Lorenzo Perera,
Caroline Thacher.

’ PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. Cem laude, 1924; LL.B. 1927.

MarrigD: Faith Phillips, Dec. 5, 1929, Washington, D. C. cunprex: Guido

[ 675 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Rinaldo, Jr., March 26, 1931; Phillips, Sept. 25, 1933; Lawrence Thacher,
June 23, 1935; Ronald Christopher, Dec. 25, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, Officers Reserve Corps, April, 1936, to
May, 1941; major, Air Corps, May, 1941, to February, 1942; lieutenant
colonel, Air Corps, February, 1942, to June, 1942; colonel, Air Corps,
June, 1942, to February, 1946; colonel, United States Air Force Re-
serve, 1946. Army Commendation Ribbon, Bronze Star, Legion of
Merit.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Eastern Utilities Associates; director, Brockton
Edison Company; treasurer, Dexter School; director, Family Society of
Greater Boston; vice-president, Bishop Rhinelander Foundation for
College Work, Inc.

AFTER graduating from the Law School, I entered practice in

Boston in the firm of Hutchins & Wheeler of which I became a

partner in 1936. Between 1929 and the outbreak of World

War II, my wife and I made trips at intervals of some three years

each to Europe during which I not only fished for salmon in

Norway, flatboated on the River Inn and skied in the Bavarian

Alps but met many interesting figures, such as Oswald Spengler

and also, incidentally, had an opportunity to size up the inter-

national situation for myself. By 1935 I had concluded that there
was a good chance of “War In Our Time” and that I ought to do
something about it if it came. After some difficulty, due to ad-
vanced age (!) and other lesser requirements of the authorities,

I was commissioned a captain in the Officers Reserve Corps in

1936. In January, 1941, I was ordered to active duty with the

Plans Section of the Office Chief of Air Corps and did not return

to civilian life for five full years. During this period, I served in

various assignments with the Air Staff and at Headquarters Army

Air Forces at first on organizational and related problems and

later on problems of strategic planning. From December, 1942,

until the fall of 1944, I served as deputy chairman of the Com-

mittee of Operations Analysts, a committee comprising civilian
experts and military members which was set up by General

Arnold to advise on strategic bombing objectives and plans

against Germany and Japan. In the fall of 1944, 1 became assistant

to the chairman of the United States Strategic Bombing Survey.

During 1943 and 1944, I made several trips to the European and

other theatres of operations and, while with the Survey, spent

considerable time in Germany.

[ 676]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I returned to the practice of law in January, 1946, when I be-
came a partner of the firm of Hemenway & Barnes. I continue to
enjoy fishing in the spring, Cape Cod in summer, shooting 1 in the
fall, and my family throughout the year.

ELIAS DEMETRIOU PERIVOLAS

HOME ADDRESS: 495 W. 187th St., New York 33, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 80 Broad St., New York 4, N. Y.

BorN: March 16, 1894, Vourla, Turkey. parents: Demetrios K. Perivolas,
Despina Vazou.

PREPARED AT: Gymnasium Anaxagoras, Vourla, Turkey; American Inter-
national College, Springfield, Mass.; Mt. Hermon School, Mc. Hermon,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922, 1927-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1924(29).

MARRIED: Eucharis Frangia, April 7, 1937, Athens, Greece. cHttp: Euthymia,
July 27, 1942.

occupaTion: Office manager.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Treasury Department.

OFFICES HELD: Organizer, president, Order of Ahepa; promoter, executive
secretary, Cooperative Business Association, New York City; president,
Hellenic American University Club, New York City.

UPON completion of my college course, I planned to enter the
diplomatic field; however, on account of my family’s misfortune,
I had to alter my plans. I went into business instead, much to my
disappointment, and I have tried all this time to earn my liveli-
hood and reach some level of success. How much I have suc-
ceeded I can’t tell.

My best hobby is travelling and up to now I have managed to
cross the Atlantic a dozen times. I have visited practically every
country in Europe. Incidentally, it was in one of my travels in
Greece, while I held a temporary position with the American
Legation there, that I met my wife and I plunged into matrimony,
though I considered myself immune to marriage. My next hobby
is reading.

Busy as I am and ever was in the field of business, struggling at
times to make both ends meet, I don’t find much time for social
and political gatherings, much as I should like to diversify my
activities. My political convictions are rather conservative and,
therefore, I find myself in disagreement with radical ideologies,

[ 677 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

though I do realize there is plenty of room for reforms in our
system of government.

Mv religious convictions are as strong as ever. I firmly believe
that humanity today needs Christianity more than ever.

LOUIS LEPRILETE PERKINS

HOME ADDRESS: 106 S. Fulton St., Auburn, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: St. John’s Episcopal Church, P.O. Box 145, Auburn, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 12, 1902, Brookline, Mass. parents: Frederick Heber Perkins,
Annie Alwood Anthony.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREES: $.B. cum laude, 1924(23); Bw. (Epis-
copal Theological School), 1926.

MarrieD: Catherine Hoague, Dec. 26, 1925, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Francis Leprilete, April 8, 1927 (died April 12, 1927); Constance Ann,
May 23, 1928; Dorothy Miller, Aug. 21, 1929; Frederick Leprilete,
Nov. 21, 1933 (died June 28, 1948).

occuPATION: Episcopal clergyman.

THE first thing I should like to say after twenty-five years out
of Harvard is how much Harvard has meant to me as a basic
training for life all down through the years, and how much I have
appreciated what Harvard has given me, and still continues to
give me.

Secondly, I should like to say, out of real conviction and
assurance, what a truly happy one my life has been — in spite of
sorrows and difficulties down through the years — in my chosen
profession of the ministry, in my family life, in the communities
in which I have lived, and in life in general as I have tried to live
it. So many people about me seem to be “afraid of living” —
whether the adversary i is disappointment, or business difficulties,
or local environment, or Russia or Hitler, or what not. Life, 1
grant, is not easy. But life is full of infinite resources. And those
resources, rightly used, give one sufficient grace and strength to
meet every problem or difficulty that we are called upon to face.

Travel? I haven't travelled much. The work of the ministry
keeps one pretty closely confined to one’s job in hand, though I
have taken residence in various parts of the United States: Green
River, Wyoming, Nov. 1, 1926, to Oct. 25, 1927; Kittanning,
Pennsylvania, Nov. 1, 1927, to Jan. 15, 1936; Shelton, Connecti-

[ 678 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

cut, Jan. 15, 1936, to Aug, 1, 1943; and Auburn, New York, since
Aug. 15, 1943.

Social and political convictions? I have been a Democrat since
1924. I have been a Democrat even through the recent election.
I still say on this day of November 5, 1948: Hurrah for the
Democrats and true American liberalism!

Hobbies? My job and my profession, and driving my car. If a
man really loves his work, and gives his whole time to it, I should
say that his hobbies are not much more than special ramifications
of his job!

Religious convictions? Well, that is hard for a parson to write
about, without being accused of prejudice. If you will bear with
me, and believe that I speak from the heart, may I say that my
religious. convictions have strengthened and deepened with the
years, The Christian faith and life have become for me more and
more the supreme good news for human living! There is some-
thing so supremely good about the Christian religion that I am
at a loss to see how people can live — really live — without it.

THOMAS ALEXANDER PETERSON

HOME ADDRESS: 6825 Valley Rd., Kansas City, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Thomas A, Peterson Co., 2609 Walnut St., Kansas City, Mo. |

BORN: Dec. 31, 1901, Aurora, Nebr. parents: August Einer Peterson, Mar-
garet Adelaide Thomas.

PREPARED AT: Aurora High School, Aurora, Nebr.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: S.B. 1924; M.B.A. 1926.

MARRIED: Ruth Remien, Dec. 29, 1926, Chicago, Ill. cHiLpREN: Jeanne, March
2, 1929; Thomas Charles, July 24, 1932.

occupation: Manufacturing and distributing of academic, choir, pulpit, and
judicial robes.

KARL SLADE PFAFFMANN

HOME aAppress: 45 Sohier St., Cohasset, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Bethlehem Steel, Shipbuilding Division, East Boston, Mass.

BORN: March 9, 1900, Quincy, Mass. parents: George Eaton Pfaffmann,
Mabel Abigail Shaw.

PREPARED aT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

MarRigD: Barbara Kelly, Aug. 7, 1928, Wrentham, Mass, cuttpren: Karla,
June 14, 1929; John, Oct. 26, 1931.

[ 679 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

occupation: Salesman.
MEMBER OF: Cohasset Golf Club; Cohasset Yacht Club, Propeller Club of
Boston.

I RECALL reading an article in the Saturday Evening Post a
short time ago wherein an erstwhile statistician describes himself
as a semi-skilled worker. Having been converted from a statis-
tician to a shipyard worker during the war, the author defends
his liking for working with things material and for working as a
laborer. My wartime conversion is not entirely comparable. At
the conclusion of the war (World War II), I found myself
greatly interested in ships and capable of working with and
directing labor, Given an opportunity to continue with the
shipbuilding industry, my conversion continues bearing along
with it the necessary absorbing time and thought that such a
conversion demands.

I regret that I don’t have the time or energy to take an active
part in town or civic affairs or even to contact my classmates and
friends in three-mile-away Boston. Time, I trust, will take care
of this.

My daughter, Karla, recently graduated from George Ken-
dall’s school in Peterborough, New Hampshire, and is at present
at home. I can’t refrain from mentioning here what a wonderful
job George and Mrs. George have done with their school and
with my daughter.

Son John (known as Fritz) is a junior in Hebron Academy
(all six foot five of him) and is inclined to head for Yale Univer-
sity, a little college located somewhere in Connecticut, I believe.

Fach year I play less tennis and devote more time to my house
and grounds, Nevertheless, I do have a wonderful time batting
the ball around with my townsfolk friends all of whom are my
age or better.

This fall I was able to get away for a two weeks’ vacation and
give my wife a much needed rest from her garden and herbs
(paging herbist Buzz Henry). My greatest wish just now is to
have more frequent and longer vacations,

[ G80 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES JOSEPH PHELAN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 10 Moross Rd., Grosse Pointe Farms 30, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hornblower & Weeks, 244 Penobscot Bldg., Detroit 26,
Mich.

BORN: Sept. 2, 1901, Roxbury, Mass. parents: James Joseph Phelan, Mary
Elizabeth Meade.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924(25).

marrieD: Ellen Hammond Skae, Jan. 9, 1932, Pontiac, Mich. cHILpren:
Mary Meade, Jan. 13, 1933; Florence Hammond, May 3, 1934; Ellen
Skae, Sept. 2, 1935; Anne Barry, March 25, 1937.

OCCUPATION: Partner, Hornblower & Weeks, investment securities,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Graduated from Army Finance School, Duke
University. Three years as officer in the Army of the United States,
Finance Department, during World War II, two of which were spent
as Finance Officer, Replacement Depot No. 3, APO 494, Kanchrapara,
India. Discharged, January, 1946, with rank of major.

OFFICES HELD: Governor, Detroit Stock Exchange, 1939-42. —..

MEMBER OF: Detroit Club; Country Club of Detroit; University Club of
Detroit; Grosse Pointe Club; Racquet Club of Chicago; Harvard Club
of New York.

THE following is a brief account of my activities since we were
last together as a Class in June, 1924.

In the fall of 1924, I became an employee of the firm of Horn-
blower & Weeks in Boston, January, 1925, found me in Paris as
an employee of Morgan, Harjes & Company (now Morgan &
Company ), and later I took a clerkship with Rowe & Pittman of
London, England, members of the London Stock Exchange.

In the fall of 1926, I rejoined Hornblower & Weeks but this
time with the Chicago office of the firm. I was admitted to the
firm as a partner in Chicago on January 1, 1929. In March of that
year I was transferred to New York, representing my firm on
the floor of the New York Stock Exchange until February, 1933,
when I became resident partner of the firm’s Detroit office.
There I have remained since with the exception of three years in
the Army during the last war, two of which were spent in India.

To use the baseball term, I might say that other than the above
there have been no hits — no runs —and plenty of errors.

[ 681 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

STANTON CHARLES PHELPS

HOME AND OFFICE AppRESs: 4601 Rittenhouse St., Riverdale, Md.

BORN: Feb. 21, 1904, Southwick, Mass. parents: Charles Henry Phelps,
Musetta Adora Carr.

PREPARED AT: Westfield High School, Westfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1924; A.M., 1942.

MarRizepD: Johonna Glidewell, April 11, 1942, Towson, Md. cup: Stanton
David, Feb. 28, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Reginald Henry Phelps, ’30.

OCCUPATION: Private tutor.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington.

I, STANTON C. PHELPS, 2 member of the (to me) most im-
portant Harvard Class, graduated in 1924 at the tender age of
twenty, and with much fear and trembling began my teaching
career in a private high school. It is hard to say whether the stu-
dents or I gained more knowledge that first year.

As I gained experience — and courage —I looked for greener
pastures. I was with the Baltimore public school system as a
high school teacher for fifteen years. During this time ] made
two interesting trips to Europe, and also reached Asia and
Africa.

The war began, was fought and won, but a professional defer-
ment kept me chained to a desk. :

In 1942 I met and married a girl from Missouri. Her name was
Johonna Glidewell and she really “showed me.” That was the
same year I received my A.M. degree at Harvard after several
summer sessions in the Yard.

In 1944 we became three. Our son, Stanton David, was born
then. He is now four and a half, a bright, handsome little fellow
with very little family resemblance. He says he is going to
Harvard.

My hobby — helping the child who is having learning diffi-
culty — has actually led me into a bigger and better profession.
Two years ago, I gave up classroom teaching to do special teach-
ing and remedial work. This is very interesting, and takes me into
the small bungalow as well as the legations and embassies.

Last year my wife became my business partner, and has taken
over most of the primary work.

We have a modest Cape Cod house in Riverdale, Maryland,
[ 682 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

where the three of us in our spare time make a garden in the
spring and rake leaves in the fall.

Reminiscing about the Harvard Class of 1924 brings the realiza-
tion of age — but I look at my expanding waistline and thinning
hair, and breathe a sigh of satisfaction, for the years have also
brought the happiness and contentment which were only dreams

in 1924.

+: PHILIP GODFREY PHILLIPS

BORN: Feb. 28, 1902, Cincinnati, Ohio. Parents: Godfrey Jay Phillips, Ger-
trude Friedman.

PREPARED AT: Hughes High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1924; LLB, 1927;

S.J-Dy 1934.

MARRIED: Ruth Mann, Nov. 24, 1927, New York, N. Y. cuitpren: Walter
Charles, Jan. 30, 1936; David Mann, April 25, 1938, Philip Godfrey, Jr.
Sept. 20, 1941.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served in U. §. Army during World War II,
attended University of Virgina, Allied Military Government training;
received medical discharge, 1944.

pieD: Oct. 17, 1944, Chicago, IL.

wipow: Mrs. Philip G. Phillips, 1125 McLaughlin PL, Cincinnati, Ohio.

PHILIP G, PHILLIPS completed his preparatory education at
Hughes High School, Cincinnati, Ohio, before entering Harvard
with thé Class and during 1922-1923, he received a Harvard
College Scholarship. Awarded his A.B. degree cum laude, he
spent part of the year 1923-1924 in the Harvard Graduate School
of Business Administration and in 1924 entered the Harvard Law
School, receiving his LL.B. degree three years later. He was a
member of the Board of Student Advisers during 1926-1927
and received a Faculty Scholarship in 1925-1926 and 1926-1927.

After graduation from the Law School, he became associated
with Brown, Field and McCarthy and remained in their offices
for two years. In 1930 he was associated with the faculty of the
Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, in addition
to doing research work in arbitration and working for the Ameri-
can Arbitration Association. During 1933-1934 he was a resident
graduate at the Law School and was awarded an S.J.D. degree in

1934.
[ 683 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

In 1939, he was regional director of the National Labor Rela-
tions Board, Cincinnati, and served as general counsel for the
American Arbitration Association and the Corset and Brassiere
Code Authority. During World War II he entered military
service and received training in Allied Military Government at
the University of Virginia. Released from active duty with the
rank of major, he had received a medical discharge from the
U.S. Army shortly before his death.

His wife, Ruth Mann Phillips, and three sons, Walter Charles,
David Mann and Philip Godfrey, Jr., survived him.

ROGER SPRING PHILLIPS

HOME AND OFFICE appress: The Inn, West Falmouth, Cape Cod, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 5, 1901, Newton Center, Mass. parents: Walter Brigham Phil-
lips, °86, Gertrude Spring. .

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-192}.

marrieD: Christina Angier Mount, Feb. 1, 1936, Wellesley Hills, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Morgan Brigham Phillips, ’15 (deceased).

occupation: Hotel management.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: American Red Cross in England for eighteen
months, 1944-45.

FOR about five years after leaving college I tried in vain to find a
business which held some attraction for me, when I had the
chance to turn a hobby into a business and became a golf course
construction man. In 1930, when things became tough, this
business really exploded and 1 began managing country clubs.
After nearly fifteen years of learning the hard way, I found that
this type of business provides neither future nor security, al-
though it does have a certain tremendous fascination.

We have now purchased The Inn at West Falmouth on Cape
Cod, to which we hope many of you will find your way.

PAUL JOHN WILLIAM PIGORS

HOME apprEss: 385 Salem-End Rd. Framingham, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: June 25, 1900, Weser, Germany. parents: Wilhelm Reinhold Pigors,
Katherine Luchrsen.

Prepare at: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

[ 684 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1924; A.M., 1925; PH.D.,
1927.

MARRIED: Faith Cabot, Aug. 10, 1924, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Margaret
Fuller, June 8, 1925; Sylvia Cabot, Sept. 10, 1926, Faith Cabot, March 23,
1928 (m. James L. Waters, Sept. 11, 1948).

OccUPATION: Associate professor, personnel administration, Industrial Re-
lations Section, Department of Economics, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Public member, War Labor Board, Region I;
expert consultant, labor relations, War Headquarters, Services of Sup-
plies.

OFFICES HELD: President, Industrial Relations Associates, Inc.; vice-president,
James L. Waters Company, electronic analyzers, consultant in labor re-
lations and personnel administration.

MEMBER OF: National Academy of Arbitrators.

PusLications: Leadership or Domination, Houghton-Mifflin Co., 1935; So-
cial Problems in Labor Relations, McGraw-Hill Co., 1939; Personnel
Administration: A Point of View and a Method, McGraw-Hill Co.,

1947.
IN MY spare time I am a farmer.

FREDERICK prEWOLF PINGREE

HOME AppREss: Oyster Pond Road, Woods Hole, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole,
Mass.
BORN: April 30, 1902, Woburn, Mass. PaRENTS: Frederick Judson Pingree,
Harriet Cummings Blake.
PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1926, 1934-1935. DEGREE: A.B. (Ohio State Univ.),

1939.

MARRIED: Hazel M. Shook, 1937, Columbus, Ohio.

OCCUPATION: Research scientist in oceanography.

PUBLICATIONS: “Returns from Wartime Experience with Life-saving Equip-
ment,” and similar technical reports on air-sea rescue problems.

SOME twelve years in preparatory school teaching, four in
engineering, and six with an endowed scientific foundation ac-
count for most of my life since 1924.

In continuing with the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution,
I am one of those peculiar and curious people working in a field
of science which is only beginning to be explored. During the
past ten years some of its most interesting discoverics have been
of direct naval and military significance, And today their applica-

[ 685 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

tions are, on the whole, still limited to the concerns of war. I hope
to live long enough to see major developments for humane and
lastingly useful purposes.

In 1941 I was turned down for naval service. After eighteen
months spent in defense plant engineering in the hot windy
desert of southern Nevada for Basic Magnesium, Inc., I still could
not pass the service’s visual tests. On coming east to Cape Cod,
however, I found my civilian self in the unusual position of
directing a small gray vessel and a group of Navy and Coast
Guard personnel in investigation of a critical problem in air-sea
search and rescue.

My wife and I had spent most of our summer vacations in
small-boat sailing and coastwise cruising. This and other experi-
ence made it possible for her to process data we brought in. As
our ship changed base, so did she and an assistant. Later when
this problem was solved, she returned to Woods Hole and learned
to fill a more difficult job in the Institution’s underwater sound
department. From this laboratory submarine skippers got certain
facts they needed in action.

We now seem to have settled down as a part of our Cape Cod
community. Aside from improving an old house and a few acres
of land overlooking Vineyard Sound, we are taking an increas-
ing interest in Falmouth school, church, and civic affairs. We
like this shipshape little town and have by no means lost our love
of small-boat sailing.

WALTER HAMOR PISTON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 127 Somerset St., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE Aappress: Department of Music, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Mass.

BORN: Jan. 20, 1894, Rockland, Maine. parents: Walter Hamor Piston,

Leona Belle Stover.

PREPARED AT: Mechanic Arts High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1919-1924. DEGREE: A.B. suntma cum laude, 1924.

MaRRiED: Kathryn Nason, Sept. 14, 1920, Boston, Mass.

occuPaTION: Composer; professor of music, Harvard University.

MILITARY OR NAVAL nECORD: United States Naval Reserve, 1918. .

MeMBeR oF: Harvard Club; Harvard Musical Association; American Acad-
emy of Arts and Sciences; National Institute of Arts and Letters,

PuBLications: Three symphonies, three string quartets, violin concerto; ballet,

[ 686 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

“The Incredible Flutist”; numerous orchestral and chamber music works;
books: Harmony, Counterpoint, Harmonic Analysis.

AFTER graduation | spent two years in Paris on the John
Knowles Paine Fellowship, studying music and letting myself
get impressed with the old world view of life and culture. Those
were important years for me, for, besides learning how to waste
time profitably, I discovered that I would probably become a
composer. Now it is not from choice that one becomes a com-
poser but rather, it seems, one does it in spite of everything and
even against one’s better judgment. But writing long-haired
music is not a way to make a living and so I jumped at the chance
offered me to retufn to Harvard as an assistant instructor in the
Music Department. It turned out that I liked teaching very much
indeed and found it the best possible occupation for a composer.
Teaching demands clarity in the knowledge of the subject taught
and the continual contact with alert and inquisitive young
creative minds acts as a preventive against complacency and
stodgy self-satisfaction.

I have been at Harvard since 1926 and this year I was appointed
to the newly established Walter W. Naumburg Professorship.
Needless to say, I feel this to be a very great honor and I am
overawed with the responsibility to fill the post in a manner to
some degree worthy of those who will succeed me through the
years. In the same year, 1948, my third symphony won the
Pulitzer Prize in music.

Unfortunately, I cannot relate any thrilling war adventures to
match those of my classmates. It is true that I was one of the few
allowed out in the dark on Belmont Hill during simulated air
attacks. But I am sure the neighbors would have felt somewhat
less secure had they known the incompleteness of my technique
in civilian defense. At the same time, I do not wish for another
war even though I might at last discover how you make those
iron hats stay on when you lean forward.

+ SKIPWITH WILMER PLEASANTS

BORN: March 14, 1903, Baltimore, Md. PARENTS: Jacob Hall Pleasants, Delia
Tudor Wilmer.
PREPARED AT: Gilman Country School, Baltimore, Md.

[ 687 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: AB., 1924(25); LL.B. (Univ. of Penn-
sylvania), 1929.

piep: June 21, 1934, Baltimore, Md.

FATHER: J. Hall Pleasants, 201 Longwood Rd., Roland Park, Baltimore, Md.

SKIPWITH WILMER PLEASANTS entered Harvard with the
Class after completing preparatory work at the Gilman Countr
School. In college he was a member of the Hasty Pudding Club.
Upon receiving an A.B, degree in 1925, as of 1924, he taught for
a year at the Fay School, Southboro, Massachusetts. The follow-
ing year, he attended Harvard Law School, then transferred to
the University of Pennsylvania, receiving his LL.B. in 1929.

After graduation, he became associated with the law firm of
Stewart, Pearre & Keiffner and was still in practice with them at
the time of his death. He was elected assistant city solicitor in
1932 and served in this capacity for two years.

A member of the Hamilton Street Club, Bachelors Cotillion,
and the Harvard Club, all of Baltimore, and the Barge Club of
Philadelphia, he also belonged to Delta Psi, a law fraternity.

CHARLES POLETTI

HOME appress: Villa Bellefontaine, Cologny, Geneva, Switzerland.

OFFICE AppRESS: Poletti, Diamond, Freidin & Mackay, 598 Madison Ave.
New York, N. Y.

BORN: July 2, 1903, Barre, Vt. parents: Dino Poletti, Carolina Gervasini.

PREPARED AT: Spaulding High School, Barre, Vt.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1924; LLB.
cum laude, 1928.

MarRieD: Jean Knox Ellis, June 2, 1934, New York, N. Y. cutpren: Carla
Knox, Nov. 28, 1936, Charles Ellis, Nov. 13, 1938; Joanna Shattuck, Dec.
17, 1940.

occuPaTioN: Lawyer.

MILTARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Colonel, U.S. Army, 1943-45; allied military gov-
ernor of Sicily, Naples and southern Italy, Rome and central Italy, and
Milan and Lombardy, Italy. Legion of Merit; European-African-Mid-
dle Eastern Theatre Service Medal with four bronze stars; World War
Victory Medal; officer, Order of the British Empire. Battles and cam-
paigns: Sicily, Naples, Foggia, Rome, Arno, and North Apennines.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Special assistant to Secretary of War, 1943;
New York War Plans Coordinator, 1941-42.

OFFICES HELD: Legal assistant, St. Lawrence Power Development Commis-
sion (appointed by Governor Franklin D. Roosevelt), 1930; general
counsel, National Democratic Committee, 1932~37; counsel to Governor

[ 688 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Herbert H. Lehman, New York, 1933-37; chairman, Governor’s
Conference on Crime, Criminal, and Society, 1935, New York
Constitutional Convention Committee, 1937-38; member, New York State
Board of Social Welfare, 1936-37, Board of Overseers, Harvard Col-
lege, 1940-43, Board of Trustees, Cornell University, 1938-42, Syracuse
University, School of Forestry, 1938-42; Justice of Supreme Court of
State of New York, elected in 1937; delegate-at-large, Constitutional
Convention of New York State, 1938; lieutenant-governor, New York
State, 1938-42; governor, New York State, 1942; impartial chairman,
Coat and Suit Industry of New York, 1946-47.

MEMBER OF: Papal Order of Saint Gregory the Great (commander with
star); Order of Grand Cross of Crown of Italy; Harvard Club of New
York; Association of the Bar of the City of New York, New York State
Bar Association; American Bar Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Reports of New York State Constitutional Convention Com-
mittee,

AS I sit here in our home looking across the waters of Lake
Geneva to the Jura Mountains and reflect that one month ago,
the family was gazing on the lights of Central Park, there appears
the confirmation of a basic element of the pattern of life of this
graduate: change. My activities during the past twenty-five
years, or theretofore, have been varied. And I have loved the
variety. Yet through them all occur two principal interests —
public service in the domestic field and service in the international
field. Or perhaps they are two aspects of the same predominant
interest. ‘

America has been good to me: challenging tasks, precious
honors, devoted friendships, and a wonderful family. And I
consider myself lucky in having had the chance of going to
Harvard.

ROBERT CHANNON POLLOCK

HOME ADpREsS: 3 Cedar Lane, Massapequa, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE AppRESS: Graduate School, Fordham University, New York 58, N. Y.

BORN: March 30, 1901, Glasgow, Scotland. PaRENTs: Louis Pollock, Christine
Hess,

PREPARED AT: De Paul Academy, Chicago, IIl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922, 1923-1925. DEGREES: $.B. cum laude, 1924(25)}
A.M. 1927.

MARRIED: Jean McLaren, June 24, 1933, New York, N. Y. cuttpren: Chris-
topher Robert, April 22, 1943; Timothy Alexander, Oct. 18, 1948.

[ 689 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

oocuPaTion: Associate professor of philosophy, Graduate School, Fordham
University.

MEMBER OF: American Philosophical Society; American Catholic Philosophi-
cal Society; Medieval Academy.

PUBLICATIONS: Co-author with Don Luigi Sturzo (founder of Christian
Democratic Party of Italy) and others, “Man in Society and History,”
and various articles.

AFTER receiving my Master's in 1927, I taught philosophy and
psychology at Bowdoin College. Having become, meanwhile, a
Roman Catholic, I wanted to know more about thinkers like St.
Augustine, St. Thomas Aquinas, and Duns Scotus, and so after
three years at Bowdoin, I became a student in the Institute of
Medieval Studies (now the Pontifical Institute of Medieval
Studies) in the University of Toronto under the direction of
Etienne Gilson. Although I have become deeply interested in
the medieval field, I am incurably modern. Indeed, my study of
St. Augustine and the medievals served to whet my appetite for
things modern, since it made the whole modern development a
lot more intelligible, and more exciting too. After receiving my
doctorate at Toronto, I spent four years at the University of
Notre Dame, giving undergraduate and graduate courses. While
there I married an eastern girl, and since we both had a hankering
for the East, we were happy when we found ourselves at last in
New York, I with a job at Fordham University and she as window
display manager of the Fifth Avenue Association, and concerned
with safeguarding artistic standards on the Avenue.

Some years before, perhaps a little under the influence of Eric
Gill, I bought a place in New Hampshire with eight acres, and
have become over the years a farming enthusiast, with a taste for
what the English call organic husbandry, whose high priest seems
to be Sir Albert Howard. However, I have shed whatever
romantic notions I may have had about the simple life on the
farm, and whatever restraint I have to exercise is rather upon my
enthusiasm for the whole field of technology and its possibilities
in terms of social life.

Like so many others, I was powerfully affected by events of
the thirties. The onward sweep of Nazi-Fascist power and in-
fluence gave me many a sleepless night. And I was glad to be able
to do even a little to resist it, when I became a director of the

[ 690 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

newly formed Committee of Catholics for Human Rights, dedi-
cated to the fight against all forms of racial and religious dis-
crimination, and an officer of the Catholic Association for Interna-
tional Peace which was highly receptive to the enlightened
political and social thinking of Monsignor John A. Ryan. When
war came, I tried to enlist, but poor eyesight kept me out.

Later my close association with the sociologist and philosopher,
Don Luigi Sturzo, founder of the Christian Democratic Party of
Italy and tireless foe of Mussolini, was fruitful for me, since
Sturzo gave me just the help I was looking for in orienting my
philosophical thinking towards historical and sociological realities.
Today I am more concerned than ever with the problem of the
reconstruction of the social order in line with human values. The
wholesale wreckage of human beings, a lot of it quite needless, is
painful to behold.

While America is my first interest, I am very much taken up
with the remarkable stirring of thought in France, especially in
Catholic circles and on various levels, from the economic to the
theological. The writing of Blondel and the Christian exist-
entialist Gabriel Marcel have impressed me very much and I am
envious of a country whose philosophers don’t write merely for
one another but for a fairly large and thoughtful public.

CHARLES KNOWLES POPE

HOME ADDRESS: 272 Dover Rd., Westwood, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Tucker Anthony & Co., 74 State St. Boston, Mass.

BorN: March 11, 1901, Dorchester, Mass. parents: Walter Francis Pope,
Elizabeth Don Knowles.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1921.

MaRRIED: Irene Hilton, Sept. 25, 1937, Boston, Mass.

occupation: Tucker Anthony & Company, investments.

MEMBER OF: Boston Camera Club.

MY ASSOCIATION with the Class of 1924 ended with the fresh-
man year. The next two and a half years were spent in Fall River,
Massachusetts — the days in the cotton mills and the evenings
at Bradford Durfee Textile School. The textile business and I
parted company in favor of a six months’ trip to Europe as a tutor.
Except for vacation cruises to South America, Central America,

[ 591 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Haiti, Cuba, Jamaica, and the Canal Zone, this ended my globe
trotting.

The tutorial job completed in June, 1924, I went into the
securities business with Tucker Anthony & Company, and have
been with them ever since through “booms and busts.”

Trout fishing in Maine and Canada, photography wherever |

happen to be, and gardening at my home in Westwood are my
hobbies.

ELIOT FURNESS PORTER

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Route 1, Box 5B, Santa Fé, N. Mex.

BORN: Dec. 6, 1901, Winnetka, Il]. parents: James Foster Porter, ’95, Ruth
Wadsworth Furness.

PREPARED AT: New Trier High School, Winnetka, Ill.; Morristown School,
Morristown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: S.B. IN IND. ENGIN. cum laude, 1924;
M.D., 1929.

MARRIED: Marian Brown, June 8, 1927, Kenilworth, Ill. (divorced 1935);
Aline Kilham, May 8, 1936, Boston, Mass. cHILDREN: Meredith, May,
1928 (died March, 1930); Eliot Furness, Jr., Jan. 21, 1931; Charles
Anthony, Dec. 24, 1932; Jonathan, March 25, 1938; Stephen, July 23,
1941; Patrick, Feb. 4, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Fairfield Wadsworth Porter, ’28.

occuPATION: Photography.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Staff Member, Radiation Laboratory, Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Biological Photographic Associa-
tion; Optical Society of America; American Institute of Physics, Ameri-
can Association for Advancement of Science; Nation Associates; Ameri-_
can Civil Liberties Union; American Geographical Society of New
York (fellow); National Audubon Society; Michigan Audubon So-
ciety; Wilson Ornithological Club; Cooper Ornithological Club;
American Ornithologists’ Union.

PUBLICATIONS: Five papers on the physical properties of molecular mono-
layers; four articles on photographic subjects.

WHEN I entered college, I was determined to become a scientist
and hoped to make significant scientific discoveries. How my
thinking changed and the direction of my ambitions shifted is
the story of my life during the twenty-five years following
graduation. Actually, these changes started before my senior
year when I decided not to become a chemist but to enter medical
school with medical and biological research my goal. Until 1939

[ 692 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT |

I persevered in these branches of science, first, in the Bacteriology
Department at the Harvard Medical School and then in the
Biology Department of the University. Simultaneously, I tried
to justify my occupation of space in a laboratory by helping to
plant in the receptive minds of undergraduates the sparks of a
consuming passion for knowledge. But teaching was not my
forte so I inspired no one.

Largely because the fulfillment of my hope to influence scien-
tific thought proved elusive, but also because I had attained
greater success, during my spare time and in vacations, in photog-
raphy, I gave up research and teaching completely for this
branch of the arts. Here my interest lay chiefly in the natural
world and wildlife about me. Before the war I received aid and
encouragement in this work from a Guggenheim Fellowship to
photograph birds in color. And again after the war— after an
interlude of helping in a small way to develop radar equipment
for the armed services at the Radiation Laboratory —I was
granted a renewal of the fellowship.

More or less coincidental with my abandoning academic life
for photography, my domestic affairs underwent a change too.
I was divorced and remarried and soon found myself with a sec-
- ond growing family of boys. Recently, my wife and I with our
three sons moved west where the country is less mature but the
vistas more sweeping, where the culture is cruder but also less
static, Instead of dreaming about where we would like to live
and never living because of inertia and social pressure, or the
restrictions of financial exigencies, we cut our ties, packed up
and moved. When we arrived in New Mexico from a Chicago
suburb my eight-year-old son was like a young colt first out in
the pasture. He romped and scampered all over the place with
an exuberance that confirmed the wisdom of our decision.

Thus, from my experience it appears highly desirable to order
one’s life in accord with inner yearnings no matter how impracti-
cal they may seem, and not be bound to a false start by common
considerations. Nevertheless, I should not have been able to make
the change, regardless of how urgent the need, had I not had the
support of a remarkably sympathetic and understanding wife.

[ 693 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

BROOKS POTTER

HOME AppDREsS: 70 Montvale Rd, Newton Center 59, Mass., Great Pond
Road, North Andover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Choate, Hall & Stewart, 30 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: April 24, 1902, Dedham, Mass. parents: Albert Bailey Potter, Florence
Elizabeth Brooks.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1924; LL.B, 1927.

MarRieD: Gertrude Sutton Russell, Aug. 15, 1933, North Andover, Mass.
CHILDREN: Frank, May 1, 1926 (stepson); William Sutton, Dec. 10, 1929
(stepson); Martha, Jan. 13, 1935; Penelope, April 10, 1937.

HARVARD SONS: Frank Potter, '47; William Sutton Potter, ’51.

HARVARD BROTHER: Albert Bailey Potter, ’22.

occuPATION: Lawyer; trustee.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Allegheny Corporation, Glassine Paper Company,
Russell Company, Sutton’s Mills, Westfield River Paper Company, Inc.,
Johnson Automatics, Inc., Latisteel, Inc., Fort Trumbull Paper Corpora-
tion, Harvard Fund Council, Massachusetts United Service Organiza-
tion, Boys’ and Girls’ Camp; trustee, Eaton and Howard Balanced Fund,
Newton Center Savings Bank, Sussex Trust, Episcopal Theological
School, Cambridge, Massachusetts, Wheelock College, Boston; director,
treasurer, member Executive Committee of Family Society of Greater
Boston; president, director, member Executive Committee of Family
Service Association of America; clerk, Greater Boston Community
Council; chairman, Metropolitan Division of Greater Boston United
War Fund Drive, 1942; Vestryman, Trinity Church, Newton Center,
member, Diocesan Council, Diocese of Massachusetts.

MEMBER OF: Corporation of Winsor School, Boston; The Country Club,
Somerset Club; North Andover Country Club.

AS CAN be seen from the foregoing statistics, my life has been
typical of the average lawyer. Immediately after graduating from
Law School, I became associated with Choate, Hall & Stewart
and have been there ever since. My practice consists of trying
cases, being a trustee for several trusting people with funds, and
serving as a director of several corporations (none of which is
a great corporation, but all of which are interesting in their
own way).

For whatever success I have had I feel deeply obligated to my
years at Harvard —a feeling probably shared by all classmates,
but not evidenced too dramatically by the results of my appeals
as Class Agent for the Harvard Fund.

My principal interest outside of Jaw has been the “family

[ 694 ]

2§$TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

service” field in which I first became interested in 1935 as a board
member of the Family Service Society of Greater Boston. This
led to an interest in the subject on a national scale and currently
I am serving as president of the Family Service Association of
America in which capacity I visit a great many cities where our
member agencies (240) are located.

My wife and I inherited a beautiful farm in North Andover,
Massachusetts, in 1944 and since then my principal hobby has
been working there with the aid of a Ford-Ferguson tractor and
many gadgets that go with it. It is near enough to Boston to
permit commuting and as soon as my two daughters are educated,
we intend to make it our year-round home.

I have two strong social convictions. First, that too many
people with great means (in some cases inherited without effort
on their part) fail to recognize a corresponding obligation to their
fellow-men or to society in general, These people do not give
generously to good causes, do not work for good causes, and
generally lead self-centered, selfish lives. They are a detriment
and a handicap to the maintenance of the capitalistic system
under democracy. Secondly, that it is wrong to work shorter
and shorter hours for more and more money. My father used to
say, “You'll never get paid for more than you do until you do
more than you get paid for.” I would like to see a little more of
this theory in our national economy than now seems to be the
case,

My principal vices are gin rummy and baseball, neither of
which is used to excess but both of which are enjoyed.

I have great admiration and respect for the members of my
Class who served in the armed services during the second World
War because I know that in many cases it was at great personal
and financial sacrifice,

FREDERICK TAYLOR POTTER

HOME ADDRESS: 2056 Waltham Rd., Columbus 12, Ohio.

OFFICE Appress: Surface Combustion Corp., goo Dublin Ave. Columbus,
Ohio.

BoRN: Dec. 11, 1902, Newton Center, Mass. parents: Edgar Clifford Potter,
Alice Rix Taylor.

[ 695 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

marrigp: Marcia H. Stickney, May 18, 1929, Belmont, Mass. CHILDREN:
Frederick Taylor, Jr, May 21, 1930 (died Jan. 7, 1932); Henry Stickney,
Jan. 4, 1933; Carol, Feb. 7, 1935.

OCCUPATION: Plant manager, Columbus plant, Surface Combustion Corpora-
tion.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Civilian Defense and Red Cross activities,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Worcester, Massachusetts; Harvard Club of
Central Ohio.

pusLicaTions: Technical articles for several trade publications; technical
papers for business organizations.

HAVING been distinguished by having my Tenth Anniversary
Report quoted by The N ew Yorker as among the most matter- of-
fact of the Class biographies of that date, I shall try in this picture
to use a few brighter colors.

Perhaps the most important change in our quite regular family
which has occurred since our Tenth Report was our giving up
in August, 1947, the staid New England life and moving to this
stronghold of disappointed Republicans, where the handshake is
a little firmer and first names come more quickly. While we miss
such things as salt water, the New England hills and streams, and
particularly our old friends, we like it here both because it is
such a vital part of our country, and because we enjoy the people
we have met.

Since coming to this city of “Frenzied Football,” as Life has it,
we have been forced to admit several facts: that Boston is the
“Hub of the Universe” only to New Englanders and Down East-
ers, that New England really occupies only a small portion of
the map, and that the Middle West is probably more representa-
tive of the country as a whole than the industrial Eastern sea-
board. Though we have lived here only a year, we already carry
a torch for Ohio, with its highly diversified industry and its big
business in farming. Naturally, we are much impressed by the
size of the farms, their high degree of mechanization, and by the
prosperity of most of the farmers, at least under price support
conditions. We also enjoy the much milder climate, the longer
falls and springs, and the comparatively small amount of snow
we have to shovel. We can readily understand, now, why the
early New Englanders who settled part of Ohio sent back East

[ 696 ]

2§$TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

for their relatives, State universities and “Big Nine” football are
not the least impressive features of the -region.

In coming out here, I left Whitin Machine Works in Whitins-
ville, Massachusetts, where I had worked for almost fourteen
years in many capacities, and had obtained a well-rounded
manufacturing experience. My new employer was Surface
Combustion Corporation, manufacturers in their Toledo plant of
heavy industrial furnaces of many kinds, and, in their Columbus
plant, of domestic and commercial space heating equipment as
well as many types of heaters for military and commercial
aircraft. Enrolled as assistant to the president and located at the
Columbus plant, my work involved the codrdination of the vari-
ous Columbus departments and the liaison between the Columbus
and Toledo plants. The work was interesting, and while the
product was far different from the textile machinery and machine
tools with which I was familiar, I observed again the similarities
which exist between almost all metal working businesses and
found myself still on familiar ground. Familiar, that is, except
for the seasonal characteristics of our space-heating business. I
soon learned that there are few deadlines more urgent than that
produced when John Public’s feet start to get cold in the fall.
In November, 1948, I was appointed plant manager in charge of
practically all phases of operations at the Columbus plant. The
future seems interesting and promising with this company, whose
name in the gas industry has been a by-word for a good many
years.

Immediately after leaving college what seems like a few short
years ago, I spent the summer travelling through Europe with a
Dartmouth boy. I did, saw, and learned a Jot, and still think that
is an excellent way to finish a formal education. When that
holiday ended, I went into a small machine tool business, Stark
Tool Company in Waltham, Massachusetts, with my father,
where I remained until 1933 in many capacities up to and in-
cluding president of the company.

In the meantime, in 1929, I married Marcia Stickney of Bel-
mont, Massachusetts, a project which has proceeded happily ever
since. We lost our first son, Frederick Taylor, Jr., but are now
enjoying not only the first football efforts of Henry, aged
fifteen, who, taller and almost as heavy as his father, attends

[ 697]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Columbus Academy, but also the growing up problems of Carol,
now thirteen, who goes to public school near our home.

In the summer of 1933, like many others, I found it necessary
to make a change and went with Pepperell Manufacturing Com-
pany in Fall River, Massachusetts, where I started again in over-
alls at a most modest fee to learn the textile business. However,
having had nine years of mechanical background, I was assigned
to maintenance and erecting work, which resulted finally in my
moving in the fall of that year to Whitin Machine Works, one
of the two largest textile machinery manufacturers in the country.

At Whitin, over a period of almost fourteen years, I was suc-
cessively assistant superintendent in charge of a number of
manufacturing departments, manager of the Magneto Division
during the war, acting production manager shortly afterward,
and finally manager of the Quality Control Division.

During the war, feeling that with my manufacturing experi-
ence I could be most useful as a mere manufacturer, I remained
one. I therefore have tales to tell neither of places seen nor of
personal valor. However, I did obtain modest satisfaction from
helping to produce very large quantities of war material, built in
a plant converted from an entirely different line of product.

Late in 1941, as our plant conversion started, I was placed in
charge of our subcontracting and started contracting with the
Naval Torpedo Station at Newport, Rhode Island, for the manu-
facture of torpedo parts, This later developed into a project by
which the company became the largest parts subcontractor for
the Torpedo Station. Some months later, the company took on a
project for the manufacture of large quantities of aircraft mag-
netos for use in B-24’s under subcontract to American Bosch
Corporation. As manager of the Magneto Division, I directed
the setting up and operation of a manufacturing unit which
finally employed eleven hundred men, women, grandmothers,
bankers, and butchers, who, during the next two years, turned
out over 100,000 units for the Army and Navy.

After the completion of our contracts and the dissolution of
the Division, 1 became acting production manager during the
period of reconversion, It was an interesting and most valuable
experience in the nerve center of a large manufacturing opera-
tion. Later I became manager of the Quality Control Division,

[ 698 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

which not only operated the large inspection force, but also in-
cluded the larger and fascinating field of statistical quality control
which was introduced at that time.

Becoming restless late in 1946, I began to cast about for another
affiliation, and finally, through a series of events which, looking
back on them, I find date back to 1929, I became associated with
my present employer in Columbus. While the break with the
_ East was difficult, and our decision to come out to what our old
friends still consider Indian country amazed them, with my family
I looked upon it as a great adventure, which it has turned out to be.
We are now happily settled in the park-like suburb of Upper
Arlington, northwest of Columbus, so park-like that only the
old-timers can find their way around. There is a “Welcome” on
the mat for wandering classmates on Waltham Road, located,
strangely enough, in the midst of many other familiar Massachu-
setts street names.

HAMILTON FISH POTTER

HOME ADpRESs: Smithtown Branch, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 110 EF. 42nd St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: July 29, 1901, Westchester, N. Y. PARENTS: Robert Burnside Potter,
’91, Elisabeth Stuyevesant Claire Fish.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Alma Virgina Murray, May 10, 1927, New York, N. Y. cHILDREN:
Hamilton Fish, Jr., Dec. 21, 1928; Bronson Murray, April 6, 1930.
HARVARD SONS: Hamilton Fish Potter, Jr., 50; Bronson Murray Potter, ’52.

HARVARD BROTHER: Warwick Potter, ’19.

OCCUPATION: Partner of Bacas, Gates & Potter, accountants and auditors.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active duty as Naval Reserve Officer, June,
1941-45, serving in Washington, New York, Caribbean, and at sea with
the French Navy.

OFFIcEs HELD: Member, New York State legislature, 1928-36; village mayor,
1938-47; Justice of the Peace, Town of Smithtown; director, Bank of
Smithtown, Mallard Products, Inc.

MEMBER oF: National Association of Cost Accountants, Harvard Club, Fort
Orange Club, and various New York City and country clubs.

HENRY NICKERSON PRATT

HOME AppREss: 525 E. 68th St.. New York 21, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: New York Hospital, 525 E. 68th St., New York 21, N. Y.

[ 699 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

porn: May 9, 1902, Seattle, Wash. parents: Frederick Sanford Pratt, 'g4,
Ella Winifred Nickerson.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; M.D. cum laude, 1930.

marrieD: Charlotte Reynolds, July 24, 1929, Palo Alto, Calif. cxtpren:
Linda, Jan. 7, 1935; Anthony, Feb. 23, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Frederick Theodore Pratt, °22; Laurence Orlen Pratt,
’26; Albert Pratt, °33.

occuPATION: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Called to active duty as major, Medical Corps,
US. Army, with Fifth General Hospital, Jan. 10, 1942; served for three
and one-half years as assistant surgeon, HQ Western Base Section of
England and commanding officer of: Waringfield Convalescent Hos-
pital, North Ireland; Third General Dispensary, Cheltenham, England;
16th Station Hospital, London, England; 48th General Hospital, Liege,
Belgium; discharged, July, 1945, with rank of colonel. Decorations:
Bronze Star Medal; Medaille de la Reconnaissance.

OFFICES HELD: Circulation manager, The Independent, 1925-26, Edward
Hickling Bradford Fellow (research), 1934-35; instructor in pedi-
atrics, Harvard Medical School, 1939-42; associate physician, Children’s
Hospital, Boston, 1939-42; administrator, Memorial Center, New York,
1946-48; president, Hospital Bureau of Standards & Supplies, since
1948; director, New York Hospital, since Jan. 1, 1949.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Pediatrics (Certification); American Clini-
cal and Climatological Association; Royal Society of Medicine (Fel-
low); University Club, New York; Lake Waramaug Country Club,
New Preston, Conn.; American Academy of Pediatrics (Fellow);
Society for the Study of Asthma and Allied Conditions, American
Society for the Study of Allergy.

PUBLICATIONS: Scientific papers largely dealing with pediatrics and allergy.

THE spring of 1924 was a relatively happy and carefree period
when one could easily realize a substantial profit on almost any
investment. It was small wonder that the common pattern was a
leap from the Yard to a banking and brokerage house on State
Street. In this atmosphere it was difficult for me to knuckle
down to the study of medicine, a course which I had been seri-
ously considering since early youth. The distractions of the more
worldly existence temporarily prevailed, and for two years I
occupied myself with commercial problems largely in the pub-
lishing business, as my experience on the Harvard Crimson had
been a gratifying one.

It soon became apparent that the routines of a business exist-
ence, with a weather eye on stock market quotations, failed to

[ 700 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

produce the satisfactions which I felt life should hold. So I re-
tired to the semi-monastic existence of the study of medicine,
naively believing that I could withstand the charms of the female
of the species during the long and arduous years of training.
However, before being able to grace my name with an M_D., I
had travelled all the way to the Pacific Coast to be married, an
action which I have never regretted. After graduation and a
respectable period of penal servitude at the Infants’ and Chil-
dren’s Hospitals under the guidance of Dr. Kenneth Blackfan, one
of the finest teachers and preceptors one could ask for, I estab-
lished myself in the practice of pediatrics and settled down to a
comfortable professional existence which included not only
private practice but the stimulating experience of teaching pedi-
atrics to medical students, pediatric allergy to graduate students,
and of conducting a research program.

Normal progress in the growth of a professional career was
rudely terminated by the outbreak of World War II. Having
joined the Reserve a year before Pearl Harbor, I was privileged
to accompany the Harvard Unit overseas in the earliest phases of
the war. Since a pediatrician with an interest in allergy had little
of pertinent professional knowledge to offer the Army, I soon
found myself, like so many of my associates, gravitating into the
_ administrative areas. This experience proved so provocative that
on my return to the United States after V-E Day, I resolved to
find work which would make maximum use of my combined
professional and administrative knowledge. With the growing
public interest in health problems, the field of medical administra-
tion appeared to be one badly in need of properly qualified medi-
cal men with executive ability.

My first job as administrator of Memorial Hospital Center for
Cancer and Allied Diseases in New York City quickly proved to
me that I had chosen wisely. My three years here were literally
bulging with activity. It has been a most satisfying experience
to have taken part in the progressive postwar expansion of this
institution which included increased physical structure, the
Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research, expansion of a
broad teaching program in cancer, reorganization of internal
administration, the raising of funds, the financial problems of
non-profit institutions during a period of falling interest rates

[ 7or ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

and rising costs, as well as the myriads of daily problems that
constantly beset an individual who chooses a career in adminis-
tration.

As of January 1, 1949, my allegiance will be transferred diag-
onally across the street where I shall become the director of the
New York Hospital and shall unquestionably be faced with new
and challenging problems of this large institution which houses
not only the hospital proper but the Cornell Medical College and
an extensive research program.

It would appear at last that whatever business and administra-
tive acumen I may possess has been successfully reconciled with
professional training and aspirations. My motor is now hitting on
all cylinders instead of only half.

WILLIAM CRAPO PRESCOTT

HOME ADDRESS: Tucker Road, North Dartmouth, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Kidder, Peabody & Co., New Bedford, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 5, rgo1, North Dartmouth, Mass, parents: Oliver Prescott, ’89,
Helen Maria Bryant.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MarRiED: Simonne Coté, May 19, 1928. CHILDREN: Nina, April 8, 1929; Mary
Stetson, Oct. 15, 1932; William Crapo, Jr., March 26, 1936, Stephen
Cabot, June 1, 1938; David Bryant, Oct. 8, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Oliver Prescott, ’20; Bryant Prescott, ’21.

OCCUPATION: Investment banker.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Kidder Company of New ‘Bedford, 1925-305
manager, Kidder, Peabody & Company, New Bedford, since 1930,
Selectman, Town of Dartmouth, since 1941; chairman of the Board of
Selectmen, Town of Dartmouth, four years; president, Welfare Federa-
tion of New Bedford, two years.

MEMBER OF: Wamsutta Club, New Bedford.

DIRECTLY after graduation, travelled in Europe. Lived in
France for four months taking a course at the University of
Grenoble living with a French family. Entered the investment
business in 1925 and have continued in that field ever since.
Enjoy my large family of two girls and three boys. Never a
dull moment. Elder daughter, Nina, nineteen, has just been
signed under contract with Warner Brothers and is living in
California, pursuing a career of stage and screen, which has been

[ 702 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

her desire from the tender age of five. Trod the boards myself
with my daughter taking the part of her father in Pursuit of
Happiness with Freddie Bartholomew in the summer of 1947 at
Fairhaven Summer Theatre.

Youngest son at four years of age knows all the words of the
football songs of the Ivy League with special emphasis on those
of Harvard.

Have enjoyed taking part in town affairs in Dartmouth for a
good many years, having been elected Selectman for three con-
secutive terms. Believe that two terms are enough — drafted for
a third — unlike Franklin Delano Roosevelt, will positively not
serve a fourth.

Take great pleasure in hunting and fishing. Unable to do much
of either the last few years, keeping the nose close to the grind-
stone to educate five children (very absorbing with current high
cost of living).

Listed as Republican. Consider myself independent. Believe
we have had enough of the New Deal and need a change of ad-
ministration.

Years go by too fast; hair gets thinner on top of the head,
distinct slowing up process in late forties.

+ LEWIS THOMPSON PRESTON

BorN: Nov. 27, 1899, Colorado Springs, Colo. PARENTS: Ralph Julius Preston,
Elizabeth Steenrod Thompson.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922.

MarRiED: Priscilla Baldwin, Oct. 17, 1925, Mt. Kisco, N. Y. (divorced);
Eppes Hawes (divorced). cxitp: Lewis Thompson, Jr.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William P. Thompson Preston, 17; Jerome Preston,
"19 (deceased).

pieD: Feb. 9, 1937, New York, N. Y.

BROTHER: William P. T. Preston, 895 Park Ave., New York, N. Y.

LEWIS THOMPSON PRESTON completed preparatory work
at St. Mark’s School and entered Harvard with the Class. He
attended college for two years as an undergraduate and was a
member of the Iroquois Club and the Fly Club. After leaving
college, he became associated with the Roosevelt Steamship Com-

[ 703 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

pany as assistant manager but after a few years accepted a position
with Joseph Walker & Sons.

Well known as a sportsman, he went on a hunting trip around
the world with Kermit Roosevelt. In 1933, he won medal
honors in the qualifying round of the thirty-eighth annual South-
ern Cross golf tournament held at Aiken, South Carolina.

He was a member of the Racquet and Tennis Club, and the
Meadowbrook Club.

HENRY KIMBALL PRINCE

HOME ApprEss: 195 Highland Ave., Short Hills, N. J.

OFFICE apprEss: Western Electric Co., Inc., 195 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Dec. 19, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: Henry Axtell Prince,
Mildred Constance O'Brien.

PREPARED AT: Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.; Phillips Academy,
Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; LL.B. (New York
Law School), 1927.

MARRIED: Margaretta Tuttle, May 25, 1929, Madison, N. J. cuitpren: Anne
Gilchrist, June 14, 1931; Elizabeth Webb, July 6, 1933.

HARVARD BROTHER: Donough Prince, °31.

occuPaTION: Lawyer in General Counsel’s Office, Western Electric Com-
pany, Inc.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Chief Counsel, Rationing Division, Office of
Price Administration, Region 2, New York, N. Y., June, 1942, to
September, 1944.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, Christ Church, Short Hills, 1942-48; chairman,
Zoning Board of Appeals, Millburn Township, 1939-43; member,
Supreme Court Committee, New York County Lawyers Association,
1939-48; secretary, Short Hills Civic Association, 1937-42.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Colonial Order of the Acorn,
New York Chapter; Short Hills Club, New York County Lawyers
Association; American Bar Association.

OUR Twenry-fifth Reunion, viewed from the rosy heights of
graduation, was so far into the future of our old age that only
with medical aid and artificial limbs would we expect to return
to the old scene. Now, with the prospect so near reality, I share
the amazement of my colleagues that we have arrived relatively
unscathed and with an outlook — at least to our fortyish minds —
far more resilient than the most optimistic would have predicted.
Perhaps a few of us have acquired baldness and a tendency to

[ 704 ] .

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

obesity, but even these have not lost the youthful touch in mind
and attitude, and to me that is the really heartening thing about
gathering again after a quarter-century.

I still confess a keen thrill at the exhilaration of a swift down-
hill run on skis, still experience a childish delight at the plume of
spray from the driving bow of a rail down schooner, and still
become absorbed in my hobbies of copper plate etching and of
handicraft in wood and metal, deriving real enjoyment out of
posing and solving some problem of construction or design
which is worth nothing in a monetary sense but is without meas-
ure in terms of relaxation and the satisfaction that comes with
achievement. Perhaps this is to confess an immaturity inconsist-
ent with forty-five years of living, but I have a conviction that
such youthful and lighthearted enthusiasms are the flexible armor
of defense against the recurring and constant adjustments to the
troubled world without which flexibility we should in truth be
the aged gaffers who in senior years we picture ourselves becom-
ing twenty-five years later.

In these essential aspects, it seems that we are not much
changed, though the world through which we moved has cer-
tainly not stood still. My tale of professional progress during
these twenty-five years is simply told. After graduation from
New York Law School and admission to the New York Bar in
1927, I was associated with Prince, Burlingame & Nourse in New
York (my father’s firm) in general law practice and stayed there
after my father’s death in 1930 until early in 1942. Then, with
the war six months old, I experienced the restless desire that most
of us had that I should be doing something about it. Vision of
considerably below 20/20, though still plenty good enough to
spot a buoy at the far edge of a Maine fog, made the Navy rather
understandably reluctant about starting me on the road to be-
coming an admiral, but I was fortunate to find that the Office of
Price Administration was just then in need of such legal talent as
I chanced to possess. I was appointed chief counsel in their New
York Regional Office, guiding from the legal standpoint the
multiple rationing functions imposed upon our fellow-citizens
by the hard necessity of war. Here was a real challenge to see if
one could direct, even in a small way, the impact of an untried
and unprecedented scheme of sharing upon a whole population

[ 705 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

* SAMUEL LAUREN PUTNAM

BorN: Oct. 28, rgoz, Worcester, Mass. parents: Henry Anderson Putnam,
Adelaide Elizabeth Prentiss.

PREPARED AT: Worcester North High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

marrieD: Helen V. Markuske.

pieD: May 11, 1934, New York, N. ¥.

SAMUEL LAUREN PUTNAM entered Harvard after com-
pleting preparatory studies at Worcester North High School. In
college he was active as a member of the Band, the Band Club,
and the 47 Workshop. Receiving his S.B. degree in 1924, he spent
the summer in Europe and on his return to the United States,
accepted a position with the Firestone Tire and Rubber Com-
pany. He entered the Firestone training school in October and
after a year, was sent to Liberia, West Africa, with a small group
to develop rubber plantations there for the company. In 1926 he
was made plantation manager and remained in Africa in charge
of a force of 600 natives until 1929. At that time he returned to —
the United States and joined the National City Bank, New York,
as a member of their credit department.

THOMAS HALSEY RAINES

HOME Appress: 119 W. 71st St., New York, N. Y.

OFFicE appress: Worldwide Film Features, 111 W. 57th St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 16, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: William Guy Raines, Anita
Quintero.

PREPARED AT: Clifton Springs High School, Clifton Springs, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922~1924. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1924.

MarRiED: Antoinette Marie Horvath, June 30, 1930, Yonkers, N. Y. CHIL-
pREN: Fredric Quintero, Aug. 11, 1933; William Guy, 3d, July 2, 1946.

occupation: Writer-producer of documentary films.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Publicity, releasing film shorts, War Activities
Committee.

MEMBER OF: Masons; Saucon Valley Country Club, Bethlchem, Pa.

pusLications: “The Bridge Battle of the Century,” 1930.

WEIGHING the question of teaching vs. journalism I was of-
fered a try at the former in an English school in Cuba. I arrived
to find, through a misunderstanding, someone else twenty-four
hours ahead of me in the same post. Fecling certain anyway that

[ 708 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my competitor would make the better teacher, I retreated to
New York. There my Harvard diploma, a stack of introductory
letters and months of persistent canvassing brought their eventual
plush reward of a $25-a-week cub reporter’s job. This terminated
abruptly when I arranged one evening for substitute coverage
of what promised to be an overly dull women’s committee meet-
ing. The sub lingered over his cups and turned in under my
name a vivid but unfortunately fictitious account of an event
which had at the last moment been postponed. However, I did
successive stints for the Brooklyn Times, New York Times, and
Morning Telegraph, handling re-write, features, book reviews and
second-string dramatics. I then took a position as publicity rep-
resentative in the New York offices of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer,
where I remained, in good and bad times, till 1948. During
this period also I wrote a couple of plays, which withered on the
summer circuit vine, had a Broadway production interest in two
others, helped organize National Playgoers Guild, wrote free-
lance magazine articles and some film shorts. Subsequently I
made two trips to Europe to make documentary films, and am
currently engaged in further documentary pictures and some
television production.

I don’t like the basic ingredients and artificialities of Holly-
wood; nor can I say that I am too fond of New York, a city
where old friendships often seem to vegetate and one that offers
much more in intermittent doses than as a steady diet. Eight years
ago I acquired a twenty-acre tract of land near Easton, Pennsyl-
vania, with a stone house of Revolutionary vintage. Since then
P’ve spent a high ratio of weekends there, some of them in my
car in the ditch of the zigzag, rocky lane which ascends from the
main road to our house. Such experiences have developed in me
a kind of perverse resistance to macadamization or widening of
the road; I have also been maligned by the charge that this is
because I like to see other gullible bad-weather visitors fall into
the same approach trap. Chicken-raising proved a negative ven-
ture, except from the standpoint of the neighborhood foxes and
weasels. I haven’t tried to grow much; I just like to sit back and
survey my vast legacy of glacial rocks. It has been confided to
me that soy beans, marijuana stalk and Peking ducks would all
thrive well, but I haven’t tried any of these. I am at the moment

[ 709 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

looking forward hopefully to a shift of responsibility, awaiting
the arrival of a Baltic displaced farmer, who will decide what to
plant or propagate between the rocks. My principal contribution
to the culture of the locality has been in the many-colored, multi-
fathered (but intelligent) progeny of my purebred white French
poodles. Despite the admonition contained in a quotation stem-
ming from my favorite college-days professor, George L. Kit-
tredge, “Who shall report he has a better wife, Let him in nought
be trusted,” 1 must pause for tribute. My Viennese-born wife,
who loves flower gardening and is very good at it, has admirably
tolerated my eccentricities, my annoying accumulation of letters,
papers and old phonograph records, my near-genius for misplac-
ing things, my ineptness as a farmer-handyman. She has been the
most staunch and loyal partner one could hope to have. I also
have two fine boys. The ambition I share with my elder son is
to see the Philadelphia Athletics and Harvard eleven come
through in championship form the same year —a dubious parlay
but far from impossible. Our family card game is Hearts, a game
excelled only by Red Dog and contract bridge.

Temperamentally restive, I have taken advantage of every
chance to travel, and have gone to the West Indies more often
than any other spot. Havana, along with Paris and Vienna, is a
favorite city. I share the feeling that the biggest job extant in
our era is to develop a strong international association with really
adequate policing power. I have admiration both for the Cul-
bertson and United World Federalists plans and hope that public
feeling will lead the present United Nations in such a direction.
Tam vehemently against censorship or any interference with free-
dom of personal expression, while at the same time I believe in
the concept of governmental responsibility to its citizens and
many ideas inherent in the phrase “social democracy.” I think
that motion pictures may do much more in the future than they
have in the past as a social medium. I think one of the numerous
troubles of the present day comes from a tendency on the part
of many persons to think along social-political lines solely in
blacks and whites, without realizing that issues, like persons,
present a substantial shading of grey. By nature a non-joiner, I
am not a member of any political party. I was brought up in the
Episcopal Church, but am not a member of a church parish. I

[710 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

am interested in the subject of religion, and have always been
especially interested in possible psychic research implications,
without at present having what might be called any “conviction.”
However, my grandfather, the greatest man I have known, had
the firmest of convictions, and my wife tends to theosophy. So I
might yet change!

SAMUEL RAPPORT

HOME aporess: 18 E. Eighth St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Appleton-Century-Crafts, Inc., 35 W. 32nd St., New York,

porn; March 8, 1903, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: John Rapport, Fannie Bender.

PREPARED at: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREE: A.B. cur laude, 1924(23).

MarRiED: Kathryn Grill, June 21, 1942, Minneapolis, Minn. cxiLp: Susan,
July 30, 1946.

occupation: Book publisher, vice-president, Appleton-Century-Crafts, Inc.

PUBLICATIONS: A Treasury of Science, 1943, co-editor with Professor Harlow
Shapley of Harvard University.

WITH the exception of three years as a general factotum at the
Provincetown Players under Eugene O'Neill and Robert Ed-
mond Jones, my life since college has been spent in the book pub-
lishing business. For sixteen years I was with Harper & Brothers,
and I am now with Appleton-Century-Crafts, Inc.

ROBERT LOVEJOY RAYMOND, JR.

AppREss: 38 Newbury St., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: Robert Lovejoy Raymond, '95;
Mary Minturn Higbee.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; A.M., 1928.

MarRiED: Olivia Howard, April 4, 1925, Zurich, Switzerland. CHILDREN:
Olivia, April 4, 1927; Robert Lovejoy, 3d, Dec. 12, 1930; Mary Min-
turn, Sept. 11, 1934; Edward Howard, May 14, 1936.

occupaTion: Director, Aluminio do Brasil, S.A,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant, USNR; active duty, December,
1942, to February, 1945; Indoctrination at Quonset, R. 1; Airship
Squadron 15, Glynco, Ga.; Blimphedron 5, Trinidad.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor of English, Harvard, 1926-28; statistician, Wrenn
Bros. & Company, 1929-36; partner, H. C. Wainwright & Company,
1936-41; executive, Stand Corporation (Aluminium Limited Group),

[ir]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

1941-42, Stand Corporation (director of various companies in group),
1945-47; director, Aluminio do Brasil, $.A., since 1947.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club, Boston; Ski Club Hochgebirge, Boston;
Guaruja Yacht Club, Sao Paulo, Brazil.

I HAVE just disembarked at Rio from a twelve-day trip on the
S.S. Argentina and, after my daily workout on the rowing ma-
chine in the ship’s gymnasium, I was gratified to note that |
weighed in at the identical one hundred and eighty-four pounds
last recorded in the Newell Boat House when a member of the
ill-fated Stevens-Henry rump crew of 1924. It seemed absurd to
be faced on my return to the office here in Sao Paulo with a de-
mand for a twenty-five-year autobiography but, difficult as it is
to realize, the time has passed and King Canute himself would
not presume to argue the point.

Thinking over the period to be covered, I cannot detect in the
erratic sequence of events any valuable object lesson or moral
except, perhaps, an argument for compulsory vocational guid-
ance.

After the sound and enduring accomplishment of an early and
happy marriage, I set out, with rare lack of conviction, to find my
work in life and ways to support a family.

I worked for a few months with an advertising firm, then
with a bank, and then decided to try teaching. Concurrently
with getting an A.M. degree, I taught English A under Professor
Bliss Perry and wrote a novel which, God be praised, was never
published.

In 1929 — oh, strange and untimely choice —I returned to the
marts of trade by becoming a statistician and customers’ man with
a stock exchange house in Boston. In spite of the up-stream battle
against the Dow Jones averages and declining business, I made
headway. In the dull dark early ’30’s, I started to write economic
reviews for the firm, but under my own name, and soon numer-
ous jobs, including one in the Team B brain trust in Washington,
were offered me by admiring readers. For a time, however, I
fought off the greener grass illusion and stayed put. In 1936 I
became a general partner in the firm of H. C. Wainwright &
Company, where I had a variety of investment banking experi-
ence. In 1941, after having discussed the possibility for several
years with Mr. Edward K. Davis, president of Aluminium Lim-

[712]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ited, I joined one of the management companies in that group
and worked with Mr. Davis in Boston.

By the end of 1942, my resistance to brass bands had broken
down and in spite of the fact that I was scarcely established in
a brand new line of work, I went on active duty in the Naval
Reserve, going to Quonset in December. At that particular time,
a billet with an Airship Squadron (later called a Blimpron) was
highly advertised as the most glamorous “combat” duty open to
aged reservists like myself. The first nine or ten months with
Squadron 15, based at Glynco, Georgia, were active, interesting
and, at times, exciting. In addition to desk work and the night
operations watch, I got in considerable flying time, acting unof-
ficially as navigator while lighter-than-air pilots were in short
supply. As submarine activity subsided, duty with a Blimpron
deteriorated and became pretty much of a dead end street. In
the summer of 1944, I was asked to return to the aluminum busi-
ness and, after some months of indecision and a tour of duty in
Trinidad, I put through the request and went on inactive duty
in February, 1945.

Going to work again with Mr. Davis in Boston, I found that
the postwar problems of the world aluminum industry were al-
teady shaping up, and projects and problems from many coun-
tries came almost daily for consideration and action. My own
particular interest was in a geographical area which included the
United States, Central and South America, Japan and China. A
project in Brazil took me there for a visit early in 1947 and the
outcome was the formation of a company to engage in various
aspects of the aluminum business. In October, 1947, I moved to
Sao Paulo, with my wife and two children, as senior director for
Aluminium Limited in the new enterprise.

Not to give the false impression that it has been all work and
no play, I might say that avocational activities have included
quite extensive skiing, duck and bird shooting in the autumn,
summer week-end and vacation cruising along the New England
coast, and some ten years of week-end farm life on my place i in
Westwood with my wife and children participating to the full
as day laborers. Tennis, riding, and golf have filled in a few g¢ gaps.

While I perhaps cannot claim that this account of erratic activi-
ties conclusively refutes the belief that a straight line is the short-

[713]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

est distance between two points, I can say that it has been an in-
teresting twenty-five years. But it has gone too quickly and there
is so much still to do. May the next quarter of a century be as
active.

JOSEPH RECKFORD

HOME ADDRESS: 888 Park Ave. New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADpress: American Pencil Co., 500 Willow Ave., Hoboken, N. J.

Born: Oct. 2, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: Samuel Joseph Reckford,
Florence Lewisohn.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Janet Sidenberg, April 28, 1931, New York. N. Y. CHILDREN:
Kenneth Joseph, May 26, 1933; Philip Joseph, June 19, 1937; Thomas
J. March 3, 1943.

OccuPATION: Manufacturer of pencils and pens.

OFFICES HELD: President and director, American Lead Pencil Company;
trustee, Mr. Sinai Hospital, New York, N. Y.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Century Country Club; Rocke-
feller Center Luncheon Club.

THERE is nothing as effective as a blank sheet of paper in ren-
dering a man inarticulate. The easiest approach is to give the
facts without too much gingerbread.

Since graduation, most of my working time has been devoted
to the pen and pencil business. In due course I became president
of the American Lead Pencil Company through sheer ability and
because my family owned the company. Through the years we
have been successful and have produced and supplied a useful, if
not dramatic, commodity to the consuming public. My work
has been interesting, has led me many places, and introduced me
to many people.

My wife and children have not received the attention they
deserved, which is a common failing of the American business °
man. My three boys are at school —the eldest at Exeter, and
the two younger at St. Bernard’s in New York. They all want
to go to Harvard, and I have not discouraged this desire too
much,

Though I did not follow my early intention of becoming a
teacher of philosophy, I did do postgraduate work at Columbia
from 1925 to 1927, and have kept up my interest in this subject

[714]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and in psychology. I have also encouraged and indulged my
taste for music.

Sports were never my forte but my tennis and golf are at least
better than they were in college days. This was not a difficult
achievement.

Have I justified the privilege of being a Harvard man? Only to
a modest degree. Few of my classmates whom I have seen have
made the contribution to which the community was entitled by
reason of the fine mental stimulus we were given. Fortunately
there are some outstanding exceptions, and most of us have at
least achieved more than a prolonged adolescence. So much for
the didactic approach.

The last twenty-five years have brought lots of happiness and
lots of heartaches — that’s trite enough. As to the next twenty-
five years —I cannot share the general gloom. The next genera-
tion looks good to me, and there are still a few sparks left in the
Class of 724.

PAUL JOSEPH REDMOND

_ HOME ADpRESS: E. Main Street, Southboro, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 Post Office Sq., Boston Mass.

BORN: Aug. 12, 1902, South Boston, Mass. PARENTS: James William Redmond,
Anne Theresa Sullivan.

PREPARED AT: Boston College High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924(25).

MarRRIED: Doris Elizabeth Bagley, Oct. 12, 1934, Southboro, Mass. cHm-
DREN: Paul Joseph, Jr., Feb. 8, 1941; Charles James, Feb. 14, 1946; Kath-
leen, Oct. 15, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHERS: James William Redmond, ’22; John Edward Redmond,
"25.

OCCUPATION: Insurance broker.

OFFICES HELD: Member, since 1942, chairman, since 1947, School Commit-
tee, Southboro, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Southboro Village Society; South-
boro Rod and Gun Club; Massachusetts Association of Insurance
Agents.

AFTER graduation I entered the insurance business and for sev-
eral years was associated with the Aetna Casualty and Surety
Company as an underwriter and manager of the workmen’s com-
pensation and public liability deparnnent at Boston. In 1940 I

C715 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

went into business for myself and since then have been operating
as a general insurance broker.

Since our marriage in 1934, mv wife and I have been living
happily in the lov ely New England town of Southboro. We have
two lively lads, Paul Joseph, Jr., seven years old, and Charles
James, aged two, and a little lady, Kathleen, born October 15,
1948, who, at this writing, may be the youngest lass of our Class.

Mv contribution to the war effort was that of one who wished
he might have done more than serve as a civilian spotter in the air
raid warning service and assist in bond drives.

In the field of civic usefulness I have served on the Southboro
School Committee for the past seven years. It keeps me busy
along with my insurance work and trying to support adequately
my little brood. What spare time I have is spent on weekends
knocking around with and trying, somewhat ineffectually at my
age, to keep up with my two small boys.

EDWARD KENNETH REED

LAST KNOWN AppRESS: 91 Forest Ave., Glen Ridge, N. J.

Born: Dec. 11, 1901, New York, N, Y. parents: James William Reed, Mary
Josephine Wattles.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922.

OCCUPATION: Public utilities.

REED has been carried as a “Jost” man on our records since
February 14, 1936.

HUGH WALLACE REID

HOME AppRESS: 955 Lexington Ave., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADpREss: Wallace Reid & Co., 76 Williams St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 8, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: Wallace Reid, Emma Redd.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1924; LL.B., 1927.

mMarriep: Agnes Eliot McGuire, Jan. 24, 1932, Huntington, Long Island,
N. Y. cetpren: Joan Darling, Sept. 15, 1932; Hugh Wallace, 3d, June
19, 1935.

occuPATION; Lawyer, Hughes, Schurman & Dwight, 1927-1940.

YOUNG Hugh is in the second form at St. Paul’s, and Joan will
graduate from Emma Willard School in Troy in 1950.

[716 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OTTO FRANK REIS

HOME ADDRESS: Commodore Hotel, 2410 Dodge St., Omaha 2, Nebr. (tempo-
rary).

OFFIon ADORESS: Law Dept, Union Pacific Railroad Co., 14:6 Dodge St,
Omaha 2, Nebr.

BorN: Nov. 25, 1893, St. Cloud, Minn. parents: George Reis, Katharine
Victoria Dehler.

PREPARED AT: Cathedral High School, St. Cloud, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1919-1920, 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; LL.B,
1928.

MARRIED: Evelyn Helen Walz, May 24, 1921, St. Cloud, Minn. cHiLpren:
Helen (Barat, °46), July 17, 1922 (m. Kenneth Sihler Shepard (Duke,
43; M.D., '47], Sept. 6, 1947); Paul George (Northwestern, ’45), May 3,
1925. GRANDCHILD: Ann Howe Shepard, Aug. 20, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer, assistant general attorney, Union Pacific Railroad
Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: United States Naval Reserve, on active duty in
1918 and 1919; served successively as yeoman third class, quartermaster
first class, and ensign.

OFFICES HELD: Professor of law, Creighton University, 1929-38, Marquette
University, 1938-41; editor, Callaghan & Company, law publishers,
1941-47; lecturer in law, Loyola University, Chicago, 1946-47, assistant
general attorney, Union Pacific Railroad Company, since 1948.

MEMBER OF: American Legion (Omaha Post No. 1); Harvard Club of
Chicago; Harvard Law School Association; Knights of Columbus;
Nebraska State Bar Association, Tau Kappa Epsilon.

Publications: Cyclopedia of Federal Procedure, 2d ed. 14 vols. 1943-44,
co-author; compiler and editor of quarterly and annual supplements to
Michigan Statutes Annotated, 1945-47; editor, quarterly and annual
supplements, Callaghan’s Michigan Digest, 1945-47.

BEFORE and after my graduation from Harvard College I was
a newswriter for the Boston Traveler. Writing is still my profes-
sion — coupled with law. Now I am writing legal documents for
the Union Pacific Railroad Company.

During the interim between the aforementioned occupations
there were three years in Harvard Law School, followed by an-
other year of newswriting — this time for the Boston Herald. It
was hard to break away from the fascinating work of a reporter
and from the pleasant associations on the Boston Herald-Trav-
eler. But in 1929 came the transition — from Boston to Omaha,
from the newsroom to the classroom as a teacher in the Creighton
University School of Law.

C717]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Nine years at Creighton were followed by three years of law-
teaching at Marquette University in Milwaukee, where I served
also as faculty editor of the Marquette Law Review. Then came
six years of law writing and editing for Callaghan & Company in
Chicago. Here I received my first by-line in a bound volume, as
a co-author of the fourteen-volume Cyclopedia of Federal Pro-
cedure, second edition.

During my last year in Chicago I also taught a course in the
Law of Persons and Domestic Relations at the law school of Loy-
ola University.

Now I am back in Omaha, at the general headquarters of the
Union Pacific Railroad Company, working at a most absorbing
job for the railroad which was the first to cross the Continental
Divide, and which, during the quarter-century since the Class of
1924 left college, has achieved a record for safety of operation
unmatched by any other Class A railroad in America.

My two children are launched on careers of their own. Helen,
a registered nurse, is the wife of a fine young pediatrician and the
mother of a charming young daughter. Paul is. a chemical en-
gineer for the duPont Company, developing processes for the
“making of better things for better living, through chemistry.”

Accordingly, Evelyn and I — Evelyn being my wife who came
with me to Harvard in 1921 — are now nearly as carefree as when
we arrived in Cambridge nearly twenty-eight years ago, and we
are looking forward to the Twenty-fifth Reunion as the high-
light of our second honeymoon.

+ WILLIAM JOSEPH REYCROFT

BORN: March 30, 1904, Charlestown, Mass. parents: Arthur Dearborn
Reycroft, Helena Gertrude Herlihy.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1924(25)3 A.M. (Boston Coll.),
1925.

DIED: Oct. 3, 1935, Boston, Mass.

WILLIAM JOSEPH REYCROFT entered Harvard after com-

pleting his preparatory studies at the Public Latin School. In col-

lege he was a member of the Freshman Track Team, of the

Track Squad, during 1922, 1923, and 1924, and St. Paul’s Catholic

[718 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Club (treasurer, 1922~23; vice-president, 1923-24). He held the
Harvard Club of Boston scholarship in 1920-21 and after receiv-
ing his A.B, degree with the Class, took graduate work at Boston
College. In June, 1925, he was awarded an A.M. degree and ac-
cepted a teaching position as junior assistant at the Public Latin
School. Two years later he was made junior master of the school
and continued his teaching until only a few weeks before his
death.

EUGENE REYNAL

HOME ADDRESS: 221 E. goth St., New York, N. Y¥. .

OFFICE apprEss: Harcourt, Brace & Company, Inc., Reynal & Hitchcock,
Inc., 383 Madison Ave., New York 17, N. Y.

porN: March 31, 1902, New York, N. Y. Parents: Eugene Sugny Reynal,
Adele Fitzgerald.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. 1.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: AB... 19243 M.A. (Univ. of Oxford),
1926.

MarriED: Elizabeth Schermerhorn Young, June 21, 1938, New. York, N. Y.
(divorced 1946); Katherine Beall, June 12, 1947. cHILDREN: Eric
Young; Anthony.

HARVARD BROTHER: Louis Reynal, '28.

occuPaTION: Publisher.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned captain, Air Corps, Aug. 8, 1942,
stationed Westover Field, Mass.; material command, Chicago, IIL;
major, 1944; returned to inactive duty, May, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: President, Blue Ribbon Books, Inc., 1934-39, Reynal & Hitch-
cock, since 1945; chairman of board, Reynal & Hitchcock, Inc., since
1934; vice-president, Harcourt, Brace & Company, Inc., since 1948;
trustee, Community Service Society; director, Book Publishers’ Bureau,
1936-42, United States International Book Association, 1946~49.

MEMBER OF: Century Club; Knickerbocker Club; Coffee House; Harvard
Club; Dutch Treat Club; Cedar Creek Club; Madison Square Garden
Club.

AFTER graduating from Harvard I spent two years at Queens
College, Oxford, taking an honors degree in Modern Greats,
1926. I entered the publishing business with Harper Brothers
that autumn becoming advertising manager and assistant to the
president. In 1930 four houses — Harcourt, Brace; Harper Broth-
ers; Dodd, Mead; and Little, Brown — organized Blue Ribbon
Books, Inc, (a reprint house), which I managed, taking over the
presidency and the control in 1934. In that year I also organized

[719]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Nine years at Creighton were followed by three years of law-
teaching at Marquette University in Milwaukee, where I served
also as faculty editor of the Marquette Law Review. Then came
six years of law writing and editing for Callaghan & Company in
Chicago. Here I received my first by-line in a bound volume, as
a co-author of the fourteen-volume Cyclopedia of Federal Pro-
cedure, second edition.

During my last year in Chicago I also taught a course in the
Law of Persons and Domestic Relations at the law school of Loy-
ola University.

Now I am back in Omaha, at the general headquarters of the
Union Pacific Railroad Company, working at a most absorbing
job for the railroad which was the first to cross the Continental
Divide, and which, during the quarter-century since the Class of
1924 left college, has achieved a record for safety of operation
unmatched by any other Class A railroad in America.

My two children are launched on careers of their own, Helen,
a registered nurse, is the wife of a fine young pediatrician and the
mother of a charming young daughter. Paul is-a chemical en-
gineer for the duPont Company, developing processes for the
“making of better things for better living, through chemistry.”

Accordingly, Evelyn and I — Evelyn being my wife who came
with me to Harvard in 1921 — are now nearly as carefree as when
we arrived in Cambridge nearly twenty-eight years ago, and we
are looking forward to the Twenty-fifth Reunion as the high-
light of our second honeymoon.

+ WILLIAM JOSEPH REYCROFT

BorRN: March 30, 1904, Charlestown, Mass. parents: Arthur Dearborn
Reycroft, Helena Gertrude Herlihy.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1924(25)3 A.M, (Boston Coll.),
1925.

piep: Oct. 3, 1935, Boston, Mass,

WILLIAM JOSEPH REYCROFT entered Harvard after com-

pleting his preparatory studies at the Public Latin School. In col-

lege he was a member of the Freshman Track Team, of the

Track Squad, during 1922, 1923, and 1924, and St. Paul’s Catholic

[718]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Club (treasurer, 1922-23; vice-president, 1923-24). He held the
Harvard Club of Boston scholarship in 1920-21 and after receiv-
ing his A.B. degree with the Class, took graduate work at Boston
College. In June, 1925, he was awarded an A.M. degree and ac-
cepted a teaching position as junior assistant at the Public Latin
Schoo]. Two years later he was made junior master of the school
and continued his teaching until only a few weeks before his
death.

EUGENE REYNAL

HOME AppREss: 221 E, goth St., New York, N.Y. .

OFFICE ADDRESS: Harcourt, Brace & Company, Inc., Reynal & Hitchcock,
Inc., 383 Madison Ave., New York 17, N. Y.

BoRN: March 31, 1902, New York, N. Y. Parents: Eugene Sugny Reynal,
Adele Fitzgerald.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: AB... 1924; M.A. (Univ. of Oxford),
1926.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Schermerhorn Young, June 21, 1938, New York, N. Y.
(divorced 1946); Katherine Beall, June 12, 1947. CHILDREN: Eric
Young; Anthony.

HARVARD BROTHER: Louis Reynal, ’28.

OCCUPATION: Publisher.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned captain, Air Corps, Aug. 8, 1942,
stationed Westover Field, Mass.,; material command, Chicago, Ill.;
major, 1944; returned to inactive duty, May, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: President, Blue Ribbon Books, Inc., 1934-39, Reynal & Hitch-
cock, since 1945; chairman of board, Reynal & Hitchcock, Inc., since
1934; Vice-president, Harcourt, Brace & Company, Inc. since 1948;
trustee, Community Service Society; director, Book Publishers’ Bureau,
1936-42, United States International Book Association, 1946-49.

MEMBER OF: Century Club; Knickerbocker Club; Coffee House; Harvard
Club, Dutch Treat Club; Cedar Creek Club; Madison Square Garden
Club,

AFTER graduating from Harvard I spent two years at Queens
College, Oxford, taking an honors degree in Modern Greats,
1926. I entered the publishing business with Harper Brothers
that autumn becoming advertising manager and assistant to the
president. In 1930 four houses — Harcourt, Brace; Harper Broth-
ers, Dodd, Mead; and Little, Brown — organized Blue Ribbon
Books, Inc. (a reprint house), which I managed, taking over the
presidency and the control in 1934. In that year I also organized

[719]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

with Curtice N. Hitchcock and our classmate, Barklie Henry,
"24 Reynal & Hitchcock, Inc. (original publishing), running the
two companies in conjunction. In 1939 Blue Ribbon Books was
sold to Doubleday, Doran and I took over Barklie Henry’s in-
terest in Reynal & Hitchcock. In 1942 I was commissioned in the
Air Corps and upon returning to inactive duty in 1945, I con-
tinued on a year’s leave of absence from my own firm acting as
managing director of the United States International Book Asso-
ciation, working with the State Department upon a program for
developing distribution of American books in Europe. On my
partner’s death in 1946, I rejoined my firm which subsequently
combined its publishing activities with those of Harcourt, Brace
& Company on January 1, 1948. I am now also vice-president of
that firm in charge of its general trade publishing.

That, in brief, outlines what has been a full, active, and happy
life in the book publishing business with a wartime interlude. It
has involved a certain amount of pioneering with inexpensive
books as well as some contribution to the world of creative writ-
ing. In Reynal & Hitchcock we published such authors as Rosa-
mond Lehmann, Antoine de Saint Exupery, Thurman Arnold,
Barry Benefield, Gontran de Poncins, Raoul de Roussey de Sales,
Alfred Kazin, Gabrielle Roy, Karl Shapior, Lau Shaw, Lillian
Smith, Otto Tolischus, P. L. Travers, Henry Wallace, Jerome
Weidman, and George Willison. We also made some history
with Leonardo’s Notebooks, and the complete, unexpurgated, an-
notated edition of Mein Kampf, which exposed before the war
the machinations of the late Mr. Hitler to the American public.

My publishing activities have enabled me to travel widely
through this country and on the Continent. My new association
has brought me back among old friends and enlarged opportuni-
ties in the publishing field.

At Oxford I went with the ski team to Switzerland, I can still
get myself around a tennis court; and at one time I did a consid-
erable amount of hunting.

Tn politics I have been a Democrat with occasional reluctance.

My wife is a well-known photographer, and I hope my two
boys will be entering Harvard in the classes of 1958 and 1961,
respectively.

[ 720 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD LOCKE RIANHARD

HOME ADRESS: Chattolanee, Owings Mills P. O., Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Equitable Trust Co., Baltimore 3, Md.

BoRN: May g, 1902, Staten Island, N. Y. parents: Thomas McMahon Rian-
hard, Elizabeth Lincoln Rowe. .

PREPARED AT: Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1921, 1922-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1924(25).

MarRIED: Angelyn Stuart Hoffman, June 12, 1937, Baltimore, Md.

occuPATION: Trust banking.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant secretary-treasurer, Colonial Trust Company, Balti-
more, 1936-40; Equitable Trust Company, Baltimore, since 1942.

SINCE graduation I have lived in and around Baltimore and have
rarely left Maryland except for weddings, funerals, or the early
run of red drum at Oregon Inlet. A congenial occupation and a
pleasant comfortable life leave nothing to be desired or worth
relating further.

BENJAMIN MANSON RICE

HOME apprEss: Overlook Orchards, Peterborough, N. H.

OFFICE appREss: Yankee, Inc., Dublin, N. H.

BORN: Aug. 8, 1902, Quincy, Mass. parents: Harry Lee Rice, Frances Austin
Manson.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1924(25).

MARRIED: Roselle Covert Wall, July 15, 1926, Honolulu, Hawaii. cHILpREN:
Roselle Mary, Aug. 9, 1929; Benjamin Manson, Jr., Sept. 1, 1930; Judith,
June 27, 1934.

OccUPATION: Treasurer, Yankee, Inc. (publishers of Old Farmer’s Almanac
and Yankee), Dublin, N. H.; editor, Old Farmer's Almanac, Owner,
Overlook Orchards.

OFFICES HELD: Teacher, Milton Academy, Milton, Mass. 1926-36, Dublin
School, Dublin, N. H., 1944-45; treasurer, Yankee, Inc., since 1940;
editor, Yankee, 1940-42, editor, Old Farmer’s Almamac, since 1945.

FOR the first ten years after graduation, I taught at Milton Acad-
emy, Milton, Massachusetts. I joined the staff of Yankee Maga-
zine in 1937 and shortly after brought the family to New Hamp-
shire, where we now own our apple orchards and permanent
home. We have had varied experiences in country living. I
found myself in the lumber business after the 1938 hurricane
when we had 1,500,000 feet of logs to be salvaged. This made a
busy two years with publishing.

[ 721 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Our good young apple orchards have grown apace, and the
care of these, with other orchards acquired since, has divided my
time between editing and further teaching (Dublin School, 1944-
45) and apple packing.

Latest venture is a 6,000-foot deer fence around the orchards.
Its chief value appears to be to trap the deer inside where they
can chew up the trees and apples, but where we can deal with
them more handily than before. They like the idea of jumping
the seven-and-a-half-foot fence in, but don’t want to jump out.
(Incidentally, the state paid for the fence, but we for putting it
up. Who wins? )

In retreating to the country, my wife and I have found a busier
life than we have ever known. Our train-shed of house, one-room
deep its entire length, squarely faces the northwest and (oppo-
sitely) the northeast winds of winter. But we have gone through
blizzards and zero spells aplenty and still have a fifty-degree cor-
ner by the fire — what more can you ask?

ROBERT DALE RICHARDSON

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 141 High St., Medford, Mass.

BORN: May 26, 1901, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: Emmet Lee Richardson,
Harriet Judd Fyffe.

PREPARED AT: Riverside High School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1924; B.D. (Meadville Theological
School), 1928.

Marrizp: Lucy Baldwin Marsh, Aug. 3, 1933, Keokuk, Iowa. CHILDREN:
Robert Dale, 3d, June 14, 1934; John Fyffe, April 24, 1937; David Fell,
April 2, 1940.

occupation: Clergyman.

orrices HELD: Chaplain, Samuel Crocker Lodge of Masons, since 1939;
secretary, Meadville Alumni Association, 1936-40, Unitarian Historical
Association, 1942-45, Society for Promoting Theological Education at
Harvard, at present time; president, Medford Ministers’ Association,
1938-40. .

MeMBeER oF: Boston Athenaeum, Union Club of Boston; West Medford
Reading Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Autobiography of Abraham Lincoln.

THESE twenty-five years revolve around four or five words and
their varied meanings, eat, sleep, play, work, and preach. In the
three years immediately following graduation which were spent at

[722]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Queen’s College, Oxford, and travelling on the Continent, my
most soul-searching labor was trying to decide between the teach-
ing profession and the ministry. I finally decided on the ministry,
though not without a severe tussle. My years at Oxford intro-
duced me to sound learning if not pure manners, and left me
with a life-long work to cement more closely the ties that bind
the United States to the British Isles. A long and severe illness in
1926 necessitated a prolonged period in the Italian Tyrol recently
occupied by Italy under the late and unlamented Mussolini. It
was my first and bitter taste of dictatorship and, as I now look
back, it conditioned me to hate dictatorship of either the right
or the left with a burning passion.

In the spring of 1927 I decided definitely to prepare for the
Unitarian ministry and chose Meadville in Chicago. The good
people, all staunch Republicans, in Hobart, Indiana, endured my
raw sermons and my infrequent social visits for one year. On
June 10, 1928, I was ordained to the Christian ministry in the
Unitarian Church in Milwaukee and was immediately called to
the Unitarian Church in Keokuk, Iowa, on the banks of the
mighty Mississippi. My five years there were happy and I hope
useful ones. There weré many men and women of culture and
refinement in that oldest of Iowa settlements. The happiest con-
summation of my Keokuk ministry was my marriage to Lucy
Marsh in August, 1933, in the very depths of the financial depres-
sion which somehow didn’t seem to dim our spirits. There fol-
lowed a winter in Boston without a job. I imagine that many of
my classmates were similarly placed. Laconia, New Hampshire,
rescued me from unemployment, and two years there served to
endear New Hampshire to us both. In the spring of 1936 the
First Parish in Medford, Massachusetts, called me to be its elev-
enth minister. It was a great pleasure to be again within easy
distance of Harvard, the great library, and the ever hospitable
Divinity School.

It is hard to summarize these last thirteen years. Medford is a
largish city, thoroughly saturated with ancient American history
and traditions but now largely peopled by Italian and Irish Amer-
icans. There has been the usual flight of the native born to the
greener suburbs, tendencies which I deplore. My only accom-
plishment, and it is but a modest one, is trying to make each racial

[ 723 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

strain recognize its relationship to other groups. To promote in-
ter-racial and inter-religious understanding and sympathy has
been my life job.

Three healthy and obstreperous boys, one of whom is now
taller than his father, keep me busy and also filled with hope.
The parish, while not large, demands all there is of spiritual
power in me. The larger community is insistent with its de-
mands. What little time is left I devote to as painstaking a study
as I can make of the Puritan movement both in England and in
New England. My simple story is of one born in the Midwest
who has become happy and deeply contented in old New Eng-
land.

BERT RICHMOND

HOME ADDRESS: 2348 River Rd., Jacksonville, Fla.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Furchgott’s, Inc., Jacksonville, Fla.

BorN: Dec. 9, 1900, Beachmont, Mass. parents: Hymen Richmond, Lena
Tanzer.

PREPARED AT: Revere High School, Revere, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: $.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Sara L. Beale, Oct. 19, 1933, Brookline, Mass. cHILDREN: Anthony
Mayer, Dec. 16, 1935; Ellen Beale, June 10, 1939.

occupation: General merchandise manager, Furchgott’s, Inc., department
store.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chairman, U.S.O. Council, City of Jacksonville,
during war years.

oFFices HELD: Director, Council of Social Agencies, Jacksonville, Community
Chest, Jacksonville, Jacksonville Harvard Club; vice-president, Jewish
Welfare Society, Jacksonville, chairman, advisory board, Salvation
Army.

MEMBER OF: Jacksonville Torch Club (treasurer).

UPON graduation from Harvard, members of our Class were
asked to declare their intentions and ambitions for insertion in the
Senior Album. At that time I stated mine to be, “To become
wealthy, to sail a boat, and to shoot ducks.” Many times in the
intervening years I have had occasion, in self-criticism, to ques-
tion whether I was simply indicating surface attitudes at that time
or whether I was really stating my true “three-dimensional” con-
victions. “How could I,” I have asked myself, “have been so lit-
tle impressed with the real and decper aspects of living?” The
answer usually comes in terms of the circumstances of the mo-

[724]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ment and usually the surface aspects still point in the same direc-
tions. I still work hard to become wealthy, I still seem to enjoy
opportunities to go sailing, and I still seem to like to shoot ducks.
So apparently my surface intentions as stated twenty-five years
ago were firmly in my make-up. Nevertheless, I feel that human
reticence and the kind of attitudes about which men feel so
deeply, and yet are so inarticulate in expressing, still run like
counterpoint in the harmony and even the dissonances of my life.
Perhaps, as I try to dissect my present activities and look at them
dispassionately (which this life account gives me occasion to do),
I may be able to show that there really is a deeper content, a
fuller life, and a more substantial importance in my activities than
the aspirations of getting wealthy, sailing boats, and shooting
ducks would imply.

Starting out from college in June, 1924, I felt that my personal
canoe on the stream of life would journey farthest via a career
in downtown real estate brokerage. To further that end I went
to Seattle, Washington, where a position with one of the good
real estate brokerage firms in that city awaited me. The manner
of my journey reflected the circumstances of my life at that
time. Having emerged from college with nothing but debts in-
curred in securing my college education, I did not even have
the railroad fare to get to Seattle. Somewhat single-minded in
my intention, I obtained a job as an ordinary seaman on a
freighter in order to get to my intended destination. To this
day I find myself expressing preference for routing important
shipments of goods via the American-Hawaiian Line in token
of my appreciation for their having given me a berth as a verv
ordinary, ordinary seaman so that I might reach my chosen
destination.

Upon reaching Seattle, I entered training in the brokerage
field and recall that during the first month I was making calcula-
tions as to whether I would be comfortably well off and able to
retire within, at the outside, a half-dozen years. Such estimates
certainly seemed to me at that time to be warranted on the basis
of my first month’s earnings — $530. This, I calculated, would
certainly be improved by at least fifty per cent the next month
when I would then be an “old hand,” and still further improved
in the months following. The let-down which occurred in the

[725 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I924

second month (total earnings $31) helped me on my way to life’s
perspective.

After about ten months of varying fortunes, I returned to the
East and embarked on another sphere of activity —the depart-
ment store business. This has been my preference ever since and
my career in this field has been truly enjoyable. I started at the
Gilchrist Company in Boston in a research capacity, was shortly
thereafter made street-floor merchandise manager of that store,
and left there in 1930 to go to the R. H. White Company in Bos-
ton as assistant to the president. After six years with that insti-
tution, during which time I merchandised about one-third of
the store, I went out to the Golden Rule in St. Paul to manage
the home furnishings departments in that store and thereby ob-
tain experience in types of departments which up to that time I
had not had. After three and one-half years at the Golden Rule,
I accepted a call (as our preachers put it) to go back to the first
store at which I had worked, the Gilchrist Company, and I felt
that that would be the last major move in my store career.

However, after being there only two years, in 1941 the op-
portunity was presented to come here to Jacksonville to take
over the entire merchandising of this new and very lovely store
—Furchgott’s. I have been at Furchgott’s for just under seven
years and during that time it has been my pleasure to see our
store grow four-fold in the size of its business and to improve
immeasurably the quality of its service in the community.

Comment on this last point, “quality of service,” brings me
back to the speculative comments made at the beginning of this
narrative. Is there anything more to a full life than becoming
wealthy, sailing boats, or shooting ducks? I firmly answer, as in
Milton’s “Sonnet on his Blindness,” that there is. As I examine
my life and activities at the present time, I truly feel that depth
and content are correlative in importance with worldly achieve-
ments.

During the war years I found myself functioning in the com-
munity as chairman of the U.S.O. Council. At the present time
I discover much real pleasure in the work which I find myself
doing as a director of the Council of Social Agencies in Jackson-
ville, director of the Community Chest, trustee and vice-presi-
dent of the Jewish Welfare Socicry, “little brothering” in the

[726 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

work of the Jacksonville Boys’ Home, and at the present moment
assuming the responsibility for the direction and setting-up of a
thorough-going child guidance clinic to become available to chil-
dren of the City of Jacksonville, funds for which are derived
from an important bequest.

All the activities described, plus those involved i in living a nor-
mal and very happy home life with my wife and our two wild In-
dians, Tony, aged twelve, and Ellen, aged nine, constitute the
record of my life in the years since graduation. Tony and I get
off on fishing trips together quite often and both on those occa-
sions and in our ordinary activities, we seem to find much oppor-
tunity to spend time reasoning out together such problems as:
what is fair, what is right, and in what does the true substance of
life consist, subjects on which we ponder towards mutual enlight-
enment. Ellen is a very earthy and at the same time a very lovely
little creature who assumes correctly that she may expect me to
join with her in her play world.

Reflection on all these activities has shown me how very much
more there is to living than the simply-stated ambitions such as
“becoming wealthy, sailing boats, and shooting ducks” and what
a joy and an adequate preparation for a fuller life my years at
Harvard have provided. If, as in Carlyle’s “Sartor Resartus” on
the basis of the surface judgments as to “What is Man?” my
education at Harvard gave me no particular advantages — for
there was certainly not an industrial skill or business method or
practical equipment for business in the courses on philosophy of
the state under Professor Hocking, or in appreciation of music,
or aesthetics, or in the study of the history of religions —as a
means for living life fully, those years of happy college associa-
tion were priceless groundwork. May we all always feel so well
endowed!

FREDERICK ROBERTS RINEHART

HOME AppDREss: 70 E. 77th St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rinehart & Co., Inc., 232 Madison Ave., New York 16, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 14, 1902, Pittsburgh, Pa. PARENTS: Stanley Marshall Rinehart,
Mary Roberts.

PREPARED AT: Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

[727]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924
MARRIED: Elizabeth Sherwood, Dec. 14, 1929, Geneva, N. Y. cuitp: Cornelia
Sherwood, Nov, 18, 1930.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Stanley Marshall Rinehart, Jr., "19, Alan Gillespie Rine-
hart, "21.
occupation: Book publisher.
MEMBER OF: Dutch Treat Club; Harvard Club of New York.

FOR weeks now, I've been trying to write this biographical
sketch (or Class Life, as it’s called on the form) so it wouldn't
sound too complacent or too dull. It can’t be done. After all, I
am doing exactly the same sort of thing I began doing twenty-
five vears ago — whether better or worse, I have no definite
opinion. All I know is that with each year I become harder to
get rid of.

To use the formula of almost every writer of industrial bro-’
chures, it was on a warm September day in 1924 that my brother,
Alan, and I were striding down Madison Avenue to Thirty-
eighth Street en route to our first job. Well, not exactly striding.
We had just landed from the Mauretania and the last evening on
board had been rugged. Also, it was my first job, but not his.
He'd had a couple before. Our new employer, George H. Do-
ran, the famous publisher, took one look at us and if there was
any promise to be seen, he should have been a medium. He gave
us a drink and sent us away.

That was the beginning of a great career. The shipping room
was short-handed, so I went there and wrapped books. The ad-
vertising department was in need of a copywriter and idea man,
so Alan was it—or them. As I say, that was The Beginning.
Several times it was almost The End. Now we kaleidoscope:
after the shipping room, a Kingsport, Tennessee, book manufac-
turing plant. After Kingsport, The Road. And finally after a
couple of corporate transformations, Stanley Rinehart, John Far-
rar, and I started our own book publishing house in June, 1929.
A beautiful year to start anything, 1929.

In December, 1929, ] married Elizabeth (or, as I call her when
we are alone, Betty) Sherwood, of Geneva, New York, and the
newspaper there carried the head: “Local Girl Married Society
Leader.” I concluded that it must be some secret socicty. The
year was not a total loss.

The rest is, of course, history. A short month before the crash

[728 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

on Wall Street, we published our first books: a volume of short
stories by Mother, a slender book of verse by a fellow named
Hervey Allen, a short story by Du Bose Heyward, and Herbert
Gorman’s biography of Dumas, The Incredible Marquis. Since
then we have published a lot of other books, good, bad, and in-
different, ranging from Anthony Adverse to Algebra for College
Students. At least, I’ve liked it all, which is what I meant when
I said earlier that this was going to sound complacent.

My wife, my daughter, and I tried country life up the Hudson
for a while, but it was during the war and the result was physical
exhaustion for them and a “mild” coronary occlusion for me
(what was mild about it?) so we moved back to Manhattan.

That about covers things. There’s one thing [d like to add
though: if this autobiography were offered to me to publish, I'd
reject it.

JOSEPH EPHRAIM FRANK RISEMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 75 Park Ave., Newton 58, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 29 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 31, 1903, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Joel B. Riseman, Rose Ella
Berger.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS AT COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1924, M.D., 1929.

MARRIED: Rose Cooper, Dec. 20, 1927, Boston, Mass. cuttpren: Barbara,
Jan. 22, 1929; Doris Betty, Oct. 13, 1935.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Matthew Riseman, °31.

OCCUPATION: Physician; medical educator; medical research,

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association, Society for Clinical Investiga-
tion; American Heart Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Many on varied medical subjects from “The Age and Sex
Incidence of Hypertension,” Asmerican Heart Journal, 1929, to “The
Diagnosis and Treatment of Angina Pectoris,” in various medical jour-
nals, 1932-48, and “Some Legal Aspects of Heart Disease,” Annals of
Internal Medicine and Rocky Mountain Law Review, 1943; also various
medical apparatus from “A Method of Oxygen Analysis,” New England
Journal of Medicine, 1936, to “An Aid in Taking Electrocardiograms”;
also two medical books, Angina Pectoris and PQRST (Macmillan
Company), and one medical motion picture “Angina Pectoris.”

ALL great men have ghost writers, so it is not surprising that
Dad asked me to write his biography. Or perhaps he didn’t dare
fill out this questionnaire himself because once before he added

[729]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

one year and one month to the date of his marriage, December

20, 1927, and came up with the date of my birth as January 22,

1928. At any rate, this is my interpretation of his life and times.

From the time of his birth in 1903 until he stepped on a rusty
nail during the Christmas recess of his sophomore year, life must
have been very dreary. As the result of this iron poisoning, the
following complications occurred: (1) an infection which laid
him up till midyear exams; (2) an ankylosed left foot (fortu-
nately he’s right-handed); (3) a wife. A mutual doctor suggested
(as occupational therapy) that he telephone a female patient of
his. Later they met, went to the Junior Prom and later, to pro-
tect his investment, he married the gorgeous and lovable Rose
Cooper.

Between graduation from college and entrance to the medical
school, he took a year off to recoup the family fortune (both
nickels). This recouping was accomplished (more and especially
less) by entering the furniture business, selling floor lamps and
baby carriages. Deciding, I suppose, that he’d rather have people
owe him money for babies than for the carriages, he entered
Harvard Medical School in 1925. In his junior year, because he
had to attend a medical fraternity convention in Philadelphia and
because it was the only time he could take off for the next year
and a half, he married, took (and flunked) an orthopedical final
exam the next day, and set off for a honeymoon in Philadelphia.
I understand his wife became seasick while sailing to New York
and so became his first non-paying patient.

In 1929 he graduated from the Medical School, the proud
father of a gorgeous four-month-old baby girl (me). She was a .
lovely child but displayed the Riseman trait of incessant chatter,
belly-aching, and poor bridge. After five years of interning he
finally had a chance to add to his problems, and so in 1935 my
sister was born. At first they were slightly concerned because
she displayed none of the aforementioned family traits, but time
has over-rectified this situation.

He began his teaching career in 1930 and gradually was pro-
moted to positions with higher rank and less money, so that at
present he holds the posts of associate in medicine at Harvard
Medical School, instructor in medicine at Tufts, visiting physi-
cian and associate in medical research at the Beth Israel Hospital,

[ 730 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and cardiac consultant to the Haywood Hospital. In his spare
time he manages to maintain a busy private practice in internal
medicine and cardiology and publish approximately fifty original
papers on various medical subjects (mainly heart disease) plus
two textbooks and a full length teaching motion picture which
has been shown all over the world except in Cambridge and
Boston.

As a means of relaxation he has taken to raising girls and dogs
(I hope in order of importance) and in attempting vainly to in-
terest said girls in some of his many hobbies such as fishing, wood
working, photography, etc.

History having a nasty habit of repeating itself (and Harvard
not admitting female students) the gorgeous first born (me) de-
cided to return to Philadelphia where she is now a junior at
Swarthmore College and trying her utmost to avoid coming in
contact with rusty nails,

PHILIP DAVID RITTENBERG

HOME ADpREss: 68 Versailles Blvd., New Orleans, La.

OFFICE appress: Rittenberg & Rittenberg, 624 Whitney Bldg., New Orleans,
La.

BORN: Jan. 3, 1904, New Orleans, La. PARENTS: Joseph Rittenberg, Rebecca
Baron.

PREPARED AT: Warren Easton High School, New Orleans, La.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGRFES: A.B., 1924; LL.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Kathryn Louise Mayer, Feb. 7, 1934, Chicago, Ill. carp: Phyllis
Jane, Nov. 21, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Leon Hirsch Rittenberg, ’21 (deceased).

occupation: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: United States Reserve Coast Guard, 1944-45.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Wembley, Inc., since July, 1948; secretary, New
Orleans Symphony Society.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Louisiana; Lakewood Country Club; Ghost
Club; New Orleans Athletic Club.

AN ACCOUNT of my life since graduation would probably
not be very interesting. The reason I say that is because I have
been extremely fortunate in that my life has progressed very
smoothly and with few complications. I have a wife and one
child, a little girl six years old. I enjoy the practice of my pro-
fession very much. The only tragedy that has marred the tran-

[731]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

quiliry of my existence was the death of my brother, Leon, ’21,
last June. He and I had been law partners for the last twenty
years and were extremely close to each other. However, as one
grows older, of necessity one encounters more such sorrows and
must accept them as stoically as possible. My only strong con-
viction, and it applies to social, political, and religious as well, is
that if people could be more tolerant of each other, this world
would be a great deal happier place in which to live.

FRANK HAROLD ROBART

HOME AppRESS: 9 Surrey Rd., Newton, Mass.

oFFice AppREss: New England Container Co., Chicopee, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 24, 1900, Chelsea, Mass. PARENTS: Frank Augustine Robart, Ellen
Agnes Finnan.

preparen AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.; Huntington School, Boston,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923.

Marrieo: Ruth Gibson, May 19, 1923, Boston, Mass. cHILDREN: Frank
Harold, Jr., Jan. 3, 1925; Robert P., Feb. 15, 1928.

occupation: Eastern sales representative, New England Container Company.

CHARLES KAMINSKI ROBINSON ~

HOME AbpRESs: 828 National Rd., W., Richmond, Ind.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Swayne, Robinson & Co., Richmond, Ind.

BorN: Aug. 30, 1900, Richmond, Ind. parents: Henry Rayburn Robinson,
Olive M. Kaminski.

PREPARED AT: Richmond High School, Richmond, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREES: A.B. (Earlham Coll.), 1922; s.B. (Har-
vard Univ.), 1924.

MaRRiED: Katherine E. Reid, Oct. 28, 1927, Richmond, Ind. cxtLp: Charles
Kaminski, Jr., Aug. 2, 1928.

occupation: Manufacturer, president, treasurer, general manager, Swayne,
Robinson & Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: University of Michigan, S.A.T.C., 1918.

OFFICES HELD: Director, First National Bank, Richmond, Ind., director,
Indiana Manufacturers’ Association.

MEMBER OF: Indiana Advisory Board, American Mutual Liability Insurance
Company.

[732]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DAVID ROBINSON

HOME appress: 45 Russell St., Brookline, Mass.

orrice aporess: Robinson Home Utilities, 1554 Hancock St., Quincy, Mass.

Boan: June 6, 1901, Londonderry, Ircland. parents: Barnett Robinson, Anne
Gorfinkle.

PrepareD at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

VEARS IN COLLEGE: 1919-1924. DEGREE: S.B. IN E.E., 1924.

marrirp: Lillian Tall, Oct. 19, 1930, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Sterna, Jan. 2,
1932; Deborah, Aug. 16, 1935; Barnett Jocl, Oct. 21, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ernest Harry Robinson, °20,

occupation: Merchant.

HAVING obtained a Harvard degree in engineering, I fig-
ured all that I had to do was wait around long enough and
some big outfit would come along and just beg me to run things
for them.

But it didn’t happen that way. So, after a while, the family
suggested that I was a big boy now, and that it was time to go
out in the cold world and go to work, particularly if I was in-
terested in eating. I was, so I went.

I landed on top — on the top floor of Building 43 of the Lynn
Plant of the General Electric Company where I was kept busy
testing small motors. From there it was a very easy jump into
the radio business, first as factory agent, then wholesale, and
finally retail. The radio business expanded into the home appli-
ance ‘business, then further into the auto accessory business, and
finally during the war into the what-do-you-want, we’ve-got-it
business.

One of the advantages we operators of small retail businesses
have over you big executives is that we are not tied down to one
branch of business. Where you spend all your time as a buyer,
or a sales manager, or as an advertising manager, I am all of
these, plus credit manager, collection manager, employment
manager, display manager, and window dresser, service and re-
pair manager, and in charge of exchanges and adjustments. Thus
we get a lot more fun out of our jobs. Sure we have more head-
aches, but after all, how many things can one worry about at one
time?

So, if you are bored with your job, get a small business of
your own, but do yourself and me a favor and keep out of the

C733]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

appliance business. We have enough tough competitors right
now.

LESTER BEAUCLERK ROBINSON

aporess: Makaweli, Kauai, Hawaii.

BORN: July 12, 1901, Menlo Park, Calif. parents: Aubrey Robinson, Alice
Gay.

PREPARED AT: The Potter School, San Francisco, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Helen M. Matthew, March 22, 1937, Berkeley, Calif.

occupation: Agriculture.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Robinson did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

SAMUEL ROCHLIN

HOME apprEss: 259 Old Mamaroneck Rd., White Plains, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 148 Market St., Paterson, N. J.

BORN: Sept. 8, 1902, Russia. PARENTS: Joseph Rochlin, Dora Esther Ginsburg.

PREPARED AT: Passaic High School, Passaic, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.),
1927.

MARRIED: Lois Carolyn Friedman, June 22, 1937, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Jay, Aug. 27, 1932 (adopted); Arthur Perry, Aug. 20, 1942.

occupation: Attorney.
WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Legal assistant, Draft Board; member, reém-

ployment committee attached to two combined draft boards; Air Raid
warden.

MEMBER OF: Westchester Bar Association, Mount Vernon Lawyers Club;
White Plains Bar Association.

AT COMMENCEMENT I had looked forward to coming back
to the Law School. However, circumstances decreed otherwise
and I therefore took my law work at Columbia University. In due
course I received my LL.B, and was admitted to the New Jersey
Bar.

However, the lure of New York was great and in 1929 I moved
to White Plains. I was admitted to the New York Bar in 1930 and

thereafter continued in practice in Mount Vernon, White Plains,
and finally in New York City,

Towards the end of 1948 I responded to an invitation to come

( 734]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

back to New Jersey and am now back again, whence I started,
renewing old friendships and generally reéstablishing myself.

It seems almost incredible that almost twenty-five years have
gone by since those last days in the Yard. Of course, when one
stops to think and to consider the many world-stirring events
that took place in that time, the realization is brought home that
much water, indeed, has flowed over the dam.

Nevertheless, in terms of the individual, it is the hope of the
future rather than the memory of the past that is important, at
least it should still be so for us at this age. And so it is to the
future that I look, to a life helpful, I hope, to my fellow-man,
and to be enjoyed in the midst of family and friends.

HENWAR RODAKIEWICZ .

HOME ADDRESS: 400 E. soth St., New York 22, N. Y.

oFFicE apprEss: Affiliated Film Producers, Inc. 164 E. 38th St., New York,
N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1902, Vienna, Austria. PARENTS: August Rodakiewicz, Erla
Hittle.

PREPARED AT: Riverdale Country School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

MarRieD: Margaret Adams Plummer, Aug, 21, 1936, Los Angeles, Calif.

occupation: Motion pictures; directing documentary films.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Film producer, Office of War Information,
domestic and overseas.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Film Associates, Inc.. New York City, 1940-
42; president, Affiliated Film Producers, Inc., since 1946; member, board
of directors, Eastern Division, Screen Writers Guild, since 1947.

MEMBER OF: Screen Directors Guild; Screen Writers Guild (Eastern
Division); Museum of Modern Art.

PusBLications: “Twice a Year”, “Hound and Horn” (photographs).

BEING involved in the motion picture field, game, business, or
racket, depending on how you feel about films, I might as well
use a technique I don’t happen to have seen perpetrated — yet.
You've read the credit titles above, so I'll start with today and
go back through time.

Documentary, once considered the poor relative of films, is a
much overworked word these days. Since the war, everybody in
this country has been trying to get into the act—even Holly-
wood. Suddenly anything that even vaguely resembles life is

[735]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

press-agented as “documentary style.” The very necessity of us-
ing quotes, employing a phrase instead of a word, is a perfect
revelation; the result bears the exact resemblance to the real, as
“modernistic” does to modern. Luce’s Yale boys, too, who
looked with contempt at us old hands in the field, took out full-
page ads suddenly, claiming that’s what they’d been doing all
the me. They never did, never have.

Lest this opening statement should seem a defensive blast, let
me hasten to say that it is nothing of the kind; it is a matter of
semantics, together with a desire to clear the air and bring to the
attention of everyone the genuine article. The documentary is
not merely a story drawn from the files of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation; not merely a film that is shot outside of a studio;
not merely a picture that doesn’t use name actors. You can em-
ploy all these devices even, and still not have a documentary. A
documentary has to live with the people. It has to breathe and
feel life as it is, or as it should be. It is not just factual news-
reel coverage. It has a point of view; it has something to say.
And it has to say it in a way that is actually ingrained in the
texture and composition of the film. It has to feel, in order to
be felt. This is where my thinking and working has brought me
today.

In the works for me now is a film on freedom of the press.
Casting a random glance over my shoulder, I have been involved
with both features and shorts in such subjects as the Southwest,
icebergs, commercial fishermen, public health, labor unions, war-
time rationing, civilian defense, airplanes, racial theories, delin-
quency, the freeing of a young republic, charitable institutions,
city planning, a zoo, communications, an expedition, American
Indians, Negro education, and a six-year stint in Hollywood. This
has taken me pretty well into every corner of this country for
locations, and also to Mexico, British Guiana, the Grand Banks,
Puerto Rico, Newfoundland, and Labrador. But it is travel with
a purpose, whether I was catching a hundred-thousand-ton ice-
berg calving in steamer lane “B” a thousand miles east of New
York, wading through an acre of high-stemmed orchids at Kaie-
teur Falls, learning how steel workers live and work around Pitts-
burgh, being prevented from putting on record Apache Indian
ceremonials, discovering a people really using democracy, mar-

[736]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

velling at Bing Crosby’s utter honesty, or getting clapped in
the Memphis jail for three days.

Superficially, this may sound adventurous. It is much more re
than that. This is the heartache, headache, and beauty of doc
mentary. For in every case, whatever place I was in, bore a dire
and inseparable relation to what I was doing. And by place
don’t mean geography; practically anything can happen almo:
anywhere. Right in our own backyards for instance, But one he

to be aware that it’s happening. And this thought brings the stor
almost back to ’24.

In a then unforeseen and happy way, my college years hav
been invaluable in this work. But it was not, as might be expectec
the study of literature, economics, art, or history; I majored is
anthropology. Any true and significant meaning of anthropolog.
gives us not merely an insight into the past, but an approach
perception, and understanding of almost every side of life today

‘That is its real function, as it is of documentary, too. Yes, I think
they are both here to stay.

One more brief —and happy — matter. My enjoyment of

skiing very nearly caused me to make the blunder of going to
Dartmouth.

ALAN STEWART ROGERS

HOME apprEss: Mission Canyon, Santa Barbara, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 33 W. 51st St., New York, N. Y.

Born: April 25, 1902, Santa Barbara, Calif. parents: Robert Cameron
Rogers, Beatrice Fernald.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE? 1920-1922, 1923-1924. DEGREES: AB. 1924; B.A. (Univ. of
Oxford), 1925.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Sherman Skinner Rogers, ’22; Robert Cameron Rogers,
23.

occupation: Writer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Control editor, shortwave broadcasting, Office
of War Information, 1941-46.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-consul, Bombay, India, 1928-29; secretary of legation
and chargé d'affaires, ad interim, Bangkok, Thailand, 1929-31; secretary
of embassy, Paris, 1931-35, Rome, 1937-40; chargé d'affaires, ad interirn,
Prague, 1934; secretary of legation, Vienna, 1935-37.

MEMBER OF: Royal Bombay Yacht Club (life member).

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional contributions to fiction magazines and radio
drama.

[737]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

AFTER graduating from Harvard in 1924, I returned to Magdalen
College, Oxford, where I had spent the year 1922 to 1923. In 1925
I graduated from Oxford, taking a second in the Honors History
School. In the fall of that year, I. accompanied the Honorable
Charles MacVeagh to Tokyo in the capacity of private secretary,
when he was appointed United States Ambassador to that post.

It had been my intention to return the following year and
study for the career of law but instead, becoming interested in
foreign relations, I returned to Washington and studied for the
United States Foreign Service. I passed the examinations for that
service in June, 1927, and in June, 1928, proceeded to Bombay,
India, as vice-consul. On the way, I had an interesting detail
which consisted of taking the then confidential United States
codes to our newly built ‘legation i in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. It
was a six-week side trip, replete with color and some slight
adventure.

After Bombay, I served for two years in Bangkok, acting for
the most part as chargé d’affaires, ad interim. This post provided
an interesting chance to observe the workings of a benevolent,
absolute, Oriental monarchy. From 1931 to 1935, I served in
Paris, my principal occupation being that of private secretary,
first to Ambassador. Walter E. Edge, and then to his successor,
the Honorable Jesse Isidor Straus. During that period, in 1934, I
was sent temporarily as chargé d’affaires to Prague during the
time of the assassination of Austrian Chancellor Dollfuss, which
gave me an opportunity to witness for the first time at close
hand the technique of Nazi diplomacy. From 1935 to 1937, I was
able to observe more of this technique while serving as secretary
of the legation in Vienna. In 1937, I proceeded to Rome as secre-
tary of the embassy, where I remained until 1940.

In November, 1940, I resigned from the Foreign Service for
reasons of health but returned to government service after Pearl
Harbor in the capacity of shortwave control editor in the Office
of War Information. In 1946 my health again broke down and
I spent the years from 1946 to 1948 in Saranac.

Since that time I have become interested in writing for radio
and at the moment have three programs on my list.

Although my life since leaving college has necessarily been
pretty much that of a rolling stone, I have never lost my interest

[ 738 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in Harvard or my classmates and I hope to be able to attend the
Reunion this year.

HUGH NAIRIVE WESTBROOK RONALDS

HOME AppRESS: 86 Boulevard, Glen Rock, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: c/o Choate, Byrd, Leon & Garretson, 44 Wall St, New
York, N. Y.

BorN: Aug. 18, 1902, Sedalia, Mo. parents: Kenneth Churchill Ronalds,
Blanche Westbrook.

PREPARED AT: Eldorado Township High School, Eldorado, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; LL.B., 1927.

MarRIED: Marguerite Elsa Lohrke, Oct. 3, 1931, Orange, N. J. cHmpren:
Anne, Aug. 27, 1932; Joan, Jan. 7, 19353 Hugh Churchill, Oct. 20, 1936.

occupaTIOoN: Lawyer.

AFTER graduating from Harvard Law School, I entered the law
office of Harrison, Elliott & Byrd in New York. I was admitted
to the New York Bar in June, 1928, and to the New Jersey Bar
in February, 1940. I remained with Harrison, Elliott & Byrd
until May, 1940. Since then, I have been a member of the firm
of Choate, Byrd, Leon & Garretson. As a hard working lawyer
I have had the good fortune of meeting and trying to help people
in varied positions in life.

EDWARD ANDREWS ROSE

HOME ADDRESS: 1220 Park Ave., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Trainer & Associates, 274 Madison Ave., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 9, 1900, Denver, Colo. parents: William Andrews Rose, Sarah
Blamey.

PREPARED AT: Eton College, Windsor, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MarrieD;: Cevira Cudebec, Dec. 23, 1922, Boston, Mass. cuitp: Edward
Andrews, Jr., Jan. 11, 1932.

occuPATION: United States government service.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Canadian Army, 1941-42; United States Army,
1942—45.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

IN MY sophomore year of 1922 I married Cevira Cudebec, who
was then herself a student at Wellesley College, In spite of this,
I contrived to graduate with an A.B. degree in 1924 with my class.
Immediately thereafter my wife and I went for a trip around

[739]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

the world, it being my father’s impression that such was a fitting
ending to an education, a decision with which I did not at the
time nor have ever since had any quarrel. On my return from
this trip, I settled down in Paris, France. I had been born with
some skill in drawing and it was in my mind to see what could be
made of it. Apparently nothing much could, and in 1932 my
doubts on the matter were resolved for me by the deepening
depression and I returned to the United States where I entered
the stock brokerage and investment field, remaining in that haz-
ardous profession until the outbreak of World War II. In Septem-
ber, 1941, I enlisted in the Black Watch Regiment of Canada and
in May, 1942, went overseas as a rifleman replacement for the
First Battalion, I stayed with the battalion until just after the
Dieppe raid in September, 1942, when I transferred to the United
States Army with a commission in the Intelligence. I remained in
London in G-2, European Theatre of Operations, United States
Army and later with G-2 SHAEF until just before D-Day when
I was assigned to G-2 Headquarters Third United States Army
and accompanied that breathless outfit in great haste and an
adamantine jeep as far as the Rhine. Upon discharge from the
Army I took a job with the United States government and have
been off and on in Washington ever since.

WILLIAM MORRIS ROSENBAUM

HOME appress: R.F.D. 1, Maple Ave., Peekskill, N. Y.

OFFIcE appress: Wm. M. Rosenbaum & Co., 285 Madison Ave., New York
17, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 21, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: William Rosenbaum,
Rosalie Levy.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924. .

MarRieD: Marjorie J. Klein, Dec. 22, 1925, Pittsburgh, Pa. (divorced 1939);
Kathleen Allen, Jan. 2, 1945, Yeovil, Somerset, England. cHILpREN:
Jane, June 22, 1928; William John, Oct. 2, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Investment broker.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Inducted, November, 1942; corporal anti-tank
platoon, Headquarters Battery, 116th Field Artillery; Officer Candidate
School, Ft. Sill, Okla., September, 1943; 17 months overseas; awarded
Certificate of Merit; separated, March, 1946.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York.

[ 740 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MY LIFE began in August, 1944, when our battalion was billeted
near Yeovil and I met Kathleen Allen. We were married the fol-
lowing January, and for the past three years I have had the good
things; namely, a loving wife, a fine child, and a warm, intimate,
informal home life.

Our base of operations is an eight-room house, two acres of
land, watched over by two dogs. We are some fifty miles from
New York where I go to worry a daily living as a stock broker.
The travel time passes quickly with an armful of newspapers in
the morning, and financial and economic reports, magazines, and
an occasional book on the return journey. In consequence of the
good life, carpenter and garden tools have replaced the more
formal sport equipment.

Politics remain my principal stock in conversation and I fol-
low the Lodge line. My vote for Hoover in 1932 establishes the
sincerity of my Republicanism. Our local parson at St. Philip’s
Church goes along with me on these theories. Kathleen listens
tolerantly and we all agree that Winston Churchill is one of the
great men of all time.

Pidge, now almost three and a half, is our contribution to the
future of the nation. When Cabot Lodge moves to 1600 Penn-
sylvania Avenue, I am hoping that the boy will get an appoint-
ment to the Military Academy, and make public life in or out of
the Army his career.

ROBERT CHARLES ROTHENBERG

HOME ADpRESS: 4088 Rose Hill Ave., Cincinnati 29, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 270 Doctors Bldg., 19 Garfield Pl., Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

BORN: May 5, 1902, Cincinnati, Ohio. parENTs: Samuel Rothenberg, Cora
Oettinger.

PREPARED AT: Hughes High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1924; M.D. (Univ. of
Cincinnati), 1928.

MARRIED: Jean Ransohoff Westheimer, Oct. 3, 1929, Cincinnati, Ohio.
CHILDREN: Claire V., Feb. 14, 1931; Jo Anne, May 19, 1934.

OCCUPATION: Physician, specializing in internal medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Intern, Cincinnati General Hospital, 1928-29; resident, 1929-
30, instructor, 1930-32, Department of Medicine, University of Michi-
gan; instructor, Department of Medicine, University of Cincinnati,
since 1932; medical director, Beckman Dispensary, 1935-39; member
active staff, Department of Internal Medicine, Jewish Hospital, since

[741 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

1933; member attending staff, Departement of Internal Medicine, Cin-
cinnati General Hospital, since 1935; director, Department of Internal
Medicine, Jewish Hospital, since 1944; chairman, Section on Medicine,
Ohio State Medical Association, 1946; secretary, Cincinnati Academy
of Medicine, 1947-48.

MEMBER OF: Cincinnati Academy of Medicine; Ohio State Medical Associa-
tion; American Medical Association (fellow); American College of
Physicians (fellow); American Heart Association, American Diabetes
Association; Torch Club; Losantiville Country Club; Cincinnati Public
Health Federation (member codrdinating committee); Nutrition and
Diabetes Councils, Cincinnau Public Health Federation; Ohio Medical
Indemnity (board of directors); Alpha Omega Alpha (honorary medi-
cal society).

PUBLICATIONS: “Undulant Fever: A Fatal Case,” Annals of Internal Medi-
cine, 6:1275, April, 1933; “Water Metabolism: Its Relation to Weight
Variations,” Cincinnati Journal of Medicine, August, 1934; “Atypical
(Virus) Pneumonia: A Case with Autopsy Report,” Cincinnatt Journal
of Medicine, June, 1943; “Some Practical Considerations in the Man-
agement of Obesity,” American Practitioner, 2:8, April, 1948.

TO RECITE a great deal about oneself might, in today’s parlance,
be considered “narcissistic”; yet, to “ventilate” is often beneficial.
So here goes, with facts as accurate as memory will permit over
the span of a quarter of a century and with whatever thoughts
come out concommitantly.

Directly after graduation, I went to Europe and, by previous
arrangement, met a son of Eli. We cycled around England and
loafed here and there on the Continent. That trip has provided
many interesting recollections in the subsequent years.

For the next four years I studied medicine at the University of
Cincinnati, and any physician should tell you that that means
constant devotion to books, laboratories, wards, and dispensaries.
However, during those years I became devoted also to the charm-
ing home-town girl who became my wife. By a fraction of a per-
centage point or so, I also won another prize — the Stella Feis
Hoffheimer Award to the student graduating first in his class.

Internship at the Cincinnati General Hospital was followed by
a residency in internal medicine at the University of Michigan,
to prepare me for study in obstetrics, in order to enter practice
with my father in his specialty. After two annual persuasions
to remain as instructor in internal medicine at Michigan, I was
convinced that that ficld was to be my chosen specialty. One

[742 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of the keenest recollections is that thrilling Harvard-Michigan
game (Barry Wood’s team) soon after we had moved to Ann
Arbor.

Our elder daughter, Claire, was born in Ann Arbor, and after
packing her in a basket for occasional visits to Cincinnati, we
bundled her and the rest of our belongings to settle back home
in 1932. Jo Anne came along two years later, and all four of us
have seemed to enjoy Cincinnati since, with the average assort-
ment of dogs, canaries, and other household appurtenances. In
fact, we have even finally secured a house.

The war produced its inevitable trauma to all; for me it was
the disappointment of rejection, in spite of a trip to Washington
to plead for a job. Then I knew and today I recognize, as my
colleagues converse, that I should never share the “chunk of
experience” they all were having. I was determined that as a
civilian I should do the best possible job within my power. What-
ever I may have accomplished since then has been energized
by the feverish activities of the war years.

Among the many satisfactions — apart from the constant daily
gratification that is truly the privilege of every physician — is
the fruition of a medical care plan for the state of Ohio, as a
result of the work of a committee of which I was the chairman.
I serve still on the board of directors of Ohio Medical Indemnity
and feel sincerely that the voluntary way of insuring against
the hazards of illness is the proper pattern for the American
people. It is to be hoped that we can be wise enough to ac-
complish self-discipline in as many local or state areas as may be
needed, rather than to have over-all national control imposed
upon us.

Another great satisfaction of the last four years has been the
responsibility imposed upon me by my selection as director of the
Department of Internal Medicine at the Jewish Hospital. To
have charge of the training program for young doctors, which,
in its expanded sense, had its inception with my assumption of the
post, is a constantly stimulating challenge. The perpetual admin-
istrative problems have given me a very deep love of the institu-
tion in which I work each day, and the guidance of colleagues
in our large department has instilled a depth of appreciation for
my medical fellows which I could not otherwise have obtained.

[ 743 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

All of this supplements the regular teaching in medicine which
falls to my lot at the Universicy and the daily (and, of course,
sometimes nightly) practice of medicine. To repeat, therefore,
the satisfactions are many and rich, and serve to sustain one well
in a rigorous profession.

Some golf, sporadic attention to photography, a Caribbean
cruise, and a California vacation, and usually a few weeks to
relax at the summer’s end in a small cottage in northern Michi-
gan, have served as diversions. If there is any regret during a most
pleasant existence thus far, it is the failure to have developed any
creative manual hobby.

As I contemplate the inventory, it has been, certainly, pretty in-
tensively medical. And then I wonder, naturally, as we all must —
what of the next twenty-five years? I find myself becoming in-
creasingly interested in ‘problems of health as opposed to the ill-
ness of people I see each day. The public welfare of our com-
munities as entities and especially of our rural areas, engages my
thought. Asa result of many factors, I have more and more con-
cern for the proper care of the ever enlarging number of old
people in our society, but among them, at least, the improved
knowledge available in my own field of medicine. And that care
must mean something much more than just convenient institutional
disposition! How shall the crying need for emotional stability in
our complicated existence be met so as to promote good health?
And how provide optimum nutrition which, I suspect, is probably
basically important for a good deal of sound positive health?

Closely related to the last item, I find myself spending more
and more time reading what I can and cogitating upon the problem
of a constantly increasing world population associated with a
rapidly diminishing store of resources exploited by man from the
soil, whence all sustenance derives. Have not these two pressures,
working in the same unfortunate direction with growing intensity,
been fundamentally at fault in the unrest of our modern world,
producing two violent explosions since just before our Class

went to Harvard and threatening now to produce an even
more shattering cataclysm? Unless this basic dual biological error
is corrected, can mankind achieve health? Will the human animal
be intelligent enough to accept fully the responsibility for deter-
mining his own destiny? At this moment it seems to me that the

[ 744]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

next twenty-five years will probably go pretty far towards pro-
viding some of the answers.

FRANK AMES ROYCE

HOME ApprEss: Spring Meadows Farm, Millis, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Appraisal Co., 53 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 13, 1901, Medford, Mass. parents: Frederick Page Royce, Eva
Ames.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924.

marRIED: Margaret Newlin, June 20, 1925, Whitford, Pa. cHitprReEN: Mar-
garet Newlin, July 10, 1926 (m. Alan K. Porter, Nov. 9, 1946); Barbara,
Feb. 27, 1929 (m. William Cameron Blackett, Dec. 4, 1948); Janet,
Sept. 14, 1930; Edith Harrison, Jan. 4, 1937. GranpcHitp: Henry Whit.
tier Porter, 2d, May 27, 1948.

OCCUPATION: New England manager, American Appraisal Company; partmer,
P. L. Warren & Company, financial consultants.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Citizens’ Military Training Corps, Fort Terry,
Plum Island, N. Y., summer of 1916; Reserve Officers’ Training Corps,
Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass. summer of 1918; active duty,
United States Naval Reserve, June, 1942-December, 1945, as photo-
graphic officer and air combat intelligence officer, Pacific Fleet.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Faulkner Hospital, Jamaica Plain, Mass., Free Hos-
pital for Women, Brookline, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Dedham Country & Polo Club,

National Association of Cost Accountants.
MY LADY came into my life considerably before any of us were
due to graduate and with her came a new sense of values which
at once changed the course of life which my more boyish imagi-
nation had charted.

Midyears in 1924 found me not only with a fiancée but a freshly
excised appendix with attendant complications and with no hope
of graduating on schedule. That was that so far as A.B., S.B., or
any other scholastic goal was concerned, and that was also that
with respect to my boyhood plans for travel and life abroad.

Life began in 1925 and has gone its crazy way steadily since.
Who, knowing my four sisters, would have forecast my four
daughters? Who among you have set up housekeeping in as
many as fourteen homes in four sections of the country? Two
years in Maryland, three in Boston, and five more in New York
City accounted for my construction and financial experience with
Stone & Webster. There followed the remaining years of peace in

[745 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

financial advisory service in Boston with Philip L. Warren, 1906,
my mentor in New York and my partner ever since.

The war, and the Navy, brought to me the fulfillment of my
boyhood ambition for travel w ith a vengeance — but at a cost
which is a perpetual nightmare to me. What I have not by now
seen of the world, I do not care to see. Three years of absence
cost me the joy of seeing three of my girls swing from pigtails
to lipstick. My shipboard companionships I shall forever cherish,
but the sores of loneliness and worry will never be mended.

Our home, our family, and our farm are all that Mig and I
now want of the world. Please, Uncle Joe, allow us to have them!

GEORGE DANIEL ROYER, JR.

HOME apprEss: 6655 Cherry St., Kansas City, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Federal Reserve Bank, Kansas City, Mo.

BorN: Aug. 14, 1902, Gove, Kans. parents: George Daniel Royer, Anna
Buck Simonton.

PREPARED AT: Gove High School, Gove, Kans.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

MarrieD: Mary Caston Washburn, July 16, 1944, Topeka, Kans.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Drafted as private, September, 1942; discharged
as technical sergeant, May, 1945.

F OLLOWING several pleasant but unexciting years as cashier
and vice- -president of a small bank in western Kansas, I chose the
field of bank examining with the idea of gaining valuable experi-
ence before settling down in a desirable location as a bank execu-
tive. My first work in this connection was with the Kansas
State Banking Department. In 1942 I resigned my position as
chief examiner upon being drafted into the armed forces. Since
my return to civilian life, I have been with the Federal Reserve
Bank of Kansas City. Although I have had opportunities to
re-enter the field of active banking, none has appeared to present
advantages to warrant the change and the fact that I am still
examining banks is, I believe, indicative of a genuine satisfaction
with my work which involves travel throughout the Tenth
Federal Reserve District.

Prior to September, 1942, my life followed a rather routine
pattern. About that time, however, the local draft board called

[ 746 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my number and in an incredibly short time I found myself in
the enlisted ranks. By accident, rather than by design, I was
assigned to the general’s control room where I spent the greater
part of three years charting the progress of the war. Although
my contribution to the war effort was negligible, I feel that my
years in the Army resulted in no little personal gain.

Married at long last, I am finding life with my most gracious
and charming wife full of pleasant surprises and added responsi-
bilities. In spite of inflation and high taxes, I anticipate the future
years with equanimity.

JOSEPH RUBIN

HOME apprEss: 416 Clinton Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Gardiner Shoe Co., Inc., Gardiner, Maine.

BORN: Dec. 20, 1902, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Hyman Rubin, Ida Wolfson.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

MaRRIED: Henriette Esther Shapiro, June 19, 1929, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Richard Hershel, Oct. 13, 1930; Alan Albert, Feb. 5, 1934; Judith Ann,

June 22, 1935.
HARVARD SON: Richard Hershel Rubin, ’52.
OccUPATION: Treasurer, Gardiner Shoe Company, Inc.

FOUR years after graduating from Harvard I spent one year at
Smith College — so to speak. My wife-to-be was a senior there
and I became somewhat of a fixture around Martha Wilson House
every weekend that year. Sequel: we were married the day after
her graduation. In the course of six years our happy family grew
to three children — two sons and a daughter. Richard, our elder
son, after graduating from Phillips Academy, Andover, Massa-
chusetts, is now at Harvard, Class of 1952. Alan and Judith, our
other children, are now fifteen years and thirteen years old
respectively, growing up altogether too fast.

I have been continuously in the shoe manufacturing business,
a very fascinating and complicated business, in which one either
dies young of apoplexy, heart failure, or other kindred sudden
death, or hopes to live to a ripe old age, somehow thriving on
the hectic pace. In spite of this, I am very happy to report that
my weight is about the same as twenty-five years ago, my appe-
tite is excellent, my heartbeat good, and my hair, although a little

( 747 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

thinner, is still without much grey. In my business, I am associated
with two brothers-in-law, one Harvard, ’28, the other Harvard
Law School, ’30. Possibly so much “Harvard Indifference” con-
centrated and directed against the killing influences of the shoe
manufacturing business has been somewhat effective. Durin
the war we turned over most of our manufacturing facilities to the
United States Army and produced several million pairs of Army
garrison oxfords, service and combat boots. Normally we manu-
facture and distribute our own trademarked “Yorktown” shoes
for men, and “Modern Priscilla” shoes for women.

With the factory in Gardiner, Maine, and my home in Brook-
line, Massachusetts — the two places 170 miles apart —I have
had to do much travelling between the two points to be in Maine
half the week and in Boston the other half. This has been a little
rough going, especially over the last twelve years, because I could
not be with my family except at the end of the week. The sum-
mer time, however, has its compensating advantage. During the
summer my family moves up to our camp on Lake Cobbosseecon-
tee — one of Maine’s beautiful lakes. Here we are together and I
am only a half-hour drive from the factory. We are in the woods,
quite alone, with an eleven-mile lake in front of us and all the
boating, fishing, and swimming that one could want. So, during
the summer I am able to be with my family, to be near my busi-
ness, to enjoy the equivalent of a two-week vacation every week-
end,

The highlight of the past few years was a two-month automo-
bile trip to the Pacific Coast which we made en masse in the sum-
mer of 1948. It was not only the means for all of us to see the
country but a wonderful opportunity to integrate our family
by living closely together and sharing the many and varied ex-
periences. It was a thrilling and highly successful trip from which
we all benefited immeasurably.

Just when I was beginning to feel old age creeping up on me,
an interesting thing happened. My son, Dick, brought all the en-
thusiasm and curiosity of a Harvard freshman back into my point
of view. (I can’t remember being quite as enthusiastic as he is.)
It is amazing to observe how rosy all things are as seen through
freshman eyes. Very refreshing indeed at the beginning of
twenty-five years out to be so close to the first year in.

[ 748 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEYER RUBIN

HOME ADDRESS: 58 Floyd St., Dorchester, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Middletown Rubber Co., 111 Lincoln St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 1, 1902, Medford, Mass. PARENTS: Jacob Rubin, Elizabeth
Muskin.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: S.B., 1924; RABBI (Jewish Theol.
Seminary of America), 1928.

marrieD: Nell Weinstein, March 16, 1930, Portland, Oregon. CHILDREN:
Judah Jacob, Aug. 5, 1932; Joel Moshe, Jan. 12, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Sales representative for Middletown Rubber Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Norwich Ministerial Association, 1935; secretary,
Board of Jewish Ministers of Philadelphia, 1940-42.

AFTER being ordained a rabbi at the Jewish Theological Semi-
nary of America in 1928, I received a call to serve a synagogue in
Portland, Oregon, where I remained for five years. Subsequently,
I was rabbi of congregations in Norwich, Connecticut, Philadel-
phia and Brookline, Massachusetts. In 1946, after having been in
the active ministry for eighteen years, I was forced, due to poor
health, to engage in some new form of endeavor. I then became
the New England representative for the Middletown Rubber
Company of Middletown, Connecticut.

JACOB LOUIS RUDD

HOME AppREss: 57 Lee St., Cambridge 39, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 371 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: May 4, 1902, East Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Samuel Rudd, Fanny Baron.

PREPARED AT: Mankato High School, Mankato, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; M.D., 1928.

MARRIED: Dorothy Wiseman, Sept. 3, 1936, New Hampshire. cua: Edward
Jerrold, Jan. 7, 1946.

occupaTION: Physician; phystatricist.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Private first class, Mf{edical Detachment, Fifth
Infantry, Minnesota National Guard; enlisted Sept. 12, 1918; honorably
discharged, Dec. 6, 1918, because of under age; on active duty during
flu epidemic at Moose Lake, Minn. and other places; rst lieutenant,
Medical Corps, 1929-30, Regular Army, Fort Banks, Mass. contract
surgeon, United States Army (part-time), Watertown Arsenal, Mass.
1932-42; United States Navy Medical Corps (a) Chief, Department of
Physical Medicine, United States Naval Hospital, Philadelphia, Pa.
December, 1942, to March, 1944, lieutenant commander, (b) Chief,

[ 749 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Department of Physical Medicine, Pearl Harbor Hospital No. 128,
Honolulu, T. H., April, 1944, to November, 1945, commander, July,
1945, (c) honorably discharged from the Navy on Feb. 6, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Social Hygiene Committee, Cambridge Tubercu-
losis and Health Association, 1940 until war, reélected 1946; manager,
Cambridge Tuberculosis and Health Association, since 1946; director,
Massachusetts Society for Social Hygiene, since 1946, New England
Society of Physical Medicine, Cambridge Young Men’s Christian Asso-
ciation, 1939 until the war, and since 1946, Middlesex Zionist Organiza-
tion, 1947, Reserve Officers of the Naval Services, Boston Chapter,
1947-50; Massachusetts State Department Surgeon for American Vet-
erans of World War II, 1947.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Physical Medicine; American Medical
Association; Cambridge Medical Improvement Society; American Con-
gress of Physical Medicine, New England Society of Physical Medicine,
Major General Henry Knox Lodge; Kiwanis Club of Cambridge,
Constitution Lodge, B'nai B'rith; Temple Israel Brotherhood; Physical
Education Department, Committee of Cambridge Young Men’s Chris-
tian Association.

PUBLICATIONS: “Observations on the Rehabilitation of War Wounded in a
Navy Physical Medicine Department,” Archives of Physical Therapy,
May, 1944; “Induced Resistance to Prolonged Sun Exposure,” Ar-
chives of Physical Therapy, June, 1944, abstract in the Journal of the
American Medical Association, Sept. 16, 1944, Year Book of Physical
Medicine, 1944; “Rehabilitation in the Navy,” Journal of Physical Edu-
cation, December, 1944; “Physical Therapy Units and Methods used by
the Naval Medical Department,” Medical Record, February, 1945, and
March, 1945; “Exercise for Fun,” Pearl Harbor Naval Hospital paper,
1945; “Dancing for Health,” Naval Hospital Medical Corps Monthly
and Journal of Physical Education, 1945; “Use of Tetanizing Current in
Myasthenia Gravis,” Archives of Physical Medicine, June, 1948; “Cor-
rective Physical Rehabilitation—An Effective Approach,” Military
Surgeon, August, 1948; “Ultraviolet in Light Ray Allergy,” accepted
for publication by Archives of Physical Medicine.

AFTER graduating from the Medical School, finishing an intern-
ship and serving a year in the Regular Army, I began the practice
of medicine in Cambridge. In 1932 1 was appointed part-time con-
tract surgeon at the Watertown Arsenal. There I became inter-
ested in the field of physical medicine which, at the time, was
little known and relatively unimportant. It was not until 1940
that the major part of my work involved the use of physical
agents. This interest was increased during service in the Navy
(1942-46), at the West Roxbury Veterans Hospital (1946-) and
presently at the Boston City Hospital, Cambridge City Hospital,

[750]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

as well as in private practice at 371 Commonwealth Avenue, Bos-
ton.

As I began late in a medical specialty, so I began a married life
later than the average university graduate. The addition of a now
twenty-two-month old active boy can be an exhausting experi-
ence to one who is trying to do the amount of work I have to do.
There are many compensations, however, and he is really quite
a cute kid (say his grandparents).

My travelling itinerary was obligingly supplied by the Navy.
It involved trips and work in San Francisco and in Hawaii. On
the return from the Pacific Coast, my wife and I, like so many
others, took in the sights from San Francisco to Boston.

My latest hobby started with playing softball at Pearl Harbor
and on the Naval medical team. On September 4, 1947, I played
for “Medical” against “Surgical” at the West Roxbury Veterans
Hospital, and tore an Achilles tendon (heel cord) while running
for first base. On Orthopedic Ward rounds, and about every-
where else, after my “operation,” it was stressed pointedly that I
was too old to engage in strenuous games. This depressed me
‘ only until I discovered an article which stated: “Rupture of the
tendon Achilles is found in young, vigorous athletes.”, A few
months ago, during a conversation with Coach Valpey, he invited
me to “scrimmage” with the squad. I revealed my age and showed
him my “incision.” He remarked that Oosterbann had stepped
back to throw a forward pass and had incurred the same disabil-
ity. This puts me as close as I can get to being a great end as well
as a “young athlete.” .

Upon personal crystal gazing, the future looks as if it were to
be not too uneventful. I anticipate eventual retirement to a period,
if not of leisure, then at least of restricted work load. Possible
alternatives to the above are full-time Veterans Administration
physician or back in the Navy (seems hkely).

JACOB PHILIP RUDIN

HOME AppRESS: 7 Old Colony Lane, Great Neck, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREss: Temple Beth-El of Great Neck, Old Mill Road, Great
Neck, Long Island, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 5, 1902, Malden, Mass. parents: Louis Rudin, Dora Vendrofsky.

PREPARED aT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

C751]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. Curt Jaude, 1924; Rabbi, M.n.1.
(Jewish Inst. of Religion), 19:8; p.v. (ibid.), 1948.

MARRIED: Elsie Audrey Katz, June 29, 19:6, New York, N. Y. cHivpren:
Stephen Isaac, May 28, 1931; Priscilla Sarah, Aug. 8, 1934.

occuPaTION: Rabbi.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcoRD: Active duty, Chaplains Corps, United States
Navy, July 1, 1942-Nov. 8, 1945; entered with rank of lieutenant, later
promoted lieutenant commander; stationed in San Francisco and Bos-
ton; two years’ service overseas in Pacific area and Aleutians, first
Jewish Navy chaplain in Aleutians.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant to president, 1930-45, president, Alumni Association,
1930-31, member of board of trustees, 1939-43, 1945-48, Jewish Institute
of Religion; member, executive board, Central Conference of American
Rabbis, 1932-33, Division of Religious Activities, National Jewish Wel-
fare Board, 1942-48, president, Great Neck Ministers’ Association,
1948-49; chaplain, United States Merchant Marine Academy, King’s
Point, N. Y., 1947-48.

MEMBER OF: Central Conference of American Rabbis; New York Board of
Rabbis.

PUBLICATIONS: So You Like Puzzles; A Hagada For Children.

I CAN'T complain at all. After twenty-two years of marriage,
my wife still treats me practically as an equal; my children are
reasonably tolerant of me; the members of my congregation, after
eighteen years, pretend that thev never heard the sermon before,
and being compassionate, seem inclined to let me stay on.

I've been lucky. Professions have a tendency, once you're in,
to turn into something you never anticipated. The grass on the
other side begins to look lush and green; on your side, sparse and
mostly crab. But the ministry hasn’t played any tricks — at least,
none serious; and although there have been patches of crab grass,
there have been a lot of four leaf clovers as well. To coin an ex-
pression — if I had it to do over again, I would.

As a chaplain in the Navy during the war, and as a minister
in civilian life, I have worked with all sorts and conditions of
men. Weare pretty much alike, I have discovered, with the same
aspirations and hopes, the same fears and frustrations. Maybe some
day — or century — we shall recognize that we belong together,
and we shall begin to tear down some of the walls we have been
building so desperately high and so foolishly thick. Maybe some
day — or century — we shall level them, so that we can take a
good look at each other (and sce ourselves), and listen carefully
to each other (and hear ourselves).

[752]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Meanwhile, like the rest of us, I’m doing what I can. I heave
an occasional brick through the windows of cant and hypoc-
risy; I take a swipe at bigotry and intolerance; I try to be a good
neighbor and a useful citizen in my community.

As for those fascinating glimpses into the private lives of others
that we all enjoy, I fear that I can make but slim contribution.
We live on a pleasant street, in a pleasant house, with a bird bath
in the backyard, some rambler roses and peonies, a lilac bush that
blooms indifferently, and a white picket fence that needs re-
painting at annoyingly frequent intervals. We have the usual
window that sticks and the faucet that leaks.

At various times we have had a cat, dogs, a canary, and tropical
fish. I collected stamps for many years, hooked rugs, and once
carved a ship model to my amazement. I can light a lamp, turn on
a radio, and plug in an electric fan. More intricate mechanical
operations puzzle me. For a list of sports at which I am not adept,
see an encyclopedia of sports; but put me down as a sailing en-
thusiast. In politics I am skeptical; in religion I am liberal, and I
don’t argue as much as I used to.

Twenty-five years after graduation, any conclusions? Yes, a
few. The war tore me loose from my moorings, as it did millions
of others. I saw a small corner of its terror and destruction.
Another war will finish us all. It must not happen again, and we
must have the will and the intelligence to prevent it.

Nor is there much time. We must hurry.

THEODORE SLEEPER RUGGLES

HOME ADpREsS: 35 W. Ninth St., New York 11, N. Y.

OFFIcE apprEss: John Price Jones Corp., 150 Nassau St., New York 7, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 7, 1902, Auburndale, Mass. Parents: Frank Worthington
Ruggles, May Emily Sleeper.

PREPARED At: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1924; A.M., 1929.

MARRIED: Sylvia Spencer, Dec. 20, 1940, Washington, D. C.

occupation: Public relations.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Served during the war on staffs of American
Red Cross, U.S.O., and National War Fund.

IN MY public relations work I keep finding new and more in-
teresting things to do. Most recently — and currently — it has

[753 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

been particularly gratifying to have had the opportunity of work-
ing for Harvard, in association with Keith Kane, ’22, David Mc-
Cord, ’21, and, in my own organization, John Price Jones, ’o2,
and Robert F. Duncan, 712.

Like all Harvard men, I am glad I can report that my student
years proved only the beginning of my education, which has
been nourished by an overgrown library now threatening to
displace the inhabitants of our New York apartment.

Iam very fortunate in having a wife, who, as a former profes-
sional associate, shares business as well as personal interests.

Most recent of our personal interests is an 80-acre, 250-year-old
farm on the Connecticut River at East Haddam. Judging by the
-experiences of others, notably the “Blandings,” we have plenty
in store to keep us occupied for years to come.

FRANCIS JOSEPH RYAN

HOME appress: 10 Gloria Rd., West Roxbury, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 226, 10 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: September 10, 1899, Boston, Mass. parents: Daniel Francis Ryan,
Anne Alicoe Donovan.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923, DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

marrieD: Madeleine Hart Brown, Sept. 19, 1925, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Francis Joseph, Jr., Feb. 20, 1928, Janice Madeleine, Sept. 29, 19395
Daniel Francis, Oct. 12, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Herbert Daniel Ryan, ’29.

occupation: Director of public relations, Suffolk Downs; publicity director,
Boston Bruins Hockey Team, sports broadcaster.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Central Officers’ Training School, Camp Lee,
Va, 1918.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Information officer, Massachusetts Committee
on Public Safety.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Eastern Racing Association, Inc. (Suffolk
Downs), 1948-49.

HAVING been a staff sports writer for the Boston Traveler in
my undergraduate days, it was natural that I should continue in
the newspaper field following graduation and this I did, adding
certain other activities.

In the fall of 1924, the late Charles F, Adams introduced pro-
fessional hockey to the United States, and purchased a Boston

[754]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

franchise from the National Hockey League. He named the team
the Boston Bruins, and before its first scheduled game made ar-
rangements with the then infant industry of radio to broadcast
the Boston home games. He named Frank Ryan as the play-by-

lay broadcaster, which I have been now for twenty-five years.
In addition, during this last season I have done the third period
play-by-play on television. Since 1926 I have also handled the
Bruins’ publicity, and had various radio sports programs.

Following the Princeton break, Bill Bingham, looking about for
a publicity director for the Harvard Athletic Association, asked
me to leave the Traveler and go to Cambridge. Ten years of
pleasant relations followed with Association officials, coaches,
undergraduates, and faculty members. With the cooperation of
all concerned, it was a source of satisfaction to have the New York
football writers vote in 1937 that Harvard had “the best press re-
lations and the best run press box in the East.”

Came 1939, and as the Harvard Crimson said in announcing the
change, Ryan was “off to the races.” He went to Suffolk Downs
as publicity director, where he still holds forth as vice-president
in charge of public relations and publicity. Too bad that Suffolk
will be between seasons at Commencement period. That tote
board comes up with eight winners every race day.

I have had a very normal family life; a nice wife, a Wheelock
graduate, who was a Brookline kindergarten teacher at the time
of our marriage, and three fine children. That’s the story.

WILSON COOMBS RYDER

HOME ApprREss: Dresden Mills, Maine.

BORN: Oct. 24, 1902, Vineyard Haven, Mass. parents: Harland Holmes
Ryder, Isabella Frances Paun.

PREPARED AT: Shead Memorial High School, Eastport, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude (Bowdoin
Coll.), 1925.

MaRRiED: Zadia Gertrude Barter, Oct. 4, 1929, Dresden Mills, Mfaine.
CHILDREN: Wilson Coombs, Jr., April 29, 1930; Harland Holmes, May
19, 1932; Arthur Linwood, April 15, 1935.

OCCUPATION: Farming.

THE greater part of my time has been devoted to my farming.
In this I have attained, at the best, only limited success. The ful-

[755]

HARVARD CLASS OF I9Q24

fillment of many of my ambitions still lies in the future. I have
found great happiness i in my family and enjoy ment in my work.

I wish that I could reward Fritz’s persistency with a longer
report, but this is pretty much the record — enjoyment and satis-
faction in life during the past twenty-five vears, with success still
to be gained.

KENNETH SHAW SAFE

HOME aDbRESS: 99 George St., Providence, R. I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 15 Westminster St., Providence, R. I.

BORN: April 21, 1902, Newport, R. I. parents: Thomas Shaw Safe, Harriet
Ives Gammell.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1924 (25).

MarRIED: Louise King, April 24, 1926, Tuxedo Park, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Edith, March 5, 1927; Harriet Hope, March 23, 1928 (died November 3,
1946); Kenneth Shaw, Jr., Oct. 13, 1929; Louise King, Sept. 26, 1934.

HARVARD SON: Kenneth Shaw Safe, Jr., ’51.

OCCUPATION: Trustee.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U.S.N.R., April,
1942; lieutenant commander, March, 1944; commander, November,
1945.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Sector air raid warden, Civilian Defense,
1941—42.

orrices HELD: Director, since 1946, assistant secretary, 1930-46, Rhode
Island Hospital Trust Company; assistant cashier, 1934-46, manager of
Foreign Department, 1938-42, Rhode Island Hospital National Bank;
director, Providence Mutual Fire Insurance Company, since 1934,
Lonsdale Company, 1931-42; vice-president and director, Boston Wire
Sutcher Company, 1934-42; vice-president, Beverly Land Company,
1934-42; trustee, since 1932, secretary, since 1946, Rhode Island Hos-
pital, trustee, St. George’s School, 1941-42, since 1947, director, 1934-
40, president, 1936-40, R.LS.P.C.C.; treasurer, 1938-46, president, since
1946, Rhode Island Humane Education Society; director, 1941-42, since
1945, member of executive committee, 1941-42, Rhode Island Blue
Cross, member, Diocesan Council and Finance Department, Rhode
Island Episcopal Convention, 1939-42, vice-president, Rhode Island
Historical Society, since 1947; vice-chairman, Rhode Island Committee,
British War Relief Society, 1940-42.

Member OF: Hope Club, Agawam Hunt Club, Twelfth Night Club, Provi-
dence, Knickerbocker and Brook Clubs, New York; Newport Country
Club; Clambake Club, Spouting Rock Beach Association; Newport
Reading Room, Brenton Point Gun Club.

[756]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IN RETROSPECT, I find that my life for the past twenty-five
years has been a rather sedentary one. The habit of sitting at my
work began in 1926 when, after leaving Oxford to enter matri-
mony, my wife and I settled ourselves in Providence and I went
to work for the Hospital Trust Company. My first job consisted
of plunking an adding machine in the “block” department, while
sitting on a high stool. One job in the bank led to another, but in
each department we were supplied with stools. In 1930 came
promotion to the Officers’ Platform and a desk with name-plate,
and since that time I have done most of my sitting behind desks.

With the exception of the war years, the Safes stayed pretty
much at home. We raised a family and took part in the activities
of the community. As we spent our summers in Newport, within
commuting distance of the bank, we generally took my vacations
in the winter — going to Bermuda or Nassau or Florida to grab
some sunshine, for which Providence in the winter is not famous.

In 1929 I took six months’ leave of absence and we went around
the world. It may be thought the bank was lenient in granting
such a long leave, but at that time I was working in the Foreign
Department and, as we travelled through Asia and Europe, [
visited many of our correspondents and met people who, until
then, had only been signatures at the foot of a letter. Some of
these calls were subsequently rather helpful to the bank and a few
of its customers. We visited Europe again in 1933 and 1938, but
only for brief trips.

Pearl Harbor wrought changes in most of our lives. It took
some weeks before its effect on Providence, and the bank and its
personnel could be evaluated.

Early in 1942 I started looking for a job in which I hoped I
might be more helpful in the war effort. I found that the Navy
would take me and, after the usual red tape had been untangled, in
April I received a commission as lieutenant, United States Naval
Reserve. I was ordered to report for “Temporary Duty under
Instruction” to the Second “Indoctrination” School at Quonset
on my fortieth birthday, and arrived smelling strongly of birthday
cake and brandy.

The next six weeks were not sedentary! In June I was graduated
and ordered to Newport, Rhode Island, where I was stationed until
released to inactive duty in November, 1945. I was attached to

[757]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

the Eastern Sea Frontier and served successively as staff secretary,
duty officer, controller, operations officer, and, eventually, after
the ‘Narragansett Group was absorbed by the Northern Group, as
commander, Newport Detachment, Northern Group, Eastern
Sea Frontier — a nom de guerre of which I am very proud.

Our primary task was anti-submarine warfare but in addition
we were charged with the codrdination of all air, surface, and
sub-surface activities in the area. And the “area” included not
only Narragansett Bay and the waters adjacent thereto, but ex-
tended several hundred miles out to sea. Those three and a half
years were not sedentary ones either!

Upon release to inactive duty, my wife and I took a long va-
cation, part of it in Arizona and California, and then returned
once more to Providence and the sedentary life.

PAUL FREDERIC SAINTONGE

HOME ApprESS: 2 Dunlap Pl., South Hadley, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mount Holvoke College, South Hadley, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 7, 1904, Ware, Mass. PARENTS: Louis Edward Saintonge, Delia
Marie Bombard.

PREPARED aT: Ware High School, Ware, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cunt laude, 1924; A.M. 19273
PH.D, 1930.

Marriep: Constance Mather Blake Meadnis, Sept. 6, 1930, New London,
Conn.

‘OccUPATION: Professor, chairman of department, French language and
literature, Mount Holyoke College.

OFFices HELD: Member, board of directors, chairman, Foreign Child Service
Committee, since 1946, Committee for Colleges, since 1946, Committee
on Cultural Relations, since 1947, European observer, 1946, director of
Cultural Affairs in Europe, 1947, Save the Children Federation, vice-
president, France Forever (Connecticut Valley Chapter), 1941-45;
chairman, New England Modern Language Association (Connecticut
Valley Chapter), 1944-45.

MEMBbrAR oF: Modern Language Association of America; New England
Modern Language Association, American Association of Teachers of
French, Societe des Professeurs de frangais en Amérique; American
Association of University Professors.

pusLications: Les Mots et les Idées, 1931; The Influence of Horace on
Ronsard and Montaigne, 1936, Fifty Years of Molicre Studies, a Bibliog-
raphy, 1942; Manual for Cultural Interchange between American and
European schools, 1947; numcrous articles and studies,

[758]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER leaving college in 1924, I had a year’s experience teach-
ing in the South at the University of North Carolina. I returned
to the friendly atmosphere of Cambridge as instructor of French
at Harvard, where I remained as part-time teacher and graduate
student till 1928 with summer work in Paris thrown in. In
1928 I was awarded the Sheldon Travelling Fellowship from Har-
vard and spent the year studying at the University of Paris and
finishing a doctoral thesis. Once this hurdle was passed, I came to
Mount Holyoke College as assistant professor of French and I’ve
liked it so much that I haven’t wanted to leave the Connecticut
Valley. Every summer up to the outbreak of the war, I spent in
Europe, working on various materials for publication, and for
two years I had the good fortune to spend the entre year in Paris,
once, during 1933 and 1934, as fellow of the American Council
of Learned Societies, transcribing the manuscript story of a scan-
dalous bishop of the eighteenth century. In 1938 I spent a sab-
batical leave on the Continent and at Oxford where my wife was
enrolled as a student. I felt it was time for me to become a stu-
dent again so as not to forget the student’s point of view. I have
tried to keep up that role every so often in my teaching career;
I’ve been a student of zodlogy for two years and, more recently,
of Russian, a language I despair of ever learning.

Another experience came with the war when I worked in a
defense plant after teaching hours. The swing-shift from three to
eleven P.M. taught me a great deal about the unacademic. It's
this work that led me into another field immediately after the
war — relief work. I became associated with Save the Children
Federation soon after it had established its program of material
relief to destitute children in devastated countries. I spent the
summer of 1946 as European observer for the Federation, working
in the Paris office and visiting devastated regions. My wife and I
made extended tours of inspection of schools in Normandy and
southwestern France. We were the first Americans to visit the
completely destroyed city of Royan and to bring material assist-
ance to its schools. We delivered clothing and school materials
in many devastated regions, travelling by jeep, truck, or in an
ancient Simca which we literally pushed around the country-
side. That same year I was an official guest of the French gov-
ernment, being one of the one hundred professors invited to

[759]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

spend the summer in France. On my return I lectured all over the
country, soliciting funds as well as advocating a cultural inter-
change program between American and European schools. In
1947 I went abroad again, this time as director of Cultural Re-
lations of the Federation. I worked in Paris where the Ministry
of National Education formally accepted the Federation’s program
of cultural interchange between the schools of our two countries.
I then proceeded to Belgium and Holland where I was the official
guest of the government. Since then I have divided my time be-
tween South Hadley and New York with the hope that an in-
ternational program of cultural interchange between American
and Furopean schools may lead to lasting understanding and
cooperation. This work for peace has been recently rewarded
by my receiving two decorations from the French government —
the Palmes Académiques and the Légion d’Honneur.

THORVALD SANCHEZ

HOME ADDRESS: 6 y 13, Miramar, Havana, Cuba.

OFFICE appRESS: Helados Guarina S.A., Concha y Via Blanca, Havana, Cuba.

BORN: Sept. 8, 1903, Havana, Cuba. parents: Bernabe Sanchez, Anais Cul-
mell,

PREPARED AT: Storm King School, Cornwall-on-Hudson, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924.

MARRIED: Ernestina Sanchez, July 4, 1932, Havana, Cuba. cuitpren: Thor-
vald, June 11, 1933; Hilda, March 14, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: Eduardo Sanchez, ’26.

occupation: President, Helados Guarina S.A.

MEMBER OF: Havana Yacht Club, Havana Country Club, Vedado Tennis
Club.

FROM Cambridge to Camaguey, Cuba, was quite a jump and
change of surroundings, but I managed to hang on for eight years
at father’s cattle ranches, There I saw milk being thrown away
in such quantities that I bought the volumes connected with the
industry, and remembered my Widener Library training while
establishing butter and cheese factorics in Camaguey, which
proved quite successful. Later [ founded the Guarina Ice Cream
Factory at Flavana, which now covers the whole island. Will
you have a Popsicle?

During the war I applied my fishing knowledge (my dearest

[ 760 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
hobby) to producing all the Vitamin A I could out of shark

livers. This was my only contribution to the war. Now that we
are all war-mongers, however, I hope to do more, if . . . but God
forbid.

I enjoy fishing, hunting, and flying when I am able to get away
from increasing labor troubles. I shall also enjoy comparing what
twenty-five years have done to my “boy friends.”

FREDERICK LaMOTTE SANTEE

HOME ADDRESS: 5078 Orville Ave., Baltimore 5, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 5200 Wright Ave., Baltimore 5, Md.

BORN: Sept. 17, 1906, Wapwallopen, Pa. parents: Charles LaMotte Santee,
Verna Caroline Lloyd.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 2agna cum laude, 1924; B.A. (Univ.
of Oxford), 1926; M.a. (ibid.), 1929; M.v. (Johns Hopkins Univ.), 1938.

marRiED: Edith Rundle, Dec. 13, 1928, Allentown, Pa. (divorced 1942);
Betty Addis, 1942, Cumberland, Md. campren: Ruth, March 18, 1930
(married W. J. McKnight, Feb. 14, 1948).

occuPATION: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant (Medical Corps) United States Naval

Reserve, 1943-45.

IAM the youngest member of the Class, probably the least suc-
cessful, and possibly the only one who has never revisited Har-
vard. Perhaps these facts, on which my claim to uniqueness is
based, are somehow interrelated. For years I kept up a corres-
pondence, written largely in Latin, with my great teacher, the
late Professor E. K. Rand. Writing Latin was the most valuable
thing I got from Harvard. Many of you will, I fear, conclude
that I got little else of value.

My life has been beset by poverty and turmoil. It is a story
of repeated attempts to root myself somewhere, of repeated fail-
ures to hold fast to my chosen career as a college teacher, in a
world in which few can be taught, fewer want to be, and a social-
istic habit of thought reduces even those few to uniform patterns
of empty gesture.

Three lonely and studious years abroad — the most strenuous
of my life —as Sheldon Fellow and Fellow of the American
Academy in Rome led to six years of precarious teaching at Le-

[ 761 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

high and Vanderbilt. Surrounded constantly by a few devoted
students, I did my real teaching extra-curriculum, was ousted by
the depression, and became first a Realsilk salesman, then a medi-
cal student. Immediately after graduation from medical school,
I seized the first teaching position offered and for four years played
a smal] part in the humanistic revival at Kenyon College.

I opposed our entrance into World War II, was promptly
drafted, and commissioned by the Navy in the Medical Corps.
Three years of service here and in the South Pacific left me
heavily in debt, since I had to support two families living in
different places. By the end of the war, inflation and the needs of
my dependents had advanced so far that I saw that the salary of an.
ordinary college professor would be inadequate. After four
months of working with employment agencies, I could wait no
longer. There was nothing to do but practise medicine. For low
initial outlay and quick returns, I selected a government housing
project on the outskirts of Baltimore. Before a year had passed,
Stringfellow Barr and Scott Buchanan invited me to join them
at St. John’s on a salary I thought might suffice. The same year
their finances collapsed and I had to buy back my old practice.

Here J am ina dreary neighborhood, ministering to a demanding
people, and more and more giving thought to their ills only for
the sake of the money I hope they will pay. I recognize that
money is my only aim in life as it should have been from the start.

In religion, I lean towards anglo-catholicism, am a member of
no church. .

In politics, I believe in the decentralization of government and
as little government as possible. I am a pre-New Deal Democrat.

+ ANTHONY ELDER SAUNDERS

BoRN: Aug. 20, 1902, Ottawa, Ont. Canada. parents: Frederick Albert
Saunders, Grace Augusta Elder.
PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 19245 S.B. IN MECH. ENGIN,, 1926.
MarRiED: Phyllis Leatherbee, Oct. 16, 1926, Brookline, Mass, CHILDREN:
Prudence Brewster, June 27, 1928; William Bradford, May 7, 1931.

pirp: Nov. 12, 1943, Birmingham, Mich.
wivow: Mrs. Anthony E, Saunders, 792 Fairfax Ave., Birmingham, Mich.

[ 762]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ANTHONY ELDER SAUNDERS completed preparatory work
at the Hackley School and entered Harvard with the Class. In
college he was a member of the Freshman Cross Country Squad
and the Boylston Chemical Club. After receiving an A.B. degree
in 1924, he attended the Engineering School and was awarded
an S.B. in mechanical engineering two years later.

Shortly after the granting of his second degree, he accepted
a position in the patent department of the Packard Motor Com-
pany. In 1934 he reported to the Class Secretary that he was a
patent engineer with the Detroit Edison Company and later noted
that he had become a patent adviser for the company and other
private clients.

FRANCIS WENDEROTH SAUNDERS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Sheepscot, Maine.

BoRN: March 24, 1go1, Philadelphia, Pa. PARENTS: Franklin Saunders, Flor-
ence Wenderoth.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 19243 A.M. 1926; ED.M., 1934.

MARRIED: Pauline Dockham Curtis, Aug. 20, 1929, Cambridge, Mass.

occuPaTION: Fine arts (landscape painting); commercial art.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Massachusetts State Guard, World War IT.

OFFICES HELD: Visiting artist, Colby College, 1948.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club; Grange.

PUBLICATIONS: Illustrated: Farmer Takes A Wife; The House That Jack
Built; And One to Grow On.

THREE years ago I terminated a twenty-year teaching career to
devote full time to landscape painting, writing, and commercial
art work. I had always wanted to do this, but the bother of making
a living has plagued a good many artists in their time. During the
teaching years I painted furiously in the summer and struggled

.

to keep it going the rest of the year, weekends and evenings w “hen

energy permitted.

When one is forty-five, it requires either moronic or youthful
spirit to make an abrupt change in one’s way of life. I am not
quite sure how our step is regarded by many of our city friends.
At any rate we made the change from a surburban area of Boston
to a roo per cent rural area of Maine. We moved to what had
been our summer home, a farm house on the banks of the Sheepscot

[ 763 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

in a little village of the same name in the Wiscasset-Damariscotta
region.

In the years spent here I have been striving to make up for lost
time. In the past I was too busy teaching and learning something
about painting to do much exhibiting of work, but recently I have
begun to ship my stuff around, starting with two solo Maine
shows. A Maine museum has acquired a picture, and in 1948 I
was visiting artist at Colby College. (Museum art directors in
the Class of 1924 please note and ask for sample.)

My principal work in the commercial field has been to play
Cruikshank to John Gould (the Will Rogers of Maine). We have
had one best-seller and are hoping for another, soon to be pub-
lished. When I left “Lampy” I thought I had drawn my last
cartoon, but cartooning has proved to be great fun again. I have
also written and illustrated for The Christian Science Monitor,
and drawn pictures for several other books.

Not for a moment have we regretted our step. A day in the
country has a delightful air of uncertainty about it. What you
do may depend on the weather or the way you feel when you
get out of bed in the morning. You may work like the very devil
day and night, and then you may decide to chuck it for a while
and go to Boston or New York for a weekend and a show, or then
again you may knock off and go down to the shore for “a pair
of lobsters.”

I have also become a farmer of sorts. My proudest possession
is a walk-behind tractor (guests like to run it). 1 might add that
I am now a “patron of husbandry,” being secretary of local
grange, Garrison Hill Number 497.

Last year we purchased an old house that was built in 1800.
The attached carriage house, some fifty feet in length, which had
been originally a fashioning shed for the construction of sailing
brigs built off the property, we turned into a small art gallery.
Two days after we first opened the gallery the State closed the
only road through the village to rebuild the bridge. After a year
of detouring, it is now possible to visit us direct. Please do, nearly
everyone comes to Maine,

It has been years since we have done much travelling, but
we aim to remedy this, too, At present writing we are negotiating
a freighter-trip to somewhere. For future reference, if you live

[ 764 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

west of the Prairies or south of the Mason-Dixon line, we'll swap
you days in Maine (summer here) for days in your beautiful
spot any other time of year. Do I dare say we can sleep sixteen?

_ CARWIN RALPH SAVAGE

HOME ADDRESS: Boxford, Mass.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Westinghouse Electric Supply Co. 95 Brookline Ave.,
Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 3, 1901, Ashmont, Mass. parents: Hanson Moore Savage, Bessie
Kellogg.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1921.

MARRIED: Olive Torrey Jermyn, Oct. 20, 1923, Cohasset, Mass. CHILDREN:
Nancy, Sept. 15, 1924 (m. Glenn Taylor, Jr.);.Marianne, 1927; Jean,
1928. GRANDCHILD: Glenn Taylor, 3d, 1948.

occupation: New England district sales manager for Westinghouse tele-
vision and radio, Westinghouse Electric Supply Company.

HAYDN PAGE SAWYER

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; A.M., 1928.

SAWYER spent several years at Harvard after he graduated from
the College. During those years he took some courses at the
Business and Law Schools. In the fall of 1926 he began the study
of English in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and in
1928 received his A.M. degree. Soon thereafter he was employed
by Mergenthaler Linotype Company. At his urgent request the
Secretary has omitted from the table above the usual statistical
information.

ARTHUR WILLIAM SCHARFELD

HOME appRESS: The Dorchester House, Washington, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Press Bldg., Washington, D. C,

BORN: June 22, 1903, Cleveland, Ohio. Parents: Maurice Bond Scharfeld,
Lena Bernsteen.

PREPARED AT: East High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

marrieD: Lucile Hadley Speer, June 19, 1933, Gettysburg, Pa. (divorced
1946). CHILD: Diane, Nov. 11, 1939.

occupation: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Major, Army of the United States, served during

[ 765 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

1944 and 1945 in European Theatre, including service with civil affairs
in France, military government in Germany, and with target force
attached to Sixth Army Group.

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive committee, Federal Communications Bar
Association.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; District of Columbia Bar Associa-

tion; Federal Communications Bar Association; American Fox Terrier
Club.

PuBLicaTions: Miscellaneous papers dealing with radio law and administra-
tive procedure for legal periodicals, former associate editor of Journal
of Radio Law, present supervisor of publication of Federal Communi-
cations Bar Journal.

GOAD No. 5 finally shamed me into meeting the deadline for

this Report and impressed me with the very simple fact that

during the recent twenty-five-year interval I have been continu-
ously procrastinating and meeting deadlines as an accepted mode
of life. I have often thought that I could get along better with
less procrastination but my more lethargic disposition has always
conquered that meritorious inclination, with the result that

“goads” and “frantic appeals” will continue to serve a useful

purpose in the furure only when the deadline draws near.

Looking back over past activities, I recall leaving the Law
School in 1928, passing the Ohio Bar examination in January,
1929, and then going to Washington as assistant counsel for the
Federal Radio Commission. This agency had just been established
to regulate all radio communications and appeared to me as a
likely haven for one with my lack of legal experience. Little did
I dream that I was a forerunner of the host of Langdell legalites
that began to arrive a few years later after 1 departed for what I
hoped was more rewarding private practice.

In January, 1931, I became associated with the Washington
office of the Chicago law firm of Kirkland, Fleming, Green &
Martin, primarily engaged in the practice of radio law and ap-
pellate work. Five years later I formed the partnership of Loucks
& Scharfeld in Washington, D. C., which terminated with my
entry into military service. After two and one half years of
active duty in the European Theatre, where my functions were
far removed from the law, I returned to private practice and now
strive to keep pace with ever-changing federal regulations and
legislation.

[ 766 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

As a hobby which was interrupted somewhat by the war, I
have bred, raised, and shown wire fox terriers, and I know of
little else that has been able to afford me the same thrill of relaxa-
tion. As a trophy of war, I returned with a boxer puppy born
and liberated on the day we captured Munich, and the saga of his
trip through Germany, France, and points west to Washington
renews my faith in human emotion versus government red tape.
As a result, whenever I look at him, I forget the cost. I’m more
thoroughly convinced that we may have won the war after all,
because we have retained those basic natural feelings which other
peoples have lost, or have forgotten.

ERNEST EDWARD SCHEFER

HOME apprEss: 119 S. Oak St., Falls Church, Va.

OFFICE appREsS: Dept. of State, 21st and Virginia Ave., Washington, D. C.

BORN: June 2, 1899, New York, N. Y. parents: Ernest Frederick Schefer,
Constance Bonner.

PREPARED aT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.; Morristown School, Morristown,
N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MarRieD: Eileen Mary Lenox-Conyngham, May 27, 1942, New York, N. Y.
cnitp: Anton Edward Bonner, Nov. 13, 1943.

OccuPATION: Departmental officer, Division of Philippine Affairs, Depart-
ment of State.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant trade commissioner, Department of Commerce,
1937-39; vice-consul of career and secretary, Diplomatic Service, Ameri- ‘
can Foreign Service, posts in Manila, Philippine Islands, and Batavia,
Netherlands East Indies, 1939-42; analyst, Foreign Broadcast Intelli-
gence Service, Federal Communications Commission, 1943-44.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; University Club, Washington,
D. C., Army & Navy Club, Polo Club, Carabao Club, Caluocan Golf
Club, Manila, P. I.; Harmonic Club, Batavia, Netherlands East Indies.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles on economic and political subjects in pub-
lications of the United States Departments of Commerce and Strate.

THE first nine years of my career after graduation were spent
unwillingly in the banking business in Wall Street. Believing it
to be my duty, I entered this activity in order to prepare myself
for a family banking business which blew up in the early days
of the depression. Sometime later, and also because of the de-
pression, I lost my bank job, which was a blessing in disguise.

I then entered federal government service and with two brief,

[ 767 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

distasteful exceptions in private corporate employment, I have
remained in this status to the present. My government jobs have
been mainly with the Departments of Commerce and State,
respectively, as an Assistant Trade Commissioner, a Career Vice-
Consul, and as a Departmental Officer. My foreign posts were
Manila, Philippine Islands, and Batavia, Netherlands East Indies.
I cannot help recalling those three and a half exciting years from
1938 to 1941, when in the Far East, I was sitting almost on top of
the powder keg which exploded at Pear] Harbor. For the past
four years I have held a minor job as a Departmental Officer in
the Philippine Division of the Department of State.

It interests me personally to explain that I resigned from the
American Foreign Service in order to marry an Anglo-Irish girl
(the Foreign Service has a somewhat silly rule against the mar-
riage of its officers to aliens) and to state emphatically that I am
delighted that I took this step mainly because I now lead a very
contented life. Included in this contentment is my young son
who, naturally, will be a member of the Harvard College Class
of 1961 or thereabouts.

Contrary to copy book adages, my rolling stone career, so far,
appears to be terminating happily with several stimulating inter-
ests, a moderate economic well-being and with a backlog of varied
experiences and extensive travel. Besides, my present job in the
State Department is not so fatiguing that in my spare time I am
unable to pursue satisfactorily my chief interest, the restoration
and reproduction of antique furniture, a satisfying activity mainly
because it combines creative pleasure with excellent possibilities
for profit —a consideration if I should decide again to change
my occupation. Finally, I can look forward to a retirement
without boredom and with the knowledge that my unambitious
way of life has saved me from tension and high blood pressure.

BERTRAM FOGEL SCHEFFREEN

HOME ADDRESS: 216 Mason Terr., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bees Plastic Co., 844 Summer St., South Boston, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 18, 1902, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Charles Jacob Scheffreen,
Dora Fogel.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

[ 768 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Ruth Tannenholz Fishel, April 19, 1943, Brookline, Mass. srep-
cHitpREN: Norma Harriette Fishel, May 25, 1929; James Lee Fishel,

July 18, 1931.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lawrence Eugene Scheffreen, ’27.

occupATION: President, Bees Plastic Company, manufacturing molded plastic
products.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Inducted as private, October, 1942; attended
Army School of Roentgenology (X-ray), Memphis, Tenn., Jan. 1 to
March 26, 1943; Officer Candidate School, Abilene, Texas; commis-
sioned 2nd lieutenant, M.A.C., Nov. 30, 1943; served as operations and
training officer (S-3), 87th Medical Battalion, Seventh Army; awarded
Bronze Star; separated from service as captain, Nov. 30, 1945.

BEING of sound mind and body, in 1942 I received an invitation

from Uncle Sam to do some extensive travelling at his expense.

As soon as I had my fill of moving from post to post in the United

States (some eight camps in all — mostly in that extra-territorial

expanse known as Texas), I figured a boat voyage might prove

illuminating and instructive—a thought with which my em-
ployer concurred. A liberal education can-really prove helpful.

My knowledge of French and German enabled me to enjoy

infinitely better various points of historical interest throughout

France and Germany.

On May‘12, 1945, the day of official cessation of hostilities in
the European Theatre, we took a delightful trip through the
Austrian Alps to Berchtesgarten at the time when Marshal
Goering was being held a prisoner there. How that magnificent
country could have given birth to Nazism is difficult to understand.

Upon returning to the United States, I put my uniform in moth
balls and I sincerely hope that none of our sons will ever have to
wear its counterpart in mortal combat.

i JOHN CARL SCHIMEK

BoRN: March 15, 1902, Hermannstadt, Roumania. parents:. John Frank
Schimek, Marie Klingenspohr.

PREPARED AT: Hughes High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924 (25).

MarriED: Madeline St. Laurent Massey, Jan. 22, 1927, New York, N. Y.

piep: Aug. 27, 1946, Forest Hills, N. Y.

wipow: Mrs. John C. Schimek, R.D. 1, Johnsonville, Pittstown, N. Y.

JOHN CARL SCHIMEK attended the Graduate School for a
year after his graduation from the College. He worked as a

[ 769 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

biochemist until he was forced to give up this work due to ill
health. He entered radio work doing literary research and as a
continuity writer for the Columbia Broadcasting System. Later
he became director of music copyright at C.B.S. and at the time
of his death was commercial editor as well.

During the war he was in charge of government programs for

censorship purposes and represented the Columbia Broadcasting
System at the N.A.B, Code Committees.

“He always went to a great deal of trouble to help a friend,”
writes Mrs. Schimek, “and his advice was always sought. He was

considered a brilliant man, working at times against great odds
because of il] health.” .

JOSEPH SCHNEIDER

HOME ADpRESS: 5 Willow Crescent, Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Schneider, Reilly & Bean, 11 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 29, 1901, Kopargovod, Russia. parents: Max Schneider, Rebecca
Lutch.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1921.

MarRieD: Esther Landfield, June 8, 1927, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Robert
Lawrence, May 5, 1928; Marjorie Joan, June 2, 1933.

occupation: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1941, secretary, 1929-40, since 1942, Law Society of
Massachusetts; delegate, House of Delegates, American Bar Association,
since 1945.

FRANCIS pe NEUFVILLE SCHROEDER

HOME ADDRESS: 3 Gramercy Park, New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 11 E, 44th St., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Oct. 20, 1901, Babylon, Long Island, N. Y. parents: James Langdon
Schroeder, Juliette Marie de Neufville.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923.

MarrizeD: Charlotte Dwight Church, June 5, 1925, New Rochelle, N. Y.
(divorced); Blanche Dixon Smiley, May §, 1947, Hoboken, N. J.

OccUPATION: Magazine editor.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant, 107th Infantry, Company K, 1924-28.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant editor, Vanity Fair, 1924-26; associate editor, Time
magazine, 1929-40; editor, Interiors magazine, since 1941.

PUBLICATIONS: Anatomy for Designers, Whitney Publishing Company, 1948.

[770]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MY FIRST work after leaving Harvard was serving as a runner
for the Columbia Trust Company. I married in 1925 and about the
same time accepted a position as cataloguer of rare books, natur-
ally more to my liking than my first job. Next I was associate
editor on Vanity Fair, then associate foreign news editor of Time,
also associate of art on the same magazine, When Life began
publication, I served as news and art editor for the then new
publication. During the period spent with Time and Life, I made
several trips to Europe.

My hobbies, if one can call these diversions hobbies, are playing
the piano after a fashion, collecting old phonograph records and
old books, hearing an occasional opera and walking in Gramercy
Park or on the East River front; following the art shows, doing
a little terrace gardening, collecting and creating recipes for
simple dishes, along with quiet bending of the elbow.

FREDERICK AUGUST OTTO SCHWARZ

HOME ApprEss: 8 FE. 93rd St., New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Davis Polk Wardwell Sunderland & Kiendl, 15 Broad St.,
New York 5, N. Y.

Born: April 7, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: Henry Frederick Schwarz,
Irma Hemmer.

PREPARED AT: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1924; LLB.
magna cum laude, 1927.

MARRIED: Mary Delafield Du Bois, Jan. 20, 1934, Englewood, N. J. cHILDREN:
Frederick August Otto, Jr. April 20, 1935; Henry Marshall, Nov. 5,
1936; John Clausen, May 1, 1940; Robert Du Bois and Mary Du Bois,
Jr. (twins), March 16, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Frederick Schwarz, ’29.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Director, F. A. O. Schwarz, since 1925, First National Bank
of the City of New York, since 1945, General Mills, Inc., since 1948;
trustee, since 1935, vice-chairman of board, since 1944, Community
Service Society (or predecessor A.I-C.P.); trustee, Union Theological
Seminary, since 1938, Presbyterian Hospital in the City of New York,
since 1945, Young Women’s Christian Association of the City of New
York, since 1941; Member, Overseers Committee to Visit the Harvard
Law School, since 1943.

I WISH that I could write the kind of “autobiography” that I
have admired in other Class Reports or in the “sample lives” that

[771]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

heritage of the ideals and ethics and wisdom of religion and
philosophy and common experience, that I think I face the future,
perhaps more humbly, but with no less zest or enthusiasm or con-
fidence than twenty-five years ago.

As I reread the last few paragraphs they seem serious, stale
and unprofitable, if not mawkish. I dislike any writing that
comes out like a ribbon and lies flat on the brush. Still our fear
of being serious is probably an even worse failing. So I shall let
the paragraphs stand.

In closing, I can only repeat that I had a grand time in four
years at Harvard College and owe it a great deal, that I have been
very happy and fortunate in the intervening twenty-five years,
and that I am looking forward with enthusiasm not only to the
Reunion in June but to the next twenty-five years and the
Fiftieth Reunion in June of 1974.

ABRAHAM AARON MORRIS SCHWEITZER

HOME AppREss: 1156 Trout Brook Drive, West Hartford 7, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 190 Trumbull St., Hartford 3, Conn.

BORN: July 30, 1901, Hartford, Conn. parents: Louis Schweitzer, Toba
Esther Cunea.

PREPARED AT: Hartford Public High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

marnep: Ruth Blanche Shifreen, Dec. 28, 1930, Hartford, Conn. CHILDREN:
Lewis Elihu, May 20, 1935; Naomi Tina, April 7, 1941; Dwight Owen,
April 8, 1943.

OccUPATION: Attorney-at-law.

MEMBER OF: Independent Order Odd Fellows; B'nai B'rith, Kappa Nu;
Harvard Club of Connecticut, Hartford County Bar Association, Men’s
Club; Temple Beth Israel.

TO ATTEMPT to recapitulate what of importance, if anything,
has happened to me from 1924 up to the occasion of our Twenty-
fifth Reunion seemed easy. All I felt I had to do was to give a
concise summary of those incidents which stood out in my mind,
and call it a day. However, as I tried to assemble my thoughts, it
occurred to me that what may seem interesting to me would be
dull reading for a Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report, and once

again I got the feeling of writing my first English A theme all
over again,

(774]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After graduating from college in 1924, I worked a year and
then entered Yale Law School in the fall of 1925. There I re-
mained two years, studied law in an office after that, and notified
the world in 1930 that I was ready, willing and able —I hoped —
to meet all clients, I chose an office in a bank building, with the
hope that the promise made by the bank that they would give
me some work, would help defray expenses. The bank remained
open until January 2, 1932, when it was forced to close its doors.
I lost a better neighbor than client, for at no time did they give
me any work to do. However, as fate would have it, when Wall
Street banking interests purchased the assets in 1945, I was rec-
ommended to handle the liquidation of the remaining assets, and
the fees realized were considerable. This only proves again that
you never can tell when a good fee is in the offing while practis-
ing law. |

Within six months after opening my law office, I married the
girl I met shortly after graduation, One meets so many girls while
at college, and yet when one does see and meet the girl of one’s
choice, whom destiny decrees to be the one, somehow or other
the marriage eventually takes place. That is exactly what hap-
pened to me. In 1924, just out of college and working as a
secretary for twenty-five dollars a week, when I met my wife-
to-be that summer in New London, I instantly felt that here was
the girl of my choice. And sure enough she was. We were mar-
ried on December 28, 1930, and have three children, two boys
and a girl. If my sons should be fortunate enough to enter Har-
vard, I hope that they, too, will be on the Dean’s List — but the
right Dean; certainly not the list graced by their father, who
often went to see the Dean by written invitation only. If I re-
member correctly, it read: “You are requested ....” I must
admit that in that fashion I got to know some of the better mem-
bers of the faculty whom I might otherwise never have met.

For some reason or other, it is expected that lawyers should be
active politically. I was no exception. In 1937 and 1941 I was
given the appointment of official stenographer to the State Sen-
ate. It really was an experience. Now I know why some politi-
cians are mere windbags and others suffer from shortness of
breath.

All this time, I have been developing slowly but steadily a lu-

[775 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

crative law practice. My clients are varied. I get the feel of the
working man in the street, the trials and tribulations of a husband
or wife whose spouse is not what he or she should be, and the
joy that comes to one as counsel for a large corporation or
banking institution. That is the advantage of a general prac-
tice. One is either representing some poor soul in the Police
Court in the morning, or having a conference with top execu-
tives later in the day. I enjoy my work, have a fine home in the
suburbs, and a summer home at the seashore. Each year my fam-
ily grows taller, the mortgages on my property smaller, and I,
myself, grow older.

I regret to state that, since graduating from college, my travels
have been very limited; not that I dislike travel, which I really
enjoy, but the truth of the matter is that when I had the time I
didn’t have the means, and now that I have the means I haven’t
got the time. To compensate me for living a restricted exist-
ence, I have cultivated a hobby of collecting fine china, silver-
ware, and ivory statuary. I often travel to all parts of the state,
if only to purchase a piece of china or silverware to add to my
collection. The result is that we have assembled one of the finest
collections of choice silver and chinaware to be found in any
home. Several of the pieces I have collected are literally museum
pieces and have given both Mrs. Schweitzer and me great joy in
their possession.

It is good to look back over all these years, for so few of us
ever do take inventory of ourselves. While at college we experi-
ence a planned existence. We expect to be in college four years,
take a certain number of courses, and then look forward to a de-
gree. Unfortunately, after we leave college, we fail to plan ahead.
It is rightfully said that the future belongs to those who prepare
for it. Harvard gave me an excellent foundation in preparation
for my start in life, and I fecl that I have made some progress.
Would that at the end of the next twenty-five years I may be
able to look back over them with as much satisfaction!

ALFRED THEODORE SCIGLIANO

HOME appress: 171 Coleridge St., East Boston, Mass.
orvicgz avpaess: 4o Court St., Boston, Mass.

[776 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

porN: Dec. 1, 1900, East Boston, Mass. parents: Emanuel Peter Scigliano,
Aurelia Arancio.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

marrigp: Anna Eileen Harrington, June 18, 1933, Rutherford, N. J. cun-
prEN: Aurelia Anne, Feb. 28, 1938; Edward Peter, June 15, 1939.

occupaTION: Lawyer.

WHILE I have been writing this report, my young children have
been asking questions about the good old college days. I ex-
plained about the coming Reunion of our Class, and told them if
they were older they could come and join the gathering. Dis-
appointed at being left out of a celebration my little girl re-
marked, “If you and mother didn’t waste so much time by not
getting married years sooner, Neddy and I could be each over
sixteen years old by now.”

** FRANK MANNING SEAMANS, JR.

BORN: July 9, 1900, Brookline, Mass. parents: Frank Manning Seamans,
Helen Minerva Walker.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923.

MARRIED: Barbara Farnham, Oct. 4, 1924, Chestnut Hill, Mass. cHtpREN:
David Manning, Oct. 7, 1926; Frank Alexander, Jan. 5, 1931; Thomas
Farnham, Jan. 25, 1932.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Walker Seamans, ’25.

pIED: Nov. 17, 1936, Waban, Mass.

FRANK MANNING SEAMANS, JR., entered Harvard after
completing preparatory work at the Country Day School in
Newton. In college he was a member of the Lampoon staff, the
Institute of 1770, D.K.E., Hasty Pudding Club, D.U. Club, and
the Speakers’ Club.

He attended college for three years as an undergraduate, with-
drawing after his third year to become associated with Moors &
Cabot, Boston, as a bond salesman. He continued with them until
1934 when he reported being engaged in manufacturing.

+ DAVID SEARS, II

BORN: Dec. 23, 1901, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Philip Shelton Sears, ’89, Mary
Cabot Higginson.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

[777]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923.

MARRIED: Ellen Phelps White, June 25, 1923, Cohasset, Mass.
HARVARD BROTHER: Mason Sears, °22.

piED: June 23, 1929, Beverly, Mass.

BROTHER: Mason Sears, 337 West St., Dedham, Mass.

DAVID SEARS, II, entered Harvard after preparatory study at
St. Mark’s School. In college he was a member of the Freshman
Crew Squad, the Institute of 1770, D.K.E., S.K. Club, Hasty
Pudding Club and the Porcellian Club. He left school after com-
pleting his junior year and became associated with Lee, Higgin-
son & Company, Boston, as a bond salesman. Remaining with
them until 1926, he jommed Hayden Stone & Company the fol-
lowing year. He was ill for several months preceding his death.

He was a member of the Somerset, the Tennis and Racquet, and
Harvard Clubs. He was also interested in numerous outdoor
sports and activities,

RICHARD SEARS

HOME AppREss: 418 W. Dunlap St., Northville, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Veterans Administration Regional Office, Guardian Bldg.,
Detroit, Mich.

BORN: June 15, 1901, Melrose, Mass. parents: Harry Franklin Sears, ’97,
Winifred May Dyer.

PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920—1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; PH.D. (Univ. of
Michigan), 1931.

Marriep: Carolyn May Tilley, June 16, 1929, Arcata, Calif. cuHmp: Ann
Kathryn, Aug. 12, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Franklin Sears, ’25.

occupation: Chief clinical psychologist, Veterans Administration, Mental
Hygiene Clinic, Detroit.

MEMBER oF: American Psychological Association (fellow); Michigan Psy-
chological Association, American Group Therapy Association; Mid-
western Psychological Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles in psychological journals.

FOLLOWING graduation, I taught in secondary schools for
three years, interrupted by a year of graduate work at Yale dur-
ing 1925 and 1926. It would take too long to explain this semi-
treasonable episode. In 1928 I was offered a research assistant-
ship in education at the University of Michigan. There I spent

[778]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

two years, working part-time towards a Ph.D. degree in educa-
tional psychology, which I received in 1931. I had become in-
terested in clinical psychology during my graduate work, and in
1930 obtained a position as psychologist at the Wayne County
Training School, an institution for “behavior problem” children
in the vicinity of Detroit. After four years there, I spent two
years in a similar position in a child guidance clinic in Detroit.
Then followed ten years in the United States Public Health Serv-
ice on various psychological jobs associated with the federal
prison system, for which the United States Public Health Serv-
ice supplies medical and psychological services. During the war
ears I held a supervisory position in the Bureau of Prisons’ main
office in Washington, which brought me in contact with the psy-
chological and psychiatric work of all the federal prisons and
reformatories. .

Unlike many state prisons, where treatment of prisoners may
be described without exaggeration as both stupid and barbaric,
providing an experience which is bound to make most prisoners
more of a menace to society after release than they were before
they came in, the federal- prisons are administratively efficient,
and honestly run. They provide adequately for the prisoner's
physical needs, keep him busy at a job, and give him vocational
and educational training. Perhaps one could say that most pris-
oners go out no worse than they came in, some possibly a little
better. The work of a psychologist in a prison is both fascinat-
ing and somewhat discouraging. One can see, perhaps more
clearly than anywhere else, the inner workings (the “psycho-
logical dynamics”) of a great variety of human dramas and trage-
dies. One can see how distorted and infantile are the commonly
accepted ideas about crime and criminals, almost as distorted and
infantile as “the criminal’s” own conception of the respectable
citizen. I say “the criminal” in quotes because, of course, there is
no such thing as “the criminal,” only a great variety of people
not too different from ourselves who have got into trouble for a
great variety of reasons. Bringing modern psychological and psy-
chiatric knowledge to bear on problems of crime will eventu-
ally, I am sure, bring about far-reaching changes in the attitude
towards delinquents not only of the general public, but of the le-
gal profession and “practical” prison officials, police officials,

{779 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

etc. And that is slow work. Looking back on ten years of prison
work, I can see some progress within the organization with
which I was associated, but I must admit that the rate of forward-
movement has seemed almost glacial.

But I had better bring this digression to a close. To get back to
that most interesting subject, the ego, I have been chief clinical
psychologist at the Veterans Administration Mental Hygiene
Clinic in Detroit for the past two years. I also teach a couple of
classes in psychology at Wayne University.

Looking back over the twenty-five years since graduation, I
feel some regret at not having accomplished more, surprise at not
feeling any older than I do, and thankfulness for a fine wife and
daughter, a happy home, and a job which I like so well that I
can’t think of anything else I would prefer.

One more remark on what I think about this and that. As a
New Deal Democrat, I belong to what I suppose is a very small
minority of the Class. In fact, I am leftish enough to believe that
we shall be better off when we have moved about as far in the
direction of socialism as the present British Labor government,
a point I suspect this country will have reached by the time our
Fifueth Anniversary comes along. :

RICHARD HARVEY SEARS

HOME apprEss: Rockwell House, Andover, Mass.

oFFice appress: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

BORN: April 23, 1901, Cambridge, Mass. pARENTs: Henry Edmund Sears,
Harriet Idella Harvey.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; ED.M., 1935.

MarrigD: Elizabeth Mary Hitchcock, June 20, 1928, Cambridge, Mass. cxiL-
DREN: Harriet Elizabeth, June 10, 1929; Richard Harvey, Jr., May 27,
1 I.

occa THON: Teacher.

THE first big event in my life after graduation was of course my

marriage. This took place in June, 1928, in Appleton Chapel.

After spending our honeymoon in Europe, we went to live in

Pittsburgh where I taught for two years in a country day school.

I was eager to learn at first hand about the country day type of

school, since my earlier four years of teaching had been in a very

[ 780 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

different sort of school, the Adirondack-Florida School, a unique
and interesting institution with fall and spring terms in the Adi-
rondacks and the winter session in Florida on the shores of Bis-
cayne Bay.

In 1930 I was asked to become head of the Latin Department of
Avon Old Farms, a new boys’ preparatory school, not far from
Hartford, Connecticut. Two years later I became dean of the
school. Twelve very happy and satisfying years followed. As
head of the academic side of the school, I enjoyed my intimate
associations with the boys, their parents, and the faculty. Since
the school was unfettered by traditions, we were able to develop
effective and modern educational methods which made the pro-
cess of learning stimulating to the students yet gave them sound
preparation for college. During these years, I studied at the Har-
vard Graduate School of Education in the summer and was able
to earn a Master’s degree in 1935. Other summers were spent
with groups of boys travelling in Europe or at the family home-
stead on Cape Cod. In 1944 the United States Army selected the
school as a rehabilitation center for soldiers who had been totally
blinded in the war.

Therefore, in the fall of that year, I returned to my old prepa-
ratory school, Phillips Academy, Andover, as instructor in Latin.
This position I still hold. We live in one of the school dormito-
ries which houses the younger first-year boys. The work of
supervising forty-four lively youngsters is of course vigorous but *
there are many compensations. My associates and friends on the
faculty are men of the highest calibre; the boys are a fine group
of carefully selected lads in whom the eager optimism of youth
is always present; the town of Andover is a delightful commun-
ity in which to dwell. For all of these happy conditions we are
very thankful.

Fach vacation and summer in recent years finds us enjoving
life on Cape Cod. In the little town of East Dennis on Cape Cod
Bay, we have a year-round house which has been in my family
for generations. We are going through the process of trying to
fix it up, but such operations, lest they become too strenuous, are
intermingled with many hours in a sail boat trolling for bass and
just being lazy.

Looking back over twenty-five years, I am happy that I have

[ 781 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

had a career in education. My hope is to continue in it until my
two children are on their own. Harriet wishes to enter the field
of art and Richard hopes to enter college, Harvard if possible, in
another year. After their future seems assured, my wife and I
hope to retire to our place on the Cape and to share the simple
pleasures of country life.

ALEXANDER CAMERON SEDGWICK

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Carneadon St., Athens, Greece.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The New York Times, Times Square, New York, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 8, rgor, Stockbridge, Mass. parents: Alexander Sedgwick, Lydia
Cameron Rogers.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

MARRIED: Roxane Sotiriadi, May 17, 1935, Athens, Greece.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Ellery Sedgwick, ’22 (deceased).

occupation: Newspaper correspondent and author.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: New York Times War Correspondent.

OFFICES HELD: Awarded honorary membership, Order of the British Em-
pire, 1947.

PUBLICATIONS: Wind Without Rain, 1930; Tell Sparta, 1945.

WITH the exception of small ventures into fiction writing, one

unprofitable excursion into business, and a small and inconsequen-

tial digression into the outer rings of diplomacy, I’ve been a

newspaper reporter ever since I left college. For most of the

time Pve been in Europe.

Since 1937 I’ve been with the New York Times. I am glad to
say that it’s the only newspaper or publication of any kind with
which I would care to be. It’s the only journal I know of that
primarily tries to inform its readers, even at the risk of being
sometimes dull. It serves democracy, therefore. The rest of the
press seems to me concerned first and foremost with entertaining
its readers, oversimplifying news, and providing sensation at the
expense of fact and truth. It betrays democracy, therefore.

So on the business side, I’m as happy as one has the right to
expect. And on the private side I have happiness, too. I’m mar- °
ried to an Athenian. Sometimes my wife and I return to my
small property in Stockbridge, Massachusetts, for a change, but
most of the time we reverse the role of Ruth in Scripture. Her

[ 782 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

home has become my home and her God has become my God, by
which I mean I live in Athens, among Greek friends, and am (by
conversion) Greek Orthodox,

I was in Greece in 1940 when the Italians attacked. I was filled
with admiration. So, too, was the world. I have lived to see the
day when again a small Greek army is struggling against the
imposition of totalitarian tyranny — this time by household foes,
to be sure, but foes drawing both inspiration and arms from out-
side powers bent upon her destruction and that of all civilization
as we know it. This time, however, the thanks given Greece,
the Greek people, and the Greek army are practically nil, while
every opportunity is seized to find fault. And this is because false
mendacious propaganda, planted as far back as 1944, has taken
hold with the result that generally Americans have been hood-
winked into believing prosperous lies, such as that Greece is
Fascist and Greeks are bloodthirsty, given to exaggerated acts of
revenge, and at the same time are incurably corrupt.

I was fortunate in having a varied war experience. After flee-
ing with my wife across the Mediterranean in the spring of 1941,
I became attached as a war correspondent to several armies. I
was in Egypt, Palestine, Syria, Persia, and even darkest Africa. I
was with Montgomery’s Desert Army at Alamein and accom-
panied British forces as far as Sfax. Then I was attached for a
while to the British Navy in operations preceding the European
landing. I was attached later to the American Fifth Army in
Italy, Anzio Beachhead, etc. Then I was with the American
Seventh that landed in the south of France.

All the while I had but one ambition — to get back into Greece
with the first units of a liberating force. It didn’t matter whose
force it was. That ambition was realized in October, 1944, when
I entered Athens with a handful of British, My eyes were
opened. I beheld the unpredicted.

The Left Wing Resistance kidded the world into thinking they
effected the liberation of Greece. I saw for myself that this was
not true. I saw for myself, too, that new enemies of mankind
had been using the darkness of occupation to put over their own
totalitarian ideas.

I was in Athens during the so-called “civil war,” wherein some
sixty thousand were butchered by the Communists. Art last I

[ 783 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

saw the Communists beaten. Again I saw Greeks fighting for
their ideas and ideals.

The second round of the fight, so to speak, still goes on in the
mountainous areas in the North. We Americans give the money
and the advice and the Greeks give their blood. I have to ob-
serve all this professionally, as well as in other ways. It keeps
one’s bookkeeping sense on the alert and one’s emotions stirred.

SAMUEL SEGAL

HOME ADDRESS: 30 Grandview Ave. Quincy, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 479 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 29, 1902, Wilno, Poland. parents: Joseph Segal, Etta Cook.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREES: A.B., 1924(23); M.D. (Boston Univ.),
1928.

MaRRIED: Miriam Weinrebe, April 10, 1938, Brookline, Mass. cHiLp: Paul
Harold, Aug. 16, 1946.

OccuPATION: Physician.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association, Massachusetts Medical Society.

AFTER leaving Harvard, I went to Boston University School of
Medicine and received my ALD. in 1928. I then went to ‘the
Jewish Hospital in Cincinnati, Ohio, for two years of intern-
ship and surgical residency. I spent one year at the Lakeville
State Sanatorium, Middleboro, Massachusetts, where I served as
assistant physician.

In 1930 I took postgraduate work in surgery at the University
of Pennsylvania Postgraduate School of Medicine, and in 1938 I
took postgraduate work at the Polyclinic School and Hospital in
New York City. I taught anatomy at Boston University School
of Medicine from 1931 to 1935.

At present I am practising proctology in Boston, and am an
associate in proctology at the Beth Israel Hospital and junior as-
sistant surgeon at the Boston Dispensary.

+ SAMUFL HIRSH SEGOOL

BORN; Jan. 1, 1904, Boston, Mass, parents: James Scgool, Minnie Hart.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREFS: A.B., 1924; M.D., 1928,

Diep: Jan. 11, 1933, Boston, Mass,

( 784]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SAMUEL HIRSH SEGOOL entered Harvard after completing
preparatory work at the Public Latin School. He was a member
of the Boylston Chemical Club and was deeply interested in sci-
ence and medicine in college. After receiving an A.B. degree in
1924, he attended Harvard Medical School and was granted an
M.D degree in 1928.

In August of that year, he passed the State Boards and began
interning at Boston City Hospital. After a year there he became
a resident and in 1930, transferred to the South Department of
the Boston City Hospital, specializing in pediatrics.

JAMES RICHARD SEWELL
2

HOME ApprEss: 1147 Waverly PL. Schenectady, N. Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Concrete Products Co., Van Vianken Ave. at City Line,
Schenectady, N. Y.

BORN: May 2, 1900, Boscawen, N. H. PARENTs: Richard Duke Sewell,
Margaret Martin.

PREPARED AT: Mechanic Arts High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1918-1919, 1920-1921.

MaRRIED: Thelma G. Smith, Sept. 18, 1924, Randolph, Mass. CHILDREN:
Miriam Reta, July 19, 1925, Richard Roy, Sept. 3, 1928.

occuPATION: Owner and manager of Concrete Products Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Walworth School Board, Walworth, N. Y., 1935-453
director, Cast Stone Institute; master, Walworth Lodge No. 254,
F. & A.M. .

MEMBER OF: Walworth Masonic Lodge; Walworth Conservative Club.

I LEFT school to take a position as draftsman with Badger
Brothers, then with Simbroco Stone Company in Boston. In
1924 I married Thelma Smith, who had recently moved to Bos-
ton from Halifax, Nova Scotia. She was teaching high school at
the time, having graduated from Dalhousie University in Halifax
in 1922.

In 1925 I took a position with Norristone Company in Roches-
ter, New York, and moved my family there. I became manager
of Norristone, and in 1929 started in business for myself — the
Rochester Cast Stone Company — but the depression forced me
to give it up. We moved to Walworth, New York, near Roches-~+—
ter, and bought an old house. I took a position as manager of
Goodstone Manufacturing Company, which I held for “about
* fifteen years.

[ 785 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

In the meantime, our family had increased to four, and we had
remodelled the old house. Three years ago we bought property
here in Schenectady and I started in business once more. We own
our home, and I am owner and manager of the Concrete Prod-
ucts Company. Our two youngsters are in college. Miriam, a
graduate of Rochester Business Institute, was graduated from
Denison University in Granville, Ohio, in June, 1948, and is
now a resident dean at Syracuse University, where she is doing

graduate work in psychology. Dick is in his third year at Union
College here in Schenectady.

MICHAEL JOSEPH SHAGAN

HOME ADDRESS: 29 Washington Sq., New York 11, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Wasserman, Behr & Shagan, 51 Chambers St., New York 7,
N. Y.

BoRN: Aug. 29, 1902, Brooklyn, N. Y. paRENts: Max Shagan, Yetta Baron.

PREPARED AT: Boys’ High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924(25); LU.B. cum laude, 1927.

MargieD: Frances Klepeck, July 22, 1925, Brooklyn, N. ¥Y. cut~prREN: Nancy
Vera, June 6, 1934; Joan Marian, Dec. 29, 1936; Michael D., April 2,
1941, .

occupation: Lawyer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member, Draft Board.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Little Red School House Asso-
ciation, 1943-46; director, Butterick Company, 1939-41.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Metropolis Country Club, White
Plains, N. Y.; Birchwood Country Club, Westport, Conn.; Bar Associa-
tion of the City of New York, New York County Lawyers Association;
Americans for Democratic Action.

SINCE graduating from Harvard Law School in 1927, I have
been practising law in New York City and have been engaged in
various business activities.

During the first week of our freshman year I met Luke Was-
serman. We were friends through college and law school and
have been together since as partners in law and in business.

1 was married in 1925, after completing my first year at the
Law School. After some hesitation, we started the usual process
of accumulating possessions and now have two daughters, a son,
two collies, and two love birds. My son threatens that he will be

[ 786 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a Yale man but I take courage in the hope that discretion will
come with advancing years,

DAVID SHAKOW

HOME ADpRESS: 1109 E. 48th St., Chicago 15, Ill.

OFFICE appREss: School of Medicine, University of Illinois, 912 S. Wood St.
Chicago 12, II.

BORN: Jan. 2, 1901, New York, N. Y. parents: Abraham Shakow, Eva
Leventhal.

PREPARED AT: High School of Commerce, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: 8.B. cum laude, 1924; A.M. 1927; PH.D.
1942.

MARRIED: Sophie Harap, June 1, 1926, Boston, Mass. cuitpreN: Alice Judith,
Dec. 8,°1928,; Naomi, April 12, 1930; Alexander, March 16, 1937.

OccUPATION: Professor of psychology, School of Medicine, University of
Illinois and University of Chicago.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Special confidential survey, Public Buildings
Administration, 1943.

OFFICES HELD: Chief consultant in clinical psychology, Veterans’ Administra-
tion, Branch No. 7, since 1946; consultant in clinical psychology,
Group for the Advancement of Psychiatry, since 1947; expert con-
sultant in psychology to Surgeon-General, Department of the Army,
since 1948, member, National Advisory Sub-committee on Psychology,
Veterans’ Administration, since 1946, board of directors, Worcester

_ Child Guidance Clinic, 1928-46, council, American Psychopathological

. Association, since 1948, member of council and president of Division
of Clinical and Abnormal Psychology, American Psychological Asso-
ciation, 1947-48; trustee, American Board of Examiners in Professional
Psychology, 1947-51.

MEMBER OF: American Psychological Association, American Orthopsychi-
atric Association; American Psychopathological Association; American
Society for Research in Psychosomatic Problems; Midwestern Psycho-
logical Association, Society for Psychological Study of Social Issues;
Chicago Psychoanalytic Society; Madison House Society.

PUBLICATIONS: “Nature of Deterioration in Schizophrenic Conditions”; “In-
telligence in Mental Disorder.”

GEORGE STEVENSON SHARP

HOME ADDRESS: 1669 Lombardy Rd., Pasadena, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 635 Herkimer St., Pasadena, Calif,

BORN: April 15, 1901, Cadiz, Ohio. PARENTs: George Cunningham Sharp,
Agnes Stevenson.

PREPARED aT: Pasadena High School, Pasadena, Calif,

[ 787 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREE: M.D., 1927.

MARRIED: Pauline Casebeer, 1927, Somerset, Pa. CHILDREN: George, Nov. 18,
1928; Paula, Dec. 14, 1929.

occupation: Director of George Sharp and Associates, institution for sur-
gery, radium, and x-ray for cancer and allied diseases.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chief, Tumor Clinic, United States Veterans’
Hospital, Sawtelle, Calif.

OFFICES HELD: President, Pasadena Dispensary, 1935, Ewing Cancer Society,
1945, Los Angeles Cancer Society, 1944~46,; member, California Cancer
Commission, director, California Division of American Cancer Society.

MEMBER OF: Los Angeles Academy of Medicine; American Radium Society;
American Radiological Society of North America; Overland Club;
Valley Hunt Club; Flintridge Riding Club; state, county, and national
medical societies.

PUBLICATIONS: Fifty manuscripts reprinted in national journals on cancer and

allied diseases; book nearing completion on “Oral Cancer and Tumors
of the Jaws.”

SINCE 1924, twenty-five short years have elapsed in the study
and practice of medicine and surgery. First, there was the start
at Harvard Medical School, followed by an internship in sur-
gery at the Montreal General Hospital and a subsequent intern-
ship in surgery at the New York Hospital. A timely offer of a
Rockefeller Fellowship in the study of cancer at the Memorial
Hospital in New York City came my way, permitting me to
spend the next three and a half years in special training which
otherwise would have been impossible. The Rockefeller Founda-
tion is still turning out specially trained men in this field, which
has greatly advanced the treatment of cancer. The seventeen
years following the termination of my fellowship, have been
more than occupied with the practice of cancer surgery in
Southern California.

The military service found me willing, but neither young
enough nor hale enough — anyway, not welcome. So, my billet
was to have charge of the Cancer Service at the United States
Veterans’ Facility at Sawtelle and to carry on with a three-doctor
practice, my two associates having been accepted for military
service.

However, the practice of specializing i in the treatment and re-
search for the cure of cancer has its compensations — aside from
the vital satisfaction one gets from each contribution to the
measure of good living for his fellow-humans. There has been

[ 788 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the opportunity to be the guest lecturer at the University of
Mexico as an honorary professor in cancer, and also at the
University of Guadalahara, with the same title. A good oppor-
tunity was given me to learn something of our neighbors south
of the border, in this often-misunderstood land.

There have been other diversions. I went to Hawaii this fall
as a member of the Pan-Pacific Surgical Society, which furnished
an excellent opportunity to master the art of surf-boarding in the
standing position. During the next two years, anticipated trips
are scheduled for the Pan-American Cancer Congress at Buenos
Aires and the International Radiological Society Meeting at Lon-
don in 1950.

My family is together again for the Christmas holidays, Paula
having flown back from Smith College and George from Colo-
rado College.

When I reflect on the last twenty-five years, I find my greatest
interest is now in writing some of my experiences and actual re-
sults of treatments during this period. Some fifty manuscripts
have been written during these years on cancer, and now a book
is nearing completion on “Oral Cancer and Tumors of the Jaws.”

Our tumor institute is now manned by six physicians who per-
form specialized duties, and an adequate supporting staff of a
clinic manager, nurses, and secretaries.

Of course, if you check up carefully, you might find that the
proximity of Santa Anita Race Track has stimulated my interest
in riding. The annual horseback-riding trek of a hundred mem-
bers in the ““Vaquero del Deserto” is unmatched for companion-
ship and vacation. To this should be added special appointments
for fishing trips into the High Sierras and early fall hunting ex-
peditions in Arizona. On the last trip I nicked a six-point buck,
along with my quota of our various feathered friends,

++ JOHN HENRY SHERBURNE, JR.

BoRN: Oct. 11, 1902, Brookline, Mass. parents: John Henry Sherburne, 99,
Mary Patterson Harris.

PREPARED AT: Evans School, Tucson, Ariz.; Noble and Greenough School
Boston, Mass. ~

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B, 1924; LL.B. ct laude, ige7.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted in rorst Aviation Squadron, Massachu-

[ 789 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I924

setts National Guard, 1929; commissioned 2d lieutenant, May 14, 1930;
promoted 1st lieutenant, May 3, 1932.
prep: Aug. 23, 1934, Cambridge, Mass.

JOHN HENRY SHERBURNE, JR., entered Harvard after
completing preparatory work at the Evans School and Noble and
Greenough School, where he was captain and coxswain of the
crews. In college he was manager of the football team (1923),
and a member of the Track Squad (1922-24), Relay Team
(1923), Red Book, Student Council (treasurer, 1923-24), Iro-
quois Club, Hasty Pudding Club, Institute of 1770, D.K.E., and
the Owl Club. After receiving his A.B. degree with the Class,
he attended Harvard Law School, where he was a member and
the treasurer of the Harvard Law Review. He was granted an
LL.B. degree, cum laude, in 1927, and became associated with the |
law firm “of Choate, Hall & Stewart.

In addition to legal practice, he took an active part in the legal
work connected with the operations of the National Credit Cor-
poration in Massachusetts, during the banking difficulties of
1931-32. He was secretary of the committee on admissions of the
Boston Bar Association for some time before his death and in
March, 1934, had been elected a member of the Town Meeting
for the Town of Brookline.

An ardent yachtsman and skier, he was a member of the
Beverly Yacht Club for a number of years, participating in its
racing activities. He was an organizer and member of the Hoch-
gebirge Ski Club and a member of its racing team as well as a
director of the Eastern Amateur Ski Association.

ARTHUR LEON SHERIN

HOME ADDRESS: 121 Rangeley Rd., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sherin & Lodgen, 80 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 27, 1904, Salem, Mass, parents: Morris Sherin, Bessie Skeller.

PREPARED AT: Salem High School, Salem, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; LL.B., 1927.

MarRiED: Frances Cohn, April 5, 1936, Newton, Mass. crmp: Donald Barr,
June 2, 1940.

OccuPATION: Lawyer, member of firm of Sherin & Lodgen.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Town Meeting, Brookline, director, Brookline Tax-
payers’ Association, Brookline Town Forum.

MEMBER OF: Belmont Country Club.

[790 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FOLLOWING graduation I spent three interesting years at the
Harvard Law School. These years were busy ones, not only by
reason of the law school work, but by reason of the crams I gave
at the Widow Nolen’s (then the legitimate mistress of ailing

scholars).
_ For two years, beginning in the fall of 1929 and while practis-

ing law in Boston, I was research assistant to James Angell Mc-
Laughlin of the Harvard Law School faculty in the preparation
of a case-book on the federal anti-trust laws. As this magnum
opus brought me neither fame as an anti-trust expert nor for-
tune, I have perforce, up to the present time, remained in the

general practice of law.
In 1937, having practised as a junior associate in a Boston firm,

. I opened an office of my own, and in 1945 formed my present

firm.
Participation in numerous community drives and undertakings,

combined with an active professional life, have made the years
full and busy ones which have flown by all too quickly. It is
almost beyond belief that we have already reached our Twenty-

fifth Reunion and our bifocal forties.

+ THOMAS FOSTER SHERMAN

BoRN: March 16, 1902, Framingham, Mass. parents: Alfred Palmer Sher-

man, Elizabeth Waite Jones.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-192§. DEGREE: S.B., 1924(25).

MarRiEp: Patricia Winchester, May 31, 1926, Washington, D. C.; Dorothea
Ashton, June 20, 1936, Scituate, Mass. cut: Thomas Foster, Jr.. March

29, 1927.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered U. S. Army, August, 1942, as captain;
served with Army Engineers Amphibian Command Headquarters at
Camp Edwards, Mass.; released from active duty, 1943.
piep: April 23, 1944, Boston, Mass.
wipow: Mrs. Thomas Foster Sherman, 12 Kent St., Scituate, Mass.
THOMAS FOSTER SHERMAN entered Harvard after finish-
ing preparatory study at Milton Academy. In college he was a
member of the Freshman Hockey Team, the Second Team Foot-
ball Squad (1923), Freshman Entertainment Committee and the

Republican Club. After receiving his S.B. degree in 1925, as of

[791]

Tt WR TNEIIOTT ten eer 5.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

1924, he spent some time in Washington studying for the For-

eign Service examinations and then travelled i in England, France,
and Canada. Appointed to the Foreign Service Office in June,
1925, he was detailed to the Department of State in October of
that year for instruction in the Foreign Service School. A year
later he was sent to Berlin and served as American vice-consul
at the American Consulate General. In 1930 he was transferred
to Sofia, Bulgaria, and in February of the following year was
promoted to ‘the rank of consul. He resigned from the Foreign
Service in July, 1931, and entered a firm “of investment bankers,
acting as their European representative.

After the collapse of the foreign bond market, he was an in-
surance salesman for several years and in 1934 he became director
of the Diplomatic and Consular Academy, Boston. In August,
1942, he entered military service as a captain and served with the
Army Amphibious Engineers until his release from active duty
the followi ing year.

He was the author of the book, Iuternational Law, He was
survived by his wife, Dorothea Ashton Sherman.

WILLIAM ROBERT SHERWOOD

HOME ADDRESS: 430 E. 57th St. New York 22, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 40 Wall St.. New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: March 20, 1903, San Francisco, Calif. parents: William Robert Sher-
wood, Ethel Elizabeth Dimond.

PREPARED AT: Thacher School, Ojai, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; LL.B. 1928.

MarRIED: Doris Sanger, Sept. 7, 1926, Boston, Mass. cHILDREN: William
Robert, 3d, July 23, 1929; Dora, May 15, 1931.

HARVARD SON: William Robert Sherwood, 3d, ’51.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Counsel, Defense Plant Corporation.

LEO SHUBOW

HOME AppRrEss: 89 Pennsylvania Ave. Somerville 45, Mass.

orFice appress: Temple B'nai B'rith, zo1 Central St., Somerville 45, Mass.

Born: July 22, 1903, Olita, Lithuania. parents: Morris Jechiel Shubow,
Esther Ida Lasker,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

[792 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923. DEGREES: s.B. (New York Univ.), 1927; M.nuL.
(Jewish Inst. of Religion), 1932; rapst (ibid.), 1932.

marrigD: Pauline Selma Kniznik, June 26, 1938, Sharon, Mass. cuHitpren:
Dorothy Elsa, Nov. 20, 1939; Morris Samuel, March 1, 1944; Charles
Gabriel, Feb. 26, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Shalom Shubow, ’20.

OCCUPATION: Rabbi, lecturer, and educator.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Yeoman, United States Coast Guard, secretarv,
oceanographic staff, International Ice Patrol, 1924-25; spent four suc-
cessive months at sea on the Grand Banks, off Newfoundland and

: Labrador.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Civilian chaplain, Fort Slocum, N. Y.; mem-
ber, advisory committee, Crestwood Red Cross, Crestwood, Yonkers,
N. Y.

OFFICES HELD: President, Yonkers Zionist District, 1941-43; chaplain, East-
chester Fire Department, Tuckahoe, N. Y., 1938-46, State Prison Col-
ony, Norfolk, Mass., since 1948, Henry Price Masonic Lodge, Boston,
since 1947; editor, Westchester Zionist Bulletin, 1940-42, secretary,
Rabbinical Association of Greater Boston, vice president, Public
Latin School, Class of 1920.

MEMBER OF: Central Conference of American Rabbis; Alumni Association
of Jewish Institute of Religion; International House, New York, N. Y.;
Zionist Organization of America; Constitution Lodge, B’nai B'nth,
American Jewish Congress; American Jewish Historical Society; Na-
tional Conference of Christians and Jews; Somerville Community
Council (member of executive board); Red Cross; New England
Zionist Region, American Association of United Nations, Conference
of Jewish Relations.

PUBLICATIONS: “Tracking the Icebergs” (eleven articles); “Palestine Today”
(eight articles); published essays including, “Is the Customer Always
Right?”; “Bialik, Poetic Giant of Israel”; “A Tribute to Dr. Stephen
S. Wise”; “Reunion Along the Mohawk”; “Zacharias Frankel, An
Estimate”; “The Challenge of Purim”; “Rumblings of Revolt,” transla-
tion from the Hebrew by David Frishman, “A Rabbi at a Church
Conference.”

ON REVIEWING the last twenty-five changing years, I regard
the retrospect like the landscape with the flat lands, valleys, and
mountains unfolding.‘ Much has happened since my sedate col-
lege years. In the words of the Psalmist, “We spend our years
as a tale that is told.”

‘One of the high points in my career is my unforgettable ex-
perience as secretary of the International Ice Patrol of 1925, the
purpose of which is to forewarn trans-Atlantic shipping of the
iceberg menace since the Titanic went down in i912. I was for-

[ 793 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

To preach and teach may not be easy, but it is a challenging
and self-improving calling for the pulpit and the pew!

May all our classmates, heralded and unheralded, have reason
to share one another’s gladness through the changing years ahead
and spend them well as a tale that is told.

VERNIS KALEY SHUTTLEWORTH

HOME ADDRESS: 34 Drake Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: American Can Co., 230 Park Ave., New York, N. Y.

BORN: May 19, 1895, Oakland, Iowa. Parents: Fred P. Shuttleworth, Alice
Frank.

PREPARED AT: Idaho Falls High School, Idaho Falls, Idaho; Atlantic High
School, Atlantic, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1919-1920, 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1924(25).

occuPaTion: General sales department, American Can Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War I: Co. A, 119th Machine gun Battal-
ion, 32nd Division; action on five fronts, three major offensives: Aisne-
Marne, Oise-Aisne, and Meuse-Argonne.

MEMBER OF: Masonic Lodge, AF. & A.M., Harvard University and Scars-
dale; Harvard Club of New York; Stanford Club of New York; Ameri-
can Legion, Scarsdale, Town Club, Scarsdale.

AFTER leaving the Business School, I was employed by the
American Can Company at Boston, from 1926 to 1933. In Sep-
tember, 1933, 1 entered the New York office of the American
Can Company, and have been sales division manager for the At-
Jantic Division since December, 1934.

I vote the Republican ticket consistently except on a few local
occasions, and am a member of the First Church Christ Scientist,
Scarsdale, New York, where I have served as a member of the
board of trustees, treasurer, and First Reader.

I have two acres of grounds around my house which supply
outdoor pleasure and recreation; and for one month each winter
I vacation in Arizona and California.

Because of its relationship to the war and the effect of the war
on it, business has been particularly exacting of my time and ©

ener gy.
MAX SIEGEL

HOME AppRESS: 45 Wellington Hill St., Mattapan, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Westminster Motors, Inc., 420 Warren St., Roxbury, Mass.

[ 798 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BoRN: Oct. 15, 1901, Kovla, Russia. PARENTS: Joseph Siegel, Helen Zelda
Gopin.

PREPARED AT: Bangor High School, Bangor, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1925. DEGREE: S.B. IN G.E., 1925.

mMarrieD: Blanche Buxbaum, July 1, 1936, Brookline, Mass. cHmpren: Ken-
neth Arthur, April 7, 1938, Martin Edward, May 6, 1943.

occupaTIon: Automobile dealer; president, Westminster Motors, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Adelphi Lodge, AF. & A.M.; Massachusetts Consistory; Aleppo
Temple; Bnai B'rith, New Century Club, Boston, Harvard Engineer-
ing Society; Congregation and Brotherhood Kehillath Jacob.

ENGINEERING originally was my choice of occupation. Fate
decreed that I was ultimately destined to sell, rather than design,
engineered products.

My first connection was with an architect’s office doing con-
struction work. It was at this time that I ventured into the build-
ing industry. My last enterprise in construction was completing
a garage which we were unable to sell on the market at a fair
value. My associate and I were forced to make a decision which
changed my course. To make the most of our investment, we
took on an automobile franchise. I have been in the automobile
business ever since, have had my ups and downs during periods,
and have managed to survive.

Politically, I am an independent voter. I try to be a liberal. I
have never held public office. During the war period I was
engaged in many communal activities, particularly Red Cross
work.

An ambition I have always had was to enjoy life as a “coun
gentleman.” This desire I have been able to fulfill partially in
the past few years. Every summer I spend considerable time as
a gardener and general caretaker at my summer country place.
There I also enjoy swimming, fishing, and boating.

Since graduation I have managed to keep in touch with Har-
vard by attending meetings of certain organizations allied with
the College where I spent “four formative and fruitful years.”

SIDNEY SILBERMAN

HOME apprEsS: Delmonico Hotel, Park Ave. at 59th St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 502 Park Ave., New York 22, N. Y.

BoRN: Nov. 3, 1900, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Samuel Silberman, Ida Blas-
berg.

[799 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921~1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.
OccuPATION: Chemical business.
MEMBER OF: Dartmouth College Club of New York.

SINCE graduation I have lived in New York City, right in the
center of busy Manhattan and am engaged in the chemical busi-
ness. While at this writing I am still a bachelor, I firmly believe
in the desirability of marriage and the conviction that every
bachelor is a potential husband, when the right girl comes along
at the right time. Some of the important things which happen
are those over which we have no control. There are many men
who are fortunate to marry happily, early in life, and there are
others for whom matrimony occurs at a later age. Continued
happiness in marriage is what we seek and its various degrees of
success or failure in specific instances present a real study from
the observer’s point of view.

However so far I can report that the home life and social life
of a bachelor, especially in a large city, can be very pleasant.
While this is not a defense of bachelorhood, it is interesting to
note that at the time of the Fifteenth Reunion, which I attended,
according to the class statistics, there were over a hundred bache-
lors in our class. This made the percentage about fifteen to
twenty percent in the year of 1939. Without trying to do a “Dr.
Gallup,” especially after the recent prognostications in the presi-
dential election, it will be more interesting to note how many in
1949 are still unmarried, and how much this percentage has
dwindled.

At this time of life, one takes inventory, particularly of things
spiritual, with a full appreciation of our horizons, which have
changed. While there have been all too many voids, there is an
ever-increasing value of those mellowing friendships that remain.
This busy work-a-day world of ours affords all too little time
for evidencing sentiments we secretly harbor in our hearts. That
is why this Anniversary Report and Reunion time is such an op-
portune occasion to renew these old friendships, and to reaffirm
our loyalty and devotion to the College.

[ 800 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MYRON SAMUEL SILBERT

HOME ADDRESS: 130 Cotton St., Newton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Federated Dept. Stores, 1440 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BORN: June 9, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Joseph Jacob Silbert, Clara
Minnie Silbert.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1924, MB.A.,
1926.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Coleman Silbert, ’13; Newman Silbert, ’15.

HARVARD SISTER: Frieda Gertrude (Silbert) Ullian, Ed.M., ’22.

occupaTION: Vice-president, Federated Department Stores, Inc.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant colonel, United States Army; as-
signed to Control Division in Office of Quartermaster General; awarded
Legion of Merit, November, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, census committee of American Retail Federation,
to codperate with United States Department of Commerce in develop-
ing United States census of business, 1948-49; member, Advisory Coun-
cil on Federal Reports, to advise United States Bureau of Budget on
federal reports, 1948-49.

MEMBER OF: City Athletic Club, New York, N. Y.

PUBLICATIONS: Principals of Organization Applied to Modern Retailing, in
collaboration with Paul M. Mazur; Buyers Manual, National Retail Dry
Goods Association, collaborator.

THE recruiting office poster probably read, “Join the Chain De-
partment Stores and See the Country,” and join the chains I did
soon after leaving the Business School. They have kept me
travelling ever since. I guess the only good reason I can give for
being single is that I have not been in any one city long enough
to get settled.

I have been greatly interested in observing some of the ways
this great government of ours wrestles with the huge problems,
economic and otherwise, of its citizens. I have found my com-
mittee work in Washington stimulating, in that it has shown me
government at work.

This Class Report generously offers an opportunity to sound
off — therefore here are a couple of my conclusions. (1) Much
can be accomplished by constructive codperation of business
with government. (2) There are sound democratic ways in
which government and private enterprise can codperate to pre-
vent serious business depressions or extensive unemployment. I
believe that this can be done within the framework of the profit

[ 801 ]

“TTI TT RPE RCT E HFA IE err RE-PY/iemNr nee veya ym La RNG Napa ace ea bem 1 EO

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

system and a democratic system of government. It does require
public-spirited leadership by business men and government of-
ficials. I believe this problem is one of the more important chal-
lenges in the period that is just ahead of us.

I now divide most of my time between Boston and New York
with occasional trips about the country. It’s always a real treat
to run into one of the Class in these wanderings.

MILTON F. SILVERMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 2200 Scottwood St., Toledo, Ohio.
OFFICE ADDREsS: Kobacker Furniture Co., 324 Summit St. Toledo, Ohio.

BORN: Oct. 15, 1902, Connellsville, Pa. parents: Isidore Silverman, Jennie
Featherman.

PREPARED AT: Miami Military Institute, Germantown, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Rosalind J. Rappaport, Dec. 28, 1926, Toledo, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Irwin Joseph, Feb. 22, 1929; Richard, May 1, 1932.

occupATION: Vice-president and secretary, Kobacker Furniture Company.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Toledo Floor Covering Association; trustee,
Toledo Retail Merchants’ Association; member of the advisory board,
Toledo Better Business Bureau; trustee, Toledo Retail Credit Bureau;

president, Collingwood Temple Brotherhood; trustee, Collingwood
Temple.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Toledo.

I HAVE spent almost twenty-five years with the same company,
advancing from the bottom to the top of the organization. It is
a little difficult to think of all the things that have happened in
these years — trips with my wife and children to the North, to
the South, to the East, to the West Coast; the daily grind through
the depression and through a war; helping send to college one
son, soon to be called into the draft and facing who knows what
future — and another son only a short two years from the same
future.

All these things go through your mind — friends of college
years whom you meet in unusual places or at home. Suddenly
you realize: “You are not as young as you were.”

All this is not what was to be written. But the little details
aren't really important. It has been fun — and serious, too. Let’s
hope that the future will not be as unpleasant as the outlook for it
appears today.

[ 802 J

- 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ADDISON SYLVAN SIMMONS

HOME AppreEss: Bloomfield Avenue, Middleboro, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: Addison Simmons Co., 60 Center St., Middleboro, Mass.

BoRN: April 9, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: Jacob Wolf Simmons, Dora
Kramer,

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N. H. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: S.B., 19243 LL.B, 1928.

MARRIED: Bernice Rosalind Levin, Aug. 5, 1934, Fall River, Mass.

occupation: Retail store proprietor.

PUBLICATIONS: Death on the Campus (Thomas Y. Crowell); Dead Weight
(Phoenix Press).

I AM self-conscious about writing an autobiography. I don’t
know how thick to make the pudding. I have put it off until the
third notice to get going. Please remember that if you don’t like
it, you have nothing on me.

In 1924, after Commencement, I went to Europe to see what
they had that we didn’t have, and to get a rest. I had spent my
four undergraduate years doing my required academic work by
day and grinding out dance music at night and I was tired to a
point just this side of collapse. I should have known better than
to take my musical instruments with me to Europe, but I couldn’t
leave them any more than I could leave my left hand. I swore I
wouldn’t play dance music abroad, however, I was going to
sleep nights. But in those days American dance musicians were
much wanted over there, and in London I listened to the pretty
tune of ‘Name your own price” and agreed to go into the Hotel
Berkeley (very snooty, as I remember it) to make with the saxo-
phone. God, however, knew how badly I needed a rest and He
knocked me over with an elegant case of flu a couple of nights
before my British début. I lay abed for just long enough to de-
cide I was better off without that début. When I got back on
my feet, I beat it for Paris, and the first thing I knew, I had a
band in the Club Daunou, down the street from Harry’s Bar. I
had a Canadian lad at the piano, an American on the banjo, a
French count on tenor sax, an ordinary Frenchman named Willie
on drums, and a trumpet player who had come over on tour with
Paul Whiteman a couple of years before and had stay ed on to
drink Paris dry. We pulled the poor guy out of the wine, dried

[ 803 ]

eI aT EO Te WMT nteasuiuneiesinsieeses. sei-sreondi-e.tmes sur} japan ctasuenm onrmevenny sti

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

really something. I had signed for three years with Campbell; |
was bound to them, and no fooling, for three years, but on their
side they could can us at the end of any thirteen-week period.
Well, came the day Campbell forgot to take up my option and a
number of others. This despite the fact that we had given them
their highest Crosley rating in the history of their radio show.
Orson Welles moved in on the crest of his “Man from Mars”
wave.

For a while I free-lanced. I was working for Paramount when
Chicago beckoned pretty. There was a good market for a free-
lance man who had been through the mill. Chicago was okay,
but there was still the never-ending terrific nerve strain that
tears you down. The end was coming and I could see it. The
war broke out in Europe and overnight I had eight thousand
dollars’ worth of radio dramatic shows cancelled in favor of news
commentators. However, the end was not quite yet. I still had
plenty of shows to do. But I was talking it over with myself:
“Maybe you'd better get out of this business, laddie, while you
are still partly sane.” Then the end did come. One day someone
whom I had always trusted pulled a fast one on me and cut me
out of a fat piece of business. If I live to be two hundred, I'll
never forget that last day in his office. He hollered at me and J
hollered at him, and I swore that this was my last appearance in
the world of radio or any other kind of crummy entertainment
business, and that probably radio would stop dead if I left it, but
I was callous enough not to care if it did. I said I was going back
to the East Coast — home, sweet home — and buy me a small,
hole-in-the-wall business, and try to get to be a human being
again instead of a bundle of nerves.

Cut now to Middleboro, Massachusetts. I have a small store
where we sell patent remedies, cosmetics, gifts, sodas, cigars,
cigarettes, candy, and good will. I am my own boss. I am wor-
ried by no movie or radio actors and no sponsor’s Aunt Lulu. |
write when I please and what I please. Last year saw the pub-
lication of another novel, Dead Weight, which appeared at two
dollars and in a twenty-five-cent edition. My wife and I have
gone in for dog training and we have a German Shepherd dog
named Alaric von den Vosefeld who has three obedience
degrees: C.D., C.D.X., and U.D. (Companion Dog, Companion

[ 806 ]

lathes eRe

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Dog Excellent, and Utility Dog). This makes him the boss of
the family, for I have only two degrees and my wife has one.

_ We built a house in the fall and winter of 1947-48, which may
prove that sanity has not yet returned,

_ But let me point up this thing: My stomach now knows what
to do with food and I can sleep nights. The past is way behind
us. Sometimes our good friend, Les Tremayne and his wife,
Alice Reinhart (Chichi of “Life Can Be Beautiful”), and some
of the others come to spend a quiet weekend with us, but that’s
_as close as we ever get to radio except for turning the knob ona
set. Home is the sailor, home from the sea, and Dopey is home
from the land of the Big Whacky, the Big Money, and Bend
Over, I Wanna Cut Your Throat But Good, Sonny Boy.

JOHN HERBERT SIPP

HOME ADDRESS: 45-22 167th St., Flushing, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDREss: Western Union Telegraph Co., 60 Hudson St., New York,
N. Y.

BorN: April 8, 1901, Passaic, N. J. PARENTS: Herbert Roy Sipp, Claire Mar-
garet Grossenbacher.

PREPARED AT: Passaic High School, Passaic, N. J.; Roxbury Latin School,
Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B. IN ELEC.ENGIN., 1924.

MARRIED: Ruth Marie Gaisel, June 14, 1924, Passaic, N. J. CHILDREN: Ruth
Jacqueline (m. George T. Reynold, Jr., June 19, 1948), June 22, 1925;
John Frederic, Dec. 15, 1932.

OccupaTION: Employee relations,

MEMBER OF: Masons; Queens County Bird Club.

AFTER graduation I spent two enjoyable years in Winthrop,
Massachusetts, working for the New England Telephone and
Telegraph Company. I then went to New York with the Western
Union Telegraph Company, with whom I have been ever since.

For the first fifteen years I was in the Traffic Department,
specializing in telephone properties and equipment. Came our
illustrious alumnus, F.D.R., and I was transferred to “Employee
Relations,” where I have remained.

_ During this period nothing has happened to me that would be
of interest to others, but I have had an interesting life in a per-
sonal way. I have not reached high places, but I feel that I have
done more good reaching the low places.

[ 807 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

For the past ten years or so I have been interested in Girl
Scouting (through my wife and daughter), and for the past five
years have been interested in Boy Scouting. I have been suc-
cessively: neighborhood commissioner, troop committeeman,
Merit Badge counselor; district chairman, Organization and Ex-
tension Committee; neighborhood chairman, Finance Committee;
and Scoutmaster. I have taken such an active part in Boy Scouting
because I find that it offers an opportunity to do something for
my country and the boys in it.

Answering this questionnaire brings me up short with the fact
that most of the twenty-five years since graduation have been
spent during the depression and the war in worrying first if I
could weather the storm, then if the country could weather it,
and now if the world can. I should much rather look off into the
future and dream of peace.

LEO SLAFSKY

ADDRESS: 39 Fuller St., Brookline, Mass.

BorN: April 15, 1903, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Jacob Slafsky, Nellie Barron.
PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Slafsky did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

GAYLORD HANCOCK SMITH

HOME ADDRESS; 1264 Wyoming Ave. Forty Fort, Pa.

BorN: Oct. 30, 1899, Wyoming, Pa. parents: John Franklin Smith, Anna
Mary Hancock.

PREPARED AT: Wyoming Seminary, Kingston, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923, 1924-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1924(25).

Marriep: Margaret M. Doron, Dec. 25, 1926, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. CHILDREN:
Ruth Doron, June 17, 1929; Nancy Hancock, Jan, 21, 1932.

OccUPATION: Education.

orrices HELD: Treasurer, Harvard Club of Wilkes-Barre, 1943-48.

SENCE graduation I have spent a quiet and contented life teach-
ing. First, I served as head of the history department in the
Forty Fort, Pennsylvania, Fligh School and later at Coughlin
High School in Wilkes-Barre.

[ 808 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My summers have been spent, for the most part, in travel with
my family. Quite frequently the latter part of August finds me
in the vicinity of Harvard Square and Brookline, for that is the
week of the National Doubles Tennis Tournament.

On my recent sabbatical I went to the South. For eight months
I lived in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, with my family. The re-
mainder of the year we travelled through the southern states.

GEORGE MILTON SMITH, JR.

HOME aAppREss: 9 Bolton Pl., Fair Lawn, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The City College of New York, New York 31, N. Y.

BoRN: March 10, 1902, Southington, Conn. parents: George Milton Smith,
°96, Katherine Ware.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: S.B., 1924; PH.D. (Columbia Univ.),
1933.

MARRIED: Frances Tappan Brown, Sept. 6, 1928, Providence, R. I. cHiLpREN:
Winthrop Ware, Aug. 4, 1936; David Tappan, Oct. 13, 1939.

OCCUPATION: Teacher.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Social Science Honors Committee, The City Col-
lege of New York, Radburn Community Forum, Fair Lawn, N. J.;
associate professor of psychology, The City College of New York,
since 1930; lecturer in psychology, Barnard College, 1929-30; instructor
in physics and mathematics, The Loomis School, 1924-26.

MEMBER oF: American Psychological Association; Society for the Psycho-
logical Study of Social Issues, Eastern Psychological Association;
American Statistical Association, Appalachian Mountain Club.

PUBLICATIONS: A Simplified Guide to Statistics; Workbook and Manual in
Psychology; “Classroom Demonstrations in Psychology”; “A Phobia
Originating before the Age of Three Cured with the Aid of Hypnotic
Recall”; “Speech Intelligibility under Various Degrees of Anoxia”;
“Variations in the Angioscotoma in Response to Prolonged Mild
Anoxia.”

FOR two years after graduation I taught physics and algebra at
the Loomis School, where I had been a student four years before.
Here life was still pleasant, especially because Windsor, is not far
from Northampton, which harbored my future wife. I then
returned to Cambridge for a year at the Theological School,
drawn as much by the thought of another year in the Glee Club
with “Doc” Davison as by anything theological. During this
period | also sang in Joe Lautner’s double quartet on a small-time
professional basis. Though we sang exclusively numbers already

[ 809 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

familiar from “The Doc’s” training, it will be hard to forget the
climax of our Christmas tour in the beautiful chapel of Williams
College, where the only effect of a particularly vigorous number
was to put out the lights. The following year I transferred to
Union Theological Seminary, but before the end of the first
semester the Lord and I caught on to each other. We parted,
however, without bitterness; I to take up the study of psychology
at Columbia University, and He, no doubt, to continue His pur-
suit of the psyche at a more exalted level.

During three of the preceding summers I conducted small
groups of school boys through Europe, pushing them alternately
through art galleries, around cathedrals, and over Alpine passes.
A few of my helpless victims even struggled with me up a high
Alp or two. Another summer in Europe a year later with my
wife was less strenuous and more satisfying.

While working on my dissertation at Columbia, I taught a year
at Barnard College, and in 1930 landed in the Psychology De-
partment of the City College of New York. There, where the
staff and students are generally tolerant, keen, and congenial, I
have been ever since teaching social, abnormal, and general psy-
chology. Such reputation as I have is based upon my college
training in physics, which helps me to be somewhat critical of the
wilder speculations in the social sciences. During the war I pinch-
hitted part-time in the Physics Department, thus returning to my
first love. I also engaged in some high altitude research under an
O.S.R.D. contract, securely anchored at sea level in an oxygen
chamber.

Twelve years ago I took up skiing and rock climbing under
the patient guidance of some experts in the Appalachian Mountain
Club. The technique of managing a rope, which I learned at
this time, has since proved of practical value in painting roof-
tops, Last winter I took up chess to amuse a skiing companion
who had broken a leg on Mount Mansfield’s Nose Dive. My
twelve-year-old son, who picked up the game at the same time,
now check-mates me with embarrassing frequency, and my nine-
year-old son threatens to leave me far behind on the ski trails
within a few years, I have also had a lot of fun over the years
with a camera and enlarger. The dynamic models within my own
family have, on occasion, more than compensated for the

[ 810]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

superior lens technique with which Mr. Bachrach has distin-
guished the pater familias (see cut).

As my wife is the mainstay of the village choir, the whole
family occasionally shows up at the same time in flowing robes,
with expressions ranging from apple-cheeked and angelic to
dark and Mephistophelian. For the last seven years I have run
the local community forum in the vain hope of keeping myself
abreast of these troubled times. |

* GRAFTON SMITH:

BoRN: Aug. 26, 1899, Glencoe, Ill. parents: Dudley Wolfe, Mabel Florence
Smith. ,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass. }

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1919-1921.

MARRIED: Janice Vaughan, March 1, 1928.

DIED: Sept. 5, 1931, Troy, N. Y.

GRAFTON SMITH entered Harvard fer completing prepara-
tory studies at Phillips Academy but withdrew from college
during his sophomore year. For a time he was associated with
Hayden, Stone & Company, Boston, and later became adminis-
trator of the George Warren Smith estate. As trustee, treasurer,
and director of George Warren Smith Corporation and George
Warren Smith, Incorporated, he was associated with the Guaranty
Trust Company, New York. He was also head of the George
Smith Company, Boston, and the Salem Trust Company.

An interest in horses was one of his chief recreations, and he
was driving to his Saratoga home from the race track when the
car skidded and overturned. He died as a result of injuries re-
ceived in the accident.

A member of the Harvard Clubs of both Boston and New
York, he also belonged to the New York Yacht Club and the
Eastern Yacht Club, and the Union Boat Club.

MATT RYAN SMITH

HOME AppREss: 5 Yale Circle, Berkeley, Calif,

OFFice appress: Ralph L. Smith Lumber Co., Anderson, Calif.; M. R. Smith
Lumber & Shingle Co., Stuart, Henry, White Bldg., Seattle, Wash.
Born: Feb, 18, 1901, Chicago, Ill. parents: Frank Hugh Smith, Mary Ber-

nardine Koyer.

{ 811 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

PREPARED AT: Carbondale High School, Carbondale, Kans.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Kathryn Louise Miller, June 30, 1934, Chicago, Ill. citupren:

John Houston Buckley, May 20, 1936, Richard Malcom Franklin, Jan.
31, 1939.
occuPATION: Lumber manufacturing; California representative for Ralph L.
Smith Company, Kansas City, Missouri, and M. R. Smith Lumber &
Shingle Company.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Private, American Expeditionary Force, 1917-19.
WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Agent, Defense Supplies Corporation; Civilian
Defense Organization.
OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Cub Pack 18, Kensington, Calif.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Northern California.
I AM just a plain guy, and these are the simple facts of my life
since June, 1924. Upon graduating from college, I entered the
family lumber business, and my work since has been pretty much
confined to lumber manufacturing in its various phases of pro-
duction, distribution, and finance. In this I have gone through the
mill, from “whistle punking” on giant logging equipment in the
Pacific Northwest to selling to tough and stingy buyers along
the Atlantic seaboard. This last is often no easy assignment. The
year 1948 finds me as California representative for two Smith
lumber manufacturing companies, both headed by good Harvard
men — Ralph Smith, ’10, and Paul Smith, ’1o. If some of you
boys of 1924 have been somewhat reluctant to build that new
house because of the astronomical level of lumber prices, please
be advised that you should get ready to go ahead now because
those prices are on a dizzy spiral downward.

As for politics, I am a conservative Republican and, like a lot
of you fellows, perhaps, have voted for no presidential winner
since leaving college. Maybe I did win once on my first voting
back in the early twenties, I don’t lick easily, though, and the
next time I am going to double my bet and pick the winner, I
hope.

Travel has been confined to these United States, which I have
covered with a fine tooth comb. However, during the summer
of 1931 I did have a most enjoyable visit at the parental home of
Ralph Greenidge on the Island of Barbadoes, and on the same
trip I saw Cory Davies in Trinidad. Remember, Cory, at Port-
of-Spain when you held up the departure of the ship which I was
to board? Pll always remember it.

{812 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I am a woodsman, you might say, a hillbilly by nature, and I
have had little time for hobbies. Anyway, it’s a full-time job to
raise two rip-roarin’ boys, with the help of my wife, of course.
One of these boys, by the way, is just now recovering from a
struggle with that dreadful scourge, polio.

If any of you fellows ever have occasion to be in the neighbor-
hood of the San Francisco Bay area, come and see us. I am not
there too much of the time, but come anyway.

LOUIS FRANCIS SOLANO

HOME ADDRESS: 24 Carver St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 173 Widener Library, Cambridge 38, Mass.

BorN: March 23, 1904, Naples, Italy. parents: Salvatore Solano, Consiglia
Floris.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1924; A.M.
19253 PH.D., 1931.

MarRiED: Clelia Capelli, Sept. 27, 1939, El Paso, Texas. cHitpren: Teresa,
Sept. 4, 1940; Louisa, Nov. 22, 1941; Karina, Feb. 20, 1943; Marie~
Dolores, Aug. 14, 1944.

occuPATION: Education.

OFFICES HELD: Faculty instructor in Romance languages, 1931-40, associate |
professor in Romance languages, since 1940, Harvard University.

AS YOU see, I am one of those peculiarly unfortunate persons —
an alumnus who has never been weaned from his alma mater.

CHARLES CRUMRINE SPALDING

HOME ADDRESS: 5007 38th Ave., N.E., Seattle 5, Wash.

BORN: Nov. 6, 1902, Laramie, Wyo. parents: Charles Dickinson Spalding,
Allie Edna Crumrine.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; A.M. 1926,

marriep: Frances Ada Chamberlain, July 28, 1934, Grand Island, Nebr.
CHILD: Janet Eleanor, Nov. 17, 1941.

occuPATION: Music teacher.

e

HENRY WHEELER SPENCER

HOME AppREss: 207 Newton St., Weston 93, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kidder, Peabody & Co., 115 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: March 3, 1901, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Charles Winthrop Spen-
cer, 90, Ethel Marie Wheeler.

[ 813]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H. |
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; M.B.A., 1926.

_ MARRIED: Marguerite Garceau, Sept. 28, 1927, Dedham, Mass. cHILpren:
Sherlie Wheeler, Dec. 4, 1928; Charles Winthrop, Dec. 25, 1930; Emily
Curtis, May 28, 1934.

HARVARD BROTHER: Winthrop Wheeler Spencer, ’18.

occuPATION: Associated with Kidder, Peabody & Company, investment
bankers.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant, Quonset, R. I., August, 1942; opera-
tions officer, Naval Air Station, Vero Beach, Fla., 1942-44; lieutenant
commander, administrative officer, C.A.G. (N)53, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant treasurer, 1926-27, president and treasurer, 1927-30,
T. E. Mosely Company; member, board of directors, Sons of the Revo-
lution, 1930-33; assistant manager, Back Bay office, 1935-42, in charge of
research, New England division, since 1946, Kidder, Peabody & Com-
pany. .

FOR some years after graduation I was in the shoe business, but

left it in 1930 for investment banking. It was hardly a propitious

time for that or any business, as we well know.

When World War II started, the Navy decided it could use
business school graduates, so shortly thereafter I landed at
Quonset Point, Rhode Island, along with a fair number of my
‘classmates. After the sixty-day treatment, I was sent to the Naval
Air Station, Vero Beach, Florida, as an operations officer. The
work there was very interesting, for later the station became the
first night-fighter training base. When my family joined me, we
moved to a little town outside Vero. The house, formerly used
by a plantation overseer and most primitive, was in the middle
of. an orange grove. Dense jungle and everglades were a relatively
short walk from the house. For those who really seek peace and
contentment, I recommend a one-story shack, plus a gallon of
D.D.T., in an orange grove near the Everglades.

I stayed several long years at the station and was finally as-
signed to a night carrier air group as an administrative officer.
The war ended before we completed training.

At present I live in the country, albeit some distance from the
glades. My elder daughter is studying art in Boston, following in
her mother’s footsteps. I hope that my son will enter Harvard
next fall.

[814]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HERBERT CHARLES SPLANE

HOME appress: 8 Walnut St., Everett, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kneeland & Splane, 50 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

porn: April 25, 1902, Everett, Mass. PARENTS: Herbert William Splane,
Charlotte Jones Laird. ;

PREPARED AT: Everett High School, Everett, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1024. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; LL.B. (Boston Univ.),
1928; M.a.o. (Staley College of the Spoken Word), 1948.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Legal work in connection with Port Security
matters, United States Coast Guard, Nov. 10, 1942, to Oct. 16, 1944.
OFFICES HELD: Fire commissioner, Everett; chairman, Housing Authority,

Everett.
MEMBER OF: Algonquin Club; Down Town Club (charter member).

A LAWYER, a bachelor, a Republican, an Episcopalian — that
just about sums up my social, political, and religious status. I am
one of those who “live alone and like it” in a bachelor’s apart-
ment.

Perhaps for this reason I have more hobbies than the average
family man. The one that I suppose is nearest my heart is sailing
on tow-boats, and many Saturday and Sunday afternoons find me
sailing down Boston Harbor in a boat towing a barge or docking
an oil tanker or whatnot. In fact, any boat gives me a thrill, and
I spend part of my vacation every summer cruising on some sort
of craft. I hold a license to operate a motor boat sixty-five feet
in length in and around the waters of Boston Harbor carrying
passengers for hire, although I hold the license only for my own
personal satisfaction.

A close second to sailing boats is following fires. I must admit
being a real “spark,” even to having a fire radio in my living
room whereby I am able to receive the alarms the instant they are
sounded on the Boston fire alarm system, and to carry at all times
a fire helmet, rubber boots and rubber boat in the back of my car.
I was fire commissioner in Everett, Massachusetts, and an inheri-
tance from that position was a badge which I carry in my pocket
and which permits me to go in the lines at any fire. I have been
given the title of civilian aide to the chief of the department of
Boston Protective Department, a salvage corps operated by the
fire underwriters.

[8r5]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Another of my hobbies is horseback riding which I particularly
enjoy while riding Canadian “Chunks.” Incidentally, I weigh
two hundred five pounds and need a horse with a good strong
back as well as a smooth gait.

As a member of the Algonquin Club I find it a pleasant place in
which to entertain my friends.

I] ama partner in the law firm of Kneeland & Splane with offices
at 50 Federal Street, Boston, Massachusetts.

As might be expected from my hobby of sailing, I practise
admiralty law together with insurance law and general practice.
A hearty welcome awaits any Harvard man who calls at my office.

PHINEAS SHAW SPRAGUE

HOME AppRESS: Cape Elizabeth, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 Post Office Sq., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 14, 1901, Boston, Mass. parents: Phineas Warren Sprague, Eliza-
beth Sumner Shaw.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

marrieD: Lucy C. Carnegie, March 15, 1924, Cumberland Island, Ga. (di-
vorced); Jeannette Hume, Aug. 21, 1946. CHILDREN: Phineas, June 15,
1925 (m. Mary Lou Thomas, Aug. 21, 1948); Lucy, Jan. 2, 1928; Milli-
cent, Oct. 22, 1933; Julie, Nov. 4, 1947.

occupation: Wholesale coal and shipping.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: United States Naval Reserve, Hollandia, New
Guinea.

LIKE George Apley, “I’m against it.”

J. BENTLEY SQUIER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 39 E. 78th St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New York Times, 229 W. q3rd St., New York, N. Y.

Born: June 17, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: J. Bentley Squier, Leah
Ursula Bradt.

PREPARED AT: Browning School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Isabel Wright, Nov. 2, 1929, Chattanooga, Tenn.

occupaTion: Retail Advertising Department, New York Times,

OFFICES HELD: Associate editor, New York Times Annalist, 1914-28, Associate
Vestryman, Church of the Heavenly Rest.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Socicty of Colonial Wars; Har-

[ 816 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

vard Club of Boston; Racquet and Tennis Club, New York, The
Church Club, New York.

BUSINESS career: The New York Times Annalist, 1924-28;
finance, with Spencer Trask & Company, and S. B. Chapin &
Company, 1929-39; The New York Times Company Retail Ad-
vertising Department, since 1939.

War record: None. A back injury in 1935 combined with very
poor vision in one eye put me among the ineligibles. However,
during the war period, I was able to give a good deal of time to
the Red Cross and some help as a volunteer fireman.

Family life: Have recently completed nineteen years of an
extremely happy marriage and look forward to its continuance
until death do us part.

Travels: Since marriage, confined to this country and Canada.

Political convictions: Definitely against profligate government
spending. Have always voted for the man rather than the party.

Social activities: An injured back has definitely confined me to
bridge, backgammon and gin rummy — in short, have become a
spectator of sports with the exception of swimming and fishing.
My hobbies are for the most part included in the foregoing.

Religious convictions: Firmly believe that whatever punish-
ment awaits us in the next world, we receive an amount equal to
our sins before we pass on.

NORMAN ABRAM STAHL

HOME ADDRESS: 1740 Earlmont Ave., La Canada, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 4040 Wilshire Blvd. Los Angeles, Calif.; Paramount Re-
frigeration, 2311 W. Ninth St., Los Angeles, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1902, Berlin, N. H. parents: Abraham M. Stahl, Flora Gutt-
man.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924,

MarRiED: Myrna M. Frost, April 21, 1946, Las Vegas, Nev.

HARVARD BROTHER: Everett Howard Stahl, 726.

OCCUPATION: Real estate operator; commercial refrigeration distribution
and sales.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member of Ration Board.

MEMBER OF: Town Hall, Los Angeles; Harvard Club of Southern California;
Phillips Academy Alumni Club of Southern California; La Canada
Chamber of Commerce.

[ 817]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

SIC semper procrastinatoris! Semper quod! Goad after goad!

Not good. Has it ever failed that the more full the life the more

ame to live it! So herewith the oft sought-after life of N, Stahl,
.’04 (Goad No. 4).

a summer after graduation I came to California for two
weeks and remained two years. I found an interesting job export-
ing seeds and plants to Latin America which brought me a few
shekels and an elementary knowledge of Spanish. But the old
leg injury (which had me on crutches my freshman year at col-
_ lege) flared up again and sent me to New York for an operation,
Unfortunately, it was not a success, and the next five years were
spent acquiring a heck of a lot of knowledge of orthopedica the
hard way through more surgery and many months of hospitali-
zation. I really rate an M.D., but was completely satisfied with
what I did get — c-u-r-e-D.

Recuperating days were spent at home i in New Hampshire, so
when things were on the mend I dabbled in real estate. But New
York City seemed more attractive to this country-bred_ lad, so in
1931 I went there to live.

For five years I gathered no moss. (Those years saw several
others who didn’t, I'm told.) I tried my hand as a statistician for
a Wall Street brokerage firm, as an operator of garages, insurance
agent, and then went - back to real estate again. Here I seemed
most at home.

All this time I maintained bachelor quarters with Paul Levi, ’26,
and Sam Rudner, LL.B., ’29, at various apartments in the West
7o's. They tell me I became proficient as a chef — which un-
doubredly accounts for my success nowadays at the barbecue pit.

But California had got in my blood; it beckoned loudly and
often. I knew that there lay fertile fields and wonderful climate
(my crystal ball did not project into 1949), so when an oppor-
tunity arose to go to Los Angeles to look after the realty affairs
of two financial institutions, I needed no persuasion. That was
the winter of 1937, and here I am, for good I hope—a native
(by right of ten years’ survivorship) still doing real estate in a
passably satisfactory manner as judged by material standards.

Not until 1946 did 1 recognize the frailties of bachelorhood,
and Icarn that life’s true bounties lie in the home. For in April of
thar year Myrna Frost and I were married, and the greatest ex-

[818

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

perience of my life began with our spectacularly wonderful three
and one-half-month wedding tour by air of Mexico, Central and
South America. There had been some travel for me before —a
trip around this country the summer after graduation, a half-
dozen trips back East from California, but this air tour, possibly
more exciting because of its nature, went far beyond the realm
of travel as I had known or imagined it. We saw much of Mexico,
a little of Central America, and pretty nearly all of the tourist
attractions of Colombia, Peru, Chile, the Argentine, Uruguay,
Brazil, and the West Indies. The high spot of the trip, literally
and figuratively, was our jaunt into the Inca country of the
Peruvian high Andes. Our hundreds of 35 mm. colored slides
provide an invaluable record for many a fascinating review.

We live an out-door life (except for this winter of winters)
eighteen hundred feet up in the foothills’ near Pasadena. My
hobbies are gardening (especially camellias), photography, and
even alfalfa ranching, although with recent years’ inflation the
last named has become more lucrative, hence is out of the hobby
category. My pet charity is the Braille Institute of America of
which my wife, Myrna, is a very active trustee.

We're both looking forward to the Twenty-fifth at Cam-
bridge, and only hope a new and extra business interest, that of
commercial refrigeration, will not chill the prospect of reunion
by making it difficult for me to get away.

HERBERT SPENCER STAMATS

HOME ADDRESS: 2131 Linden Drive, Cedar Rapids, Iowa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 427 Sixth Ave., SE., Cedar Rapids, Iowa.

BORN: Oct 10, 1898, New Vienna, Ohio. parents: Frank Stamats, Elizabeth
Nora Ingold. |

PREPARED AT: Cedar Rapids High School, Cedar Rapids, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-21.

Married: Isabel Ross Owen, Oct. 3, 1923, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Sarah
Jane, July 20, 1926 (m. Horace edges Jr., June 19, 1948); Peter Owen,
July 17, 1929.

OccuPATION: Publisher.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Field Artillery, thirteen months’ service on
French front, May 1, 1917, to Aug. 3, 1919.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Coe College, since 1938; president, Cedar Rapids
Chamber of Commerce, 1947, Stamats Publishing Company,

[ 819 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

MEMBER OF: University Club, Chicago, American Legion; Benevolent and
Protective Order of the Elks; Cedar Rapids Country Club; Pickwick
Club.

AFTER leaving Harvard in 1921, I formed an advertising-publish-
ing partnership which has remained my major interest.

Home life, some travel, regular horseback riding over Iowa’s
attractive countryside have filled in the leisure moments. Civil
activities have engaged spare moments.

A son, now a Dartmouth sophomore, hopes for graduate work
in Harvard Business School.

WILLIAM STANTON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 503 N. Second St. Atchison, Kans.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 800 Kansas Ave., Atchison, Kans.

BORN: Oct. 16, 1902, Union Star, Mo. parents: William Stanton, Martha
Gladys Tanner.

PREPARED AT: Atchison High School, Atchison, Kans.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

marRieD: Amelia Johanna Fox, June 8, 1932, Atchison, Kans. CHILDREN:
Ruth G., March 7, 1934; Martha A, July 15, 1935; William, 3d, Sept.
12, 1943.

occupation: Mortician.

OFFices HELD: President, School Board, Rotary Club, Chamber of Com-
merce.

SINCE leaving college, life has been a series of ups and downs.
Certainly nothing has been static. I am grateful, however, that
there have been far more of the former than the latter. I am
married to the finest girl in the world and have the three finest
children. I am happily situated and am trying hard to merit the
respect that the community gives me.

WALTER VINCENT STEARNS

HOME AppRESS: 33 Prospect St., White Plains, N. Y.

orrice appress: M. W. Kellogg Company, 225 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.

BorN: Oct, 25, 1903, Boston, Mass. parents: Charles Francis Stearns, Ger-
trude Anderson.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; A.M., 1925.

Maraipp: Marie Theresa Harrington, June 30, 1934, Neponset, Mass. crit-
peeN: John Harsington, July 5, 1935, Joseph Timothy, July 10, 19373
Margaret Mary, June 35, 1939, Marie-Thérése, Aug. 25, 1940.

[ 820]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Francis Stearns, Jr., ’20.

occupaTION: Professional chemical engineer; chief, Lubricating Oil Process
Division, M. W. Kellogg Company.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Chemical Engineering, Harvard En-
gineering Society.

pusications: “Thermodynamic Properties of Propane,” Ind. Eng. Chem.,
May, 1943.

OUR lives are short, and that life of which you so kindly inquire
seems exceptionally so. The pleasant memories of the days of our
mutual acquaintances and friendships are still vivid, and to all of
you with whom the gage of friendship has been exchanged we
send our most earnest greetings.

It is, of course, not possible to describe our individual life
during this period. As such, it scarcely existed, but as a vital and
living partnership with that infinitely charming and gracious
Radcliffe inhabitant whom we met near the end of our senior
year. It has been indeed our greatest of good fortune to have
been related with another in whom all the great blessings to
which a woman is once entitled have been in such measure ful-
filled. This, therefore, is an account of our life.

The first part of this time was, from a business standpoint,
engaged in exchanging knowledge for experience. At that time
experience drove some pretty hard bargains. Most of this time
was spent in New England, one of us working in and directing
research, the other in educating youth.

The great depression fortunately or unfortunately submerged
the company with which I was associated, and in the resulting
chaos the writer located in Philadelphia, first in the coal tar
industry, and later in petroleum refining. To this city we finally
came as full partners. Here we spent many happy years; here all
of our children claim their birthplace. Here we progressed from
research to process development, from process development to
plant engineering to a director of an engineering development
division.

In the period of the war, we came to New York to work on the
design of petroleum units associated with aviation gasoline and
aviation oils, and we are still here, supervising a process design
group, in an engineering and contracting company generally con-
ceded to be the best in its field. We are suburbanites, and, afrer

[ 821 ]

NTT Tem rrr ere eters

FI Tee Pep eMt egies Wie peat cats

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

the Williams fashion, commuters to the metropolis of Manhattan
(who said Madhouse?). Westchester is about the nearest suburb
to Home, which to all Bostonians is the only one place ever.

As for the future, if it is possible that the gentle order and
peace of our mutual lives shall continue, we shall enjoy those
days. If not, we hope and pray for perseverance and fortitude

against the future and for all of you and for us too, true good
fortune.

JAMES DeWITT STEIN

HOME appress: Park Drive South, Rye, N. Y.

OFFICE appREss: Edgar A. Levy Management Corp., 505 Fifth Ave., New
York 17, N. Y.

BorN: April 4, 1903, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: ‘Jacob: Stein, Clara Jose-
phine Kahn.

PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: a.B. magna cum laude, 1924.

MARRIED: Maxine Jane Lewenstein, Sept. 5, 1935, New York, N, Y. CHILDREN:
James DeWitt, Jr., Aug. 29, 1941; Susan Jane, June 21, 1944.

HARVARD BRoTHER: Richard Jay Stein, °26.

occuPaTION: Real estate and hotel management.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chairman and member, advisory board, Local
Board No. 32, Selective Service.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Edgar A. Levy Management Corporation and
Hotel Blackstone.

MEMBER OF: Century Country Club.

ISRAEL STEINBERG

HOME ApDpRESS: 26 Beechwood Terr., Yonkers, N. Y. ~

OFFICE ApprEss: 15 W., 8st St., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: March 31, 1902, Lawrence, Mass. PARENTS: Harry Steinberg, Nessie
Flomen.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: 8.B., 1924; M.D., 1928.

marriep: Evelyn Marie Schiela, Jan. 17, 1932, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Elissa, Feb. 1, 1936; Charles Robb, Feb. 11, 1938, Adam Nathaniel,
Dec. 2, 1942.

occuPATION: Physician,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Licutenant commander, U.S. Naval Reserve,
Medical Corps, 1943, advanced to commander, November, 1945; re-
turned to inactive duty, 1946.

OrFices HELD: Instructor in medicine, New York University, College of

{ 822 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Medicine, 193: to 1940; instructor in medicine and radiology, Cornell
University Medical College, since 1940; member of staff, Bellevue
Hospital and New York Hospital; attending consulting physician,
Veterans Administration Hospital, Bronx; attending physician, Syden-
ham Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American College of Physicians (fellow); American College
of Chest Physicians (fellow); New York Society of Thoracic Surgery;
American Medical Association, New York County Medical Society.

pusLications: “Visualization of the Chambers of the Heart, the Pulmonary
Circulation and the Great Blood Vessels in Man. A Practical Method,”
with Dr. G. P. Robb, American Journal of Roentgenology and Radiation

Therapy, 41:117, 1939.

AS FAR back as I can remember I wanted to be a doctor and now
that I have been one for over twenty years, I still would choose
medicine as a way of life. With such a philosophy it becomes
evident why my class life reads like a medical catalogue. I be-
came a medical student on graduation and find I have had to con-
tinue to be one all these years.

I interned for two years at the Boston City Hospital after
getting my medical degree and then went to Bellevue Hospital,
New York City, for a year’s residency in chest disease. I stayed
on at Bellevue Hospital teaching at New York University and
doing part-time private practice and research. In 1938 Dr. G. P.
Robb and I described a method of visualizing the cardiovascular
structures, now known as angiocardiography. This caught the
fancy of the medical world and we spent the next few years
giving papers all over the United States. In 1938 we received the
Gold Medal of the American Roentgen Ray Society and in 1939
we were awarded the Silver Medal of the American Medical
Association.

I was fortunate in my naval assignments and spent two years
on the West Coast taking care of Pacific casualties, first at the
Corona Naval Hospital, California, and then at Seattle, Washing-
ton. I went overseas as chief in medicine and executive officer
of a naval hospital at Leyte, Philippine Islands, and the end of the
war found me on the U. S. naval hospital ship Repose in Shanghai.
I was advanced to commander on November 1, 1945, and I was
back in New York in 1946. ©

I resumed private practice in New York City in 1946 and here
I remain, taking care of people and teaching at Cornell Univer-

[ 823 ]

I rep ie mya cosa eu

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

sity Medical College. | also find time to do research in pulmonary
and cardiovascular disease at the New York Hospital. The pace
is hectic and often I’ve envied the easy-going life of a country
practitioner.

LOUIS STEINBERG

HOME ADDRESS: 159 Mt. Vernon St., Newtonville, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Steinberg & Steinberg, 20 Pemberton Sq., Boston, Mass.

BorN: March 28, 1902, East Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Harry Steinberg, Sarah
Nowoprucki.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: S.B. 1924; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1928.

Marriep: Victoria Beatrice Newman, May 15, 1930, Somerville, Mass. cu.-
DREN: Paul David, Oct. 23, 1934; Peter John, June 29, 1940.

OccuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Independent Voters’ League, 1939-44; general coun-
sel, Dental Technicians Association.

MEMBER oF: Bar Association of the City of Boston, Massachusetts Bar
Association; Law Society of Massachusetts.

WHEN I finished answering the information portion of the
questionnaire, it appeared to me to reflect a rather quiet and
uneventful twenty-five years. No military or naval record
(should I have put down that 1 was a student officer in the
Reserve Officers’ Training Corps in the first World War?), no
wartime government posts (could I have unostentatiously writ-
ten “air-raid warden”?), no really important offices held, and
no publications. Was it really so quiet and uneventful as the
bare written record above would have it appear? It did not feel
that way, living it. I felt that I was living an active, useful, and
purposeful life, with my share of the usual joys and sorrows that
most of us are given. The activities of a home life with two
growing boys, music, school studies, and a competent wife active
in her own right, together with a busy professional life of my
own provided a full complement of living.

Music is an important element in the life of my family. My
wife studied at the New England Conservatory of Music, and
my older boy has for some years shown evidence of musical talent
as a pianist. Recently the younger boy also began to study the
same instrument. From this has come our chief source of cultural
interest — hearing the great musical artists and orchestras. Scho-

[ 824]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

lastically their father hopes and expects his boys to be Harvard
men, and the boys wish so too.

Until now I have not had occasion to tell about what I have
done or what has happened to me or to my thinking since 1924.
Here was an opportunity to review, think about and reflect
upon these things and at the same time to share with my class-
mates those experiences which were probably common to most
of us, and which brought into our lives those elements which
gave us a purpose and brought to us a satisfaction even though
the vivid color and excitement which our more fortunate class-
mates had experienced had not been ours.

A reasonably good description of me and my thinking upon
graduation in June, 1924, was somewhat like the typical Ameri-
can boy — little or no money, lots of ambition and a fierce de-
termination to make good. A basic question was, in what field?
Medicine? I had taken the required pre-medical courses. Busi-
ness by way of the Business School? I had had some training
and experience and thought that I could do well. Law? It was
an interesting idea and I considered I might even have an aptitude
for it. I compromised. In September I] entered the Graduate
School of Arts and Sciences. Then followed law school and
on January 1, 1929, I was the senior member of the newly
fledged law firm of Steinberg and Steinberg, composed of my
younger brother and me.

Now, twenty-five years later, what has happened to that am-
bitious, determined young man with little or no money? To
dispose of the last item first, I am truly grateful to be able to say
that I have sufficient for my needs. The ambition and determina-
tion to make good of twenty-five years ago was the ambition
and determination of youth with an element of ego sparked by and
also tinged in part by a sense of selfishness. The intervening
years have brought a gradual but perceptible change, a different
and better concept of what is important and valuable. The am-
bition now is not just to get somewhere or some place, but to
serve in my chosen profession, honorably and with the hope and
expectation that I may merit the words “well done thou good
and faithful servant,” coupled, of course, with the understanding
that the servant is worthy of his hire.

The fierce determination to make good was the state of mind

[ 825 ]

a oe

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

of twenty-five years that has undergone the greatest change.
A basic change in my thinking was the cause. The same words
can be used to describe a different goal. I still have a determina-
tion to make good, yes, but a different kind of making good.
Then it meant becoming rich, powerful, successful. Now it
means to live and so conduct myself that I shall reflect those
qualities which we all recognize as good. I have learned that to
the extent and in the proportion that I successfully do so con-

tentment and happiness come to me and to those dear to me. For
this understanding, I am sincerely grateful.

THOMAS MERIAM STETSON, II

HOME appREss: 81 Cottage St., New Bedford, Mass.

BoRN: Oct. 27, 1899, New Bedford, Mass. parents: Eliot Dawes Stetson,
Emily Aimy Cummings

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

occupation: Architect.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Reserve Officers’ Training Corps, Cambridge,
1918.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: With Stone & Webster Engineering Corpora-
tion, working on project at Oak Ridge, Tenn., producing Atom Bomb.

OFFICES HELD: Associated with architectural firms of Adden & Parker,

Shepard & Stearns, and William T. Aldrich.

BROOKS STEVENS, JR.

HOME aApprEss: Knollbrook, Concord, Mass.

OFFice apprEss: Lawrence Manufacturing Co., Lowell, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 20, 1902, Lowell, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Brooks Stevens, ’86,
Edith Ames.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

‘YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MarRieD: Janet Hubbard, June 3, 1925, Detroit, Mich. CHILDREN: Brooks,

3d, Oct. 8, 1926; Janet, March 3, 1929; Derwin Hubbard, Feb. 21, 1935.
HARVARD BROTHER: Ames Stevens, 719.

occupation: Manufacturer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT POSTS: Member, Office of Price Administration Board,
Concord, Mass.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Lawrence Manufacturing Company, Lowell, Mass.,
since 1938, Riggs & Lombard, Inc., Lowell, Mass., since 1932; president,
Zephyr Textiles, Ltd., Ormstown, Quebec, since 1940, Textiles In-
dustries, Ltd., Guelph, Ontario, since 1945, Jerguson Gage and Valve

{ 826 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Company, Somerville, Mass., since 1945; director, Maine Spinning Com-
pany, Skowhegan, Maine, since 1935, United States Bobbin and Shuttle
Company, Lawrence, Mass., 1948.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club, Boston; Concord Country Club, Harvard Club
of New York; Annisquam Yacht Club.

THE pictures of “before” and “after” bring home all too clearly,
even if one feels little different within, what the twenty-five
years have done to each of us. I am tempted to believe that our
quarter-century, with its depressions, wars, Mr. Roosevelt, and
atomic bombs, has been especially challenging, but my reason
says that John Harvard, A.B., 1824, had the same reactions in
1849. Se

In our 1934 Report, I rather plaintively asked for “two or
three good years more before the wolf (depression) started
sniffing at the door.” From a more distant vantage point, the
timing of the start of one’s first twenty-five years seems to make
but little difference. I now firmly believe that at all times there
is opportunity for each of us to be useful, and that a very thought-
ful Providence will make a new and larger opportunity for us
only when we are ready to undertake it, provided we have eyes
to see it.

Our three children have finally educated their mother and me
until I like to think of us as moderately able parents. It looks as
if we would have no chance to show our skills until our grand-
children appear — and then our knowledge will probably not be
welcomed. The older our three become. the greater joys they
bring to us!

We moved to Concord in 193t as a spot from which both
Lowell and Boston were easily accessible and, after trying two
different houses, finally built in 1938 to meet our family “needs
and tastes at that time. I suspect that before long there “will be
room for boarders and we can recommend Concord in every
way as a place to live.

On the business side, I have had the advantage of being asso-
ciated with several small companies and of having the satisfaction
of the resulting close relationships with my associates and em-
ployees. Since 1940 I have also had an opportunity to learn the
way that business is done in Canada and have acquired a tremen-
dous liking and respect for the people to the north of us, Canada

[ 827 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

has a tremendous future and many of its aims and standards are
fine examples for us. On the average, the caliber of the men in
Ottawa directing their war effort and their public leaders seemed
higher than ours. I shall always treasure my Canadian friendships.
My travelling consists chiefly of an annual. winter vacation in
the South since a battle with a pesky T.B. bug in 1935. Tennis,
cruising, small boat sailing and racing, and shooting keep me
from joining the rocking chair fleet during the rest of the year.

DELL HAROLD STEVENS

HOME ADDRESS: 420 Riverside Drive, New York 25, N. Y.

OFFICE ApprEss: Andrews & Wells, Inc., General Motors Bldg.. New York
19, N. Y.

BORN: May 2, 1902, Council Bluffs, Jowa. parents: Burt Stuart Clark, Myrtle
(Colburn) Stevens.

PREPARED AT: Shattuck Military School, Faribault, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

MarRRIED: Charlotte Pauline Metzler, Oct. 12, 1929, New York, N. Y. cHIL-
DREN: Liane McCracken, April 26, 1937; Celia Clark, March 29, 1941.

occupation: Secretary, Andrews & Wells, Inc. treasury and municipal
bonds; columnist for Barron’s Financial Weekly, writing on the money .
market and the market outlook for high-grade bonds.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, New York State Guard.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: “Notes on Treasuries,” a subscription letter on the high-grade

bond market, issued in 1947 and 1948, and now published regularly in
Barron’s Financial Weekly.

EDMUND WALKER STEVENS

HOME appress: Goodman Hill, Sudbury, Mass.
orFice ApprEss: Ginn & Co., Boston, Mass.

BorN: May 17, 1901, Cambridge, Mass. parents: William Forester Stevens,
Angela Walker.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. 1,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: 8.B., 1924(25).
MARKED: Elizabeth Bruyer, Jan. 4, 1930, Englewood, N. J.
occupation: Publishing.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S. Navy, 1942-45.

[ 828 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PHILIP GREELEY STEVENS

HOME ADDRESS: 207 Shore Rd., Old Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: General Aniline and Film Corp., 247 Park Ave. New York,
N. Y.

BoRN: Aug. 16, 1902, St. Albans, Vt. parents: William Stanford Stevens,
80, Emily Huntington Lewis.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1924; A.M., 1926; PH.D. 1929.

marRIED: Valeria Dean Burgess, June 2, 1934, Scarsdale, N. Y. core:
Valeria Dean, June 6, 1936; Harriet Safford, April 4, 1938, Philip
Crocker, June 12, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Stanford Huntington Stevens, ’19.

OCCUPATION: Organic chemist; chemical specialist in the Development De-
partment of General Aniline and Film Corporation.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Sigma Xi; Harvard Club of New
York.

PUBLICATIONS: Over thirty scientific papers including four on the scent
glands of animals (muskrat, skunk and beaver).

e

SHORTLY after graduation, I went to Europe for a year to
attempt to broaden my general outlook, and to learn German to
help me in my chemical studies. These I started in the fall of
1925 at Harvard. Every summer save one, until completing them
in 1929, I also spent in Europe, thus becoming perman@ily
innoculated with wanderlust. My first job in chemical research
was at the Rockefeller Institute; then after a summer in Peru and
Ecuador, I went to Switzerland to study at the University of
Ziirich. There I made the most of my opportunitics to improve
my skiing. Returning home the following June (1931) to find
the depression in full swing, I spent a year in postgraduate work
at Pennsylvania State followed by three’ years of the same at
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Having by then married,
and realizing that such a dilletante existence could not be con-
tinued much longer, I went to work for the duPont Company in
Wilmington. The short two-week vacation, coupled with other
factors, irked me, and when I had a chance to teach organic
chemistry at McGill in 1937, I took it. In Montreal all went well
until the war started, and so I returned to the States in 1940. My
next job was teaching freshman chemistry at Yale; but at this 1
was not a success principally because I was bored with the low
level work, and was noc familiar with the Yale system. I doube

[ 829 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

that many Harvard men ever will fit in at Yale. So I then turned
to war research, and later helped the Elis out in teaching organic
chemistry to the Army and Navy boys. Around V-E Day, I
quit New Haven and started to work for the General Aniline
and Film Corporation, where I am now.

This account is admittedly dull and of little value to my class-
mates. What is more to the point, it seems to me, than reciting
past events, is to let classmates know what I can do for them now.
So if anyone finds himself stranded in Old Greenwich, I can, in
the fall, provide him with pretty good coot shooting and leaf
raking; in the winter, medium to light snow shoveling; in the
spring, excellent weeding; and in the summer, swimming, tennis,
and lawn mowing. However, these attractions may not always
be available; some day I am going to bust out, leave the Balkan-
ized East, and go West (not Los Angeles!) and stay there. If

anyone has some good ideas for western projects, please transmit
same.

LOUIS WILLIAM STOLLER

HOMp AppRESS: 115 Academy St., Poughkeepsie, N. Y.

OFFICE appress: 11-A Cannon St., Poughkeepsie, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 6, 1897, Bremen, Ind. parents: John Stoller, Elsbeth Marie

- Résti. 2

PREPARED AT: Bremen High School, Bremen, Ind.,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: S.B., 1924; M.D., 1928.

marrieD: Alberta A. Groombridge, Aug. 9, 1926, Cambridge, Mass. ‘CHIL

'' DREN: Arlene, Oct. 9, 1932; Peter, Dec. 13, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Observer, Naval Air Corps, July, 1917, to May,
1919, major, Medical Corps, United States Army,- with service in
European Theatre of Operations, August, 1942, to October, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: President, Dutchess County Medical Society, 1948-49.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons (fellow), Dutchess County
Medical Society, Veterans of Foreign Wars.

I ENTERED Harvard Medical School in 1924, graduated in
1928, and trained at the Harper Hospital and Woman’s Hospital

in Detroit. This was followed by a surgical fellowship at the
Lahey Clinic.

I practised medicine in Red Hook, New York, from 1933 until
1942, when I entered the Army as a major in the Third Auxiliary

[ 830 ]

1

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Surgical Group of the First Army. I was discharged in October,
1945, after which I opened an office in Poughkeepsie, where I
am now practising surgery.

HERBERT STUART STONE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 2500 Lake View Ave., Chicago 14, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2243 W. Harrison St., Chicago 12, Ill.

BoRN: Nov. 21, 1901, Elmhurst, Ill. parents: Herbert Stuart Stone, ‘94,
Mary Grigsby McCormick.

PREPARED aT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923.

marRigD: Elizabeth Harding Randall, Nov. 23, 1926, Baltimore, Md. cxt-
DREN: Elizabeth Harding, Sept. 6, 1927; Herbert Stuart, 3d, Nov. 22,
1931.

occuPATION: President, Lincoln Paper Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: United States Naval Reserve, American, African,
and European Theatres, March 9, 1942, to Nov. 9, 1945; commissioned
Lieutenant Commander D-V (S) March 1942, Commander, August, 1943.

OFFICES HELD: President, Chicago Council Navy League of the United States;
trustee, Chicago Historical Society; member, Standing Committee Di-
-ocese of Chicago; Vestryman, St. Chrysostom’s: Church, Chicago; di-
rector, Harvard Club of Chicago, 1940-42; director, The Ditto Press,
Inc., Ditto of Canada, Ltd.; vice-president, Ditto Inc.

MEMBER OF: Chicago Orchestral Association; Agamenticus Yacht Club;
Caxton Club; Cliff Dwellers; Harvard Club; Saddle and Cycle Club;
Volunteer Veteran Firemen’s Association of York, Maine.

I AM still 2 sophomore in good standing, thanks to discerning
deans who accepted my resignation instead of firing me for neg-
lecting to play squash on Fridays. My junior and senior years
were spent before the mast in assorted waters of the world. I
emerged an A.B. instead of a B.A.

My Master’s degree in papermaking was acquired over the next
seven years in a New England village. They were wonderful
years blessed by the acquisition of a superlative wife and chil-
dren, halcyon years warmed by friendly neighbors and bath-tub

in. |

_ The depression delayed my doctorate and sent us to Chicago,
to a totally new life in an atmosphere of tension and action. In
contrast to the graceful living of New England, the Pride of the
Prairie’s price of survival turned out to be an inexhaustible
capacity for work. For ten years Stone kept his nose to the

[ 831]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

grind. Perhaps it was stimulating and rewarding to a degree, but
it was not exactly living.

I became a full-fledged professor early in 1942 when I found
myself in the Navy instructing midshipmen in the art of sea-
manship. The educator’s prerogative rewarded me with a three-
months’ vacation after a nine-months’ term — three-months’
convoy duty in the North Atlantic during the bracing winter of
1942-43. Then back to Midshipmen’s School for another nine
months as Head of the Administrative Department or, in other
words, Dean of Drills and Discipline.

One fine evening in December, 1943, the little Adriatic port of
Bari — where Santa Claus is buried — made the headlines. The
nasty Nazis had blown up every ship in the harbor. Some char-
acter in Washington pulled a card out of a file and my chair-
borne career as a Fellow of the Royal Navy began. Successively
USNAVPOBARI, USNAVPOBRINDISI (where Virgil died),
and USNAVPOLEGHORN (where 300 ships were sunk), I
cemented many an English-Speaking Union and probably hold
the class record for mixing cement with Duggan’s Dew and
Nelson’s Blood.

Between Dalmation and Ligurian duties, I spent the season in
Corsica and environs as Executive of the NAVDET and as a sort
of guide to the Riviera during an OPERATION called ANVIL
by some and DRAGOON by others.

After a bit of Scotland and England, as Executive Officer of
something called DREW FOUR, I returned to the Continent and
motored 400 miles from Ostend to Bremerhaven. On June 1,
1945, | placed in commission and assumed command of the United
States Naval Advanced Base Bremen where I had the pleasure of
seeing our baseball team win the Navy Championship of Europe
and of serving as President of the first General Court Martial in
Germany. I became an authority on fraternization.

I have had far more than my share of good fortune and not the
least of my blessings was OPERATION PHLEBITE which laid
me up for eighteen months after I got home. It gave me an op-
portunity to do some evaluating and to develop a sense of re-
sponsibility and a perspective for the future.

I hope to remain a sophomore in good standing for another
twenty-five years.

[832 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SAMUEL IRVING STONE

HOME ADDRESS: 233 Buckminster Rd., Brookline, Mass.

orFice apprEss: S. Robert Stone, Inc., Fisher Manufacturing Co. Inc. 85
Essex St., Boston 11, Mass.

porN: April 30, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Harry Joseph Stone, Augusta
Goldman.

prepareD AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924} A.M., 1925; PH.D. 1930.

marRiED: Evelyn Inez Miller, May 23, 1932, Brooklyn, N. Y. cuitpren: Lis-
beth, April 9, 1936; Susan, May 23, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Sylvester Robert Stone, ’20; Mark Moenus Stone, "28.

occupation: Cotton goods manufacturer and converter.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, S. Robert Stone, Inc. since 1940; vice-presi-
dent and director, Fisher Manufacturing Company, Inc., SINCE 1943.

FOR ten years after graduation I taught French; six years at
Harvard and four at New York University, University Heights.
During 1927-1928, I was a Roger Travelling Fellow and journeyed
through Spain, Italy, and France, studying in Paris at the Sorbonne
and the Ecole des Hautes Etudes. A scholar of sorts, I contributed
articles to the Mercure de France, Revue des Deux Mondes, and
Modern Language Notes and Publications of the Modern Lan-
guage Association. In 1932 I got married and had to think seri-
ously of earning a living. Two years later, I entered business with
the result that I am now an independent landowner, a “capitalist,”
almost a full-fledged Republican. The lure of travelling never
waned for me and at the least excuse I’m off again. My latest
jaunt was last summer when I toured this great country of ours
with my wife, a top-notch travelling companion (youthful,
vivacious, charming, and gay). We saw and admired most of its
great cities, the mountains, and the plains, and its awesome
natural beauties.

As I look back, I find I have accomplished little. Perhaps the
only accomplishment is to have learned to live, to get along with
other people and enjoy the material comforts and intellectual
pleasures all around us. The theatre, movies, good music, and
the best works of art are all at hand here. We know how to dis-
cover the good books already published, or to be published, and
where to get them, as well as domestic and foreign newspapers and
magazines. We have a little garden, a tool shop, a nice house in

[ 833]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

which to putter around. Our friends visit us often and we can
feed, drink, and put them up comfortably. (Two attractive and
versatile daughters are the mainstay of our entertainment team.)
A large number of the people we know “cultivate their garden”
this way, too. How wonderful it would be if all over the world
the same were true, and a man could travel any where he chose
and always feel welcome and at home!

Unfortunately, the rest of the world is still a sad place. In
college, I was profoundly moved by a line of Alfred de Vigny:
“Jaime la majesté des souffrances humaines.” More and more has
this verse impressed me as the years pass by, especially during
the period from which we are now emerging, one of the most
turbulent in modern history, with millions of humans suffering
horrible hardships and sacrifices. With our modern facilities for
intercommunication, perhaps the significance of this idea will be
felt and appreciated widely enough so that we may see the day
when the nations of this world will have grown up and settled
down, like us, and be busy enjoying life and making it more
enjoyable for all their friends and neighbors.

RICHARD CUTTS STOREY

HOME ApprEss: 149 Miles River Rd., South Hamilton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rm. 700, 84 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 27, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: Richard Cutts Storey, Anna
Ladd.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Mabel Bayard Thayer, Jan. 19, 1929, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Ruth Bayard, Nov. 8, 1929 (m. Harborne W. Stuart, June 19, 1948);
Richard Cutts, Jr., Oct. 16, 1930; Bayard Thayer, July 13, 1932.

HARVARD SON: Richard Cutts Storey, Jr., ’52.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Moorfield Storey, ’26, William Ladd Storey, °30; John
Cutts Storey, '35.

occupaTION: Treasurer and director of Vacuum Foods Corporation.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Called to active duty April 6, 1942, as captain
in the Armored Forces; served as company commander, task force, staff
officer, regimental staff officer, and division staff officer in Camp Haines,
Morocco, Tunisia, Sicily, Normandy, and northern France.

OFFices HELD: Treasurer and director, Vacuum Foods Corporation; com-
manding officer, 211th Cavalry Reconnaissance Squadron (Mecz), First
Corps of Cadets, Massachusetts National Guard.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club; Myopia Hunt Club; The Brook.

[ 834]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IN THE fall of 1924 I went to work for Kidder, Peabody & Com-
pany, one of the well-known Boston private banking houses.
After a year and a half, I sought greener pastures in another
investment banking house and a small industrial enterprise, only
to return to Kidder, Peabody & Company in 1928. The panic of
1929 was something that those of us who were in the securities
business are not likely to forget for the remainder of our lives,
and the long lean years in the financial district, which followed,
may have been good for our immortal souls, but offered very
little chance to improve our material fortunes.

May, 1942, found me a captain in the 2nd Armored Division,
then stationed at Fort Benning. My military education had been
sadly neglected since my stretch of a few years in the National
Guard during college and immediately afterwards, but I eventu-
ally succeeded in getting a nod of approval from my first sergeant
who had been in the Army for twenty years. In short order my
travels began, including Morocco, Tunisia, Sicily, England,
France, back to the United States, and on to Honolulu. Varied
assignments included Regimental S-3, in the gth Infantry Di-
vision, and Assistant G—3, in the 98th Infantry Division. I have
continued my interest in military affairs by participating in the
reorganization of the First Corps of Cadets as an Armored Cavalry
Squadron in the Massachusetts National Guard and now have the
responsibility of commanding that venerable unit.

After the war I went back to Kidder, Peabody & Company,
but found that so much had happened, and so many changes had
taken place in business methods, that I was practically a new-
comer to the Street. I accordingly began to have ideas of chang-
ing, and, after one try in another direction, found myself a job
as treasurer of Vacuum Foods Corporation, It is a new company
just getting started and, as a business experience, it is more fun
than I have ever had before. I am looking forward to the next
few years with pleasure.

DONALD 5S. STRALEM

HOME ADDRESS: 941 Park Ave., New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREsS: Hallgarten & Co., 44 Wall St. New York ¢, N. Y.

BORN; June 28, 1903, Port Washington, Long Island, N. Y. pawents: Casinie
Ignace Stralem, Edithe Alice Neustadt.

[ 835 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

PREPARED AT: Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1024. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

MarRieD: Jean Lehman Ickelheimer, April 10, 1928, New York, N. Y. cum-
DREN: Sandra Jean, Oct. 20, 1932; Sharon Lynn, April 13, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Investment banker.

OFFICES HELD: Partner, Hallgarten & Company, since 1932; director, Thomp-
son-Starrett Company, 1932-34, Waldorf-Astoria, 1932-43, Atlantic Gulf
Petroleum Company, since 1943, United States Leather Company,
since 1937, Stahl-Meyer, Inc., since 1938, Columbia Pictures Corpora-
tion, since 1944, National Travelers’ Aid Society, since 1947, New York
City Defense Recreation Committee, 1941-48; president, Shelter Rock
Foundation, Inc., since 1943, Travelers’ Aid Society of New York,

1940-47; member of advisory board, Girl Scout Council, Greater New
York.

MEMBER OF: Bond Club of New York; Wall Street Club; Stock Exchange
Luncheon Club; Sands Point Golf Club; Harvard Club of New York;
Lawyers Club of New York; Hawks Club.

AFTER graduation I spent a year at Cambridge University in
England, and then became a voluntaire with several banking
houses on the Continent, principally Pierson & Company in Am-
sterdam, and Hardy & Company in Berlin, learning about
European methods.

The principal observation of this period was one of continued
depressions, since both Amsterdam and Berlin, at the time of my
apprenticeship, were in economic tailspins. I returned to the
United States and was married in 1928. In 1929 I had the oppor-
tunity to continue my study of depressions with the advent of
the granddaddy of them all.

In 1932 I became a partner of the firm of Hallgarten & Com-
pany, investment bankers, and also celebrated the birth of a
daughter,

Out of my experience in economic acrobatics has come the
knowledge of the needs of philanthropic organizations and
their importance in a community dedicated to the democratic
way of life. I was priviliged to be the president of the Travelers’
Aid Society of New York for a little over six years, most of
them war years.

My major interest, outside of my family, now enlarged by
another daughter, and earning a living, is the George “Junior
Republic” in Freeville, New York. This organization is fifty-four
years old and is the leader in the field of experimental co-educa-

[ 836 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion of problems of boys and girls. Incidentally, it is the only
co-educational project of its kind. Perhaps it is only fair to warn
all classmates of mine that I am chairman of the Board of this

roject and that I am looking for funds with which to enlarge
the facilities of the “Republic.”

1 EZEKIEL ALBERT STRAW

porN: March 4, 1902, Manchester, N. H. parents: William Parker Straw,
’99, Josephine Perkins.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS AT COLLEGE: 1920-1923.

MARRIED: Virginia Slayton, Sept. 18, 1924, Manchester, N. H. caipren:
Ezekiel Albert, Jr., June 23, 1925; Joan, Dec. 3, 1926; Sally, May, 1929;
Nancy, October, 1931; Polly, 1937.

DIED: Sept. 7, 1941, Manchester, N. H.

wwow: Mrs. E. A. Straw, 875 Elm St., Manchester, N. H.

EZEKIEL ALBERT STRAW entered Harvard after completing
preparatory studies at St. Paul’s School. After two years in
college, he became associated with the retail shoe business as a
salesman for the Beacon Shoe Company. He travelled for two
years for the company and in 1925, he was made store sales
director in Manchester, New Hampshire, where he settled per-
manently. Three years later, he went to Chicago to study for the
bond business and upon his return to New Hampshire, became
associated with Halsey-Stuart as a bond salesman and later with
Lee, Higginson & Company. In the early thirties, he formed his
own business, acting as president and treasurer of E. A. Straw,
Incorporated. He noted in the Fourth Class Report that he had
served as secretary and treasurer of the Harvard Club of New
Hampshire for a term of three years.

~ NORMAN FISHER STUART

HOME appress: Ahornenlaan, 35, Antwerp, Belgium.

OFFICE appREss: General Motors Acceptance Corporation, 38 Ave. de France,
Antwerp, Belgium.

BorN: March 20, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: Henry Bernard Stuart, Anna
Louise Fisher.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B, 1924; M.B.A. (Boston Univ.),
1929.

[ 837]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

MARRIED: Madeleine Davies Harris, Jan. 20, 1940, Doylestown, Pa. cum-
DREN: James Davies, Sept. 30, 1941; Madeleine Fisher, March 22, 1944.

occupation: Manager, Antwerp (Belgium) Branch, General Motors Ac-
ceptance Corporation.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Ex-officer, United States Naval Reserve.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Assistant regional rationing executive, Office
of Price Administration; head financial examiner, Price Adjustment
Board, War Shipping Administration, chairman, Entertainment Com-
mittee, 1947, treasurer, 1948, American Club of Antwerp.

MEMBER OF: Lambda Chi Alpha Fraternity; American Club of Antwerp;
Philotax Club of Antwerp.

pusLicaTions: “The Installment Selling of Automobiles.”

THE ink had hardly dried in the examination 1 blue books when
in June, 1924, I once more became a student and a trainee in the
New England Telephone and Telegraph Company, Boston,
After several months, so-called permanent assignments were
given me in Boston and in the western part of Massachusetts.
After three years of what I then considered to be too roving a
life, I decided to resign and really settle down in Bean Town for
the rest of my life. My new employer was the Boston branch of
the General Motors Acceptance Corporation where I started at
the bottom as an accounting clerk and quickly worked up to be
a “epartment head. That Boston honeymoon lasted only until
early 1930. At the same time, I became super-ambitious and, after
two years’ study, received an M.B.A. degree from Boston Uni-
versity. I must say that since I had a little business experience,
the courses taken there probably meant a great deal more to me
than if they had been pursued without some knowledge of busi-
ness, They became much more practical and less theoretical.

During the interim I found time to be a commissioned officer i in
the United States Naval Reserve.

In May, 1930, it was “Good Bye” Boston and “Hello” Europe
for I had been transferred to the Antwerp branch of the General
Motors Acceptance Corporation as assistant manager and subse-
quently manager. In those days our territory was far flung, even
including the Balkans, Italy, and Greece. What a change eighteen
years have made in the maps and the politics of today! What of
tomorrow! In 1936 and 1937, I was in charge of our Near East
operation and, with the political and economic unrest then exist-
ing and the war clouds gathering, decided that we should close

[ 838 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

up shop in that part of the world. After a tour with our Regional
Office in Brussels, Belgium, during 1938 and 1939, I was located
with our subsidiary in the British Isles getting its house in order
for the inevitable.

Prior to the Munich agreement, I was requested to give again
my little bit to the United States Navy and was just about ready
to shed the civies for two and one-half stripes, when it was dis-
covered that to have to wear glasses was definitely not a part of
the Navy uniform. In January, 1940, I gave up bachelor life and
one week later returned alone to Europe while the cold war was
still in progress. Work and war took me to Italy, Spain, France,
Switzerland, Belgium, Holland, and the British Isles. Travel then
was most difficult, gruesome, and dismal with everyone having the
jitters. Finally on May 10, 1940, the real war came to the Tow-
lands and evacuation was necessary. In about five weeks I was
again shaking hands in New York with Miss Liberty.

Probably more than anything the birth in 1941 of our first
child, a son, emphasized in my mind the responsibilities we have
in peace and war for the future of the next generation. In 1942,
after having obtained a war leave of absence from the General
Motors Corporation and because, despite a perfect glasses cor-
rection, my eyesight still was not acceptable to the armed services,
I thought I could do my little bit by joining the Office of Price
Administration Rationing Division. The politics, confusion, lack
of proper policies, and business approach resulted in a most un-
happy experience which dictated that if I were to make even a
meagre contribution to the war effort, it would have to be in
work which was more specific and better planned. I found that
situation with the Price Adjustment Board of the War Shipping
Administration where I was head financial examiner handling the
renegotiation of excessive profits of the towboat, stevedoring,
lighterage, and ship repairing industries. Those war period
assignments in the States did afford some opportunities for travel
and for learning more about my own country.

In December, 1945, I was recalled by the General Motors
Acceptance Corporation and have been in charge of irs Antwerp,
Belgium, branch since. I arrived back here in time to see the
ravages which the war had made, including the misery and
destruction caused by the V bombs. My family, which now in-

[ 839 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

cludes a daughter also, has witnessed with the greatest admiration
the industry, ingenuity, determination, and never-say-die spirit
of the Belgian and Dutch people, who, regardless of hardships,
controls, some politics, and terrifically high prices and inflation,
have to a very great extent rebuilt their countries.

And so here we are living a sane, normal life in Antwerp,
Belgium, trying to get by with prices for everything more than
double the New York City prices and educating our two children
in two local French-speaking schools.

As to the future of this part of the world, no one here would
venture a guess. It does seem, however, that real and lasting
peace will come only when and if the political conditions in
France and Germany and the economic conditions in England
have been satisfactorily solved. Possibly we are living somewhat
too close to these situations but often we wonder whether in the
relatively short period of time left for proper solutions it will be
possible to right these present unsatisfactory conditions which are
of such very great import and which will spell out the world of
tomorrow.

Of the twenty-five years which have elapsed since leaving the
Ivy Covered Walls, I have spent over one-half of that time living,
working, and travelling throughout Europe and the Near East.
The wanderlust must still be in my blood for every now and then
Tam afflicted with itchy feet which wish to be on the move again.
My overseas experiences have been full of interest and most edu-
cational, They have granted opportunities and privileges that in
my estimation too many have found it impossible to share — to
learn and know other nationalities, peoples, politics, languages,
economics, histories, cultures, business thinking, ethics, psychol-
ogies, and philosophies. They have been a teacher through on-
the-spot practical experiences which are not found in any text-
books. Above all, they have particularly impressed upon me the
vast benefits of our democratic insticutions and thinking in the
United States and what terrific responsibilities each one of us
must assume and fulfill in endeavoring to preserve our heritage
for the future.

[ 840 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN LANGDON SULLIVAN

HOME ADDRESS: Derby Lane, Weston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 24 Federal St., Boston, Mass. . .

BorN: March 12, 1903, Malden, Mass. parents: Lynde Sullivan, ’88, Kath-
erine Torrey Baldwin,

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Florence Berthe Greene, June 10, 1925, Foxboro, Mass. CHILDREN:
Diana Lynde Amory, Aug. 1, 1926 (m. Charles Gilmore McKinney,
February, 1946); Margot Kempthorne, Jan. 23, 1930; James Russell,
Nov. 7, 1933. GRANDCHILDREN: Lynda Stuart McKinney, Nov. 6, 1946;
Sharon McKinney, Jan. 4, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Investment manager and adviser; author of a daily word puz-
zle.

OFFICES HELD: President, Commodity Corporation, since 1938, Commodity
Managers, Inc., since 1938; director, National Securities & Research
Corporation, since 1941, trustee of the Permanent Fund, New Hamp-

- shire Society of the Cincinnati.

MEMBER OF: New Hampshire Society of the Cincinnati.
PUBLICATIONS: “Twistagrams,” a syndicated daily word puzzle.
I HAVE often wondered how many classmates chose their
careers while still undergraduates. I certainly did not. My ad-
visers, after due reflection, came up with conflicting recommenda-
tions — mathematics, law, medicine, writing, science, and mer-
chandising. I could hardly prepare for all and resolved the
dilemma by sampling most scholastic fields while applying myself
with unstinting devotion to such pursuits as auction bridge and
the compounding of schedules which enabled Friday to Tuesday
weekends with but one cut.

As things turned out, this Jack-of-all-trades foundation was ex-
cellent. At one time or another each of the diverse courses has
been useful. Copey’s tutelage may have led to no best sellers, but
it has helped me to write prospectuses, analyses, and sales material
and to answer those voluminous questionnaires which seem to be
the outstanding product of modern government. As for the auc-
tion bridge, it taught me early in life that there’s never a sure
thing. In 1924 you could hold a cold seven no-trump hand, and
yet have your opponent take a deliberate set by bidding eight
spades.

It was in 1926 when, married and fed up with retail merchan-
dising, I went to work for an investment banker. I have been

[ 84r ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

lucky enough to experience many phases of the investment busi-
ness. While still a tyro, I had to shudder my way to the post
office at midnight, unprotected by a guard, with a package of
several millions in Liberty Bonds. For another extreme, I helped
to create and later headed an investment fund designed to own
commodities. It has held in warehouse or imported such things
as butter, rubber, Frigorific hides, and Zanzibar cloves.

The paths of finance have been as rugged as they have been in-
teresting. In 1932, thanks to Ivar Kreuger, I found myself out of
a job at a time when investment analysts were just overhead ex-
pense and when no one seemed to believe much in them, any-
how. Of course, there was always room for a salesman on a
commission basis. So salesman I became, for an investment coun-
sel firm. I wasn’t much good at selling, but eventually worked
my way back into the analytical end and have managed to build a
small business in the special field I like best — choosing the most
suitable securities for the needs of individual clients.

Investment management is a fascinating, if at times harrowing,
occupation. You get an insight into all kinds of business. You
delve into local, national, and world political trends. You meet
all kinds of people — scientists, bankers, executives, accountants,
union members, and, of course, clients. You wrestle with cold
figures and red-hot mass psychology. It’s a field once described
as involving too much science to be an art, a field where patience
is a cardinal virtue and where the more you learn, the more you
realize how little you know. And yet many people think investing
is a dull, monotonous business!

At about the nadir of my business career, I dreamed up what has
proved to be both the pride and bane of my creative life, a new
type of word puzzle. Quite promptly I found my first customer,
the venerable Boston Transcript. 1 plunged into production of
one a day, expecting syndicates to bid against each other for the
privilege of making me fabulously rich. Five years later I had

failed to arouse the interest of even one syndicate. Ten years

later I was supplying just two daily papers, but finally in 1945 the
great day arrived. A syndicate signed me up.

The newsprint shortage and possibly the American fondness
for comics have kept the buyers somewhat limited in number,
but my royalties at least pay for an assistant who does the dirtiest

[ 842 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

part of the work. Perhaps some sociologists can explain why
Twistagrams have more customers in the British Isles than in the
United States. And while no future Dr. Eliot will include Twista-
grams in his Five Foot Shelf, there’s solace in the thought that they
give a bit of pleasure or escape to those who follow them.

As for the war, I regret that I had little part in it. At one time |
was sure I had a good job lined up as a cryptographer for the
Navy, but it fell through on account of my eyesight. So I had to
content myself with such civilian pursuits as plunking a guitar
with the Swingshifters, an amateur dance band which played
jazz for buddies’ clubs and veterans’ hospitals.

In my family life the most exciting experience of recent years
has been the advent of grandchildren. To you who have none as
yet, a word of comfort. The first grandchild is a depressing blow,
a reminder of all the things you haven’t yet accomplished. After
the second one, though, you discover you can still get around,
even without the aid of a cane.

HERBERT GEORGE WILLIAM SUNDELOF

HOME AppREsS: Tuckaway Farm, Thurmont, Md..

BORN: Jan. 11, 1900, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Andrew William Sundelof,
Anna Margans Goranson.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925.

marRieD: Doris Ferger, June 16, 1928, Milford, N. H. cap: Doris Jane,
Feb. 6, 1929.

occuPATION: Agriculture.

I AM back home rehabilitating my sixty-five-acre farm after
twenty-eight months in Tokyo with S.C.A.P.’s Economic and
Scientific Section as assistant chief of its Trade Service Division.
I have resigned from the Department of the Army and for the
time being am just an agronomist,

FRANCIS RUSSELL SWEENEY

HOME ADDRESS: 187 Hinckley Rd., Milton 87, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Telephone & Telegraph Co. Quincy 6a
Mass.

BORN: July 31, 1903, Boston, Mass. parents: Francis Augustine Sweeney,
Alice Veronica Russell.

[ 843 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MarRIED: Marion Lane Morrisey, June 14, 1930, Billerica, Mass.

occupation: Telephone communications.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Inducted into active service as major, 211th,
Coast Artillery (Anti-Aircraft), Massachusetts National Guard, Sep-
tember, 1940; lieutenant colonel, December, 1940; instructor, Com-
mand and General Staff School, Fort Leavenworth, Kans., October,
1941; colonel, General Staff Corps, and assistant secretary, Joint Chiefs
of Staff, November, 1943; decorated with Legion of Merit, and degree
of Honorary Officer, Most Excellent Order of the British Empire, May,
1946; reverted to inactive status, September, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Chelsea Rotary Club, 1937; vice-chairman,
Brockton Chapter, American Red Cross, 1947-48; director, Brockton
Rotary Club, 1948.

MEMBER OF: Brockton Country Club; Brockton Commercial Club, Quincy
Rotary Club.

WITH what now appears to have been commendable foresight,
I spent the summer of 1924 in complete idleness on the theory
that it would be the last long vacation I would have before I be-
came too old to enjoy one. The theory has been entirely correct
to date, and there is no discernible prospect that it will be dis-
proved,

In October, 1924, I went to work for the telephone company
in Boston and I have remained in its employ ever since. During
the first five years the affluence of classmates in the investment
business made me question at times the wisdom of my choice,
during the second five years, the comparative poverty of those
same classmates caused the doubts to disappear, never to return.
I like the general standards, policies and personnel practices of
the Bell System. My association with it has been pleasant, and I
was happy to return to it after my Army service. My progress
has been steady, though far from spectacular, in jobs which have
given me responsibility, some sense of achievement, and the se-
curity of a large and established business. I have picked up the
threads broken by six years in the Army and am weaving once
again the pattern on which I was engaged before the war.

Military duty called me far sooner than most of my classmates
as the result of a step I took in our sophomore year. Then I en-
listed in the National Guard and spent six years in the ranks and
thirteen as an officer. In September, 1940, I was ordered to change

[ 844 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

an avocation into a vocation. The “year of active duty” for which
I was called ended seventy-two months later. It is ironic that

millions who had never worn a uniform before Pearl Harbor
were in combat, while I, who had spent nineteen years in training
for warfare, never had a shot fired at me, either in anger OF in jest.

I spent a year with my regiment, mostly in Texas and Louisi-
ana, and at service schools in Kansas and Virginia, gaining pro-
motion to lieutentant colonel in December, 1940. In October,
1941, I was assigned to the faculty of what was then the peak of
the Army’s officer training system, the Command and General
Staff School at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. I remained there,
training others to fill staff assignments with combat units which
were denied to me, until November, 1943, when I was made col-
onel and sent to the Office of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in Wash-
ington. I was on duty there until I went on terminal leave almost
three years later.

Reason and logic tell me that I could not have had anywhere
a more interesting or responsible assignment than this one in the
highest headquarters of the armed forces. I realize that 1 was
placed where my staff training and experience could best be used.
But my pride still suffers when I must reply in the negative to
the inevitable question as to whether I was overseas.

My tour of duty with the Joint Chiefs was of absorbing in-
terest. Few others had the opportunity to see every phase of the
planning of global warfare on the highest levels of strategy, to
know far in advance the plans for the conquest of our enemies,
and to appreciate the tremendous obstacles which were overcome
before our final victory. The hours I worked were almost in-
credibly long, the pressure terrific, but I have no complaints.
I missed few meals, even though I ate very few on schedule, and
when I did get a chance to sleep it was in my own bed. As I look
back on that job, I know that I shall never again think of my-
self as overworked in civilian life.

SAMUEL EARL TABER

HOME ADDRESS: 673 Broadway, New York 12, N. Y,

BoRN: Oct. 9, 1901, Herkimer, N. Y. parents: William Ira Taber, Jeanie
Stuart Earl.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

[ 845 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924,

marrigD: Martha (Lasher) Van Hoesen, Jan. 18, 1938, Canandaigua, N. Y.

OccUPATION: Finance; investment banking and securities analysis.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted in Canadian Army, 1941; served with
Royal Canadian Artillery, rst Radar Unit, as anti-aircraft fire control
operator, attached to British Anti-Aircraft Command, discharged with
pension in 1944.

MEMBER OF: Canadian Legion; Twenty-four Hour Club of New York.

AFTER graduation I had a few successful years in banking and
investment brokerage, but two unsuccessful marriages and a long
drawn-out litigation over my father’s estate left me broke both
financially and spiritually. Disabled in war service with the Cana-
dian Army, upon my discharge I hit the skids badly. However,
about three years ago, with the help of some staunch friends and
the philosophy of life taught me by an association which I joined,
I snapped out of myself and have now regained my health and
mental faculties plus some serenity and peace of mind.

Shortly after coming to New York two years ago, I went to
work in the accounting department of the Harvard Club of New
York. I stayed there for a year and a half and upon resigning
last fall, I started studies in advanced investment securities analy-
sis and portfolio management at New York University Graduate
School of Business Administration. At the present writing I am
unemployed and seeking work in securities analysis.

Somehow it has taken me a long time to learn the true values
of life, but I have now found that by being of service and help
to others my life is becoming fuller and happier, even though
lacking in the material things.

PAUL TAMER

HOME ADDRESS: 706 Northumberland Rd., West Englewood, N. J.

OFFICE appRESS: Hackensack Water Co., New Milford, N. J.

BORN: Sept. 11, 1900, Odessa, Russia. parents: Abraham Tamer, Anna Bern-
stein.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

MARRIED: Bessie Lockshine, Jan. 1, 1927, New York, N. Y. cump: David,
Feb. 11, 1937.

occupation: Chemist.

MEMBER OF: American Water Works Association, New York State Sewage
Works Association.

[ 846 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THERE is little to add to my last report. With my son growing
up, | am returning to my old hobby of photography, in which
he shows a great interest, together with radio. This of course
makes me a radio expert, but I can’t make a philatelist out of him.
In the future he may become a Harvard son. :

MALCOLM CUSHING TAYLOR

HOME AND OFFICE ADpREss: Norwich State Hospital, Norwich, Conn.

BORN: June 5, 1901, Boston, Mass. parents: Exnest Lee Taylor, Laura May
Eaton.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1925. DEGREE: M.D., 1929.

marriED: DeEtta Shoemaker, July 25, 1935, Northampton, Mass. (divorced
1946); Charlotte C. Myers, 1946, Brookline, Mass.

occupation: Clinical Director, Norwich State Hospital.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Army Air Force, World War II; assistant and
chief neuropsychiatric section in various installations, regional in this
country.

MEMBER OF: Morris County Medical Association, New Jersey Neuropsychia-
tric Association; American Medical Association; American Psychiatric
Association.

RALPH GRATTAN ADAMS TEDFORD

HOME apprEss: U. S. Reservation, Texarkana, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Federal Correctional Institution, Texarkana, Texas.

BoRN: April 4, 1896, Boston, Mass. parENTS: Alfred Randolph Tedford, Ju-
lia Etta Adams.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.A. 1924; ED.M., 1925.

MarRiED: Gertrude Blanche Brown, June 3, 1922, Boston, Mass. (divorced
1936); Elspeth Blodgett, Dec. 21, 1937, Cambridge, Mass. curio: Jean
Vera, June 12, 1923.

OccUPATION: Penal educational administrator.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: June to November, 1916, private, 117th Provi-
sional Cavalry, Mexican Border; April, 1917, to January, 1919, cor-
poral, roznd Machine Gun Battalion, 26th (Yankee) Division, France.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant, Social Ethics Department, 2 summer sessions, De-
partment of Philosophy, 1925-26, Harvard; instructor, Department of
Education, University of Texas, 1926-27; professor of education and
philosophy, Texarkana, Texas, Junior College, 1927-31; psychologist,
Department of Correction, Massachusetts State Prison, 1931-33; War-
den’s assistant, U. S. Department of Justice, Lewisburg, Pa. 1934-37;

[ 847 ]

sain Te eC EAN Ea ANDERE et SAA AAC NST: latent at saa

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

chief parole officer, U. S. Department of Justice, Fort Leavenworth,

Kans., 1938-40; supervisor of education, U. S. Dept. of Justice, Tex-

arkana, 1941-48.

HARVARD taught me to teach and so a teacher I became. My
first full-time assignment was a challenge to both me and the
career for which I was trained. Although I expected to teach
philosophy — to teach others how to think —I was told that I
must teach the “right” things, and never mention such things as
“evolution” in the classroom. The content of my teaching was
to be prescribed for me. One COULD, as suggested in La Farge’s
class poem, “reef sail and trim them to convenience,” but this
was not what Harvard trained me to do. Small wonder that I
survived the academic storm but five years and turned to other
fields of endeavor.

During my days of youthful incorrigibility my father warned
me that some day I would land in jail, so it was natural that I
should enter prison service. Behind the bars is where I belong!
Fifteen years is quite a sentence, but during these years, working
principally as a supervisor of education, I have been able to teach
as one should, with the result that some few, at least, have learned
to “see life whole and see it sanely.” All the rewards from my.
daily work are not to be found in my regular government pay-
checks!

Disability acquired in World War I prevented participation in
the second. It was possible for me to make some contribution
to the war effort, however, through association with the U.S.O.
Asa volunteer worker I served as the chairman of the Operations
Committee and performed other tasks including athletic instruc-
tion and discussion group leadership.

Statistically I have married twice, yet the reality of such signif-
icant adventures in life are not to be found in facts. (So says
the Kinsey Report!) My daughter, Jean, has recently gradu-
ated from college after serving her country in the Waves. She
too prepared in philosophy and is about to “cut sail, weigh an-
chor... .”

My home is my hobby!!! With the help and interest of an in-
telligent wife we have made our house into a home to be shared
with others. Interested small groups gather regularly for in-
formal discussions and prepared programs of recorded classical

[ 848 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

music. Through this home life we keep alive our search for the
ideals of Goodness, Truth and Beauty.

Thank you, Oliver, for a poem of extraordinary inspiration,
thank you, Harvard, for teaching me to understand it.

ALBERTO CREEL TERRAZAS

LAST KNOWN apprEss: Ojinaga, Chihuahua, Mexico.

BORN: June 5, 1901, Chihuahua, Mexico. parents: Alberto Terrazas, Fmilia
Creel.

PREPARED AT: Harvard Military School, Los Angeles, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923.

occupaTion: Manufacturing.

TERRAZAS has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since
December, 1934.

MILTON THIESSEN

HOME ADDRESS: 301 EF. 2rst St.. New York 10, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: J. L. Stifel & Sons, Inc. 40 Worth St, New York 13, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 10, 1902, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Herman Thiessen, Augusta
Caroline Bendig. |

PREPARED AT: Lakewood High School, Lakewood, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: S.B., 1924; M.B.A., 1926.

marrigeD: Martine Pearce, Oct. 6, 1932, New York, N. ¥. (divorced 1997);
Muriel Saulpaugh, Sept. 25, 1947, Red Hook, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Norman William Thiessen, M.p., ’30; Erwin Carl Thics-
sen, 30.

OccUPATION: Assistant sales manager, J. L. Stifel & Sons, Inc, weavers and
finishers of cotton textiles.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Post warden, Civilian Defense, New York,
1942~43; administrative codrdinator for inspection and expediting of
medical supplies and equipment, New York Medical Department Pro-
curement District, United States Army, 1942-43.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

IT HAS long been my belief that horizontal coat-tails are not
necessarily a criterion of merit. Yet most individuals know have
been scurrying through the years chasing the dollar at whatever
the cost, trying to keep body and soul together or just endeavors
ing to keep what they have. [am no exception.

This may be largely due to compulsion. Some will say that
it is the result of living in New York, Manhattan in face, for

[ 849 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

most of the years since completing Harvard Business School in
1926. That could be true, New York swinging to every extreme:
prosperity or poverty, exhilaration or depression, the best or the
worst, all or nothing. At any rate, I have found New York in-
comparably more attractive than most large cities and I have
seen many: Paris, London, Calcutta, Tokyo, Berlin, Los Angeles,
Shanghai, and Chicago, to name a few.

In the twenty-three years since 1926, most of my business life
has been spent in textiles or trades allied thereto. The first four
years were in a department store, followed by six years of selling
the garment manufacturing and retail store trades. Fortunately
this was twice broken by foreign trips, once by a long trip around
the world (excellent if ‘one needs a “sell” on this country) and
again by a three months’ trip to Europe.

After liquidating my own sales agency in 1936, I joined the
makers of Talon slide fasteners for eight years, terminating this
connection to refresh my knowledge of retail merchandising by
joining the world’s largest store. But I returned to sales manage-
ment after a two-year interlude, and am now ensconced on Worth
Street, that cardiac center of cotton textiles, with a firm that
boasts 114 years in business.

My contribution to the war effort was primarily confined to
community activities, Uncle Sam deciding neither to draft nor to
reward me with an Army commission. A pigeonhole in the ad-
jutant-general’s office must still be filled with papers relating to
that captain’s commission!

Since 1941 the hefty counterbalance to metropolitan life has
been that regular caesura each weekend in Columbia County
(New York). “Clover Reach” was purchased as a hedge against
inflation but its greatest dividend to date has been one of health.
But our farm’s pioneer simplicity, exemplified by outdoor plumb-
ing and a cast-iron, wood-burning stove to warm one’s innards
in zero temperatures, has been modified of late. Electricity has
arrived and, mirabile dictu, a telephone (only a ten-party line,
too!).

This opportunity to get back regularly to “grass roots” serves
to keep in proper perspective the problems of today’s living. I
am impressed by the number of individuals who seem to have lost

a balanced outlook.

[ 850 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Perhaps it is because our generation has lived through two
world wars, a major depression, and now finds itself in the midst
of a social, economic, and political revolution without parallel for
over one hundred years. In an effort to keep up with these
changes (and sometimes with the Joneses), we have squandered
our time, family, nervous energy, and not infrequently our hap-
piness. The end is not yet, I think; stability and peace are not due
in our lifetime but we may be able to insure it for the future
if as individuals we are willing to make the effort.

In view of all we have been through and may face in the fu-
ture, a prospect of more rumors of war, insecurity, economic
upheavals and social and industrial changes can be discouraging.
However, I like to think of our age rather as one of the great
periods of the world, enervating at times, but also stimulating,
inviting, and full of promise for those who follow.

However small or large our contribution, each has a responsi-
bility to hold his candle as high as possible even though its flame
light so little space in the great dusk of time.

+ GILES WALDO THOMAS

BoRN: Oct. 15, 1901, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: George Cyrus Thomas, Mar-
garet Mabelle Welk.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; M.D. cum laude,
1928.

MaRRiED: Francisca King, Aug. 16, 1924, Woodstock, Vt. (divorced 1939);
Ruth Forbes.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted as captain in U.S. Army Medical Corps,
June, 1942; served at Fort Devens Station Hospital, Ayer, Mass.; honor-
ably discharged, July, 1943.

DIED: Jan. 12, 1944, New York, N. Y.

GILES WALDO THOMAS entered Harvard after preparatory
work at Phillips Exeter Academy. He received the Price Green-
leaf Aid during 1920-21 and the Parmenter Scholarship during
1923-24. He was a member of the Freshman Swimming Team,
Student Council (1923-24), the Register (managing editor, 1923;
president, 1924), the Liberal Club and the Exeter Club.

After receiving his A.B. degree, cum laude, with the Class, he
attended Harvard Medical School and was awarded an M.D. de-

[ 851]

me I CCL LEAL CCRC A LEA EA tite TNs rag

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

gree, cum laude, in 1928. He served both an internship and resi-
dency at Massachusetts General Hospital and in 1931 began the
study of psychiatry at Pennsylvania Hospital, Philadelphia. He
received a fellowship for special study in psychiatry from the
General Education Board and in 1939 he reported being a re-
search associate in psychiatry at Columbia University and an
assistant physician, Presbyterian Hospital, in addition to serving
as assistant psychiatrist for Vanderbilt Clinic and a research as-
sociate for the Research Division for Chronic Diseases, Depart-
ment of Hospitals, of the City of New York.

In 1942 he enlisted in the U.S. Army Medical Corps with the
rank of captain and served at the Fort Devens Station Hospital
until July, 1943, when he was released from active duty because
of illness.

A member of the American Medical Association, he also be-
longed to the American Psychiatric Association and the New
York Society of Clinical Psychiatry.

JOHN GRIMES WALKER THOMAS

HOME ADDRESS: 70 Parkview Ave., Lowell, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Proprietors of Locks and Canals on Merrimack River, Low-
ell, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 22, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: John Jenks Thomas, Frances
Pickering Walker.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; S.B. IN C.ENGIN. cum laude,
1927.

MarRigD: Helen Naomi Dyckman, Oct. 14, 1933, New York, N. Y. cHIL-
DREN: John Grimes Walker, Jr, June 18, 1940; William Dyckman,
April 25, 1942; James Stewart, May 3, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Henry Pickering Thomas, ’25, Alfred Thomas, ’26.

OCCUPATION: Civil engineer.

OFFICES HELD: Clerk, 1946-47, vice-chairman, 1947-48, chairman, Hydraulics
Section, since February, 1948, Boston Society of Civil Engineers.

MEMBER OF: Boston Society of Civil Engineers; Exchange Club of Lowell,
Yorick Club.

AFTER shifting around from pillar to post through the depres-
sion, trying to find a job I liked which would not soon fold up, I
finally landed in Lowell with the Locks and Canals. I have been
here first as assistant and then as chief engineer for eight years,

| 852 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

so that I am now wondering if perhaps I have found permanent
work. As the company has been in existence for one hundred and
fifty-six years, my chances look somewhat better, based on past
works, than anything I have had before on any of my nineteen
other jobs.

WESTON GAGE THOMAS

HOME ADDRESS: 2001 E. First Ave., Denver 3, Colo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Potash Company of America, First National Bank Bldg.,
Denver 2, Colo.

BORN: Feb. 6, 1903, Middletown, Ohio. Parents: Weston Kent Thomas,
Caroline Eva Gage.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Washington, D. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B. IN C.ENGIN. cum laude, 1924.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Whiting Harvey, Feb. 14, 1930, New York, N. Y. cHi-
DREN: Hannah Whiting, Nov. 30, 1934; Weston Dugal, June 10, 1937.

OCCUPATION: Vice-chairman, board ‘of directors, Potash Company of
America.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active duty, Supply Corps, U.S.N.R., February,
1941, to January, 1946, released as commander, Supply Corps, U.S.N.R.
Awarded Commendation Ribbon.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Harvard Engineering Society, Rocky Moun-
tain Harvard Club.

MEMBER OF: A.I.M.E.; Harvard Engineering Society; Denver Club; Har-
vard Club of New York; University Club of Washington, D. C.; Min-
ing Club; Sons of the Revolution.

AFTER a few years of engineering work, leavened by two long
trips in Europe, I married and shortly thereafter joined the staff
of the newly-formed Lehman Corporation in New York. We
lived the full and fascinating life of that city, managed a good
deal of travel and, eventually, had two very nice and normal
children.

Like so many others, we altered our way of life for some years
during the war. After release from the Navy and about fifteen
months with Lehman Brothers, we all decided to accept an op-
portunity to work and live in the West — and here we are with
a great many other Republicans — ready to tackle the next
twenty-five years.

[ 853]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

MILTON STRONG THOMPSON

HOME ADDRESS: 1009 Gorgas Circle, Fort Sam Houston, Texas.
OFFICE appRess: c/o Adjutant General of the Army, Washington 25, D. C.

BorN: Oct. 26, 1901, Newburyport, Mass. parents: Milton Strong Thomp-
son, Abigail Adams Johnson.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1924(26)3 M.D., 1931.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Paige May, Jan. 20, 1940, Bethel, Maine. sTEPCHILDREN:
Mary Elizabeth May, July 1, 1931; Caroline Howe May, July 14, 19333
Phoebe Emma May, Aug. 9, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: Gardiner Thompson, 717 (deceased).

occupation: Orthopedic surgeon, United States Army Medical Corps.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Massachusetts National Guard, 1920-25; Officers’
Reserve Corps, 1925-46; Regular Army, since 1946. European Theatre
of Operations, November, 1942-August, 1945, orthopedic surgeon, 67th
General Hospital, general staff officer, Theatre Headquarters, com-
manding officer, 828th Convalescent Center. Decorations: Bronze Star
Medal; Army Commendation Ribbon.

OFFICES HELD: Graduate assistant in orthopedic surgery, Massachusetts Gen-
eral Hospital and Harvard Medical School, 1936-39; chief, orthopedic
service, Maine General Hospital, Portland, 1939-42. .

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New York; Har-
vard Club of San Antonio; San Antonio Country Club; Portland Coun-
try Club; American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons (fellow),
American College of Surgeons (fellow); Royal Society of Medicine,
London (fellow); American Medical Association (fellow); National
Board of Medical Examiners (diplomate); American Board of Ortho-
pedic Surgery (diplomate).

PuBLicaTions: Miscellaneous medical papers.

TWENTY-FIVE years ago each member of 1924 set out to row
his own boat. Some have rowed far, some have sprung a leak. I
have done neither in a spectacular way, but I am satisfied to have
achieved domestic felicity and professional permanence.

After medical school, internship, and residencies, I began the
practice of orthopedic surgery in Boston in association with Dr.
Smith-Petersen, with a minor teaching position in the Medical
School and a minor staff appointment at the Massachusetts Gen-
eral Hospital. Dr. Smith-Petersen has probably contributed more
original thought to orthopedic surgery than any one man in this
country and he is an inspiring teacher.

After four years, opportunity knocked in the form of a busy
orthopedic practice in Portland, Maine. There I was made chief

[ 854]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of the orthopedic service at the Maine General Hospital and con-
sultant at many other hospitals. There I also acquired a wife and
three stepdaughters and a host of valued friends.

In 1942 the Maine General Hospital Unit was called to active
duty as the 67th General Hospital, and, true to Army tradition,
we travelled to Merrie England by way of El Paso, Texas. After
a year as a doctor in that “Tight Little Isle,” I was classified
as an “operations officer, general staff” and assigned to the G-3
Section of the Theatre Headquarters. In 1945 I returned from
France, having done no orthopedic surgery for almost two years,
to find that they still considered me in Washington as that kind
of surgeon. Orthopedic surgeons were not eligible for discharge,
so I journeyed back to Texas to be chief of the orthopedic serv-
ice of McCloskey General Hospital, a large amputation center.
This experience of doing orthopedic surgery among 5000 ampu-
tees, of being able to get all the consultations and laboratory work
I required, of having no bills to send out, plus few night-calls or
weekend emergencies, and wide spaces in which to hunt and fish,
sold me on the Army. In 1946 I joined the Regular Army Medical
Corps and gave up my professional affiliations in Maine. My only
regret is that mere gratitude does not repay my good friends in
Maine for their untold kindnesses.

Since joining the Army, I have been stationed at Fort Sam
Houston, the “Country Club of the Army.” Here I am chief of
the orthopedic service of Brooke General Hospital which is part
of the Brooke Army Medical Center. Only four miles from San
Antonio, the “Mother-in-law of the Army,” the “Cradle of Texas
Independence,” as well as the ‘Gateway to Mexico,” we find an
interesting and different life in the warm Latin environment,
where dark skins are more prevalent than white and where Har-
vard men are guilty until proved innocent.

PHILIP EATON THOMPSON

HOME appress: “Braemuir,” R.D. 4, Amsterdam, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bigelow Sanford Carpet Co., Inc., Amsterdam, N. Y.

BORN: May 2, 1902, New Bedford, Mass. parents: James Oris Thompson,
Jr., Mary Elizabeth Baker.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

[ 855]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

marrieD: Dorothy Lincoln, Aug. 18, 1930, New Bedford, Mass.

OccUPATION: Superintendent, carpet manufacturing company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; National Association of Cotton Man-
ufacturers; Cairn Terrier Club of America; Southern Adirondack Dog
Club.

SINCE graduation I have been involved constantly in one phase
or another of textile manufacturing. For a few years I worked in
a New Bedford cotton mill; then ten years with the Barnes Textile
Association, a Boston consulting firm; and finally signed on with
Bigelow Sanford Carpet Company in 1937.

Constant striving for better manufacturing methods, increas-
ingly complicated labor relationships, conversion for war to pro-
duce 6,000 blankets a day to Army specifications, postwar recon-
version, and frantic efforts to satisy the accumulated demands
for our product have kept me out of more trouble. This might
be the place to add that I still have my hair, mostly white.

We live a few miles outside of town where we run a small ken-
nel devoted to the “improvement of the breed” of Cairn terriers.
This occupies such spare time as I can find right now.

RICHARD LELAND THOMPSON

HOME ADDRESS: 23 Kensington Rd., Concord, N. H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sulloway Hosiery Mills, Inc., Franklin, N. H.

BORN: March 6, 1902, Bellows Falls, Vt. PARENTS: Frederic Leland Thomp-
son, Alice Sulloway. .

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924.

MARRIED: Pollie Adams Pierce, Dec. 8, 1927, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Alice
Cornelia, Nov. 29, 1928 (m. Martin Lammert, 4th, June 12, 1948); Pol-
lie Adams Pierce, April 22, 1931; Frederic Leland, 2d, June 13, 1934.

occupation: Manufacturer of hosiery.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member, advisory board to the Research and
Development Branch, Military Planning Division, Office of the Quar-
termaster General.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, 1933-35, president, 1946-47, Harvard Club
of New Hampshire, director, Franklin National Bank, since 1934, Na-
tional Association of Hosiery Manufacturers, since 1946.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Harvard Club of New Hamp-
shire.

GENERALLY speaking, the life of a manufacturer of hosiery
can be sadly lacking in romance or glamor. True, there was one

[ 856 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

period shortly after the war when a pair or two of nylon stock-
ings judiciously placed would get you a room at the Waldorf
when not even a century note could turn the trick. Those days
have long since passed and now we who are in this business are
back at the good old game of cutting each other’s throat.

Here in New Hampshire we raise annually something over
$1,000 to provide worthy New Hampshire boys with freshman
scholarships at Harvard. As a member of the scholarship com-
mittee for many years, I have got a great kick out of having a
part in selecting these boys, who through the generosity of Har-
vard men in this state are given a chance to go to our college.
On the whole our batting average has been fairly good, but oc-
casionally we pick a honey, as for example, the boy who cele-
brated after a football game not too wisely and too well. He com-
pletely disappeared from college and was found two weeks later
in Scranton, Pennsylvania, of all places. Fortunately, i in cases like
this the college refunds the unused portion of the scholarship.

I went into the hosiery manufacturing business in the fall of
1924 and here I have been ever since. I only hope that I am able
to give the same report in future Class histories.

FRANCIS RICHARD HANCOCK TOMES

HOME AppreEss: 11 FE. 73rd St.. New York, N. Y.

BorN: Oct. 1, 1899, Hong Kong, China. parents: Charles Alexander Tomes,
Hettie Budd Hancock.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920~1921.

MarRiED: Lelia Baldwin, June 16, 1931, New York, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alexander Hadden Tomes, 713.

occupation: Eastern representative, Danny Boy Sales Corp., Vacaville,
Calif., fresh and dried fruit.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II: North Africa, Sicily, Italy, An-
zio, Southern France, and Germany; overseas thirty-nine months; dis-
charged with rank of major.

_ ALBERT RITTER TOMLINSON

Appress: Greenbriar Military Academy, Lewisburg, W. Va.

BORN: Feb. 26, 1903, Chicopee, Mass. PARENTS: Thomas Tomlinson, Anna
Ritter.

PREPARED AT: Fairhaven High School, Fairhaven, Mass.

[857]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922.

marrieD: Doris Weston Perry, Oct. 2, 1926, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Priscilla Audrey, March 13, 1928, Albert Ritter, Jr., May 20, 1931.
OCCUPATION: Education. .

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Tomlinson did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

SAMUEL ALEXANDER TOWNE

HOME ADDRESS: 6502 Chestnut St., Chevy Chase 15, Md.
OFFICE appREsS: Interstate Commerce Commission, Washington 25, D. C.

BorN: Feb. 9, rgo1, Keene, N. H. parents: Andrew Eber Towne, Clara
Almira Sheldon.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.
MarRieD: Verna Steel, June 15, 1929, Minneapolis, Minn. cHILpREN: Samuel

Alexander, Jr., May 9, 1931; William Steel, Feb. 23, 1934.
OCCUPATION: Transportation cost analyst.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, board of trustees, All Souls’ Church (Unitarian),
1945-47-
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, D. C.; Lynnhurst Lodge No.

317, AF. & A.M, Minneapolis, Washington Chapter of the Unitarian
Laymen’s League.

AFTER my graduation from Harvard, I went to the Middle
West for a short visit and stayed sixteen years. Having acquired
an interest in transportation from Professor Riley, I found work
with the Soo Line Railway, thanks to another Harvard man. Be-
tween 1924 and 1929, I had a variety of experiences in the opera-
ting department. In 1929 I had a substantial promotion which
gave me the courage to acquire a wife. Then we learned about
life along the Soo Line, living in small towns and in big towns
and acquiring two little “Townes” of our own. Our depression
did not come until 1937 and we returned to Minneapolis for three
years still with the Soo Line. In 1941 we moved to Washington
where I joined the staff of the Cost Section in the Interstate Com-
merce Commission. Here we have the satisfaction of having our
own home at last, and living the unspectacular lives of suburban-
ites, engaging in such activities as Parent Teachers Association,
church board, Boy Scout committees and all the organizations
that nag at one’s social conscience. Living in Washington is an
interesting and exciting experience, but we find time to do a litrle

[ 858 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

gardening in the backyard and to get to our summer place in
New Hampshire for a while almost every summer. Our elder son
is interested in agriculture and athletics (basketball in particular)
and consequently Harvard does not have much appeal for him.
Our younger boy has more academic interests, and I still hope
that he will find what he wants in a college at Harvard.

CLINTON BLAKE TOWNSEND

HOME ADpREss: 71 S. Mountain Ave., Montclair, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Byerly, Townsend & Watson, 225 Broadway, New York 7,
N. Y.

BoRN: July 7, 1903, Washington, D. C. parents: Clinton Paul Townsend,
Claire Blake.

PREPARED AT: Sidwell’s Friends School, Washington, D. C.,; Central High
School, Washington, D. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B. magna cum laude, 1924.

MaRRIED: Eleanor Meneely, Sept. 11, 1926, Garden City, Long Island, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Clinton Blake, Jr., Aug. 11, 1927; Emily Dickinson, Aug. 10,
1928; Eleanor Meneely, Nov. 1, 1932.

HARVARD SON: Clinton Blake Townsend, Jr., ’so.

occupation: Lawyer; partner, Byerly, Townsend & Watson, specializing
in patent, trade-mark, and anti-trust litigation and related matters.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York; American
Bar Association; New York Patent Law Association.

MY LAW practice consists mainly of litigation in the federal
courts, in connection with patents and related matters. Farm-
ing is my avocation, and I operate, mostly by proxy and remote
control, a dairy farm at Thetford Center, Vermont.

WILLIAM HENRY TROTTER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1620 Edgewood Circle, Chattanooga 5, Tenn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Trotter, Boyd & Keese, Provident Bldg., Chattanooga 2,
Tenn.

BorN: May 29, 1902, Chattanooga, Tenn. parents: William Henry Trotter,
Margaret Reese Carter.

PREPARED AT: McCallie School, Chattanooga, Tenn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREE: $.B., 1924.

marrieD: Charlotte Llewellyn, July 27, 1926, Chattanooga, Tenn. ciuinreN:

Patricia, Jan. 16, 1930; Margaret Carter, Oct. 27, 1931.

OccUPATION: General insurance.

[ 859]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Chief air raid warden, Commercial Division,
Chattanooga, member, Food Rationing Board, Price Panel.

OFFICES HELD: President, Council of Community Forces; vice-president,
Chattanooga Rotary Club; vice-chairman, board of trustees, Girls’
Preparatory School.

MINE is the usual hum-drum life of a business man raising a
family.

CLEMENT JANSEN TRUITT

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Woodbine Ave., Merrick, Long Island, N. Y.

oFFIce appress: American Tel. & Tel. Co., 195 Broadway, New York 7,
N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 21, 1903, Newton Center, Mass. PARENTS: Robert Reinecke Tru-
ict, 94, Alice Shillaber Clement.

PREPARED AT: Weston High School, Weston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924. .

marrieD: Dorothy Robinson, Oct. 20, 1924, Cambridge, Mass. (died June
13, 1941); Marguerite E. Dunscombe, June 20, 1942, Ridgefield, Conn.
CHILDREN: Sumner Clement, Oct. 22, 1926; Robert Jansen, June 26, 1929.

occuPATION: Traffic engineer, telephone communications.

GEORGE EDWIN TULLOCH

HOME appRESs: 56 Frost St., Cambridge 40, Mass.

BorRN: March 21, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: George Logan Tulloch, Fdith
Longfellow Baird.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1924.
MarkigD: Elizabeth Lemonds, Sept. 3, 1925, Louisville, Ky.
OccUPATION: Commercial artist.

SINCE graduation I have been a commercial artist, living in Bos-
ton and Cambridge. The steady part of my work has been the
designing of brands for packaging, a prosaic enough type of art

but one for which there is a demand.

During the last few summers we have spent a month on Nan-
tucket, where I enjoy making water-colors.

ARTHUR HOUGHTON TULLY, JR.

HOME appkEss: 237 Brattle St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 316 Morgan Hall, Harvard Business School, Soldiers Field,
Boston 63, Mass.

{ 860 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BorRN: Dec. 11, 1903, Corning, N. Y. parents: Arthur Houghton Tully, E).
len Tuttle Stratton.

PREPARED AT: Erasmus Hall, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1024.

marrieD: Lilian Hall, Feb. 22, 1930, Towanda, Pa. cHitpren: Shaun Tracy,
Oct. 9, 1936; Patrick Gordon, Nov. 15, 1938.

occuPATION: Assistant director of research, Harvard Business School.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Anti-submarine patrol, Civil Air Patrol (Army
Air Force), Delaware-Maryland coast, 1942; executive officer (major),
Massachusetts Wing, 1942-44.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Director, Aeronautics Commission, Common-
wealth of Massachusetts, 1944-46.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1947, director, 1943-49, Aeronautic Association of
Boston; director and member of executive committee, National Acro-
nautic Association, 1948-49; trustee and technical director, Acronauti-
cal Research Foundation, 1947-49; director, Sportsman Pilots Associa-
tion, 1948; vice-president, National Association of State Aviation Orh-
cials, 1945; consultant, President’s Air Policy Commission, 1947; clerk,
Carlisle, Mellick & Company, New York Stock Exchange, 1924-26,
analyst and trader, Jas. H. Oliphant & Company, New York, N. Y,
1926-35; analyst and investment counsel, Lehman Brothers, New York,
N. Y., 1935-40; analyst, Massachusetts Investors Trust, 1941-44; re-
search fellow, 1946-48, assistant director of research, since 1948, Har-
vard Business School Faculty.

PUBLICATIONS: Personal Aircraft Business at Airports, co-author with L. L.
Bollinger, published in 1948 by Division of Research, Graduate School
of Business Administration, Harvard University.

PRESUMABLY the war radically altered the life course of many
of us. Those who were accepted for active participation in or
out of uniform were the envy of those of us who had been too
young for the first war and were too old or infirm for the second.
My particular frustration was due to a tin ear, condemned by
the services, but was sublimated in part by quasi-military duty.
Anti-submarine patrol twenty-five miles off shore, in single-
engine airplanes in all kinds of weather, was not without risk or
useful satisfaction. —

The flying bug bit me deeply. A hobby became a vocation.
Two years in public life were the most intensive and the most
enlightening of my experience. They led in turn to an absorbing
research project for the Business School. The ficld work was
done in forty states by airplane. Writing the book was less fun.

The twenty years in the financial business now scem a long wav
off. Barring further impact of inflation upon academic salary, |

[ 861 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

expect tO continue being glad that the war led me this way.

Research and education have their fascinations and never-ending
challenges.

I presume one is expected to say something at this twenty-
five-year landmark about his personal ambitions that time has
winnowed. Foremost is my hope to guide our two sons through
as complete an education, including graduate training, as they
may be able to absorb. Any material property we can give them
will be in value insignificant to that. The kind of world in which
they live may be better or worse than ours, but it certainly will
require training and intelligence.

Any other ambitions seem mere pursuit of fancy. I shall want
to fulfill a few of the many curiosities that research arouses. Avo-
cational pleasures will surely include more flying, hunting, fishing,
puttering around with carpentry — and perhaps productive for-
estry in my Maine woods may prove a feasible and pleasing pro-
ject. I am reminded repeatedly of Marquand’s eloquent title,
So Little Time.

THEODORE LYMAN TURNEY

HOME ADDRESS: 980 Edgewood Ave., Pelham Manor 65, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 141 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y.

BorN: Dec. 30, 1903, Syracuse, N. Y. PARENTS: Theodore Lyman Turney,
Julia A. Sutphen.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: AB. 1924.

MarRiED: Harriet Nevins Rothenburg, Nov. 14, 1936, New York, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Deborah Baldwin, March 1, 1940; John Sutphen, Jan. 8, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Cortlandt Roland Turney, ’28.

occuPaTION: Stockholder relations.

OFFICES HELD: Executive director, American Society of Corporate Secre-
taries, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Pelham Country Club; Huguenot
Yacht Club.

THERE is probably one reaction that was common to all of us
on receiving a copy of the Class questionnaire from our esteemed
Secretary —“‘Is it possible that I am that old? Have I really
reached the half-way mark and gone over the hump into the slide
down the other side, with old age just around the corner?” To
combat this insidious thought, it would seem that now, as our

[ 862 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Twenty-fifth Reunion approaches, would be a good time for
taking inventory to determine just where we stand.

The temptation, of course, is to evaluate one’s entire career,
balancing success against many minor disappointments, and, de-
pending on whether we end up with a credit or debit balance,
congratulate ourselves on our own sagacity and acumen, or blame
Harvard for its poor tutoring.

However, for the purpose of this Class Report, it would seem
much fairer to restrict this stock-taking to the results that can be
directly attributed to the impact of a Harvard education on our
life so far.

For my part, I shall be eternally grateful to Harvard College for
sketching for me the broad panorama of the good life as it has
developed through the ages. That which we now rather carelessly
at times refer to as “The American Way of Life,” is, of course,
the sum of all the best that has gone before. I am also grateful
for the two years’ experience at the Harvard Law School which
taught me to use facts as a basis for forming an opinion rather
than the more costly “trial and error” method used by some of our
untutored brethren. While life since leaving Cambridge has often
seemed to consist solely of that desperate struggle to earn a living
for one’s self and one’s family, it has been comforting to notice
that in the midst of fitting together the small pieces of that intri-
cate jig saw puzzle known as Life, suddenly the vague outlines of
that beautiful landscape that appeared i in replica on the cover of
the box have begun to appear in the puzzle itself.

Perhaps the start that we gained over others when Harvard
provided that initial glimpse of the completed picture will now
enable us to make greater headway in completing the remaining
half-portion.

RICHARD HAYES TUSON

LAST KNOWN appress: 164 W. Brookline St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: Nov. 23, 1901, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Richard Thomas Tuson,
Margaret Hayes.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; 4.M. (Boston Coll.), 1926.

MarrieD: Virginia Leger, Aug. 17, 1926, Lynn, Mass,

OCCUPATION: Education.

[ 863 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

TUSON has been carried as.a “Jost” man on our records since
December 31, 1945.

WILLIAM NORRIS TUTTLE

HOME appreEss: Lowell Road, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: General Radio Co., 275 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge 39,
Mass.

BoRN: March 29, 1902, Croton-on-Hudson, N. Y. PARENTS: James Horton
Tuttle, Elizabeth Norris.

PREPARED AT: Haverford School, Haverford, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; S.-M. IN E. COM. ENG., 1926;
PHD., 1929.

MARRIED: Gwenyth E. Jones, Dec. 23, 1932, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Susan Dyckman, May 16, 1935; Peter Bayle, Jan. 13, 1941.

occupation: Engineering consultant, development work on electronic meas-
uring and testing equipment, General Radio Company.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Consultant to the chairman, N.R.D.C., 1942;
civilian operations analyst, 8th Air Force, in England, 1942-44, 2oth
Air Force, 1944-45; awarded Medal of Freedom for work in England.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor and tutor, Harvard University, 1929-30.

MEMBER OF: American Physical Society; Acoustical Society of America;
Sigma Xi; Institute of Radio Engineers (fellow); Harvard Club of
Boston, Concord Country Club; Longwood Cricket Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Various technical papers on radio and electronic circuits and
equipment.

EXCEPT for three years on war work, I have kept steadily at
my principal interest, applied research and development work in
the fields of radio and electronics. I enjoy very much trying to
solve problems of practical importance in a fairly fundamental
way, and believe that much of the most interesting and fruitful
research is accomplished under the stimulus of a practical need.

I have stayed close to Cambridge since completion of my gradu-
ate work except for a trip to Europe in the summer of 1929, a
skiing trip to Austria in the spring of 1937, and two years in
England during the war. These trips have resulted in a great
interest in European recovery problems and in world govern-
ment. Iam afraid, however, that I have left constructive action in
these fields to others.

One of my principal hobbies is music and for the last three years
I have been playing regularly in an amateur string quartet. This
is the most satisfying kind of musical experience that I have yet

[ 864 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

found, as each of the four instruments has an essential part in a
complete musical composition, and one is never dominated by the
others. The attempt to recreate the music in a group where one
of the parts is entirely your own is the best way I have found of
enjoying it.

Tennis and skiing I prefer to all other sports. I took up skiing
in 1929 and skied at every opportunity until the war, and am
gradually getting back into it again with the active encouragement
of my thirteen-year-old daughter. Gardening has been interfer-
ing with tennis in the summer in recent years, but indoor tennis
in winter more than makes up and I have been enjoying it in-
creasingly. I also enjoy contract bridge but I am afraid that my
approach to the game reflects too much my mathematical lean-
ings, so that I have yet to win any cups.

My war work in England as a civilian with the Eighth Air
Force was concerned with the operational problems of bombing
through overcast by radar. With my background as a radio
equipment designer I expected to find that good apparatus was
the key to successful operations, but I found the problems of
operator training in the use of complex equipment such as radar
under combat conditions and the planning of missions much
more difficult than those of apparatus design and development.
There was a great shortage of men with the required analytical
ability to handle field problems of this kind, and I was a member
of the first American Operations Analysis section sent over to
help in this work. The need was so great that the work proved
of particular interest.

JOHN HALIFAX TWINING

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Bubbling Pond Ranch, Cornville, Ariz.

BORN: June 22, 1900, New York, N. Y. parents: Edmund Sidney Twining,
Georgina Stairs.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.; Evans School, Mesa, Ariz.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922.

MaRRIED: Susan Coppell, March 24, 1923 (divorced 1933); Ruth Wade
Wharton, July, 1938, Flagstaff, Ariz. critpren: Susan C., July 22, 19273
Nancy Stairs, March 19, 1929.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edmund Stairs Twining, °14.

occupaTION: Rancher, renter of completely furnished housckeeping cot-
tages; furniture renewal and repair; household maintenance service.

[ 865 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

OFFICES HELD: Production control, AiResearch Manufacturing Company and
Reynolds Metals, Phoenix, Ariz.

MY BUSINESS after college was that of a cotton goods salesman,
then a partner in my brother’s firm of E. S. Twining & Company,
Worth Street, New York. I was married to Susan Coppell in
1923 and we have two daughters. Susan, the elder, is receiving
her R.N. training at St. Luke’s Hospital and the younger, Nancy,
is in business with her mother in Ridgefield, Connecticut. I am
proud of their ability.

We sold our business, profitably, at the outbreak of the depres-
sion and I joined my father-in-law’s firm of Maitland, Coppell &
Company. Susan and I were divorced in January, 1933, So my Stay
in Reno, Nevada, again brought me in contact with western life
—after leaving Groton I had gone to prep school in Arizona.
When I was offered a wrangler’s job at a guest ranch in 1935, my
eastern days ended.

To those of you who still enjoy rough hunting and fishing, I
say that there is nothing like the Rockies of Northern Montana
near Missoula. Then go south for the winter into the high Sierras
of old Mexico with a pack outfit — that is the way to see a coun-
try. Go out again for Christmas in Tucson and in again for an-
other trip after the holidays, Mrs. Ruth Wade Wharton, whom I
had not seen since Reno, was one of the party we took on such a
trip. About two years later —in 1938— we met again at Flag-
staff, Arizona, and married. We went south again into old Mex-
ico, but we chose Guaymas this time. There was good fishing,
once literally among a large school of very large whales who
playfully scratched their backs on the keel of our twenty-foot
putt-putt. The oysters (ten cents American for a litre) and shell-
fish were wonderful, and so was our little cottage on the beach at
Mirrormar Beach.

After looking all over Arizona from the border up, we at last
found the perfect home-site only forty-five miles south of Flag-
staff. A difference of 3500 feet makes it possible to ski at Flag yet
be comfortable here without any snow at Bubbling Pond Ranch.
That is something to ponder. A strange land.

The war was on, so I went to Phoenix to work for the Arizona
branch of the AiResearch Manufacturing Company, by far the
most interesting, intensive, and instructive period of my life. A

[ 866 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

short business period followed until February, 1948. Phoenix
was too hot in summer so I came back home to God’s country,
where He painted with lavish color while Satan added the thorns
to the bushes.

My wife and I are now building « our first experimental cot-
tage for rent to our eastern friends or to those who suffer so
badly from sinus infection that their business and social activities
have become secondary considerations. The cottage, completely
insulated, heated, and cooled for year-round use, will be fully
equipped for immediate housekeeping with a deal of thought
given to outdoor living. Interesting idea, don’t you think?

From our own as well as medical observation, we have found
that our altitude of 3400 feet, with a semi-mountainous yet almost
rainless and snowless year-round climate, has given real relief to
several of our eastern friends as well as to my wife. There are a
fully equipped and staffed hospital, facilities for golf, tennis, and
riding, as well as hunting and fishing nearby, easy transportation,
and scenery of a type that’s hard to equal. As far as we know, our
idea is new to Arizona, so it would seem that as this ends, the real
story begins.

HARRY BLAKE TYLER

HOME ApprEss: Castellana 8, Madrid, Spain; Bucklebury Court, Berkshire,
England.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sociedad Petrolifera Espanola, Alcala 45, Madrid, Spain.

BorN: Nov. 4, 1901, Chobham, Surrey, England. parents: Harry Blake
Tyler, Eleanor Montgomery O’Donell.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922.

MARRIED: Rosemary Minto-Wilson, Aug. 12, 1937, London, England.
CHILDREN: Robert Minto Blake, September, 1938; Jeremy Harry Blake,
February, 1943; Victoria Hope Blake, October, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Sidney Frederick Tyler, °25.

occupation: Managing director, Royal Dutch Shell Spanish Associated
Companies.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant colonel, Territorial Army, Berkshire
Regiment, service in Europe; British military attaché, Budapest, 1940-
41; chief staff officer, British military missions to Hungary and Austria.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Seconded from Army to Foreign Office as
councillor, British Embassy, Washington, D. C., 1942-44.

OFFICES HELD: General representative for Latin America and later for Eu-

[ 867 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

rope, Barber Asphalt Company, 1922-27; special partner, Sir Lindsay
Parkinson & Company, 1927-33; managing director, Peruvian compa-
nies, 1945-47, Spanish companies, since 1948, Shell Petroleum Company.

MEMBER OF: Whites Club, St. James Club, London; Harvard Club of New
York; Puerta de Hierro, Madrid.

SINCE leaving Harvard I have resided almost continuously out-
side the United States except for a two-year period as a council-
lor at the British Embassy in Washington during the most recent
war. I have travelled in almost every country in the world and
lived in a good many of them and as a consequence still think it
is a most interesting if somewhat exasperating planet. Like many
people, I have always wanted to retire on my ill-gotten gains and
live my life in the country in England with my farming, horses,
fishing, and shooting which provide for me most of the pleasures
of the earth. I did retire once. But alas! Wars and taxes upset
the best laid plans of mice and men and here I am at it again
to keep the wolf from the door. But Spain has its compensations
and I can do most of the things I enjoy doing in a country which,
thank God, has not yet been blighted with that fearful egalitarian
urge which seems to be sweeping the rest of humanity to me-
diocrity or its own ignoble destruction. Here a man is a man and
what he thinks and feels is the most important thing on earth. I
have no social convictions except that I loathe Socialists. And as
for political convictions, [ suppose I might be called right of
center with a pretty profound contempt, after contact with their
species in most parts of the globe, for all politicians,

ROBERT ULIN

HOME ADDRESS: 31 Park St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 483 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 22, 1903, East Boston, Mass. parENTS: Eli Ulin, Lena Silverstein.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: S.B, cum laude, 1924; M.D. 1928.

Marriep: Dorothy Lewenberg, Dec. 26, 1938, Newton, Mass. cHizp: Nancy
Lee, June 16, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alexander Ulin, ’23.

occupation: Physician, orthopedic surgeon.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active duty as major, Army Medical Corps,
Jan. 15, 1943; chief of orthopedic surgery, 36th Evacuation Hospital,
Desert Training Center, Calif., 1943, Southwest Pacific, 1944, Lovell

[ 868 ]

ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

General Hospital, Fort Devens, Mass., 3945-46; released from active
duty as lieutenant colonel, Aug. 4, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor of orthopedic surgery, Tufts Medical
School; junior visiting orthopedic surgeon, Boston City Hospital;
assistant visiting orthopedic surgeon, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston; at-
tending orthopedic surgeon, Cushing Veterans’ Administration Hospital,
Framingham, Mass.; consultant in orthopedic surgery, United States
Marine Hospital, Brighton, Booth Memorial Hospital, Brookline.

MEMBER OF: Greater Boston Medical Society; Massachusetts Medical Soci-
ety; American Medical Association; Boston Orthopedic Club; Ameri-
can Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons.

EDWARD UPTON

HOME AppRESS: 42 Locust St., Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hannan & Mayo, 25 Exchange St., Lynn, Mass.

BorN: March 18, 1902, Salem, Mass. PARENTs: Roger Upton, 797, Elizabeth
Phoebe Key Lloyd.

PrepareD AT: Marblehead High School, Marblehead, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREES: S.B., 1924; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1927.

mMarrieD: Anna Margaret Pennvpacker, July 6, 1929, Haddonfield, N. J.
CHILDREN: Ann Seaver Coolidge, Sept. 2, 1930; Edward Key Lloyd,
March 23, 1932; Lane Pennypacker, Aug. 1, 1934.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: United States Coast Guard Reserve (temporary),
June, 1943, to September, 1945; discharged with rank of ensign.

THERE is so little of interest to others in my life that it hardly
needs repeating. I have been absorbed in my family and work
to the exclusion of much else. My elder daughter is a sophomore
at Smith College and my son will be ready to enter Harvard in
the fall of 1949, if he is accepted.

My greatest regret in life has been that I have no ear or talent
for music, of which I am fond nevertheless. My nearest approach
to anything in that line was once carrying the front end of the
bass drum in the Harvard Band. All my children are talented
musically — not through inheritance from their male parent.

The hobbies-in-chief are study and reading of the campaigns
of the Civil War and the United States Coast Guard Auxiliary.
In the latter I have been secretary and treasurer, and sometime
training officer.

[ 869 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

CORTLANDT SCHUYLER VAN RENSSELAER

HOME ApprEss: Clinton Road, Bedford Hills, N. Y.

BorN: June 10, 1900, New York, N. Y. parents: Cortlandt Schuyler Van
Rensselaer, Horace Macaulay.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. 1924.

MARRIED: Georgina Lawrence Wells, Oct. 16, 1926, St. Mary’s Island,
Osterville, Mass. cHmpren: Nina Mary, March 30, 1928, Catherine Van
Cortlandt, March 31, 1932.

OCCUPATION: Retired.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Bedford Golf and Tennis Club,
Society of the Cincinnati; Society of Colonial Wars, Colonial Lords of
the Manor.

IN 1946 I decided to take Al Smith’s advice and look at the
record. I had a charming, popular wife, two delightful daughters,
and a pleasant, comfortable home. However, my home had be-
come only a place in which to wrestle with insomnia and grab
hasty breakfasts; my family life had become a hectic blur, and I
was on the verge of a nervous collapse.

For more than twenty years I had commuted approximately
four hours a day in dingy trains and filthy subways to a littered
desk in an office that did not appreciate my Groton-Harvard
trained talents. My take-home pay was diminishing rapidly as
a spendthrift, Socialist government made deductions for future
benefits which became daily more nebulous. As a somewhat
soiled white collar worker, and ununionized, I could not count
on annual cost-of-living salary increases nor could I hire a man
to picket my employer for me while I augmented my meagre
earnings at the race tracks. In short, I had stopped living and was
merely existing.

Under all the circumstances, I decided to retire. Since my re-
tirement, my health has improved immeasurably and I have be-
gun to live again.

GRAHAM VEALE

HOME appress: Glyndon, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Smith & Veale, 2127 N. Charles St., Baltimore, Md.

BORN: Feb. 24, 1903, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: William MacDonald Veale,
Blanche de Plainval Graham.

[ 870 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Catonsville High School, Catonsville, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922, DEGREE: B.ARCH. (Univ. of Pennsylvania), 1927.

marrieD: Elizabeth Spencer Janney, April 15, 1942, St. Thomas’ Garrison,
Md. cup: Frances Spencer, June 29, 1947.

occupation: Architect.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned ist lieutenant, Army Air Force,
May, 1942; served as photo interpreter with 3rd Bomb Wing, 8th Air
Force, in England; later as target officer, 9th Bombardment division,
gth Air Force, in England, Belgium, and France, returned to United
States, September, 1945; separated from service as lieutenant colonel.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects, Green Spring Valley Hunt
Club.

AFTER leaving Harvard in 1922, I studied architecture at the
University of Pennsylvania for five years, and then spent six
months in Europe. Returning to the United States, I worked as
a draftsman in the offices of Charles Z. Klauder and Edgar A.
Wightman in Philadelphia and then returned to Baltimore, work-
ing with Wyatt & Nolting, and Smith & May until 1940. At
this time Thomas W. Smith and I formed the partnership of
Smith & Veale for the practice of architecture, which is continuing
at this time. We closed shop in May, 1943, when we both went
into the service, and opened again in November, 1945.

My family and I are living in the Worthington Valley, eighteen
miles outside Baltimore and are building a house that we expect
to occupy in the spring of 1949. Our major interests, outside of
working both in the office and on the farm, are golf and fox
hunting.

EDWARD A. VINER

HOME apprEss: R. F. D., Keyport, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: McDonnell & Co., 120 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BORN: June 16, 1900, Crassanstav, Russia. parents: Harry Viner, Gital
Michvedeff.

PREPARED aT: Bangor High School, Bangor, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Viner did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

[ 871 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

ENRIQUE TOPACIO VIRATA

appress: University of the Philippines, Quezon City, P. I.

BORN: July 15, 1900, Imus Cavite, P. I. parents: Luis Virata, Maria Topacio.

TRANSFERRED FROM: University of the Philippines.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREES: S.B. miagna cum laude, 1924; AM,
1925.

marrigp: Leonor Aguinaldo, May 18, 1930, Kawit, Cavite, P. I. cum: Cesar
Enrique, Dec. 12, 1931.

occuPaTION: Business manager and dean, College of Liberal Arts, University
of the Philippines.

JUSTIN YOUNG WAGY

HOME abprFss: Payson, Ill.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Social Security Administration, Quincy, Ill.

BorN: Dec. 12, 1901, Plainville, Ill. parents: McClellan Wagy, Susie Lee
Young.

PREPARED aT: Seymour High School, Payson, III.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1924.

MarRIED: Bertha Louise Fisher, Sept. 15, 1923, Payson, Hl. CHILDREN: Ruth

Ann, July 14, 1924 (m. James C. Forsyth, Jr., July 13, 1944); Constance,
June 1, 1930.

occupation: Government employee.
WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chief of personnel, Social Security Board.

MEMBER OF: Society for Personnel Administration; American Management
Association, Civil Service Assembly.

AFTER graduation from Harvard in February, 1924, I taught
courses in English and literature at the University of Illinois and
the University of Chicago. During the ’30’s I worked as an ex-
aminer with the Illinois State Civil Service Commission at Spring-
field. I have been associated with the Social Security Board (now
known as the Social Security Administration) since 1940, first as
personnel consultant assisting the States with their mint systems,
later, during the war years, as chief of personnel with head-
quarters in Washington, and recently upon transfer to my home
vicinity, as manager of the Social Security field office in Quincy,
Illinois,

Our daughter, Ruth Ann, at the time of our moving to Wash-
ington, D. C., in 1942, entered the University of Maryland where
she met her husband, a native of Maryland. They were married
just before he was sent overseas. He served for many months

[872 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with the Ninth Army, experienced heavy fighting in the Bartle
of the Bulge and in the advance to Berlin, but returned unin-
jured after the end of the war in Europe. He then completed
his college work in engineering, and was graduated from the
University of Maryland in 1947. He and Ruth Ann are now liv-
ing near Baltimore.

Our other daughter, Constance, attended the Woodrow Wilson
High School in Washington, D. C., and was graduated in June,
1948. She entered Knox College, Galesburg, Illinois, this fall as
a freshman.

My interest in history and literature (undergraduate choice
of major) has continued over the years. The history and cus-
toms of the West are of particular interest. You see, my home
is located in the Mark Twain country near the Mississippi River.
The pioneer tradition is still fairly strong. We are largely un-
affected by the unrest which prevails in so many parts of the
world, but are not unmindful of it. Emerson, Hawthorne,
Thoreau, and Whitman remain, to my way of thinking, the
architects for maturing America.

Farming, I suppose, is my avocation. We have a few acres
here which have been in the family since the year my grandfather
came by team and wagon from Ohio. This explains it all, I ex-
pect: roots in the soil, a farm-boy gone to Harvard, up and down
through the States, and the return of the native.

JAMES DEXTER WALCOTT, JR.

HOME AppRESS: 38 Bonny View Rd., West Hartford 7, Conn.

OFFICE apprEss: Aetna Life Insurance Co., 1g1 Farmington Ave, Hartford
15, Conn.

BORN: Feb. 10, 1902, New London, Conn. parents: James Denter Walcott,
Mabel Ellis Barber.

PREPARED AT: New Britain High School, New Britain, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

MarRigD: Ruth Emily Hitchcock, Sept. 28, 1928, West Hartford, Conn.
CHILDREN: James Dexter, 3d, July 18, 1929; Benjamin Hitchcock, Nov. ¢,
1932.

OCCUPATION: Assistant secretary, group division, Actna Life Insurance Com
pany.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant secretary and secretary, 1032-36 Vice-president,
1939-41, president, 1942-43, Harvard Club of Connecticut, member,

[873 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Harvard Connecticut Tercentenary Fund Committee, 1935-36; presi-

dent, Aetna Life Club, 1939; district vice-chairman, Boy Scouts of

America, 1943-44; secretary, Wilbraham Fathers’ Club, 1948-49.
MEMBER OF: Chi Psi Fraternity.

BECAUSE I spent one year at Middlebury College, I completed
degree requirements in February, 1924. A Mediterranean cruise
(as a member of the crew) plus interviewing prospective em-
ployers took care of the last semester and I received my degree
with the Class in June. The next year was spent with the New
England Telephone Company as assistant manager in Salem and
Lowell, but while acting manager at Newburyport, I resigned
to seek my fortune in Florida during the chaotic real estate boom.
After a pleasant though unfruitful winter on the beach, I returned
to Boston to sell for the Kardex-Rand Sales Corporation.

The Aetna Life Insurance Company claimed me for my life’s
work in the summer of 1926 and I chose the insurance center of
the world purely for selfish reasons. Connecticut College for
Women held one outstanding attraction. We were married in
1928 and two sons followed within the next four years. In 1927 I
was appointed supervisor of group underwriting; in 1933, super-
intendent of group division; and in 1944 I was elected assistant
secretary of group division.

Tennis, swimming, sailing during the summer and squash in
the winter helped to hold down the added weight caused by the
years. Church committees, Boy Scout work, Connecticut Har-
vard Club duties, Republican district committee, Aircraft Warn-
ing Service and occasional trips to the Red Cross Blood Bank
during the war, claimed most of the free hours not spent other-
wise puttering around the yard.

Until two years ago, we four (and an Irish Terrier) lived
amicably and comfortably. The common problem of college
entrance requirements upset our happy routine temporarily, but
with one boy now in college and the younger at Wilbraham, we

have settled back to enjoy the labors of almost twenty-five years.
“Excelsior?”

[ 874 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE ALAN WALKER

HOME ADDRESS: R.D. 2, Doylestown, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Coverdale & Colpitts, 120 Wall St., New York 5, N. Y.

BoRN: July 16, 1897, Mendon, Mich. parents: George Christopher Walker,
Ann Bridge.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

marrieD: Marion E. Williams, June 27, 1924, Flint, Mich. CHILDREN: Richard
Alan, Feb. 18, 1927 (m. Ann Richie, Oct. 9, 1948); George Ernest, Dec.
17, 1931.

occupaTion: Consulting engineer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served at various warrant grades, 57th Engineers
and 125th Company, Transportation Corps, World War I.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Civil Engineers.

AFTER Dean Hughes finally gave up all attempts to convince
me that studies must take precedence over other activities and
decided that the Engineering School could get along very well
without me, I entered a very successful state of matrimony. I
spent a year with a consulting engineering firm in Washington,
D. C., which kept the wolf from the door while I took night
classes at George Washington University and got such good ©
grades that even Hector decided to give me another chance. Alas
for the plans of mice and men, my funds for a final year at Har-
vard crossed the Detroit River and wete lost in the spaces of
Canada, never to return and I was forced to earn a living. The
following five years were spent as an assistant engineer with the
Sanitary Engineering Department of the City of Grand Rapids,
Michigan. There the work was interesting, the titles very impres-
sive, but the pay check small, so that at the end of that period it
seemed wise to find other activities which might furnish a little
more of the very necessary funds to support my family which
had by now increased to three. A couple of years with the H. K.
Ferguson Company, engineers and builders of Cleveland, Ohio,
brought me well into the depression when their work ran out.
The next few years should be passed over lightly in retrospect.
Many grand things happened and many fine friendships were
made, but at the time the going seemed a bit tough. A few months
with a consulting firm, some work on plans for the Chicago sub-
way, Statistical studies for the State Welfare Board in Michigan,
and a short whirl at real estate brokerage filled in the time. In

[ 875 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

1935 I returned to the Ferguson Company and worked on various
industriay construction jobs all over the country. In the middle
of 1941 I transferred my allegiance to the United Engineers &
Constructors of Philadelphia and spent most of the war years with
them, working on the design and construction of steel plants. In
January, 1944, I came to New York on the staff of Coverdale &

Colpitts, consulting engineers, where I have found the most fasci-

nating work of all.

I have found life very good, each new day more interesting
than the one gone by and I look forward to many years of pro-

ductive activity, although the requirement of an X in front of my
school year is vexing at times.

GEORGE GHOLSON WALKER

HOME ADDRESS: 103 E. 75th St., New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Electric Bond & Share Co., 2 Rector St.. New York 6,
N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 21, 1902, Staten Island, N. Y. parents: Norman Stewart Walker,
Minnie Morrison Wiman.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924.

marriepD: Elizabeth Schroeder, May 4, 1928, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
George Gholson, Jr., March 5, 1929; Diana Langdon, June 28, 1942.

HARVARD SON: George Gholson Walker, Jr., ’51.

HARVARD BROTHER: Norman Stewart Walker, Jr., ’20

OCCUPATION: President, Electric Bond & Share Company.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Served on Local Draft Board 49, New York,
N.Y.

“OFFICES HELD: President and director, Electric Bond & Share Company, since
1944; vice-chairman and director, Ebasco Services, Inc., since 1945;
director, National Power & Light Company, since 1946, Webster
Apartments, New York, since 1942; trustee, since 1945, president, since
1945, Georgica Association, Wainscott, New York.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club, Church Club, River Club, Skating Club, The
Recess, all of New York; Maidstone Club, Easthampton, N. Y.; National
Golf Links, Southampton, N. Y.,; English Speaking Union; Committee
on Internal Trade & Improvements, New York Chamber of Commerce.

THERE is something awesome to me about casting up a personal
account of the past twenty-five ycars, and if it were not for Fritz
Schwarz’s eloquent postcards, I doubt that this would be written.

After indulging in a summer of travel in Europe following

[ 876 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

graduation in 1924, which I felt would be my last fling at roam-
ing (it was), I got a job with the Electric Bond & Share Com-
pany in New York. I was sent to Florida where I had the oppor-
tunity of being exposed to some of thé problems which hit a
public utility business during a boom, two tropical hurricanes,
and then a bust.. Back to New York in 1927 where another boom
of pretty good proportions, as I remember it, was getting under
way. With the following bust came varied réles for the industry
I was in. First hailed as a benefactor to the economy by continu-
ing its expansion program and providing jobs, it later received,
during the thirties, a terrific beating at the hands of the politicos
as the number one “whipping boy” for all the nation’s ills.

It was interesting, although somewhat conducive to a mild
case of cynicism, to watch the boys go to town on an industry
which had done and was doing such a fine job of spreading the
benefits of electric service at lowering rates despite some early,
and somewhat over-enthusiastic, financing. That they were suc-
cessful, few will deny; but history will tell whether or not they
advanced the cause of a free society.

In the prewar years of 1940 and 1941 I spent most of my time
in Arkansas, Louisiana, and Mississippi trying to assist in the
development and construction of electric and gas properties to
serve the fast-growing industrial war plants and training camps in
that area, During the war I spent a lot of time in W ashington
and Philadelphia, some of it, I am sorry to say, re- -hashing for
staff members of a federal bureau, certain of w hom were bent on
busting us up, the dead history of the twenties. The war, of
necessity, put a big burden on our outfit. The fact that no essen-
tial industry in its area was short of power at any time testifies to
the kind of job done, and to what a crime it would have been to
break up such an organization with its accumulated experience
and skill. We are going out of the public utility business in the
United States as an investor. We expect to retain our unity
holdings in Latin America. With our skilled service organization,
- Ebasco Services, Incorporated (no plug intended), now doing
management, engineering, and construction work for industrial
and public utility clients all over the world, and some equity:
capital to put into non-public utility enterprises, we hoape not
only to perform a useful social function but to make money in

[ 877 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

the process. Any suggestions, especially those guaranteed to be
good, will be well received.

The twenty-five years have been full and absorbing, and my
life has been a happy one. I don’t get enough time with my
family, and I'd like to take them travelling a lot more. My son,
George, Jr., Harvard ’51, whose good marks attest to an inheri-
tance from his mother, has crossed the country once, worked for
Squibb & Son last summer, and is headed for Europe next sum-
mer, to be gone before Reunion. My daughter, Diana, a very
young student at Miss Chapin’s School, is below the legal age
limit set by the authorities, so, much to her dismay, she can’t
attend the Twenty-fifth festivities, although, of course, I think
she would add greatly to the occasion. We spend about half the
year and as much more as we can out in Wainscott, a small (pop.
170) seaside farming community about one hundred miles out
on Long Island, which celebrated its 3ooth anniversary last
July. The self-reliance, industry, and patriotism of our neighbors
there are a tonic in this uncertain world.

Like a lot of other people, I believe we ought to be doing more
about the growth of collectivism on these shores. It seems to me
we are making a tough problem even tougher when we encourage
its spread here while we are trying to help contain it abroad.

My wants are simple but my desires to see more of my family
and friends, to do more of the kind of reading I should like to do,
and to try to do something more tangible to keep our “free
society” free, are great. Perhaps for our Fiftieth I’ll be able to
report some progress along those lines.

+ EDWIN ARNOLD WALL, JR.

BORN: Oct. 3, 1902, Boston, Mass, parents: Edwin Arnold Wall, Isabelle
Nugent.

PREPARED aT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B.. 1924,

piep: July 18, 1945, Roxbury, Mass.

EDWIN ARNOLD WALL, JR., completed his preparatory
work at Roxbury Latin School before entering Harvard in 1920.
In college he was a member of the Roxbury Latin Club and an
acuve participant on the Freshman Lacrosse Squad. Efe received

[ 878 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

his A.B. degree in 1924 and was accepted for the executive train-
ing course with Jordan Marsh Company, Boston. This was the
last information the Class had received of his whereabouts until
notice of his death reached the Class Report office.

ALAN WHITMORE WALLACE

HOME ADDRESS: 18 Blackburn Pl., Summit, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Moody’s Investors Service, 65 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 10, 1902, South Orange, N. J. parents: Wilfred Wallace, Belle
Marion Wallace.

PREPARED AT: West Orange High School, West Orange, N. J.; Blair Acad-
emy, Blairstown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920—1923.

MarRieD: Nettie Woodruff, Oct. 1, 1924, New York, N. Y. cHitpren:
Richard Alan, June 8, 1928; Jane, Jan. 11, 1935.

HARVARD SON: Richard Alan Wallace, ’50.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Wilfred Wallace, ’20.

occupation: Director, Moody’s Investors Service.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Jersey; Bankers Club of New York;
Baltusrol Golf Club.

DONALD HOLMES WALLACE

HOME AppRESS: 41 University Pl. Princeton, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International
Affairs, Princeton University, Princeton, N. J.

BORN: June 29, 1903, West Chester, Pa. paRENTs: Bertrand Holmes Wallace,
Frederica Alice Cross.

PREPARED AT: Framingham High School, Framingham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum Jaude, 1924; AM. 1928,
PH.D., 193].

MarRigep: Marcia Lincoln, Aug. 27, 1927, Brunswick, Maine. cnitprars:
Marcia, Sept. 9, 1931, Donald Keith, May 14, 1934.

occupation: Director of graduate program, Woodrow Wilson School of
Public and International Affairs, and professor of economics, Prinecton
University.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Staff member, Advisory Conmission to the
Council of National Defense, 1940-41; price executive, 1941, division
director, 1942-43, acting deputy administrator for price, 1943, econanie
adviser to the deputy administrator for price, 1943-46, Otlice of Price
Administration.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, Suffield School, Suffield, Conn. rgsger¢; instructor
in economics, University of Vermont, 1925-26; assistant, instructor, and
tutor in economics, Harvard, 1926-31; travelling fellow of Social Soence

[ 879 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Research Council, 1931-32; instructor and tutor, examiner, assistant pro-
fessor of economics, Harvard, 1932-39; associate professor of economics,
Williams College, 1939-45 (on war leave, 1940-45); member, board of
directors, National Bureau of Economic Research, since 1945; staff mem-
ber, 1946-47, consultant, since 1947, Council of Economic Advisers to
the President.

MEMBER OF: American Economie Association; American Society of Public

Administration; American Civil Liberties Union; Princeton Club of
New York.

pusLications: “Market Control in the Aluminum Industry,” 1937; “Inter-
national Control in Non-Ferrous Metals” (with William Y. Elliott and
others), 1937; “Industrial Markets and Public Policy,” ed. by C. J.
Friedrich and E. §. Mason, in Public Policy, 1940; Economic Standards
of Government Price Control (editor and co-author), T.N.E.C. Mono-
graph No. 32, 1941; contributions to scholarly journals and symposia.

ON GRADUATION I was undecided between business and
teaching. I elected to try the latter. A year at a prep school sug-
gested that teaching w ould be fine if the clientele were older. This
was confirmed by a year as an instructor at the University of Ver-
mont. Hence I returned to Cambridge in 1926 to begin graduate
study for the Ph.D., the professor’s union card.

In 1927 I followed the advice to marry young given to us as
seniors by President Emeritus Eliot on his ninetieth birthday in
an informal talk in front of University Hall. (Since this is the
only point I remember from Mr. Eliot’s talk, I cannot say whether
I have taken any of the rest of his advice.) In 1927 marriage
seemed to me the most important single thing in a man’s life.
Twenty-two years later it still does. I had the good fortune to
marry a girl who has always had for me unique and indefinable
qualities, has endeavored more successfully than I to understand
our children and their problems, and has been equally intolerant
of things mediocre and things screwball.

In my years of graduate work, 1926-31, the Harvard depart-
ment of economics was, as it now is, the best in the country. At
that time one received an excellent, if somewhat old-fashioned,
training in theoretical economics with, however, too little atten-
tion to the quantitative aspects of the subject. In retrospect, it is
also clear that we budding economists got little appreciation of
the significance of the broad institutional changes that had oc-
curred in this country during the preceding fifty years of rapid

scientific development and growth of big business, I also gained

[ 880 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

no awareness of the serious state of international relations. In
common with many others, my views on international affairs,
peace, and war were naive. They reflected, so far as I can recall,
a simple faith that nations would soon recognize the tragedy and
waste of war and join together to make the League of Nations an
effective instrument of peaceful world order. During a fellow-
ship year in Europe in 1931-32, my eyes were rudely opened to
the grim realities of international strife and contention.

The years 1932-39 I spent on the economics staff at Harvard.
My job grew from that of section man to responsibility for many
of the lectures in two undergraduate courses dealing with govern-
ment and business and participation in graduate courses in the
same field. For three years I was in charge of the divisional ex-
aminations for the economics department and found, as one might
surmise, that it is less of an ordeal to be on the giving side, but
still an ordeal. I was also an original member of the “faculty of
the Graduate School of Public Administration, often called the
Littauer School, and conducted with Professor E. S. Mason, now
dean of the school, a seminar on business price policies. This was
a most rewarding experience and it turned my attention to the
problem of the kinds of graduate education needed for prepara-
tion for public service — the subject which is now, after several
years of active service in the federal government, my major con-
cern. But during my years in the Harvard economics department
and a year on the faculty of Williams College at the end of the
thirties, my principal activities were the regular ones of teaching
and production of (presumably) scholarly books and articles —
and, it must be added, intensive continuation of my education,
for the great depression brought to economists a sharp and
awakening challenge which induced marked advances in tech-
niques and knowledge.

I then regarded as desirable many of the basic changes of the
New Deal—social security, collective bargaining, extension of
public utility regulation, and corporate securities regulation.
Subsequent reflection seems to me to confirm this view and also
to suggest strongly that it would have been much berter for the
country if the institutional changes of the New Deal had been
spread over the two or three previous decades instead of being
bunched into a few years.

[ 881 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924.

advisers, established by the Employment Act of 1946. This law
is perhaps the most important peace-time legislation in several
decades, for it declares it to be the responsibility of the federal
government to see that the American economy does not again
suffer severe depression with mass unemployment. In other
words, our democratic, free enterprise system is not to be allowed
to collapse as the Communists believe it necessarily will.

My government experience, which involved extensive contacts
with business men, labor leaders, and others, as well as government
officers, gives me a real, if restrained, optimism that we can work
out this and other difficult problems basic to the preservation and
improvement of a free, democratic society in this country. That
there are, however, real dangers at home as well as abroad seems
plain. Here the principal dangers do not, as in many countries
today, come from the totalitarians of the left and the right. In
my judgment, our danger resides rather in two kinds of attitude -
which are quite widespread. One attitude is flat opposition to
almost all proposals for social, economic, or political change. This
stand-pat attitude is taken most of the time by many of the busi-
ness and professional associations and by substantial segments of
both the Republican and Democratic parties —in spite of the
plain fact attested by all history that the one unchanging law
about human institutions is that they are always in process of
change. Let the Republicans among us join Henry Cabot Lodge
in his effort to turn the Republican party away from this danger-
ous attitude into a constructive force for desirable change and
improvement in American society.

The other dangerous attitude is continuous advocacy of hasty
extension of more government regulation to cure every supposed
defect in our system or its operations. This would in fact mean
reckless and ill-considered attempts at sweeping changes in our
institutions, the very opposite of “too little and too late.” If the
numbers holding these attitudes come to be a great part of the
population and if the two sides dig in stubbornly, there will be
trouble.

[ 884 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HANS GUNNAR WALZ

HOME apprEss: 137 Linden Ave., Englewood, N. J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Public Service Electric & Gas Co., 268 Baldwin St. New
Brunswick, N. J.

BoRN: Oct. 19, 1902, Cambridge, Mass. parenrs: John Albrecht Walz,
Esther Sellholm.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; S.B. IN MECH.ENGIN., 1926.

mMarRIED: Marjorie Allen Blackman, July 14, 1934, New York, N. Y. cui:
Cynthia Allen, Dec. 9, 1935.

HARVARD BROTHER: Erik Walz, ’33.

occupPaTION: Electrical engineer.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant meter engineer, 1935-40, engineer in the office of
the meter and wiring engineer, 1940-47, meter engineer, 1947, Public
Service Electric & Gas Company; member, Board of Governors, 1941-
42, secretary, 1943-47, member of Council, 1948, Harvard Engineering
Society; chairman, Membership Committee of the New Jersey Activi-
ties Committee, American Institute of Electrical Engineers, 1943-45.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society; American Institute of Electrical
Engineers; Harvard Club of New Jersey; Englewood Field Club.

AFTER graduation I continued my studies at the Harvard Engi-

neering School where I received the degree of S.B. in Mechanical

Engineering. I then proceeded from Cambridge to New Jersey

to take a training course in utility construction, generation, and

distribution with the Public Service Electric & Gas Company.

After enduring the rigors of the outdoors for one winter in

electric line construction and after working on the erection of the

Kearney generating station, my first assignment brought me to

the Electric Distribution Department in Jersey City.

I found that New Jersey was truly the home of the tiger, for
Princeton reigned supreme and no one had heard of Harvard. It
was during this period that I married. My wife, whose home was
in Pennsylvania, had gone to New York where she worked in
fashions, predicting what would happen to styles in the coming
summer at the time when icicles were hanging from the roofs.
She has always been six months ahead of me and the seasons.

During this period I took several business courses at New York
University. I also spent considerable time in developing and
teaching courses in the fundamentals of direct and alternating
current and electric power metering for use of company em-
ployees outside of their working hours.

[ 885 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

With the arrival of our daughter, Cynthia, came the thought
of building ahome. We diligently labored for a year, assembling
and compiling data on building plans. In the spring of 1940 we
bought a plot of land in Englewood and moved into our home
on September 7 of that year. We found subsequently that there
was nothing basic that we wanted to change. Perhaps it’s the
“perfect home” for us, anyway. .

In February, 1941, I was transferred to the general office of the
company in Newark. There I was assigned to the Transmission
and Substation Engineers’ Department and worked directly with
the meter and wiring engineer. As I was not actively associated
with the armed services, my war activities were confined to the
home defense field, including four War Loan drives, Red Cross
campaigns, and Englewood Community Chest drives.

In October, 1946, I was again transferred to the field forces in
the Central Division. I am now in New Brunswick in electric
distribution and in charge of the Meter Engineering Department.

My daughter attends Dwight School in Englewood. As local
president of the League of Women Voters, my wife devotes a
great deal of her time to this organization. .

In retrospect, our Class has lived through times of depression
and prosperity, through World War II and the atomic bomb.
Great advances have been made in science and engineering. Let
us hope that long before the Fiftieth Anniversary Reunion, we
shall have made such progress in “human engineering,” that the
peoples of the world may live together amicably.

4

PHILIP WARDNER

HOME ADDRESS: 61 Hilton Ave, Garden City, Long Island, N. Y

OFFICE appress: Garden City High School, Garden City, Long Island, N. Y.

BoRN: April 23, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: George Philip Wardner, * "90.
Mary Poland Rankin.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924 (2 5); EDM. (Boston Univ.),
1939.

occupation: Teacher of English, Garden City High School, part-time in-
structor of English, Adelphi College, Garden City.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, 1946-47, president, 1947-48, Nassau County
Classroom Teachers’ Association, vice-president, 1948-49, Department
of Classroom Teachers, National Education Association.

[ 886 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: National Education Association; American Education Fellow-
ship; Labor Education Service; New York State Teachers’ Association,
National Council of Teachers of English; Garden City Parent-Teacher
Association; Garden City Town Meeting.

FRANK ALGERNON WARREN, JR.

apprEss: Snow Hill, Md.

BoRN: March 14, 1895, Bermont, Pa. parents: Frank Algernon Warren,
Mary Leach.

PREPARED AT: Snow Hill High School, Snow Hill, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.M. (Columbia Univ.), 1928.

marriED: M. Lucretia Vossler, July 26, 1924, Canaan, Conn, CHILDREN: Mary
Ruth, May 13, 1932; Frank Algernon, 3d, Aug. 3, 1933.

OCCUPATION: Education.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Warren did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

JOHN WASSERMAN .

HOME appREss: 124 W. 79th St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Asiel & Co., 11 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

BorN: March 20, 1903, New York, N. Y. Parents: Harry Lee Wasserman,
Carrie Gutman.

PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1921.

MarRiED: Miriam Frank Wertheimer, June 27, 1932, Pittsburgh, Pa. cnit-
preN: Ann, March 30, 1934; Jane, July 23, 1936.

occupaTIon: Broker, New York Stock Exchange.

OFFICES HELD: Governor, Bond Brokers Association, 1945-48; member, bond
committee, Association of New York Stock Exchange Firms, 1934-49.

MEMBER OF: Bond Club of New York.

SINCE 1925 I have been associated with Asiel & Company, mem-
bers of the New York Stock Exchange and since 1936 I have
been a partner of this firm.

Despite my many years on Wall Street, I find that I'm still
unable to come close to qualifying as a “Glutton of Privilege”
either in my thinking or my financial condition. On the contrary.
I have found this much-maligned community a most honorable
and pleasant place to work.

I have also discovered that a man can live in New York City, be
happily married, raise two daughters, enjoy home and friends, and

[ 887 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

lay middle-aged tennis, just as one might do anywhere else in
play 0 5 >] § y
America.

LUCIUS PFEIFER WASSERMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 285 Central Park, W., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Wasserman, Behr & Shagan, 51 Chambers St., New York 7,
N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: Samuel Wasserman, Lottie
Levi.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; LL.B., 1927.

marrigep: Carryl Simonson, April 19, 1938, New York, N. ¥. CHILDREN:
Judith Riba, June 30, 1940; Peter John, July 11, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Associate government appeal agent, Draft
Board No. 58.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Amber Ridge Golf Club; Bar
Association of the City of New York.

WITH interest I just perused the enclosure of sample write-ups.
It happened I had known one of the authors quite well. Alas, I
can’t seem to get much information. I am afraid that the details
of the twenty-five years that have passed have occupied me far
too much to get the proper perspective.

I have been toying with the idea of moving out to California.
However, twenty-five years of roots in the East seem to make
such a move very difficult to execute.

Upon graduation from Law School, I came down to New
York and practised under my Dad’s (LL.B., ’93) tutelage. The
firm Wasserman, Behr & Shagan was formed some years ago,
Mike Shagan (A.B., 1924) a classmate, being one of my partners.

We have done a lot of work in the graphic arts with printers,
paper concerns, ink and press manufacturers. It has been a fas-
cinating association.

JOHN SHIGEZO WATANABE

HOME ADDRESS: §5-2 Chome, Minamicho, Aoyama, Minato-Ku, Tokyo,
Japan.

orrice appress: American Club, Tokyo, Japan.

born: June 5, 1898, Tokyo, Japan. parents: Kaichi Watanabe, Yoshie
Watanabe.

[ 888 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Keio High School, Tokyo, Japan.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1919-1924. DEGREES: S.B. IN E.E.. 1924; S.M. (Massachusetts
Inst. of Technology), 1926.

mMarRIED: Nora Gertrude Kittson, July 23, 1923, Boston, Mass.

OccUPATION: Employed by the United States Military Government, Depart-
ment of Japanese Reparations.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Japan; Massachusetts Institute of Technology

Club.

JOHN FRANKLIN WATERMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 191 Vassar St., Rochester 7, N. Y.

BoRN: Nov. 30, 1903, Providence, R. I. parents: Lewis Anthony Waterman,
Katharine Minerva Utter.

PREPARED AT: Moses Brown School, Providence, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1924; c.p.a. Rhode
Island, 1936.

MarRiep: Dorothy Ryter Vanderburgh, Aug. 27, 1932, Providence, R. I.
CHILDREN: John Franklin, Dec. 5, 1936; Sarah Sheldon, Aug. 30, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lewis Anthony Waterman, ’2o.

occuPATION: Public accounting.

OFFICES HELD: Comptroller, The Harley School, 1941-42; cubmaster, Boy
Scouts of America, 1945.

MEMBER OF: Rochester Museum Association; Lewis Henry Morgan Chapter,
New York State Archeological Association; Rochester Historical Soci-
ety; Harvard Club of Rochester; Harvard Business School Club of
Rochester; Rhode Island Society of Certified Public Accountants; Uni-
tarian Laymen’s League.

PusLicaTions: “Some Social, Legal, and Economic Fundamentals, and Ac-
counting,” N.A.C.A., 1944; “Lawful Accounting Statements,” N.A.C.A,
1945; letter on new Russo-German frontier in Poland published in the
New York Herald Tribune, Oct. 4, 1939, and forthwith used by Walter
Lippmann as the basis for a column; three more letters on the same and
closely related subjects published in feature positions in the New York
Herald Tribune, Oct. 26, Nov. 17, and Dec. 9, 1939.

AS I am shifting my business associations at the present time, I
have nothing to say and no time in which to say it.

KENNETH BEALS WEBB

HOME appRESs: Woodstock, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Timberlake, West Bridgewater, Vt.

BORN: March 8, 1902, Springfield, Mass. Parents: Frank Lincoln Webb,
Alma Victoria Smith.

[ 889 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924
PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1924; A.M., 1933.
MARRIED: Susan Howard, Sept. 12, 1932, Burlington, Vt. cHiLpREN: Susan,

July 1, 1933; Robert Howard, Oct. 17, 1934; Martha, Dec. 215 1940.
OCCUPATION: Education.

OFFICES HELD: President, Board of Trustees, Woodstock Country School,
1945-47; program director, Woodstock Rotary, 1947-48, chairman,
International Service Committee, Woodstock Rotary.

MEMBER OF: Religious Society of Friends (Ministry and Council, 1941-43);
Woodstock Rotary; Town Hall Club, Negro Colleges Endowment
Fund; United World Federalists.

PuBLicaTions: Occasional articles for the Friends Intelligencer and the
Christian Science Monitor.

IT IS with a probably common “this-never-could-happen-to-me”
feeling that I try to organize some ideas for a Twenty-fifth Re-
union "Report. I notice that the list of things one might write about
printed at the top of this sheet omits — does it omit? yes, it does —
any mention of hopes or ambitions, though one is requested to
write informally of his “social, political, or religious convictions.”
Yes, of course, a Harvard man must have arrived by his ‘T'wenty-
fifth Reunion; and here am I, as green as grass when in college,
with no college tradition to guide me into the right places, no
self-assertiveness, nibbling here and there at the bewildering
feast — Widener Library, good discussions of philosophy and
history, golden days on the River, Pops concerts, George Burton
Gulick, Kenneth Hack, Bliss Perry, “Kitty.”

Here am I, graduated, still nearly as green as grass, but with
an overwhelming yen for travel, which landed me in a teaching
job at the American University of Beirut, later at the Ecole de
Chateau Neuvic in the Dordogne, finally back in the States, as
head of the classical departments at several different schools.
Here was I, still far from knowing the score, but vaguely dis-
satisfied with the complacency, the lifelessness, the lack of realism
in American education.

About this time, a most delightful thing occurred: I met a girl
about whom a mutual friend who introduced us remarked un-
comprehendingly that she was “also nuts about Greek and Latin.”
We decided to marry so we could read Homer together every
day. We have never regretted the decision, though we didn’t
open the copy of Homer we lugged along on the honeymoon and

[ 890 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have scarcely done so since in the sixteen fruitful years that fol-
lowed. Fruitful? Well, we have three fine, intelligent children,
who know what the score is. We have also founded two camps
and a school. Also, we have generally, though barely, kept ahead
of mortgage foreclosures, bill collectors, and similar * unpleasant:
nesses, and are still doing so — barely.

One thing I used to say to myself at the end of a season as camp
counselor was something on this order: “Don’t be a dummy. Of
course you will try a season at a camp again. A camp offers some
of the choicest opportunities there are for real education.”

And then, unbelievably, I was starting my own camp, Timber-
lake, in Plymouth, Vermont, on a bunch of promissory notes,
mortgages, and imagination. ‘That was ten years ago, and we are
still going strong.

A number of years ago, we joined the Religious Society of
Friends and have been most happy in it ever since.

But this still left us dissatisfied with American schools, so in
1945, finding some interest in Woodstock, Vermont, in financing
a school, we founded, with the aid of many friends generous with
time and money, the Woodstock Country School, a coeducational
college preparatory boarding school for seventy students. It sent
students out into the highways and byways imbued with a social
concern that gives them no rest.

But the lure of something beyond the mountains denied me
the calm repose des arrivés, and it was our hope and ambition to
found a school which, while giving a fine academic education,
using the most modern educational techniques, would do so at a
very modest tuition, a feature to be appreciated in the depressed
decades to come! So, the idea of a low-tuition school with high
academic standards, based on the Friends’ ideals of simplicity,
frugality, and hard work, was formally launched at the first of
the year. The school, opened to youngsters of promise regardless
of race, creed, or—so far as possible — economic status, has
been incorporated in Vermont. From the Founding Committee,
which includes a number of prominent Friends and others
throughout New England, a temporary Board of Trustees has
been elected, to hold office till the first annual meeting in June.
Funds have already started coming in before the setting up of
the national campaign, and a number of important people seem

[ 891 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

excited about the pioneering aspects of the project. The school
will run several small business enterprises as part of its educational
offering, with a view to giving youngsters at the secondary level
practical experience in meeting problems of labor and manage-
ment. It will also attempt to integrate subject matter generally,
and will emphasize the social studies with a view to creating some
understanding of and interest in the broad economic and political
changes we face. Above all, it will try to be true to the deep
spiritual convictions which the Friends have tended to exemplify
in social betterment more fully than in education.

PAYSON REX WEBBER

HOME ADDRESS: 240 Grove St., Rutland, Vt.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Webber & Erickson, Gryphon Bldg., Rutland, Vt.

BORN: March 22, 1903, Rutland, Vt. parents: Marvelle Christopher Webber,
Mary Rich Rex.

PREPARED AT: Rutland High School, Rutland, Vt.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREES: S.B. 72agna cum laude, 1924; M.ARCH.,
1929.

marriep: Mary Elizabeth Williams, Nov. 29, 1934, New York, N. Y.
cup: Robert Ames, Dec. 7, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: Christopher Allen Webber, L1.3., ’32.

occuPATION: Architect.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, since 1939, secretary, since 1945, Vermont Symphony
Orchestra Association, secretary-treasurer, Vermont Association of
Architects, a chapter of the American Institute of Architects, 1948-49;
vestryman, 1941-43, 1945-47, junior warden, 1941-43, 1945-46, Trinity
Episcopal Church; member, board of directors, Rutland Community
Chest, since 1945; member, State of Vermont Hospital Council, since
1947; chairman, Zoning Commission, 1947~48, Board of Zoning Adjust-
ment, 1948, City of Rutland.

MEMBER oF: American Institute of Architects; Beaux Arts Institute of
Design; Vermont Society of Engineers, Ekwanok Country Club.

IN THE fall of 1924 a dual life as a tutor in the Department of
Fine Arts and student at the School of Architecture was started,
terminating in 1929 with a degree from the School of Architecture
and my resignation from the Faculty of Harvard College with an
idea of becoming a famous architect. This idea received a rude
awakening when, after building a house in Vermont in the sum-
mer of ’29, I went to New York to look for a job, Perhaps
others remember 1929? After tramping from office to office for

[ 892 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

some months I was fortunate to obtain a job as draughtsman in
the well-known firm of Delano & Aldrich. Here I learned the
difference between theoretical and practical architecture, and that
my education, instead of being completed, was merely continu-
ing into another phase. After three very valuable and pleasant
years, the firm finally reached the state of most architects and
found itself without many clients. For a while we worked two
days a week and made architectural dollhouses which were sold
by Macy’s. By that time I had earned my license in the State of
New York and inNew Jersey and I practised on such people as I
could find.

In the summer of 1934 I came to Rutland for a vacation because
there was nothing to do in New York, and stumbled on a few
jobs. While I had no intention of remaining here, more work
came in and so I settled down. At first I consoled myself that
whereas I was now a country practitioner doing chicken-coops,
instead of a great city architect, I would at least have time to lead
a simple country life free from the hectic demands of the city.
How wrong I was! In a small place it is impossible not to take
part and become mixed up in various civic responsibilities. Also,
many of my clients were people who had come to Vermont from
the city to fix up an old farm for the summer and they invariably
arrived weekends, so instead of the five-day week that we had in
New York I found myself on a seven-day week, with very few
vacations. During the war I was architect for one war-housing
project and associated with Leland & Larson of Boston in the
war-housing project in Springfield, Vermont.

In November, 1937, I lived for several weeks at the Elotcel
Commander while we were waiting for Robert to make his ap-
pearance. During that time I used to wander through the Yard
but I saw no one I knew and no one even looked at me. If there
is such a thing as a ghost, I know how it feels.

HERBERT JACOB WEBER

HOME ADDRESS: 3000 Connecticut Ave., Washington 8, D. C.; 5505 Everert
Ave., Chicago 37, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: War Assets Administration, Washington z5, D. C.

BORN: Dec. 17, 1903, Chicago, Ill. PARENTS: Jacob Weber, Wilhelmina
Henrietta Newberger.

[ 893 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1924(25).

OCCUPATION: Statistician and economist.

OFFICES HELD: Priority analyst and statistician, War Production Board,
1941-43; economist, Federal Public Housing Authority, 1943-44; statis-
tician and economist, War Assets Administration, since 1944.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association; Harvard Club of Washing-
ton. -

puBtications: “A Living Wage”; “Full Social Security.”

AFTER spending the first several years out of college in the |
real estate mortgage business with my father in Chicago, I took a
federal civil service examination and entered the government
service. Switching from business to professional life, I have
functioned in Washington for the past eight years as a govern-
ment statistician and economist.

Incidental to my vocational life as a ‘government economist in
the Capital, I have done considerable work on my chief avoca-
tional interest, writing and talking on theories which I have
developed concerning “social security, national income, and €co-
nomic fluctuations.

NATHAN WEINER So

X

AppRESS: 1634 Main St., Springfield 3, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 16, 1901, Ponoviej, Russia. PARENTS: Max Weiner, Jennie Meyers.

PREPARED aT: Springfield Central High School, Springfield, Mass. :

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: a.B. cum laude, 1924; LL.B. (Boston
Univ.), 1928.

MarriED: Dorothy Fialky, March ; 30, 1941, Richmond Hill, N. Y.

OCCUPATION: Law.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files,
Weiner did not return a questionnaire for this Report,.

roe

LOUIS WEINTRAUB

HOME aporess: 26 Downing Rd., Brookline, Mass.

orrice aporess: Astor Exterminating Co., 16 Kingston St., Boston, Mass,

BoRN: Nov. 16, 1g01, Boston, Mass. parents: Aaron Weintraub, Gertrude
Kahne.

PurpakeD at: Revere High School, Revere, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: $421-1924.

[ 894 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Clara Michelson, Sept. 27, 1924, Nashua, N. H. cHiupren: Harvey
J., Aug. 25, 1925 (died July 25, 1930); Penny, July 22, 1940; Susan,
June 6, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Pest control operator; termite control; window cleaning, in-
terior maintenance, and building cleaning service.

‘MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Students’ Army Training Corps, University of
Maine, 1920-21.

MEMBER OF: Jewish Community Center, Brookline (board member); Asso-
ciated Jewish Philanthropies (Building and Maintenance Committee).

ONE phase of life is over, namely, the twenty-five years away
from college, and middle age has descended upon me, along with
some of its encumbrances—to wit—forty additional pounds
and constant warnings to be careful of the old ticker. I say
_middle age with no hesitation, for this fact was brought home to
me with full impact a few years ago while registering for a course
in entomology at the Massachusetts Instircure of Technology.
I stopped a raw-looking youth—a freshman, no doubt —and
asked him the direction of the Registrar’s office. He looked me
over from head to toe — Lord knows what he thought, for I was
under the impression that I cut quite a figure, hatless, tweed sport
jacket, and slacks (those were the days). The insolent pup looked
again and drawled, “You got a son here?” Here I thought I was
blending into the picture of undergraduate youth, when, with
one quick brush-off I was put in my place. My pace may be a
little slower, but the desire to live and make one’s mark is ever
so strong.

As I look back at my business, my home, and my family, I
can’t say that life has failed me. There is no fortune tucked
away, yet despite the many problems that have arisen, the many
sorrows, I find myself married to the same woman for almost
twenty-five years, the father of two growing girls, somewhat of a
property owner, and the possessor of fairly good health. What
more, little man, does one ask of life? Looking at ic thus, I consider
myself a moderately successful American citizen.

Still, being human, there should be a normal amount of frus-
trations — perhaps the thought of being a business tycoon, a
famous musician, an author, anything, just so the w orld will sit
up and take notice. Every man, deep down, is a hero worshi pper,
and I too have my share of dreams. However, I enjoy my work,
for business is always a challenge, and providing a future for my

[ 895 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

two girls seems to be a worth-while ambition. It would have
been a wonderful experience to have worked side-by-side with
my son, but Fate had decided otherwise. There were other plans
for him.

There have been many changes — radio, now television, and
the atomic bomb which, of course, was introduced during the
last war. Many wars, many changes, much unrest. It has been a
fast-moving, important twenty-five years. I am glad to have been
a part of its history.

I should like a little more time to read and relax. Outside of an
occasional card game, seeing a few good friends, a movie, a play,
or hearing a lecture or two, there seems to be so little time, so
little. The best years are ahead of us, the years of understanding
and tolerance. I hope I shall be here with my loved ones to
witness a mellow and thoughtful old age.

No, one can’t complain. There are many things I should like
to see and do—to accomplish — but I have much, very, very
much. Let me say in thoughtful retrospect that I am a contented
man. Not smug, there is a difference.

HERMAN JOHN WEISMAN

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 76 Limerock St., Rockland, Maine.

BORN: July 28, 1900, Somerville, Mass. parents: Mark Weisman, Rebecca
Rosenberg.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1924; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1928.
MarrieD: Mary Dinan, Oct. 12, 1934, Rockland, Maine.

occupaTion: Physician, specializing in otolaryngology.

OFFICES HELD: County medical examiner, 1935-43.

MEMBER OF: Maine Medical Society; Massachusetts Medical Society; Ameri-

can Academy of Otolaryngology; American Medical Society; Shrine;
Rotary Club.

AFTER graduating I enrolled at Tufts Medical School, spending
the following four years at the well-known grind of learning the
rudiments of the profession. Then on to the next six years as in-
tern and resident. My experiences during this ten-year period
were extremely interesting ones and invaluable to me as I con-
templated the future.

Suddenly the “future” was the present — with the inevitable

[ 896 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

when, where and how. So, in May, 1934, the city of Rockland
won out, for it was not only located on the rock-ribbed coast of
Maine but was also the county seat of Knox. Gathering up all
the courage I could command and donning my most determined
manner, I opened my first office on the main street. Slowly bur
surely my practice gained momentum. By fall I was well estab-
lished and moving into a larger suite of offices and was able to
bring my bride home with me in October of that same year, 1934.

The intervening years here in Rockland with its adjacent towns
and islands have been extremely busy ones. In addition to a very
active practice have been added the many duties of being the
county medical examiner. My main source of relaxation has been
my Waco cabin. It has been a time-saver as well, not only on
professional calls to the many islands along the coast, attending
medical meetings, etc., but on many cross-country flights.

For the past five years I have restricted my work to otolaryn-
gology, a specialty that has allowed me more time for study and
relaxation.

My present plans include ten more years of active practice,
then retirement; residing in Florida during the winter and re-
turning to my home in Rockland, Maine, for the summer.

BERTRAM WELLMAN

HOME apprEss: P.O. Box 88, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Electrodyne Co., 899 Boylston St., Boston 15, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 16, 1902, Springfield, Mass. Parents: Hiller Crowell Wellman,
’94; Emily Andem Whiston. _ .

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: S.B. IN EE. magna cum laude. 19243
S.M. IN E.E, (Massachusetts Inst. of Technology), 1937.

MarRIED; Cora Byard, May 17, 1930, Milford, Mass.

- OCCUPATION: President, Electrodyne Company.

MEMBER OF: American Association for the Advancement of Science, Insti-
tute of Radio Engineers; American Institute of Electrical Fngincers.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in scientific and technical journals.

AFTER completing graduate studies at the Massachusetts Insti-
tute of Technology in 1937, I was for one year research associate
in psychology at the University of Rochester, where my work
was concerned with the instrumentation of the research studies

[ 897 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

in physiological psychology of Dr. Leonard Carmichael and grad-
uate students under his guidance. Dr. Carmichael’s appointment
to the presidency of Tufts College brought me back to the Bos-
ton area as assistant director of the Research Laboratory of Sen-
sory Psychology and Physiology, where I assisted him on re-
search studies on the development of the sense organs of fetal
guinea pigs, and later on visual fatigue i in reading. These studies
continued until the war, when activities more directly concerned
with the war effort superseded them. During the latter part of
the war, I was engaged in electronic development work on vari-
ous electronic devices for use by the armed services, first at Pho-
toswitch, Inc., in Cambridge, later as an independent consulting
engineer. After the consulting practice expanded and required
the employment of several assistants, it seemed desirable to form
a company. The Electrodyne Company was formed at the be-
ginning of 1946, three of the five incorporators being Harvard
men, though not of ’24. In addition to manufacturing and sell-
ing laboratory instruments and working on special instrumentation
problems of various research projects, the company undertakes
the solution of industrial measurement and control problems, in-
cluding counting, inspection, process control, etc. While many
of these applications are electronic, others involve solely mechan-
ical and optical principles, while still others employ combinations
of techniques. This type of work is full of variety and interest,
and I can assure anyone who engages in it that he need never be
bored.

Farlier activities include eight years spent at the General Elec-
tric Company in Schenectady, including five years in the research
laboratory investigating circuit interrupting devices, and two or
three years designing apparatus for testing automobile drivers,
etc.

t

GEORGE BURNHAM WELLS

HOME appress: Off Eastford Road, Southbridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Optical Co., 14 Mechanic St., Southbridge, Mass,

BORN: Oct. 10, 1902, Southbridge, Mass. parents: Albert Bachellor Wells,
Ethel Burnham.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

[ 898 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Ruth Adams Dyer, Nov. 10, 1928, Birmingham, Ala, CHILDREN:
Frances, Sept. 18, 1929; Joel, June 29, 1932; Albert, 2d, Aug. 9, 1934.
occuPATION: President, American Optical Company.

IT IS said that one should do something worth writing about, or
write something worth reading; I can lay claim to neither and,
in consequence, hardly dare take up space among illustrious com-
pany in this day of atomic progress and equal costs.

OLIVER DIMOCK WELLS

HOME ADDRESS: 205 E. 78th St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Goodbody & Co., 60 E. 42nd St., New York, N. Y.

Born: April 6, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: Frederic DeWitt Wells,
Laura Prince Jay.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1921. DEGREE: A.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1928.

marriep: Anne Wisner, Feb. 14, 1942 (divorced 1947). cHitp: Laura Valerie
Bayard, Aug. 27, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederic Jay Wells, ’23.

OCCUPATION: Broker.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: United States Army, Signal Corps, 1942-43.

MEMBER OF: River Club; Harvard Club, Pilgrims; St. Nicholas Society.

THE short and simple annals of the broker.

THOMAS LIVERMORE WELLS

HOME ApprEss: Sandy Hill Road, Fishers Island, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREsS: North American Mines, Inc., Room g11, 209 Washington
St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 14, 1902, Needham, Mass. parents: Bulkeley Wells, Grace
Daniels Livermore.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; E.M. (Colorado School of
Mines), 1929.

MarRiED: Julia Elliott Gilbert, Sept. 8, 1934, Kennebunkport, Maine. cxit-
pREN: Thomas Livermore, Jr., July 2, 1935 (died February, 1948); Peter
Bulkeley, June 32, 1941; Cynthia Gilbert (stepchild), Feb. 12, 1927;
Riley Miles Gilbert, Jr. (stepchild), April 18, 1929.

HARVARD SON: Riley Miles Gilbert, Jr. (stepson), 52.

HARVARD BROTHER: Bulkeley Livermore Wells, ‘19.

OccuPATION: Mining engineer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: 1st lieutenant, United States Marine Corps, Dec.
22, 1942; service in South Pacific from April, 1944, to August, 19453

[ 899 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

released from active duty as captain, United States Marine Corps Re-
serve, November, 1945; previous service in Colorado National Guard,
1925-28.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers;
Canadian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy; Harvard Club of New
York.

PUBLICATIONS: Technical articles for The Explosives Engineer and Engineer-
ing & Mining Journal.

MINING engineering, management, and exploration have occu-
pied a good part of my time since exposure to a second educa-
tion at Colorado School of Mines ended in a positive reaction in
1929. I have mined silver in Mexico, tungsten in Arizona, copper
in Chile, gold in Canada, and investigated innumerable worthless
mining properties in innumerable places. There have been side
excursions into pen-pushing — for a couple of years I was editor
of The Explosives Engineer for Hercules Powder Company;
again, just after the war, I worked for a while with McGraw-
Hill as associate editor of Engineering & Mining Journal. At the
beginning of 1948 I joined North American Mines, Inc., as en-
gineer and associate, with headquarters in Boston. This entails
the old, familiar procedure of combing the field for holes in the
ground that are not owned by liars. Analysis finds most of them
meeting Mark Twain’s classic definition.

Service as a ground officer in the aviation branch of the Marine
Corps took up three of the war years. Quantico, Cherry Point,
North Carolina, and San Diego were way points before I was
dumped on a rock in the South Pacific to sweat it out until Hiro-
shima. I have since stayed on in the Marine Corps Reserve.

Statistics do not favor settled domesticity in the mining profes-
sion. I have moved the family some twelve times in fourteen
years of married life. An older hand in our first mining camp
once remarked that any mining man was crazy to accumulate
household possessions; he didn’t carry the statement further. I
still have the family, but not much of the furniture has gone the
distance.

Politically I’m an independent, with a leaning towards people
like Stassen. I distrust old-line Republicans and “long-hairs” of
the New Deal stamp about equally. I believe that a better bal-
anced social order is slowly emerging from the excesses com-

mitted on both sides. We're still a long way from my idea of a

[ 900 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

practising democracy, but we’re getting there —if the world
doesn’t blow up around our heads in the meantime.

I used to think that guys coming up for their Twenty-fifth
Reunion were through — “has-beens” capable only of windy
reminiscence. Now that I’m reaching that point myself, it all
looks different. This is my first full-fledged reunion. I only hope
I won't bore the daylights out of some undergraduate who sees
us as stuffy old men. Anyway, it won’t be my last Twenty-fifth.
J have two Alma Maters.

CARL JOHN WENNERBLAD

HOME aApprEss: 29 Meadowbrook Pl., Maplewood, N. J.

orrice aAppress: ATF Incorporated, 200 Elmora Ave., Elizabeth, N. J.

porn: Feb. 24, 1903, Everett, Mass. parents: Birger Nicholas Wennerblad,
Selma Charlotte Gustafson.

PREPARED AT: Everett High School, Everett, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B. 7agna cum laude, 1924.

MarrieD: Esther Cederstrom, July 3, 1924, Somerville, Mass. cuiLpren: Carl
John, Jr.. June 15, 1925 (died July 1, 1925); Esther Charlotte, July 10,
1926; Sonia Louise, Feb. 5, 1931-

occupation: Accountant and insurance manager.

MEMBER OF: American Management Association (Insurance Division); Risk
Research Institute.

WHAT a quarter-century! From the golden age of the sphinx-
like “Cal” and the profitless prosperity of Herbert Hoover, up
into the “new plateau” of the Great Stock Market Boom, over
the brink of the Crash of ’29, out into the lingering doldrums of
our Great Depression, through the Roosevelt New Deal, under
the ever-growing shadow of Hitler, then, in rapid succession,
the attack on Poland, the fall of France, Pearl Harbor, Bataan,
D-Day and Bastogne, [wo Jima and Okinawa, and finally Hiro-
shima and the Atomic Age. What college course, even at Har-
vard, could have prepared us for these?

Ours was “‘the fortunate generation between the wars — too
young for the first, too old for the second.” True, we may have
more survivors to celebrate reunions than other classes before or
since, but we have our scars, too — scars of the depression, for
instance. Perhaps many of the Class were insulated from its ef-
fects. (How many, I wonder, if the truth were known?)

[ gor ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

My first job after college, as assistant cost accountant in a
plant near Boston making electrical appliances, had folded due
to liquidation of the company in 1927. A second, also in the elec-
trical heating field but this time in New York City, failed late in
1931 for lack of capital. A third, back in Boston in the field of
mortgage financing, folded in 1934. These and other lesser ven-
tures, all ill-starred, did nothing to strengthen my waning faith
in laissez-faire capitalism.

Opinions will differ about F.D.R. and his various reforms and
work programs, including W.P.A. Perhaps I’m the only member
of the Class who ever ran a W.P.A. project. Called the Historical
Records Survey, it gave employment to about 200 white-collar
workers in Massachusetts (most of them college graduates) in lo-
cating, preserving, and inventorying public and private historical
records, ranging from minutes of court proceedings and town
Meetings to manuscripts, church records, and even portraits. I
got to “know many of my fellow-workers intimately. By and
large I found them to be sincere and honest Americans, a little
down on their luck, perhaps, but eager to give a full day’s work
for a day’s pay, even at W.P.A. rates. Many had held good jobs
before and many have been quite successful since.

Later 1 worked for three years in the Massachusetts headquar-
ters of W.P.A., supervising all its research and records projects.
Here was another little-understood aspect of W.P.A. We supplied
research and clerical assistants to universities, hospitals, the Army,
Navy, and other public agencies. We installed, indexed, and im-
proved public records. We surveyed trafic, housing, water pol-
lution, geodetic landmarks, early mining ventures, and other
things too numerous to mention.

By this time war was upon us. The Nazi plot to liquidate the
Jews of Europe was slowly dawning on a horrified mankind. I
was asked to organize a Boston chapter of the Emergency Com-
mittee To Save The Jewish People, to raise funds, conduct an ad-
vertising campaign, and, by means of newspaper, radio, and
church support, to awaken public opinion to the plight of these
much-persecuted people. To interest prominent and public-
spirited Bostonians in such a cause was not hard. Money, too,
flowed in frecly. We succeeded in getting the President to ap-
point a Refugee Commissioner. And we helped a few individuals

{ 902 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fleeing from the Nazis to reach neutral ground in Sweden, Switz-
erland, and the Balkans. But for the main body of Hitler’s vic-
tims there was no hope — the slaughter of the gas chambers con-
tinued.

To get into war work I became works accountant for two war
plants of American Type Founders Company at Fitchburg, Mas-
sachusetts. One plant became a prime source for the Army of
75 and 76 mm. tank guns; the other, the chief supplier in this
country of essential Browning Automatic Rifle parts. We were
equally proud of our Army-Navy E’s and of our national award
for the best-working employee suggestion system in aid of the
war effort.

Since the war our company, now known as ATF Incorporated,
has ventured into the field of steel and plastic kitchen furniture
by the purchase of Daystrom Corporation. Our graphic arts sub-
sidiary, American Type Founders, remains the leading producer
of printing presses, type, and printing equipment. For the past
three years I have served this group of companies, comprised of
eight manufacturing plants and 3600 employees, as insurance
manager. More recently I have also become chief accountant for
the parent company.

My wife and I still consider our best excuse for living, how-
ever, to be our two daughters, “Ted,” a senior at Smith, and
Sonia, a freshman at Rutgers. We four like much the same things
—a bit of unspoiled New England countryside, a swim at Rock-
port, classical music, the annual Christmas service at Harvard, and
an occasional good British film. To these I would add a few per-
sonal enthusiasms — sermons by my favorite theologian, Niebuhr,
the reading of a wide variety of periodicals and newspapers as
well as the classics, and the music of J. S. Bach. Our life also has
a very firm foundation in the enjoyment of Afom’s good cook-

ing, especially her home-made bread and fragrant coffee. “HL Appy
the people who have no annals.”

MARK ROBERT WERMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 17 James St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 294 Washington St., Boston, Mass, ,
BORN: May 9, 1902, East Boston, Mass, Parents: Joseph Werman, Anne
Liebman.

[ 903 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School and English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924(25).

marrieD: Frances Dvilnsky, Nov. 24, 1927, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Shari
Hazel, Dec. 14, 1929, Michael Edward, Feb. 24, 1933.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lester Werman, M.B.A., 32.

OCCUPATION: Insurance and real estate.

OFFICES HELD: Captain of Insurance Team, Combined Jewish Appeal, 1942-
43; member, Board of Directors, Jewish Vocational Service, 1946-48,
Temple Israel Brotherhood, 1945-48.

MEMBER OF: Friends of Boston Symphony Orchestra; Boston Art Museum;
Temple Israel Brotherhood; The Metropolitan Singers.

TWENTY-FIVE years ago, I started out to burn up the world.
Now, twenty-five years later, it seems that the world has burnt
me up. My life has been like that of Mr. Babbitt; nothing of the
unusual has happened to me. I have gone my tortuous way, sub-
merged in the insurance and real estate business, in order to pro-
vide my family with its due share of this world’s earthly goods,
which I have thus far managed to do through slow but steady
growth. I appear to have achieved one goal — that of modera-
tion.

My raison @étre rests in my wonderful wife and two charming
children, who should make me the envy of all who know them.
My daughter, Shari, is a sophomore at Western Reserve and is
majoring in music. Michael is spending his second year at ‘Tabor
Academy preparing, I hope, to be the second Harvard generation
in my family. Harvard has my thanks for, among other things,
the beginning of close friendships with other Harvard men,
which have lasted these many years and have been a source of
real pleasure to me.

Business has persistently interfered with my desire to indulge
in my hobbies. I've had some fun with photography and phi-
lately, played golf — and given it up (the insurance business al-
lows no time for such fol-de-rol), Besides, there is enough exer-
cise in gardening and I find it eminently more soul-satisfying.
My efforts in this activity were stimulated, and are now aided
and abetted, by my good wife. Incidentally, as a member of the
Board of Directors of the Federation of Massachusetts Garden
Clubs, and as a consistent prize-winner (in flower arrangement)
at the flower shows, not to mention her needlework, painting, and

extensive communal activities, she has done me proud, I seem

[ 904 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to have digressed into the wrong biography; let’s get back to
mine.

A number of silver articles have been created by me in an
attempt to displace Paul Revere as the country’s greatest silver-
smith. At this writing, Paul is still out in front, but the satisfac-
tion of being the craftsman of what, I hope, will become the fam-
ily heirlooms, has been a consolation.

I did my small stint with the United Service Organization dur-
ing the war and continued to help entertain hospitalized veterans
after the war, through a committee of the Temple Israel Brother-
hood.

During the years, my love for music has grown to the extent
that a considerable part of my time is spent under its spell —
winters in Symphony Hall and summers at Tanglewood in the
Berkshires. A further interest has been with two choral groups,
one of which (The Metropolitan Singers) sings to raise funds to

help crippled children. I have also done a share of work for lo-
cal charities during the years.

This world of ours has made me more or less cynical, my dis-
illusionment springs from the realization of man’s sordidness.
Events which have transpired in our quarter-century lead me to
believe that man has made no progress towards Utopia, except in
things material. War, greed, intolerance, and selfishness are fore-
most in man’s mind today as they were in ages gone. I wonder
how much of this failure to make progress is due to the starry-
eyed version of the world and man, which the schools picture for
the budding youngsters.

I am looking forward to our Reunion in the hope that, at least
for a short time, it will transport me (in “spirit”) back to the days
when the Twenty-fifth was far in the future, and the world was
my oyster.

JULES HERMAN WERNER

HOME ADDRESS: 133-30 Blossom Ave., Flushing, New York, N, Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1457 Broadway, New York 18, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 25, 1901, New York, N. Y. Parents: Victor Werner, Ray
Desky.

PREPARED AT: Stuyvesant High School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: 8.B., 1925.

[ 905 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

MARRIED: Anne H. Spitzer. cuitp: Frank Martin, Oct. 24, 1944.

OccUPATION: Real estate broker, appraiser.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: First lieutenant, Corps of Engineers, United
States Army, July 4, 1942; post engineer, various locations, Second Serv-
ice Command; released from active duty as major, May 9, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Reserve Officers Association, Rockland
County.

MEMBER OF: Real Estate Board, New York; Grover Cleveland Democratic
Club.

AFTER thirteen years of childless marriage, the time being spent
in hard work and an abundance of play, the Army life and its
necessary confinement made my wife and me realize the need for
a family. We acquired a cocker spaniel first and a terrific future
Harvard fullback afterwards. Since the end of the war we finally
have settled in a community of kindred souls; here we can follow
our hobbies of golf and sociabili

From my experience, I should like to make this observation,
having been educated and trained as an engineer. Unless an en-
gineer intends to follow a purely scientific career, he had best
consider augmenting his education with the background of busi-
ness and economics provided by the Harvard Business School.

Together the two educational backgrounds provide a well-
rounded individual.

WARREN CURTIS WESTHAVER

HOME apprEss: 246 Marlboro St., Wollaston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: North Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 2, 1902, Everett, Mass. Parents: Chipman Randall Westhaver,
Margaret Josephine O’Brien.

PREPARED AT: Dedham High School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; ED.M., 1933.

MARRIED: Ruth Robinson, Sept. 8, 1926, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Nancy
Ruth, April 25, 1928; Janet Ellen, Dec. 7, 1933.

HARVARD BROTHER: Chipman Randall Westhaver, Jr., ’23 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Teacher of physics, North Quincy High School and North-
eastern University.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Second lieutenant, Air Corps, Army of the
United States; instructor in aeronautics, plans and training officer, troop
training; administrative officer, personal affairs of enlisted men; civilian
instructor in electricity for United States Army Air Corps; instructor
in steam engineering for United States Navy.

OFFICES HELD: Superintendent, public schools, Guilford, Conn., 1931-38.

[ 906 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MICHAEL GERALD WHALEN

HOME aporEsS: g Acacia Ave., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

oFFicE apprEss: R, O'Brien & Co., Inc., 34 Fish Pier, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 30, 1902, Boston, Mass. pARENTs: Bartholomew Francis Whalen,
Mary Fitzgerald.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

marriep: Mary H. Hession, Nov. 28, 1933, Boston, Mass. cuttpren: Michael,
Nov, 8, 1939; John L, Oct. 16, 1943; Peter, July 18, 1946.

occuPATION: President, R. O’Brien & Company, Inc., producers and distribu-
tors of North Atlantic-caught fish.

HENRY WHEELER, JR.

HOME appress: Woodcock Farm, Bedford, N. H.

oFFice Appress: Hampshire Worsted Mills, Inc., Manchester, N. H.

Born: May 15, 1901, South Boston, Mass. parents: Henry Wheeler, Ellen
Hayward.

prePareD AT: St. George's School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922. . .

MarrieD: Olga Merck, Sept. 15, 1923, West Orange, N. J. cumpren: Henry
3d, Sept. 10, 1924; Polly, March 4, 1927.

HARVARD SON: Henry Wheeler 3d, 745.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alexander Wheeler, ’11.

OCCUPATION: Textile manufacturing.

OFFICES HELD: Superintendent, cotton spinning, 1926-27, southern division,
1927-29, worsted manufacturing, 1929-36, Amoskeag Manufacturing
Company, Inc., Manchester, N. H.; superintendent, 1937-43, vice-
president, since 1943, Hampshire Worsted Mills, Inc.

MEMBER oF: Eastern Dog Club, Manchester; North Shore Kennel Club;
English Setter Association; The Country Club, Brookline; Harvard
Club of New York; American Guernsey Cattle Club.

UPON leaving college after completing my sophomore year, I
obtained employment with the Amoskeag Manufacturing Com-
pany in Manchester, New Hampshire. Because of the size of the
plant, in its day the largest textile manufacturing establishment
in the world, and its extremely wide range of products — cot-
tons, worsteds, rayons —I found my work most interesting. Af-
ter serving an apprenticeship of about two years and a half during
most of which I worked in overalls in various manufacturing de-
partments, I was advanced to positions of a supervisory nature in
both cotton and worsted processing, and, when the company

[ 907 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

went out of business in 1936, I was in charge of worsted manu-
facturing. -_ 7

I then became associated with the Amoskeag’s largest cus-
tomer for worsted machine knitting yarns and set up a plant of
8600 spindles in Manchester known as the Hampshire Worsted
Afills, Incorporated, to supply him with his requirements of this
commodity. It is in this occupation that I am currently engaged.

I left college after my sophomore year to get started in busi-
ness so I could get married, an objective I achieved on Septem-
ber 15, 1923, to the financial chagrin of several of our classmates.
Due mainly to my wife’s good sense and general all-around abil-
ity, I have led an extremely happy life, living in the city of Man-
chester until 1940 when, fortunately from my point of view, I
persuaded our classmate Peter Woodbury to part with a farm he
had in the town of Bedford. I have since been residing just out-
side this town with my family. My wife and I are blessed with
one son and one daughter both of whom are married and each
of whom has presented us with a grandson.

My hobbies are farming, upland game shooting, and the breed-
ing and exhibiting of Pointers and English Setters.

JOHN COWLES WHITE

HOME AppREsS: 115 Vine St., New Britain, Conn,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 32 Grove Hill, New Britain, Conn.

BORN: Noy. 6, 1902, New Britain, Conn. parents: Marcus White, Helena
Dotha Cowles.

PREPARED AT; New Britain High School, New Britain, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1925. DEGREES: 8.B., 1924(25); M.D., 1929.

Marrigp: Leslie Winslow, Jan. 3, 1931, Brookline, Mass. cHttoren: Thacher
Winslow and Richard Cowles (twins), Oct. 8, 1933; Howard Lavarack,
July 21, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Lowrey White, ’20.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant commander and commander, Medi-
cal Corps, United States Naval Reserve, October, 1943, to March, 1946.

orrices HELD: Managing director, New Britain General Hospital, 1942-43.

Memurg of; American Mcdical Association, American College of Physi-
cians.

I GRADUATED from Harvard Medical School in 1929 and in-
terned at the Hartford Hospital. In 1931 Leslie and 1 were mar-

[ 908 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ried and travelled to Germany where we lived for a while in
Wurzburg. It was a lovely and friendly city that is now ruined.
Of course, we intended to revisit the place and our friends there
but now that is out of the question. We spent a year in Ann Ar-
bor, Michigan, where I studied. Since then I have practised medi-
cine here in New Britain, except from 1942 to 1946. In 1942 I
accepted the job as director of our hospital, a good job and a
challenging one, but I was not content to be removed from the
practice of medicine. I then spent two and a half years in the
Navy before returning to practice.

In my brief service in the Navy I was fortunate in having a
variety of experiences, roaming from Scotland to the western
Pacific.

My family and I are deeply rooted in this city, and enjoy its
life. In earlier years we enjoyed holidays on shipboard, but these
are hard to find today. Our brief excursions are to the mountains
of New Hampshire or to Cape Cod.

JOHN KING WHITE

HOME AppRrEss: 40 Rosecliff St., Roslindale, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 150 Causeway St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 2, 1903, Roslindale, Mass. parents: John White, Mary Josephine
King.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1924(25); AM. (Boston Univ.),
1938.

OCCUPATION: Government service, Veterans’ Administration, Boston.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: United States Army, 3802d Quartermaster Truck
Company, September, 1942, to August, 1945.

I WORKED in Boston for several years after graduation, taking
time out to study for a Master’s degree at Boston University. In
1942 I went to work for the United States Government, and, ¢x-

cept for a period of military service, have been in the civil service
since,

SUMNER WHEELER WHITE, JR.
HOME ApprEss: 206 E. 7and St. New York 21, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Mutual Chemical Co. of America, zt0 Madwon Ave, New
York 16, N. Y.

[ 909 ]

wate 5. Sct ALL CCT LTE NNN ATTEN CC TURE IG. ay

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

BORN: June 17, 1902, Nutley, N. J. parents: Sumner Wheeler White, ’8,,
Frances Grosvenor Crosby.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MARRIED: Virginia Earle, Oct. 22, 1927, Chestnut Hill, Pa. cumpren: Sumner
Wheeler, 3d, and Edgar Pardee Earle (twins), Nov. 17, 1929.

HARVARD sons: Sumner Wheeler White, 3d, ’52; Edgar Pardee Earle White,
"52.

HARVARD BROTHERS: George Crosby White, 18 (deceased) ; Grosvenor White,
"22.

occupation: Chemical manufacturing.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman and treasurer, Church of the Epiphany, New
York, N. Y., since 1937; trustee and treasurer, Church of St. Simon-by-
the-Sea, Mantoloking, N. J., since 1935; commodore, 1944-46, trustee,
1938-48, Mantoloking Yacht Club.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Holland Lodge No. 8, F. & A.M.;
Union Club.

IN JANUARY, 1925, I became employed by the Mutual Chemi-
cal Company of America and have been continuously associated
with this firm, which specializes in the manufacture of chromium
chemicals. My headquarters have been in New York City during
all this time and the only extended period that I have been away
was in 1939 when I was on a business trip to South America,
which I hope to repeat in the near future.

T have lived in New York City since my marriage in 1927 and
was fortunate enough to purchase a small brownstone house in

. 1941 where I appear to be settled for some years to come. My

summers have been spent regularly at Mantoloking on the Jersey
shore where I have taken an active interest in small-boat sailing.
These activities have been chiefly in the management of the yacht
club and handling small-boat regattas.

At the present time my twin sons are in the freshman class in
Harvard and I hope will still be there in June.

WILLIAM LINDSAY WHITE

HOME appreEss: Emporia, Kans.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 160 E. 66th St., New York 21, N. Y.

BORN: June 17, 1900, Emporia, Kans. parents: William Allen White, Sally
Moss Lindsay.

PREPARED AT: Emporia High School, Emporia, Kans.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924(25).

[910 ]

—————__.-

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Kathrine Klinkenberg, April 29, 1931. cHiLp: Barbara, Feb. 28,
1937.

occupation: Editor, The Emporia Gazette; roving editor, The Readers’
Digest.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Private, Students Army Training Corps, Law-

rence, Kans., 19:8, war correspondent, 1939-45.

orrices HELD: Member, Kansas State Legislature, 1930.

MEMBER OF: Plavers Club; Washington Press Club; Overseas Press Club.

puatications: What People Said, 1937; Journey for Margaret, 1941; They
Were Expendable, 1942; Queens Die Proudly, 1943; Report on the Rus-
sians, 1945, Report on the Germans, 1947; Lost Boundaries, 1948.

SO FAR, my life has been pleasant enough.

JOHN ROBERTSON WHITESIDE

HOME apprEss: 58 Wright St., Westport, Conn.
orrice appress: New York Telephone Co., 140 West St., New York 7, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 9, 1901, Champlain, N. Y. parents: John Robertson Whiteside,
Ethel D’Arcy Boulton.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

marriep: Edith M. Rabe, Dec. 4, 1926, New York, N. Y.; Elinor Irwin
Coffin, May 4, 1940, New York, N. Y. curpren: John Robertson, Jr.
Oct. 1, 1930; Nancy Ethel, Jan. 5, 1933; George D’Arcy, Oct. 23, 1942.

oocupation: Service engineer, New York Telephone Company.

WITH the exception of the first year, I have been associated with
the New York Telephone Company in New York City since
my graduation from Harvard. J expect to remain where I am
until I become eligible for retirement on a pension.

I lived in New York City most of the time between 1924 and
1942. In 1942 my wife and I bought a house with approximately
an acre of land in Westport, Connecticut, where we have been
very happy. For recreation, much of our time is spent taking
care of our house and grounds out of which we get a great deal
of pleasure and satisfaction.

My elder son is a freshman at the University of Arizona, my
daughter a sophomore in high school, and my younger son in the
second grade of elementary school.

My wife is active in civic affairs in Westport. We are Republi-
cans.

The extent of my travels has been four trips to Arizona and

[orn]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

California since graduation and a short trip to England, Scotland,
and France in the summer of 1936. We usually spend our sum-_
mer vacations in eastern Canada.

WILBAR -WHITTEMORE

HOME ADDRESS: §7 Prince St., Needham 92, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Shawmut Bank of Boston, 40 Water St., Boston
6, Mass.

BorN: Oct. 27, 1902, Gardner, Mass. parents: Francis Stearns Whittemore,
Lizzie Sophia Wilbar.

PREPARED AT: Gardner High School, Gardner, Mass; Phillips Exeter Acad-
emy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

marrieD: Harriet Durrell Hall, Oct. 8, 1937, Boston, Mass. cHiLpREN: Wil-
bar, Jr. Dec. 13, 1938; Bruce Hall, Jan. 9, 1941; Marcia Frances, May
23, 1944-

occuPATION: Banking.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Exchange Club of Needham, 1947-48, Needham
Housing Authority, 1948; auditor, Evangelical Congregational Church,
1947-49.

MEMBER oF: Exchange Club of Needham.

HAVING been impressed with the frequent references, during

the years after the first World War, to the coming business ex-

pansion with South American countries, I set my sights on go-

ing south, perhaps influenced by the thought that thereby I

would get away from New England, where I had spent all my

life. In any event, in December, 1925, I found myself sailing for

Buenos Aires, Argentina, where for the next three years I was

employed by The First National Bank of Boston branch in that

city.

During those years, time never hung heavy, and I travelled
more extensively than before, or since, in my own country. I
discovered, however, that apparently I was just a home boy at
heart, and I decided then, that life in these United States had
a certain appeal and offered certain advantages that I was not
prepared to give up.

I returned to Boston in 1929, too late to enjoy the speculative
thrills of that cycle then closing, but, by the same token, in a
position to view the following collapse with a certain amount of
detachment! Shortly after my return I was fortunate in obtain-

[gi2]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT .

ing a position with the National Shawmut Bank in Boston, and
have remained with that institution for, lo, these twenty years.

I was married in 1937, and since 1941 have lived in Needham,
where I have become intimately acquainted with the problems,
activities, and enjoyments of Mr. Average Suburbanite. An in-
terest in raising vegetables, in an amateurish sort of way, born
during the war years, remains with me, and annually provides
exercise, in keeping with my years. And this seasonal battle
against bugs and blights overshadows, for those months, such
unimportant items as increasing taxes, attempting to balance the
inflation budget, and the perennial disappointment of always back-
ing losing political candidates!

NEWLIN BRADSTREET WILDES

HOME ADDRESS: 500 Randolph Ave., Milton, Mass.; Pomfret, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Curtis Publishing Co., 1020 Statler Bldg., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 28, 1902, Springfield, Ohio. Parents: Maurice Hilger Wildes,
Elsie Davis Stoner.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

marrigp: Faith Lovell, May 14, 1927, Cambridge, Mass. cHiLpren: Faith, July
22, 1930; Deborah, June 28, 1932.

occuPATION: New England manager, Ladies Home Journal; fiction and
short story writer.

MEMBER OF: Union Club, Boston; Milton-Hoosic Club, Milton.

PUBLICATIONS: About one hundred and fifty short stories in Sarwrday Eve-
ning Post, Collier's, Ladies Home Journal, etc.; articles on technique
of commercial short story writing for professional magazines.

WELL, the end of twenty-five years is as good a time as any to
add things up. No one knows what the score is. Nothing, by
some standards. Maybe something, by others.

First, ’'ve got a swell family. Our daughters are sixteen and
eighteen now, and we have a lot of fun toacther. Really good
fun. More fun than I ever have anywhere else. Wre have ridden
horses together since the gals were six, respectively, We're suck-
ers for horses. We school our own hunters, show them a bit,
hunt them some. The gals ride a lot better than Ido now, They
have a real sense of humor — the original and maybe silly kind.
They get a lot better grades at school than I ever did, and they

[913]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

dance a lot better even if they never had the old Brunswick for
inspiration.

Second, we have a farm in Pomfret, Vermont, which we all
love. We have a grand time there, take our five hunters, two of
which we've had for ten years, up there, hit the hayseed shows,
ride cross country, have a pool for swimming; and plenty of
youngsters who like that sort of life seem to drift in pretty regu-
larly. We've had the farm for sixteen years now. It’s a good spot.

Third, I like my work. It has been advertising since ’24. No
reason to change. We didn’t like New York for two years, but
we got through it. For the past ten years I’ve been in Boston for
the Curtis Publishing Company — specifically the Ladies Home
Journal. | happen to work with a grand bunch of people who
know advertising, are smart and are human, even for Philadel-
phians. So the work end is good. Sure, you get days in July and
August when you think, “what the hell —,” but you get over that
with a vacation. There is a thrill to helping market a good prod-
uct —a thrill in building something. That’s that.

About a dozen years ago I started writing fiction for the slick
paper magazines — Ladies Home Journal, Saturday Evening Post,
etc. The stories began to sell have sold regularly and steadily
ever since, About one hundred and fifty have been published in
this country. Dozens have been reprinted in England, Norway,
Denmark, Sweden, and many other countries. A big source of
satisfaction, for me, is the fact that ten or so have been reprinted
in Braille. You don’t get paid for that—not in money. You
don’t want money, One was made into a movie. Lousy. Several
have been on the air. And I have had the pleasure, in recent
years, of helping quite a few other people get started in writing
and selling their stuff. That’s a thrill, too. I like that.

As to my religion, my politics, and my general ‘‘feelings about
life” — who the hell cares? I'm not too sure about them myself.
I do know that the past twenty-five years have seen me make
an awful lot of mistakes and perhaps a few minor, very minor,
successes. The mistakes are my own. ‘The rest of it rl credit to
my family and to my friends.

L914]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOSIAH WILLARD

HOME ADDRESS: 18 E. 7oth St.. New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE appREss: White & Case, 14 Wall St., New York 5, N. Y.

porn: March 19, 1903, Manila, P. I. parents: Charles Andrew Willard,
Charlotte Hastings.

PREPARED AT: Blake School, Minneapolis, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924, LL.B. cum laude, 1927.

MarRIED: Eugenia Adams Bovey, March 17, 1939, New York, N. Y. cum-
pREN: Charles Andrew, July 11, 1943; Margaret Eugenia, Dec. 17, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Hastings Willard, L.p., °29.

occupation: Lawyer, member of firm of White & Case.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member, Advisory Committee, Local Draft
Board.

MEMBER OF: University Club, New York; Harvard Club of New York;
Lawyers’ Club, New York; Citizens’ Union, New York (member execu-
tive committee); Association of the Bar of the City of New York,
New York State Bar Association.

EXCEPT for a year in the Treasury Department during 1933-
1934, I have been with the firm of White & Case ever since I left
Law School, first as an associate and later as a member of the
firm. The association has been extremely pleasant, and I hope for
nothing better than its continuance.

Aside from work, I am happily engaged in the not inconsider-
able task of living and bringing up a family in Manhattan. Right
now we are setting back the clock and arresting the wheels of
progress by living in a large brownstone house with stairs, a
dumbwaiter, and all the improvements of the Edwardian era.

VERNON PHILLIPS WILLIAMS

HOME ADDRESS: 112 Pinckney St., Boston 14, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 330 Dartmouth St., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1899, Minneapolis, Minn, parents: Stephen Grover Williams,
Gertrude Cotton.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Minneapolis, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1919-1920, 1922-1924. DEGREES: $.B., cum laude, 1924(25);
M.D, 1928. .

OccuPATION: Psychiatrist.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Students’ Army Training Corps, Columbia Uni-
versity, 1918.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: World War I: Neuropsychiatrist, Boston
Induction Station; Civilian Defense.

[915 ]

Se

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924.

OFFICES HELD: Psychiatrist, Portland Child Guidance Clinic, Portland, Maine,
1937-395 psychiatric consultant, Massachusetts Society for Mental Hy-
giene, 1945-46, Northfield Schools, since 1940; assistant psychiatrist,
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston.

MEMBER OF: American Psychiatric Association; American Medical Associa-
tion; Massachusetts Medical Society; Harvard Club of Boston, Aescu-
lapian Club.

PuBLicaTions: A small number of papers and pamphlets on psychiatric
subjects.

AFTER graduation from medical school, I took a two-year in-
ternship in surgery at the Massachusetts General Hospital. Fol-
lowing this solid ground-experience I flew, not from anything,
into the realm of psychiatry, which, though less tangible, I have
found to be just as real.

No one knows or understands completely all the influences that
play a part in determining the course one will pursue in life.
Whatever was the combination of influences acting upon me, I
think I have been fairly fortunate in having been impelled into
the study and practice of psychiatry. I have concentrated on
therapy and have found great satisfaction in being able to help,
to whatever extent, in the alleviation of human suffering. How-
ever, at no time, I am pleased to report, have I had the conception
that psychiatry will save the world..

Other satisfactions, not purposely planned, include music, read-
ing, and friendships.

+ GUY ERNEST WILSON

BORN: March 11, 1896, Boston, Mass. parents: William Wilson, May Borgal.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922.

DIED: Sept. 29, 1923, Lankerahim, Calif.

GUY ERNEST WILSON entered Harvard after completing
preparatory work at the Public Latin School. He attended col-
lege for two years with the Class but withdrew from college in

1922. No other word was heard from him until the notice of his
death reached the Class Report Office.

[916 ] !

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES DUSENBERRY WINANS

HOME ADDRESS: 361 N. Ridgewood Rd., South Orange, N. J.

OFFICE appress: C. G. Winans Co., P.O. Box 1019, Newark 1, N. J.

porn: March 15, 1902, Newark, N. J. parents: Carlton George Winans,
Russie Morris Dusenberry.

PREPARED AT: Newark Academy, Newark, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-19124. DEGREE: S.B. IN E.E., 1924.

marriep: Elizabeth Ella Carrington, Nov. 10, 1928, Newark, N. J. cni-
pReN: Peter Torrey, April 22, 1933; Derek Torrey, Sept. 4, 1938.

occuPATION: Vice-president in charge of sales, C. G. Winans Company,
wholesale distributors of salt, paper, and twine, operating warehouses
at Newark, Trenton, and Asbury Park, N. J.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: N., J. State Militia Reserve, private, 1917-18.
N. J. Scate Guard, private, May-September, 1941; corporal, October-
November, 1941; sergeant, December, 1941-July, 1943; staff sergeant,
August, 1943-April, 1944, 1st sergeant, May-July, 1944; 2d lieutenant,
August, 1944-February, 1945; captain, March-August, 1945.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chairman, Local Draft Board No. 25, Essex
County, N. J.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Essex County Democratic Committee, 1935-49; al-
ternate district delegate, Democratic National Convention, 1936;
Democratic candidate for Freeholder, Essex County, N. J., 1937; Newark
Junior Chamber of Commerce, board member, 1932-38, secretary, 1935-
36, 2d vice-president, 1936-37, 1st vice-president, 1937-38; chairman,
Veterans’ Committee, Sales Executives Club of North New Jersey,
1945-47; Boys’ Club of Newark, treasurer, 1938-46, president, 1946-49;
chairman, Local Draft Board No. 15, N. J., 1948.

MEMBER OF; Essex Club, Newark; Orange Lawn Tennis Club, South Orange,
Rotary Club of Newark, Harvard Club of New Jersey.

THE Class wants to know all about my family. My wife was
‘born and brought up in Newark, went to Prospect Hill Country
Day School and Pine Manor. Our elder boy, after some public
schooling and two years at Newark Academy, has finished one
year at St. Paul’s School. He should go from Concord to Cam-
bridge in 1951, and graduate from Harvard in 1955. Our younger
boy is still in public school, and plans call for both St. Paul’s and
Harvard.

The Class wants to know about our travels. These include
Florida fairly regularly, Bermuda twice, and one trip to Cuba on
the Morro Castle. Fortunately we were not on her fateful trip
and therefore have no interesting tale to tell.

The Class wants to know about my hobbies. The only one

[917]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

worth mentioning is book collecting, and the noteworthy parts
of that are two “five-foot” shelves of first editions by classmates!
Bill White, Oliver La Farge, and Oggie Nash have been fairly
prolific, but Frank Mason has almost kept me “broke” buying
his new ones. A chance encounter with Frank at Nantucket al-
lowed us to see the proofs of one mystery, and brought me a
treasured presentation copy of his first edition. Corliss Lamont
heard this and sent me one of his, entitled [JJusions of Immortality,
which he inscribed, “To Jim Winans of the Immortal Class of
1924.”

Finally, the Class wants to know about my convictions. Some-
how, I doubt this; at least, I doubt that the Class wants any moral-
izing. It seems to me the activities reported above suffice to show
I’m not religious enough to be active in a religious organization,
I’m not interested enough in community welfare to ‘devote a
whale of a lot of time to the Boys’ Club, and I’m slightly preju-
diced in favor of the Democratic party.

MILTON WINDERMAN

HOME apprEss: 341 E. 19th St., Brooklyn 26, N. Y.

OFFICE ADpREss: Schapiro, Wisan & Schapiro, 111 Broadway, New York 6,
N. Y.

BORN: June 5, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: Benjamin Winderman, Jen-
nie Blaustein.

PREPARED AT: Manual Training High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: S.B. 1924; LL.B. (St. Lawrence
Univ.), 1928; M.p.a. (New York Univ.), 1936.

marrigp: Elsie Cohen, Jan. 25, 1936, Brooklyn, N. Y. camp: Jay Benjamin,
Dec. 9, 1940.

occupaATION: Attorney-at-law and certified public accountant.

MEMBER OF: New York County Lawyers Association, New York State
Society of Certified Public Accountants; National Association of Cost
Accountants,

SINCE graduation, as would be expected, many things good and
bad have happened to me. In July, 1924, I found myself in the
export-import business. However, within the year I decided to
take up law. I went with the law firm of Schapiro, Wisan &
Schapiro in New York, and commenced my law school studies,
taking courses in the evenings at the Brooklyn Law School of St.

[918 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Lawrence University, from which I graduated with an LL.B. de-
gree in June, 1928. I promptly took the New York State Bar
examination and, having successfully passed this obstacle, was ad-
mitted to practise in the courts of the state of New York on De-
cember 24, 1928.

Shortly thereafter, sorrow came into my life. I lost both of my
parents. My father became ill and died on September 15, 1932.
My mother also became ill at about the same time and died on
December 5, 1933.

After this, my world seemed to have come to an end, and I
was very low in spirit; but I pulled myself together, and in Febru-
ary, 1934, enrolled in the Graduate School of Business Adminis-
tration of New York University, taking their evening course.
Shortly thereafter I transferred my activities to the firm of Scha-
piro & Schapiro, New York City, certified public accountants,
associated with Schapiro, Wisan & Schapiro.

During this period, I met my future wife and in January, 1936,
we were married.

In June, 1936, after completing the required courses, I gradu-
ated with an M.B.A. degree in Accounting from the School of
Business Administration of New York University. Thereafter I
took and passed the New York State Certified Public Accountant’s
examination.

On December 9, 1940, two nice things happened: our son was
born and my Certified Public Accountant's certificate arrived in
the mail.

It would appear from the foregoing that all I have done since
graduation was work and study. This is not so.

I have had many wonderful vacations. There have been several
ocean Cruises to various ports in the Caribbean area and along the
South Atlantic and Gulf coasts of the United States; also some
sojourns to northern New York and parts of New England.

Life was not too exciting except for one occasion—I was
booked to take passage to Havana on the last trip of the ill-fated
S.S. Morro Castle, but here fate took a hand. I was detained
(because of work at the office) just long enough to miss the boat.
Instead I took the next ship I could get, the S.S. Afohawk, for a
cruise to Miami and Galveston. I shall never forget that evening
(we were off the Florida coast going south) when the S.O.S.

[919 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

from the Aforro Castle was received. Is it any wonder I have
become one of those individualists known as a fatalist?

There have also been hobbies ranging from stamp collecting
to woodworking,

All in all, life has been full, if not too exciting. I hope it con-
tinues that way. I look forward to our Fiftieth Anniversary
Report.

WILLIAM TYLEE WINTRINGHAM

HOME ADDRESS: 56 Elmwood Ave., Chatham, N. J.

OFFicE appress: Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc. Murray Hill, N. J.

BORN: Jan. 18, 1904, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Henry Clement Wintring-
ham, Ella May Beedie.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B. IN E.COM.ENG. magna cum laude,
1924.

maraiep: Martha Elizabeth Bowers, April 13, 1925, Fairmont, W. Va. cuit-
prEN: William Bowers, Jan. 22, 1935; Martha Tylee, March 1, r1gqo.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Henry Clement Wintringham, Jr., ’29; John Sidney
Wintringham, ’3o.

occuPaTIoN: Television research, principally in the color field.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society; Acoustical Society of America;
Institute of Radio Engineers, American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science; The Railway and Locomotive Historical Society.

pusLicaTions: “The Receiving System for Long-wave Transatlantic Radio
Telephony” (with others); “Ultra-short-wave Receiver for the Cape
Charles-Norfolk Multiplex Radiotelephone Circuit” (with others);
“Color Television and Colorimetry” (privately circulated).

HOW does one describe a period of twenty-five years of his life?
Perhaps by a sketch of events in chronological order.

On graduating, I went to work for the American Telephone &
Telegraph Company. Here I was kept busy well into the depres-
sion, developing and improving the first transatlantic radio-
telephone circuit, With economic awareness sharpened by the
events of the early thirties, it became apparent that no more long-
wave radio-telephone circuits, with their mile-long antenna Sys-
tems and fixed charges in proportion, would ever be built. Since
the development of short-wave transoceanic radio-telephone Sys-
tems was in the hands of another group of engineers, I began
thinking and planning radio relay systems to supplement the
continental wire telephone system.

[920]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

At this time, in 1934, the department of which I was a part
was transferred bodily from the American Telephone & Tcle-
graph Company to the Bell Telephone Laboratories. This meant
no change in my line of work. However, in the 1937 reorganiza-
tion, which was the logical successor to the 1934 transfer, I be-
came a member of the research department of the Laboratories.
For the next ten years I was a member of a group whose nominal
job was the translation of new ideas in the radio field to practical
gear for use in the telephone plant. After working in turn on the
short-wave multiple-unit-steerable-antenna system for trans-
oceanic reception and a multi-channel radio-telephone system for
use between the Virginia capes, my efforts were turned again,
this time by the impending war. In common with all the other
engineers similarly situated, for me the years 1941 to to45 were
filled with the design and manufacture of gear for radar, direction
finding, radio communication, etc.

Near the end of the war, in 1944, I was transferred into a group
in the research department whose peacetime labors were in the
television field. Until V-J Day I was occupied here on war
projects. After the war I foundered about a bit before finding the
work in this field for which I was best fitted. This finally turned
out to be color television, so today I am trying to find out how
and why people see color and what kind of color reproduction
will make people happy under the conditions of television.

While factual, or because they are factual, these paragraphs tell
nothing of me. There is no mention of the transition from a
young graduate, ambitious for nothing less than a spectacular
success in the technical field, to a fortyish man, content and happy
to work on new problems in the company of intelligent associates.
No mention either of the charming and helpful “wife who for
twenty-four years has affected every important decision, nor of
the two children whose scornful “but thar was in the olden d ays”
reminds me that everything changes. Omitted also is my interest
in photography, which led me to studying color reproduction
and color vision, with the result that these subjects are now my
vocation. And last of all, there is no mention of my interest in
the economics of railroading, which has led me into the study of
the customs of the last century — of the business morals ofa
time when the watchword was caveat emptor,

[921 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

How then can | convey an impression of what I am today?
It is difficult enough to describe clearly one physical or psycho-
logical fact. To bring to life a personality is impossible.

JAMES WATERMAN WISE

Appress: 17 E, 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y.

porn: Dec. 7, 1901, Portland, Oregon, parents; Stephen Samuel Wise,
Louise Waterman.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922. DEGREE: A.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1922.

marriep: Louise Joan Hahn, July 20, 1923, Lake Placid, N. Y.; Elizabeth
K. Wise, cutpren: Stephen; Halle.

OCCUPATION: Letters.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Wise did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

LEO WISE

HOME appress: 50 Manhattan Ave. New York 25, N. Y¥.

porn: March 25, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: Henry Wise, Sarah Wolf.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923, DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; J.D. (New York
Univ.), 1936.

Marriep: Ruth Leah Rosenberg, Oct. 15, 1936, New York, N. Y. cHitp:
David Henry, Aug. 9, 1945.

OccUPATION: Sales representative for several furniture factories.

+ CARL REIMAR EUGEN WOHRMAN

BORN: Sept. 16, 1897, Saaremaa, Estonia. parents: Karl J. Wohrman, Amelia
Zirk.

PREPARED aT: Alexis Gymnasium, Arensbourg, Russia.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: $.B. IN MET. Suerrma cum laude, 19253
M.Ey 1925; MET.E., 1926; S.D,, 1927.

MaRRIED: Elsa Edith Valeria Rokkamm, Aug. 4, 1918, Saaremaa, Estonia
(died April 1, 1929); Beatrice A. M. Rickmann, July 19, 1930, Lugano,
Switzerland,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Ensign of Infantry, 28 Regiment, Russian Army,
September, 1916, to November, 1917. Officer of the Central Committee
for the organization of Estonian troops, Estonian Army, November,
1917, to April, 1918; lieutenant, General Staff and assistant chief of the
War Censure department, January, 1919, to November, 1920,

piep: Aug. 24, 1938, Ridgewood, N. J.

[922]

ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CARL REIMAR EUGEN WOHRMAN entered Harvard after
completing four years’ military service in the Russian and
Fstomian armics. He had prepared for college at the Alexis
Gymnasium and spent a year at the Petrograd Mining Institute
before becoming a member of the Class. In college he was a
member of the Engineering Society, the Mining and Metallurgical
Club and the Geological Club, He received the Nathaniel Ropes
Scholarship during 1922-23, the John Appleton Haven Scholar-
ship, 1923-24, and was elected to Tau Beta Pi in 1923.

After receiving his S.B. degree in metallurgy sama cum laude,
and also a degree in mining engineering in 1925, he was granted
a degree in metallurgical engineering in 1926 and an S.D. degree in
1927. During the summer of 1925, he did research work at the
Bell Telephone Laboratories, New York, and the following
summer, was engaged in research for the American Rolling Mill
Company, Middletown, Ohio. Upon receiving his last degree, he
went to Furope to do research and development work at the
Institute for Microscopy, Jena, Germany, as a National Research
Fellow in physics. In 1928 he returned to New York to become
a member of the Bell Telephone Laboratories research staff, but
in December of that year took a leave of absence to go to
Switzerland because of his wife’s health. In January, 1929, he
joined the Western Electric Company as an installation engineer
of sound reproducing equipment and in July, became the installa-
von supervisor for Switzerland. Early in the following year, he
became operating manager of the Swiss Western Electric Com-
pany. In November, 1930, he returned to the United States and
a position as the head of research at the General Plate Company,
Attleboro, Massachusetts. Three years later he joined the H. A.
Wilson Company, Newark, New Jersey, with which he was
associated at the time of his death.

In 1929 he was awarded the Howe medal for his publication on
the Transactions of the American Society for Steel Treating.

JOSEPH HAROLD WOLF

WOME aporEss: 6557 High Drive, Kansas City 5, Mo.

OFFICE aporess: 1118 Professional Bldg., Kansas City 6, Mo.

poan: Dec. 5, 1900, Kansas City, Mo. parents: William Wolf, Sue Goldman.
parparep at: Central High School, Kansas City, Mo.

[923]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926, DEGREES: &.B. (Univ. of Kansas), 1930; pps.
(ibid.), 1930.

Marriep: Jeroma Litman, April 6, 1937, Kansas City, Mo. cuitp: Dorothy,
Nov. 11, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Dentistry.
MEMBER OF: Kansas City District Dental Society; American Dental Asso-

ciation; Omicron Kappa Upsilon (honorary dental fraternity); Delta
Sigma Delta Dental Fraternity.

MY LIFE has been one of pleasant and busy professional routine,
intermingled with vacations from Canada to Florida.

Since building our home, gardening has become my hobby, in
which I am ably assisted by my wife, Jeri, and my three-year-old
daughter, Dottie,

Harvard memories still linger and Harvard friends will never
be forgotten.

JOSEPH WOLFSON

HOME ADDRESS: 504 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: April 8, 1904, Chelsea, Mass. PARENTS: Jacob Wolfson, Rebecca Levin.
PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924(25).

MARRIED: Janet Metzenberg, March 6, 1943, Boston, Mass.

OccUPATION: Manufacturers’ representative.

ARRIVING home from a business trip out of town, I was greeted
by my wife with Fritz Schwarz’s Goad No. 3 and a demand
that I get “my life” off to “poor Mr. Schwarz” now or else! “Ap-
pointments? Well, they will just have to wait,” she insisted.
I know when I’m licked, so with my eyes on the clock, here goes.

Since hopping a slow boat to New York (from Boston) in the
fall of 1924, it seems in retrospect that I have been hopping ever
since through boom, depression, and war. After about twelve
lush and Jean years in New York City on the sales staff of the
Studebaker Corporation and as manager of an automobile agency,
I returned to Boston in 1938 and, in some manner which now
escapes me, found myself engaged as manufacturers’ agent in
New England for several factories producing plumbing and heat-
ing material. Tojo and Hitler soon put a stop to this, since the
metal goods I was handling were restricted and labelled as
“critical.”

[ 924 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After the Army declined my services, I enrolled in the govern-
ment-sponsored War Industries Management Training Course at
Babson Institute and soon thereafter was engaged as buyer of
plant and maintenance equipment for the Radar Division of the
Raytheon Manufacturing Company in Waltham. With the end
of the war I resumed as manufacturers’ representative and am in
the process of readjusting myself to the painful switch from a
sellers’ to a buyers’ market. This and my immediate plans to take
time off for a delayed honeymoon which my war employment
prevents, still keep me hopping!

CECIL HENRY WOOD

HOME ADDREsS: Quarters 16, U.S.M.A., West Point, N. Y.

OFFICE appRESS: Dept. of Physics and Chemistry, U.S.M.A., West Point,
N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 1, 1903, Allston, Mass. parENts: Peter Henry Wood, Alice
Lillian Heath.

PREPARED AT: Brighton High School, Brighton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: S.B., 1924; A.M. (Boston Univ.), 1931.

marrigeD: Kathleen Ellen Foley, Sept. 2, 1931, Allston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Peter Henry, July 3, 1934; David Edward, May 11, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Associate professor, Department of Physics and Chemistry,
United States Military Academy.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, Army of the United States, 1942; major,
Feb. 15, 1943, lieutenant colonel, since May 5, 1945.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Instructor and associate professor, United
States Military Academy.

OFFICES HELD: Registrar and assistant to superintendent, New York Military
Academy, June, 1939, to April, 1942; associate professor, United States
Military Academy, since 1946.

MEMBER OF: Masons; American Chemical Society; Society for Engineering
Education.

PuBLicaTions: Laboratory manuals, experiments, problem books, and other
technical material in use at the United States Military Academy.

THE passage of a year, that in childhood seemed so everlasting
and slow-moving, is now but a brief, too-crowded moment. Time
is too short to see the far places of the world, to do more than
even start the easily planned program of college years.

After several pleasant years spent in Salem and Peabody,
Massachusetts, as a chemist with the A. C. Lawrence Leather
Company, with pleasant interludes of sailing and playing tennis,

[925]

HARVARD CLASS OF I924

I began to teach chemistry at Tufts College Pre-Medical and
Dental Schools. The pattern of life as an educator which was
forming has not yet been broken. In 1928 Tufts Medical School
announced the coming change in policy (that would soon cease to
offer pre-medical training) which caused me to change to
Munson Academy, Munson, Massachusetts. There I coached
football and tennis and prepared boys for college. To keep the
record straight, I was using the “IT” formation, unwittingly, be-
cause of lack of material, and have the playbook to prove my
statement.

In 1931 I married Kathleen Foley of Boston and Montreal, and
we settled at Cornwall-on-Hudson, where I became science
master at the New York Military Academy, a position which
involved more coaching, teaching, and later, administration. My
two boys were born there, and we have deep roots in the Acad-
emy that only the approaching war could loosen.

Early in the war I was ordered to active duty and assigned to
the Academic Department at the United States Military Acad-
emy, West Point, New York. Strangely enough, I was immedi-
ately sent to the Graduate School of Engineering, Pierce Hall, to
take a refresher course (ESMDT) in electrical engineering, under
the kind and able guidance of Professor Dawes. The pattern was
rounding out.

I have enjoyed the assignment at West Point, where I have
taught, at various times, electrical engineering, mechanics, and
chemistry. I have had some small part (as associate professor) in
shaping the course in chemistry. To quote John Erskine, who,
after expressing his high opinion of Harvard, says this about West
Point: “Though preparation for war should not be the chief
business of civilized society, the soldier-making institutions are
still the only schools which, within their field, develop measurably
moral strength as well as physical and mental. Apparently the
schools which prepare for peace do not believe that the peaceful
need courage, or endurance, or the spirit of devotion.”

The war interfered with the completion of doctoral work that I
had begun in 1938 at the Harvard Graduate School of Education
under the beloved Dean Holmes. I transferred to Columbia in

1943, devoting my few spare hours to the work, and hope to have
the degree in June, 1949.

[926 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

As I have become more and more involved in education, I see
in the general education movement one of the basic means of
improving world morality. It is not a panacea, but one of the
important approaches to the problem.

In the summer of 1947, we packed the car’and explored some
of the national parks, getting as far west as we could by a northern
route and returning through Arizona and the southern and
central states. My boys received a feeling of respect and appre-
ciation for America that no amount of schooling could have
given. During the same year I refused several offers to return to
civilian schools or colleges, and decided to stay in the Army, at
least for several years, so that my two boys could grow up in
contact with the fine young men who constitute the Corps of
Cadets, and among the inspirational environment of West Point.

The twenty-five years have passed with ever-increasing speed,
summed up succinctly in “The Song of the Bandarlog,” from
The Jungle Book:

Here we sit in.a branchy row,
Thinking of beautiful things we know;
Dreaming of deeds we mean to do,
All complete, in a minute or two.
Something noble and grand and good,
Won by merely wishing we could,
Now we're going to — never mind,
Brother, thy tail hangs down behind!

HENRY AUSTIN WOOD, JR.

HOME AppREss: 26 Clifton St., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 1034, 73 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 31, 1903, Waltham, Mass. parents: Henry Austin Wood, 78,
Anna Wharton Smith.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; M.B.A., 1926.

MarrieD: Dagmar Alice Lundholm, May 28, 1928, St. Paul, Minn. CHILDREN:
Henry Austin, 3d, June 18, 1929; Anna, Aug. 8, 1930.

HARVARD Son: Henry Austin Wood, 3d, ’ us

HARVARD BROTHER: Benjamin Smith Wood, *

OCCUPATION: Trustee.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New York; Weston
Golf Club; Union Club of Boston; Newport Historical Society.

[927 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

my wings as town meeting member for twelve years and now in
addition | as a member of the warrant committee.

The rest of my life revolves pretty much around my number
one hobby, a house in the old part of Newport, Rhode Island,
which I inherited in 1942. Since there is no central heating, we
can use it only for the summer and for long weekends beginning
in April and lasting into November. Some day we hope to live
there all year ‘round, provided it is miraculously possible for me
to live that long and have the means to retire. There we have
two small sailboats, knockabout and catboat, twenty-seven and
seventeen feet long and forty-five and fifty-five years old respec-
tively. But they’re not as old by a damn sight as they sound! We
all love to sail, the children with speed and the old folk with
middle-aged decorum and comfort. Fishing is fun, too. I know
of no other place where time passes so pleasantly, healthfully, and
quickly as on salt water under sail. Our love for Narragansett
Bay means no travel from here on except in winter, but we don’t
mind.

If Iam lucky enough to attend our Fiftieth, I hope the second
twenty-five years will have been as full as the first. That’s a large
order, but then I’m sort of a conservative optimist. A Republican
has to be these days!

WARREN WALKER WOOD

HOME AppRESS: 1575 Linda Crest Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.

OFFICE AppRESS: Nadin Co., 522 N. LaCienega Blvd., Los Angeles 36, Calif.;
Wood, Keyes & Co. Inc. 85 Water St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Dec. 4, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: Horace Phelps Wood, Ger-
trude Mitchell Walker.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924.

MarrigD: Regina Broussard, Jan. 2, 1926, Beaumont, Texas. CHILDREN: Bar-
bara, Nov. 16, 1925; Horace Phelps, Feb. 24, 1930.

occuPATION: Executive, Wood, Keyes & Company, Inc., and Nadin Com-

any.
MEMuts OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Beverly Hills Club.

THE fall of 1924 saw my first efforts to Icarn the basic facts of
the insurance business, later I helped form the firm of Wood,
Keyes & Company, Incorporated, in Boston,

In 1926 I had the good fortune to acquire a charming Texan

[930]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

“for better or for worse.” We have two lovely children, a
daughter and a son.

The years through 1937 were uneventful. A visit to the West
Coast in 1938 resulted in a decision to locate permanently in Los
Angeles. An original method of processing iodine for internal
medication was presented to me and my associates. The outcome
was the formation of a company for the manufacture and dis-
tribution of the product in the western states.

A gold mining venture at Empire, Colorado, in the heart of the
Rocky Mountains was started in 1939, but a shutdown of all such
operations became necessary at the beginning of World Wear IIL.

From 1942 through 1944, I worked at Adel Precision Company,

in Burbank, California, expediting hydraulic parts for various
branches of the armed services.
It does not seem possible. that twenty-five years have passed
since the ordeal of divisionals and other examinations. These
twenty-five years have taught me the value of college education
and associates.

PETER WOODBURY

HOME AppRESS: Bedford, N. H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 209 Federal Bldg., Manchester, N. H.

BORN: Oct. 24, 1899, Bedford, N. H. parents: Gordon Woodbury, Charlotte
Eliza Woodbury.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: S.B., 1924; LL.B., 1927.

mMarRRiED: Margaret Atherton Reed, Dec. 28, 1925, Manchester, N. Ef. crm.-
DREN: Peter Trask, Oct. 20, 1926 (died Feb. 9, 1041); Charlotte Reed,
April 2, 1929; Grace Holt, Nov. 22, 1931; David, Nov. ts. 1942.

OCCUPATION: Judge, United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted in United States Army as second clas
private, March 23, 1918; assigned as replacement to the Machine Gun
Company, 107 United States Infantry, 27th Division, in April, sailed
for Europe in May, and went into action in the Ypres Salicnt in Bel-
gium in July. Saw action on other fronts in Belgium and northern
France during the summer and was wounded in action on Sept. 28
and on Sept. 29 on the Somme Front in the attack on the Hindenburg
Line. Evacuated homeward through hospitals (including the aad
General, or Harvard Unit Hospital, at Fraples) and Fagland. Arrived

in New York on Dee. 26, 1918, on the hospital ship Saroma and was

discharged from the Base Hospital at Camp Upton, N.Y, oa Feb,
20, 1919, as private first class,

[93t ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member, Selective Service Board 15, Man-
chester; chief Air Raid Warden, Bedford, N. H. .

OFFICES HELD: Elected selectman, Bedford, March, 1928; appointed, Judge,
Municipal Court, Bedford, May, 1928, Associate Justice, New Hamp-
shire Superior Court, January, 1932, New Hampshire Supreme Court,
April, 1933, Judge, United States Court of Appeals for the First Cir-
cuit, March, 1941; trustee, Holderness School, Plymouth, N. H.; presi-
dent of Board of Trustees, Currier Gallery of Art and Elliot Hospital,
Manchester.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; American Law Institute.

ON THE whole my “life since graduation” has lain along such
smooth and pleasant paths that there is not much of interest to
write about it. By chance (I was the only lawyer in my home
town of Bedford when the town voted to establish a municipal
court), I became a judge very soon after graduation from law
school, and with lucky breaks at the right times thereafter, a
judicial career developed. The work has proved congenial,
and in addition very pleasant indeed, largely for the reason
that by good fortune I have had delightful associates all along
the line.

Our eldest child, a son, was stricken with polio in September,
1933, when he was just under seven years old, and for the next
seven years lived the life of an invalid. Alchough never again able
to walk, even on crutches, he managed a full life, and a very
cheerful and merry one, until his “heart could keep up the
struggle no longer. But we have two fine girls, one a junior in
Smith and another headed for Smith in the fall, and an active,
sometimes too active, son of five, whom I must confess makes me
realize that I am not as young as I used to be.

We have lived the year ’round, except for one brief interlude,
in the same house since 1928, which is conveniently located for
our pleasures of mountain climbing, skiing, and tennis. Usually
we take these pleasures together, or at least with as many children
as at the moment may be available, which both of us enjoy
hugely, although the time has come when we can only barely
keep up with the girls.

So, on the whole, my life has been placid, but pleasant, with
enough jolts to make it interesting, if not spectacular, and full
enough to satisfy my taste. After all, what more can one ask for
than a happy family life, and interesting work with pleasant

[932 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

associates. It sounds too good to be true, but so it is. And in all
frankness and honesty, luck has made it so; luck all along the line.

GRIFFITH MacLAREN WOODLEY

LAST KNOWN ApprEss: 45 Walkins Ave., Middletown, N. Y.

BORN: July 9, 1902, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Frederick Decker Woodley,
Clara Augusta Griffith.

PREPARED AT: Middletown High School, Middletown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1925.

MarRiED: Retta Adair Conroy, Sept. 27, 1924, Boston, Mass. cHip: Augusta
Caroline, July ro, 1925 (m. Alfred T. Whitaker, Jr.).

occupation: Journalism.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary's files.
Woodley did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

BRYAN WOODSON

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Penalosa, Kans.

BorN: April 11, 1896, Penalosa, Kans. parents: William Richard Woodson,
Lucy Bell.

PREPARED AT: Hutchinson High School, Hutchinson, Kans.; Valparaiso Uni-
versity High School, Valparaiso, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 19245 LL.B. 1927.

occuPATION: Attorney-at-law; farmer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California.

I WENT to California in the fall of 1927. In 1928, after passing
the Bar examination, I was admitted to the California Bar. Before
being admitted to the Bar, I started to work as a law clerk in the
office of a Los Angeles lawyer. I continued in that capacity for
about two years. I was engaged in the practice of law in Los
Angeles from 1928 to 1943, during most of the time maintaining
my own office.

In the spring of 1943, business and personal considerations
prompted me to return to Kansas for an indefinite time. While I
did not then intend to engage in the practice of law in Kansas
I thought it would be advisable to become admitted to the Kansas
Bar, and I was admitted in June, 1943. Since 1943 [have practised
some law, have done some farming, and have devoted some etfort
to the task of preventing either the practice of law or farming

[ 933]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

from becoming too strenuous. I still retain my membership in
the California Bar, but as yet I have not made any plans to return
to California to resume the practice of law.

GEORGE WALLACE WOODWORTH

HOME ADpRESS: 8 Francis Ave., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Department of Music, Harvard University, Cambridge 38,
Mass.

BorN: Nov. 6, 1902, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: George Loomis Woodworth,
Ruth Smith Beckford.

PREPARED AT: Cazenovia Seminary, Cazenovia, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 19243 A.M., 1926.

MaRRIED: Evelyn Barnes, Dec. 20, 1928, Cambridge, Mass. cuitpren: Ellery
Beckford, Aug. 6, 1931; Harriet Tilden, July 16, 1935.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Beckford Woodworth, 732.

occupation: Professor of Music, University Organist, Choirmaster, Har-
vard University, Conductor, Harvard Glee Club and Radcliffe Choral
Society.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Fisk University, since 1937, Bishop Rhinelander
Memorial, 1934-47; trustee and member of Executive Committee, New
England Conservatory of Music, since 1940; vice-president, 1945-47,
president, 1947-49, Harvard Musical Association; chairman, Music Com-
mittee, Graduate Record Examination, since 1946; member, Executive
Committee, Music Teachers National Association, since 1948; vice-
president, Music Library Association, 1935-36; member, Advisory
Board, Longy School of Music, 1930-36; assistant director, Concord
School of Music, 1929-38, Berkshire Music Center, 1940; official visitor,
Episcopal Theological School, 1939-42; overseer, Boys’ Clubs of Bos-
ton, since 1948, conductor, Bach Cantata Club, 1928-33, Pierian Sodality
Orchestra, 1928-32.

MEMBER OF: Music Teachers National Association; American Musicological
Society; College Music Association; Music Library Association, Har-
vard Musical Association; Harvard Faculty Club,

AT NINE o’clock on the evening of Class Day, 1924, I sat at the
piano on the steps of Widener and played the accompaniment
for the Yard Concert by the Glee Club, a concert which, if I
remember correctly, was conducted by our classmate Fred
Knauth. Little did I dream that twenty-five years later I should
have succeeded “Doc” Davison as conductor of the club, and as
University organist and choirmaster. It would be my responsi-
bility to arrange the music for all the varied Harvard ceremonies,
from University funerals and the annual welcome to the freshman

[934]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

class, to the Oxford Convocation of 1940, the services on V-J
Day, the award of a degree to Mr. Churchill, and the recurring
Class Days and Commencements, those “festival rites” when the
sons of Fair Harvard “to thy jubilee throng.”

The road from ‘1924 to 1949 has been fairly straight, once I
made the sharp turning from history, which had been my field
of concentration, to music, towards which the powerful mag-
netism of Dr. Davison had attracted me all through my under-
graduate years. I came back to Cambridge in September, 1924,
for two years’ graduate work in music, followed by a year of
study in England. During my first year in the Graduate School,
Dr, Davison resigned as conductor of the Radcliffe Choral Soci-
ety, and President Comstock appointed me to succeed him. A
year later I began teaching in the Department of Music, In 1933
“Doc” resigned as conductor of the Glee Club, and the members
of the club elected me their conductor. In 1940 I was appointed
organist and choirmaster, and in 1946, professor of music. I was
chairman of the Department of Music from 1938 to 1942.

The quarter-century has spun around largely in the Cambridge
orbit, and it has been good 'to work in the Yard. There have been
also pleasant connections and interests in the academic and musical
worlds outside. As a trustee of Fisk University for twelve years,
and chairman of its Music Committee, I have made a number of
trips to Nashville. I am a trustee of the New England Conserva-
tory of Music, a member of the Board of Overseers of the Boys’
Clubs of Boston, and have been president of the Harvard Musical
Association. It was an honor to be asked in 1946 to give a serics
of Lowell Lectures in Boston’ on the choral music of the Renais-
sance and Baroque. And it has been a privilege for a number of
years to conduct the Boston Symphony Orchestra at the Pops
and on the Esplanade, and in 1944 at a pair of concerts in the
regular series.

Our Secretary has asked us about our hobbies, and I can only
say I have none, save my job and my family. I married in 19:8,
and my wife and I went to England and France in the summer of
1930. Our two children have developed an amazing devotion to
the Island of Nantucket, where we have spent many happy sum-
mers. My evenings and weckends give little opportunity for
relaxation, since, in the line of duty, there are three regular eve-

[935]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

ning rehearsals each week, some thirty or forty concerts to
conduct each season, and daily and Sunday services at the College
Chapel. An evening at home with the family, a free Sunday, or a
month in the society of sand, sea, and Nantucket moors — these
have been my hobbies. .

The association with “Doc,” my master and teacher, and now
for so long my friend and colleague, has been possibly the strong-
est force over the years. I record gratefully the powerful impact
and generous help of a few other friends—the late ‘Thomas
Whitney Surette, whose summer school at Concord was a regener-
ative force in American music education up to 1938, and whom I
had the privilege of assisting during the last years of his school;
Serge Koussevitzky, who celebrates his twenty-fifth anniversary
in Boston in the year of our Twenty-fifth Reunion, and for whose
festival concerts it has been my happy responsibility to train
several thousands of Harvard and Radcliffe undergraduates;
George Judd, manager of the Boston Symphony Orchestra and
warm friend to Harvard music; my colleagues in the Department
of Music and the Faculty of Arts and Sciences; and my associates
in Adams House. But above all, my students, the generations of
the Harvard Glee Club and the Radcliffe Choral Society, by
their responsiveness, their devotion, their ardor and intelligence,
and their deep love of music, have strengthened my- faith and
given me my best moments.

Nothing in art is perfect. We can only bend every effort to
come as near it as we can. In that service “is perfect freedom.” °

EDMOND FLEMING WRIGHT

HOME ADDRESS: 19 Berkeley St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE appress: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., 197 Clarendon
St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 7, 1898, Davis, Mass. parents: Arthur Wright, Elizabeth Hayes.

PREPARED AT: New York City High School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: S8.B., 1924(2§); M.B.A., 1926,

MARRIED: Louisa Hopkins, March 9, 1946, Nashua, N. H. cxitpren: Sally
Murray, May 20, 1937 (stepchild); Patricia Murray, Nov. 21, 1940 (step-
child); Elizabeth Hayes, Aug. 26, 1947.

waRvarD proTHERS: Arthur William Wright, ’17; Richard Lionel Wright,

’

24.
[ 936 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT ’

occuPATION: Executive assistant, president's office, John Hancock Mutual
Life Insurance Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S. Army, duty in United States and France,
1917-19, 2d lieutenant, Ambulance Corps, American Expeditionary
Force, 1918-19. ;

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Executive assistant to Donald M. Nelson, War
Production Board; consultant to State Department; member, United
States Army and National Security Resources Board, Washington, D. C.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant dean, 1926-37, 1942-48, director of placement and
director of alumni relations, 1927-37, 1942-46, Harvard Business School,
chief, executive selection department, McKinsey & Company, New
York, N. Y., 1941-42; executive assistant, United Nations, 1946-48;
executive assistant and chairman, National Security Resources Board,
January to October, 1948.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of Boston.

PUBLICATIONS: How to Supervise People (co-author); monographs on per-
sonnel relations.

FOLLOWING graduation from the Harvard Business School in
1926, I accepted an offer from Dean Wallace B. Donham to serve
in his office for one year. Actually, since the graduation of our
Class I served at Soldiers Field approximately eighteen years!
During these years I found my interests lay along personnel
subjects, setting up the school’s Placement Bureau, and conduct-
ing seminars in personnel. relations. It was natural that alumni
interests should follow placement activity for it meant watching
alumni progress, hence I later took over the added post of
director of alumni relations of the Harvard Business School.

Late in the thirties, when I felt that business had, at long last,
turned that “corner” promised during the Hoover administration,
I entered the finance business for several years and, while success-
ful, I longed to get back into the game of dealing with people!
Just when the pre-war industrial boom was taking shape, I
entered one of the leading management engineering firms in
New York City to establish the “Executive Selection Depart-
ment,” which called for the selection of executives for our client
firms. I was right back in the old game and I liked it!

Then war struck, and within a month after Pearl Harbor I was
on leave serving as executive personnel officer for Donald M.
Nelson, chairman of the War Production Board. Here followed
several years of hectic executive personnel selection, but it was
challenging in the extreme. One saw a woefully weak Uncle Sam

[ 937]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

flex his muscles and come through ultimately with the strength of
a giant. The production strength of the United States proved to
be the difference between success and failure in World War II.

At that point when I felt I could leave Washington and accept
an offer from the newly-appointed dean of the Harvard Business
School, Donald K. David, I returned to serve the School once
more. Although the military uniform (Naval Supply School
and Air Force Statistical School) now replaced “civvies,” there
was plenty to be done. As the war drew to its close, preparations
were made for the great task of replacement of the more than
8000 alumni serving in the forces of the allied armies. Just as this
task was reaching its greatest activity, an interesting development
took place for me.

The United Nations, following its preparatory work in London,
came to Hunter College in New York City, and it now had a
major personnel problem, viz., recruitment of staff from the fifty-
odd member nations! Again I was asked to recruit executive
personnel, but this time it was on a global basis. This was an offer
too absorbing to decline; hence, for the next two academic years |
was on leave of absence from the Harvard Business School, serv-
ing the United Nations Secretariat.

At Lake Success one saw the small struggling United Nations
attempt to build itself to the proportions demanded by a world
now war-weary and weak. But after several years of effort, be-
cause of apparent lack of will on the part of certain member
Nations, it was clear that success was not to follow. Political
intrigue, false national pride, “regionalism,” small nation jeal-
ousies, unwieldy organizational structure, limited budgets, failure
to attract high-grade personnel — these and other causes were
factors lending weakness to the United Nations.

Under these conditions, the United States believed it wise to
establish greater national security. Hence, in August, 1947, this -
country passed the National Security Act which brought into
being those agencies which would, when functioning effectively,
give security to this country, Here I went “nationalistic” and

accepted an offer as executive assistant to the chairman of the
National Security Resources Board, the civilian board which, in
conjunction with the National Military Establishment, would
discourage aggressor nations in their plans for world conquest.

[938 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

For nine months in 1948 I served again in Washington, recruiting
executives who, properly placed, would assist in shaping national
security policy.

I had been charged, upon leaving Lake Success, with “leaping
from the frying-pan of peace into the flames of war,” to which I
replied that I believed myself to be still an advocate of peace but
in this latter post it was the “shot-gun” approach to peace rather
than the “brotherly-love” approach being attempted at the
United Nations.

Now I can report that I’m again in the business world, for, as
of October, 1948, I have been serving as executive assistant in the
president’s office of the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance
Company in Boston. A growing family and a basic economic
urge have brought me again from the academic and “diplomatic”
fields into finance and industry. It’s a fine post and I'm ready to
serve out my life-span in this setting.

RICHARD LIONEL WRIGHT

HOME aAppRESS: 387 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 3, 1896, Windsor Locks, Conn. parents: Arthur Wright, Eliza-
beth Hayes.

PREPARED AT: Mount Hermon Preparatory School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922, 192§-1926.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Arthur William Wright, °17; Edmond Fleming Wright,
"24.

OCCUPATION: Curator of Records, Radiation Laboratories, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Sergeant, U. S. Army, overseas in World War L

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Technical Aide to the director, Radiation
Laboratory, M.1.T., under the Office of Scientific Research and De-
velopment, Washington, D. C,

MEMBER oF: Boston Art Club; Gloucester Society of Artists; Muscum of
Modern Art; Society of Independent Artists; Palm Beach Art League,
Society of Four Arts, Palm Beach.

WHEN I arrived at Harvard some twenty-nine years ago, |
arrived with but two naive, though wholly optimistic determina-
tions in mind. The first was never to approach a Elarvard man
without a proper introduction, and the second was to find oue
as effectively as possible how four years of college life could, so

[939]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

ufic research. And upon closing the office doors at night, the
guards with the forty-fives come in. That was one thing I had
hoped twenty-nine years ago would never happen again. But it
has, boys, and I’m sorry to have to admit that I think it will long
remain that way.

Should the fates of the gods determine otherwise, then I should
very much like to experience a small portion of an era similar to
that in which the French Impressionists lived when paints could
be had for the price of a present-day slice of salami (and one could
live on less) just for an uninterrupted period of painting on my
own.

I have come to the point (after vigorous mental struggle) of
discovering that it doesn’t normally take one twenty-five years
to learn one’s numerous limitations, but it requires considerably
more time, in instances, to become convinced that there is no
such grandiose individual as the indispensable man. Having dis-
covered also that there will never be but little difference between
the guy of the Harvard dorm and the guy twenty-five years later
(aside from a larger ego, perhaps), I shall herewith place myself
down on record as admitting that I still feel very much like the
same small guy who arrived at Harvard twenty-nine years ago,
and I haven’t regretted as yet not having been elected president
of the United States in the interim.

Someday a small garden removed from the vulnerable targets
‘of the atomic bomb, with a well-stocked studio, a typewriter, and
a small portion of the same rugged good health, would be com-
pletely appreciated.

To sum it all up, therefore, the above eulogy slaps into precise
form all that which I shall personally and legitimately be able to
brag about in my fireman's suit or in my tall silk hat on Reunion ©
Day.

TSUNG HAN YANG

aporess: 4 Tung Yang Ma Yin, West City, Peiping, China.

sown: April 28, 1901, Tantan, Kianzsu, China. parents: Yung-chun Yang,
Wang Pao Ta.

PeepanrD AT; Tsing Hua College, Peking, China.

YHARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1914. DEREK! A.B. 1924.

occupation: Education,

[942 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: President, Western Languages Association of China.
MEMBER OF: Chinese Political Science Association.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary's files.
Yang did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

‘OTTO CHRISTIAN YENS

HOME AND OFFICE AppREss: Massachusetts Hospital School, Canton, Mass.

BoRN: May 28, 1901, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Karl Yens, Helene Grote.

PREPARED AT: Weston High School, Weston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1919-1921, 1922-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; M.D. 1929.

MARRIED: Dorothea Minnette Sewell, June 13, 1931, Hudson, Mass. cHtcpaen:
David Peter, Dec. 2, 1938; Robert Christian, June 15, 1940.

occupation: Director of medical service, Massachusetts Hospital School.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned 2d lieutenant, Field Artillery,
26th Infantry Division, 1923; 1st lieutenant, Medical Corps, battalion
surgeon, rorst Field Artillery, 1929; inducted as captain, Medical Corps,
26th Infantry Division, 1941; major, Medical Corps, chief of medical
service, 117th Evacuation Hospital, European Theatre of Operations,
October, 1944; eleven months’ service in Northern France and Southern
Germany; lieutenant colonel, Medical Corps, February, 1945; awarded
Bronze Star.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; American Medical Association,

PUBLICATIONS: “Studies on Velocity of Blood Flow,” Journal of Chinucal
Investigation, IV, 1, 1927.

HERE at long last I sit at the pinnacle of my career, in the forty-
eighth year of my life, with a microphone clipped to my collar —
and to what end! To the end that all posterity will know that I,
who began as a procrastinator, am still a procrastinator, and
probably shall always remain a procrastinator.

Why should the bleak light of a February day shine upon my
frustrations at so late a date? Before me on the desk lie three
red-lettered goads which have appeared at weekly intervals to
pierce my conscience and make it squirm, Why all this ungodly
trauma in a life so filled with unfinished beginnings and contlict-
ing urges? Is it my genes of procrastination that have brought
all this about, or can I find some factor to mitigate the implica-
tions that I have not progressed in twenty-five years? Upen my
desk lie many other papers, and among them I find some solace
and perhaps salvation.

I must account for twenty-five years since leaving the Yard.

[ 943]

HARVARD CLASS OF I9Q24

That is easy. The rub, as always in life, lies in the competition.
How piddling any portrayal of accomplishments from me must
be when before me lie upon my desk the accomplished fact of
autobiographies by such significant and arresting colleagues as
Robert Fiske Bradford, John Mason Brown, Lucien Goldamer
Strauss — yes, and even witty Vincent Bliss Linn. No, fellers,
don’t try to drag spontaneous art from an old man by showering
him with a plethora of brilliant examples. He must be thick-
skinned not to stall against such an avalanche, or very strong-
willed not to procrastinate!

To summarize one’s life at the age of forty-seven is at best a
dangerous procedure. To do it for a Twenty-fifth Anniversary
Report is, I suppose, a duty to be done, like all duties, graciously.
While still in college I chased rainbows because they were a
novelty. After college I chased more and bigger rainbows from
habit until the second World War. Medical School was a rainbow
pursued as an adjunct to biophysics. The pot of gold turned out
to be a sincere interest in pediatrics and the consequent private
practice. Private practice was followed as the rainbow of effec-
tive control of developing humanity and guidance of parents.
The pot of gold of this rainbow was induction as a captain,
Medical Corps, with the Yankee Division in 1941.

My loyal wife, Minnette, who arrived on the scene between
rainbows, and whose power, though enormous, was not sufficient
to disperse the colored droplets, stood by and learned much about
the vagaries of the spectrum. Shortly before the war, David and
Bobby arrived as two personality duplicates of Pa and Ma. It
.took the upheaval and uprootings of war to disperse rainbows
from the atmosphere, but I have a pretty strong suspicion that
during the five years 1 was away from home Minnette took some
special courses in vapor control.

Since the war I have walked with at least one foot upon the
ground, sticking at first to public health activities with crippled
children, and finally, for the past two years, digging in for a final
realistic effort at accomplishment in the field of rehabilitation of.

crippled children at the Massachusetts Hospital School in Canton.
Little rainbows appear here from time to time, but they are
transient and bounded by the confines of this remarkable institu-
tion. Family life and the social necessities that embody it are at

[ 944 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

last unfolding, and here, God willing and weather permitting,
you may all find us for many, many years to come.

LOWELL CURTIS YODER

HOME apprEss: 510 N. Walnut St., Fayetteville, Ark.

OFFICE ADDRESS: University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, Ark.

BoRN: July 20, 1901, Pemberville, Ohio. PARENTS: David Carl Yoder, Hen-
rietta Johnson,

prepareD aT: Cleveland Heights High School, Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1924; A.M. (Western Reserve
Univ.), 1934.

MaRRIED: Florence E. Eliason, June 8, 1932, Cleveland, Ohio.

occupation: Professor of marketing, acting head of department, University
of Arkansas.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Training program, E.S.M.W.T., research, War
Production Board.

MEMBER OF: American Economics Association, American Marketing Asso-
ciation; Southwest Social Science Association; Kiwanis Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous articles in professional journals.

AFTER graduation I accepted employment with Goodyear Tire
& Rubber Company, and between 1924 and 1930 held a number
of positions in sales, sales research, credit, and retail store opera-
tion in Akron and New York. Due to the ill health of my father,
it became necessary to return to Cleveland to take over the duties
of operating his business, a small newspaper syndicate.

My introduction into the educational field was entirely an
accident and was only intended to be a temporary expedient.
From September, 1932, until 1946, however, I served as a member
of the faculty of Baldwin Wallace College, Berea, Ohio — being
appointed head of the Department of Economics and Business
Administration in 1939. In 1946 I accepted my present position
in Fayetteville.

In the past three years, I have come to love the Southwest —
not so much for what it is, but for what it has the capacity to
become. There is still enough of the pioneer in me to make me
want to share in the growth which is making such steady progress.

[945]

. HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

ARTHUR DAVID YOUMANS

HOME AppRESS: Oakwood Road, Orange, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Printing | & Lithographing Co., 747 Barnum
Ave., Bridgeport, Conn.

BORN: Oct. 22, 1902, Chelsea, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Youmans, Eva Hoff-
man.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1924(25).

MARRIED: Marion S. Uliman, May 23, 1928, New Haven, Conn. CHILDREN:
Arthur David, Jr. March 2, 1932; John Andrew, Aug. 30, 1934.

occupaTioN: Treasurer, New England Printing & Lithographing Company.

RICHARD ARTHUR ZINN

HOME ADDRESS: 85 Elizabeth Rd., New Rochelle, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Institute for American Democracy, Inc., 369 Lexington
Ave., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Jan. 1, 1904, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: Arthur Zinn, Florence N.
Cohen.

PREPARED AT: Brown School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1924.

marriep: Marjory Helen Dreyfus, Nov. 25, 1926, New York, N. Y. cun-
DREN: Mary Patricia, Dec. 21, 1928 (Northwestern Univ., 50); Richard

Edwin, June 6, 1930 (St. Lawrence Univ., ‘523 Kyra, Jan. 4, 1935.
‘HARVARD BROTHER: Donald Joseph Zinn, ’33.

occupation: Public relations director, assistant treasurer, and director, In-
stitute for American Democracy, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Council for Unity of New Rochelle, since 1947.
MEMBER OF: The Co-Optimists (New Rochelle Musical Society).

METEORIC careers and lives of high adventure are fascinating
reading, even to the man who is attending his Twenty-fifth Class
Reunion. To find a classmate as a subject of such a story, rather
than some ectoplasmic creation of a fertile brain, is a welcome
sign that our Alma Mater is still very much tops in selecting its
freshman with an eye to variety and character — for many of us
have done many things in many fields with many results.
Working with people and their problems has developed in
my Case, for instance, into a fascinating but at times difficult career
in the field of human relations, This organization of which I am
director has as its major purpose the creation of a better climate
of opinion among all Americans with reference to improved

[016 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

group relations—and to this end it makes available to both
national and community groups positive programs using mass
media extensively, The approach to the basic philosophy of our
work is that if one can employ advertising (or mass) media to
sell a product, or the acceptance or rejection of an idea which in
turn sells a product — the same kind of thinking can be put to
work to sell a fundamental idea to the public as well. The idea in
this case is the importance of unity among all Americans — re-
gardless of race or religion. To do this— and to compete with
nationally advertised products — top talent is being used in art,
copy, and layout, some dozen advertising agencies of top calibre
have been called in to assist, and sympathetically-equipped top
artists, cartoonists, and specialists of all kinds have been called on
to pitch in.

Currently, there are probably few of my classmates who have
not seen at one time or another our organization’s materials on
billboards, in streetcars or busses, on blotters, matchbooks, posters,
postage slugs, etc. And thereby lies the other half of the prob-
lem — who will pay for these campaigns, will they be accepted,
and is there a necessity for this kind of operation? Since we are
a non-profit, non-sectarian group, combatting all foreign ideol-
ogies as an automatic part of our program, we have found that
business and industry have come forward with allocations from
their advertising dollars to sponsor and support this work on a
local level. It is good public relations for them, a beneficial pro-
gram for the community, and results in continuing and enlarging
the sphere of activity by our board of directors each year.

The field work for this type of program is limitless — involve-
ment of important civic, fraternal, religious, business, industrial,
and other groups makes for the success and acceptance of this
kind of program. It must be sold often, personally, to advertis-
ing clubs, junior chambers of commerce, mayors’ committees,
veterans organizations, and local and national groups who send
for members of our staff. Thanks to Professor (then Mr.)
Fred Packard of the then reputedly easy English 10, I have had to
become a public speaker on this subject, and our work in three-
quarters of the United States is done by intensive presentation of
our program, theory, and techniques which have been developed
in this unique and uncharted field.

[ 947 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Yes, working with people is fascinating, but opening up a
community to accept the fundamental American principle of
equal rights for all is more fascinating, and giving them something
to do in order to remind their citizens of this right — twenty-
four hours a day, every day —is a challenge to our education,

our ingenuity, and beliefs in the things which Johnny Harvard
stood for over 300 years ago.

MYRON MICHAEL ZIZZAMIA

HOME ADDRESS: 24 Ridgecrest East, Scarsdale, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: City Bank Farmers Trust Co., 22 William St.. New York 15,
N. Y.

BorN: May 21, 1902, Hartford, Conn. parents: Anthony Mark Zizzamia,
Mary Josephine Cersosimo.

PREPARED AT: Hartford High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1924.

marriep: Leona Marie Hill, May 14, 1932, New York, N. Y. cuitp: Mark,
June 23, 1935.

occuPATION: Assistant vice-president, City Bank Farmers Trust Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcoRD: Served through the ranks and as an officer,
Seventh Regiment, ro7th Infantry, New York National Guard, 1924-34.

orFices HELD: Member, Board of Governors, Seventh Regiment Veterans
Association, since 1941; director, since 1931, president, 1941-48, Seventh
Company Veterans Association, Seventh Regiment, New York, mem-
ber, Scholarship Committee, Harvard Club of New York, since 1947.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Harvard Club of New York; Downtown
Harvard Lunch Club, New York; Town Club, Scarsdale.

GALLANTLY bringing up the rear as I do, I can add little to
what you have been reading through the last one thousand and
one pages about a complete and happy home life, local civic
activities, commuting’s nuisances and compensations, hobbies, and
occasional trips and cruises. After graduation from the country’s
oldest college, I went to work for the oldest trust company,
which merged in 1929 with the bank whose “branch around the
corner can serve you around the world.” I claim to be the only
member of the Class to major in the classics and then spend most
of a banking career knee-deep in a jungle growth of all kinds
of federal, state, and foreign taxes. Most people are sure only of

death and taxes; people in my field are also sure of being mis-
quoted,

[948 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

For years I gave courses in various taxes at the New York
Chapter of the American Institute of Banking, part of that time in
codperation with the Columbia School of Business. It was a very
interesting experience to plan work for classes which included
students ranging from eighteen-year-olds with no knowledge of
business to men in their fifties with all sorts of degrees and busi-
ness backgrounds. I also have written for the American Bankers
Association pamphlets with simple outlines on how an individual
should prepare his tax return. Some of the features of these out-
lines have since been incorporated in the individual income tax
forms,

Of all the community activities in which I have participated, I
feel the one most worth while has been the work for the Com-
mittee on Scholarships of the Harvard Club of New York. Too
frequently, however, this committee must correct the impression
of school heads, students, and others that Harvard is interested
solely in allegedly bright young men regardless of anything else.
Each of us individually can help a great deal by showing an active

interest in the youngsters in our communities who are planning to
go to college. Then we can assure any boy who has character,
personality, breadth of interest, and enough scholastic ability that
he is welcome and wanted at Harvard.

ANTHONY GERLANDO REGINALD ZOTTOLI

HOME apprEss: 54 Myrtle St., Boston 14, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 73 Hanover St., Room 1, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 14, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Matthew Zottoli, Filippa Maria
Nobile.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1924; LL.B., 1929(30).
OCCUPATION: Law.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Zottoli did not return a questionnaire for this Report.

[ 949 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

In Memoriam -
The names of men whose deaths have been reported since June,
1944, are in italics. . ,

Walter Amory, Oct. 2, 1937, New York, N. Y.

George Francis Barnes, March 26, 1932, Miami, Fla.

Louis Bean, Jr., June 7, 1947, Los Angeles, Calif.

Dominick Bianchi, April 16, 1934, Vineland, N. J.

- Joseph Frederick Bradley, May 17, 1942, Lawrence, Mass.

Joseph Cabell Breckinridge, June 21, 1928, Billings, Mont.

Bertram Leon Brenner, Nov. 17, 1948, Phoemix, Ariz.

Pierce Clark, June 30, 1928, off Fire Island, New York, N. Y.

William Gregory Cole, April 15, 1948, Hamilton, Bermuda.

Thomas Roscoe Conklin, Jan. 23, 1926, Aurora, IIL.

William Frederic Earle, Jan. 31, 1946, Colorado Springs, Colo.

Barton Fay, May 1, 1921, Worcester, Mass.

Granville Fisher, July 14, 1938, New York, N. Y.

Kellogg Gary, June 20, 1929, Antibes, France.

Eugene Chellis Glover, Jan. 22, 1932, Boston, Mass.

Vincent Bowditch Goldthwaite, Aug. 9, 1922, Essex, N. H.

Sidney Chase Graves, May 14, 1944, in the Pacific area.

William Harvest Harkness, Jr., Feb. 19, 1936, Shanghai, China.

George Staples Hendricks, July 27, 1943, Philadelphia, Pa.

Fred Mace Hickey, Jan. 12, 1926, Schenectady, N. Y.

Samuel J. Hocking, June 27, 1942, Montgomery, Ala.

Jobn Milton Hopkins, Oct. 14, 1946, Essex Fells, N. J.

Robert Lee Hyatt, July 27, 1939, Monticello, Ark.

Percy Jenkins, Aug. 19, 1947, New York, N. Y.

Frederic Hedge Kennard, Jr., June 8, 194t.

Joseph Irving King, June 15, 1948, York, Pa.

Jackson Steward Lincoln, May 2, 1941, Guatemala City, Guate-
mala.

Thomas Gardiner Littell, June 11, 1929, Cambridge, ALas.

Richard Tuttle Loring, April 16, 1948, Springfield, Wl.

Thomas Proctor Mandell, Aug. 7, 1947, Everett, Mavs.

Charles Thomas Martin, Aug. 17, 1924, Big Moose, N.Y.

Johnson Edward Everett Morris, July 25, 192g, Vienna, Vustesa.

[951]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1924

Donald Aldrich Murdock, Aug. 19, 1932, Providence, R. I.

David Die Neiman, Nov. 14, 1940, Youngstown, Ohio.

Curtis Nelson, March 3, 1934, Barrington, Ill.

John Edward Newell, June 15, 1925, Holliston, Maine.

Allen Edward Norman, Dec. 26, 1948, Scarsdale, N. Y.

Alfred White Paine, Jan. 1, 1944, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

Philip Godfrey Phillips, Oct. 17, 1944, Chicago, IL.

Skipwith Wilmer Pleasants, June 21, 1934, Baltimore, Md.

Lewis Thompson Preston, Feb. 9, 1937, New York, N. Y.

Samuel Lauren Putnam, May 11, 1934, New York, N. Y.

William Joseph Reycroft, Oct. 3, 1935, Boston, Mass.

Anthony Elder Saunders, Nov. 12, 1943, Birmingham, Mich.

John Carl Schimek, Aug. 27, 1946, Forest Hills, Long Island,
N. Y.

Frank Manning Seamans, Jr., Nov. 17, 1936, Waban, Mass.

David Sears, 2d, June 23, 1929, Beverly, Mass.

Samuel Hirsh Segool, Jan. 11, 1933, Boston, Mass.

John Henry Sherburne, Jr., Aug. 23, 1934, Cambridge, Mass.

Thomas Foster Sherman, April 23, 1944, Scituate, Mass.

Grafton Smith, Sept. 5, 1931, Troy, N. Y.

Ezekiel Albert Straw, Sept. 7, 1941, Manchester, N. H.

Giles Waldo Thomas, Jan. 12, 1944, New York, N. Y.

Edwin Arnold Wall, Jr., July 18, 1945, Roxbury, Mass.

Guy Ernest Wilson, Sept. 29, 1923, Lankershim, Calif.

Carl Reimar Eugen Wohrman, Aug. 24, 1938, Ridgewood, N. J.

~

Lovering Hathaway, May 9, 1949, Dover, Mass.

L952]

Geographical Distribution

This index is based on addresses used for mailing class communications.
In some cases they are home addresses; in others, business addresses.

ARIZONA
Cornville: J. H. Twinine
Phoenix: L. F. BrigHAM
Tucson: J. G. FLINT

ARKANSAS

Fayetteville: J. Futpricut, L. C. Yoper
Little Rock: J. B. CrossLEY

CALIFORNIA
Auburn: G. CRANSTON
Berkeley: F. 1. Carpenter, H. I. Harvey, M. R. Satu
Beverly Hills: W. W. Woop
Fullerton: C. DEF. ApamMs
Hemet: J. S. LANE |
Hollywood: H. H. Griswo tp, H. B. Horreit
La Canada: N. A. STAHL
Los Angeles: J. C. BucHanan, L. M. Core, L. F. Harris,
J. H. Hunt
Oakland: V. F. MEIsLine
Pasadena: C. H. Houuisrer, G. S. SHARP
Redwood City: J. FLANDERS
San Francisco: R. P. Buttarp, H. Disses, Jr., J. S. Lirrvece
San Mateo: R. F. CaRvER
Santa Barbara: A. S. Rocers
Taft: D. S. PeckHAM

COLORADO
Colorado Springs: W. LitTELL
Denver: W. G. THomas
CONNECTICUT

Cheshire: W. L. Garrison, 3D
Darien: F. H. Nicos

[953]

