*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

ARVARD CLASS
OF 1925
enty-fifth Anniversary Report

 

all only remember what weather was fine,
sir Harvard, and Spring in the Yard.

JOHN ABBOTT
Class Ode, 1925

CAMBRIDGE
Printed for the Class
1950

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

vard a dynamic force in the life of our Country —and that
recognition of material realities which has enabled her to survive
through change and through storm. Here you will find the lives
which were moulded to manhood by Harvard twenty-five years
ago. Ir is characteristic of Harvard men to turn from the age that
is past to that which is waiting before, and in these life sketches
there are comparatively few whose major emphasis is on what
has been. For us, much more is to be. You will be impressed,
and possibly surprised, when you read this book, at the number
of our classmates who, having finished a quarter-century’s prep-
aration, are now, in teaching, in preaching, in medicine, in law, in
business and the arts, ready to exercise the authority which pre-
eminence bestows. And mostly, perhaps, you will be struck by
the truth of the prophecy written by John Abbott in 1925, which
we have printed on the title-page as the motto for this book.

G. T. G.

[x]

Harvard Class of 1925

Records of the Class

HENRY WARD ABBOT

HOME aDprEss: 60 Gramercy Park, New York, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 21, 1904, Sandwich, Mass. parents: Henry Ward Abbot, ’86,
Isabel Anderson.

PREPARED AT: Stuyvesant School, Warrenton, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.

MarrieD: Eleanor Melendy, Sept. 12, 1936, Greenwich, Conn. cup: Henry
Ward, Jr., May 7, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Anderson Abbot, ’30.
OCCUPATION: Financial writer.
PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles for Barron's.

FOLLOWING graduation I spent the summer abroad and then
entered the brokerage business with Hayden, Stone & Company
in New York as arunner. | promptly learned that the distinguish-
ing mark of a runner is his slow, almost motionless gait. I had
hopes that Wall Street was paved with gold and by the summer
of 1929, I was fully convinced of it. However, my retirement
plans were set back a few decades by the market crash. After
picking up the pieces and deciding to reweave the moth holes in
my suits instead of donating their remains to the moths, I found
out you had to work to make a living, even in Wall Street.

I have had my ups and downs but have enjoyed life even during
the downs. I am very happily married to a girl who has every-
thing — she is also a very superior cook. You should taste Pheas-
ant 4 la Nan. My twelve-year-old boy seems to be reasonably
intelligent and shows considerable promise as an athlete.

My present occupation permits me to work when I feel like
it and produces an adequate if irregular income. What more can
a man ask?

[1]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

JOHN ADAMS ABBOTT

HOME AppRESS: Beaver Pond Road, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFIceE appRESS: Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston 14, Mass.

BORN: July 9, 1902, Concord, Mass. parents: Grafton St. Loe Abbott, Mary
Adams.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1925; M.D. 1931.

MmarriED: Diana Asken Ballin, Aug. 9, 1945, Concord, Mass.

occuPaTION: Physician (neurology and psychiatry).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Instructor, military postgraduate medical
courses, 1942-45. .

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Medical Advisory Committee, New England Epi-
lepsy League, 1947-48, Eastern Association of Electroencephalographers,
1947-48, Committee on Arrangements for the American Electro-
encephalographic Society, 1948, 1949, 1950; assistant neurologist,
Massachusetts General Hospital, since 1948; physician on visiting staff,
Washingtonian Hospital, since 1941; instructor in neurology, Harvard
College, July 1, 1949-June 30, 1950; clinical associate and assistant
director, EEG Laboratory; Massachusetts General Hospital. —

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; American Electroencephalographic
Society; Eastern Association of Electroencephalographers; American
Medical Association; Boston Society of Psychiatry and Neurology;
American Psychiatric Association; National Epilepsy League; Associa-
tion for Research in Nervous and Mental Diseases.

PUBLICATIONS: “A Comparison of Epileptic Patients with Normal and Ab-
normal EEG’s”, “Normal Electroencephalograms in Patients Having

. Proven Epilepsy”; “Some Clinical Aspects of the Normal Electro-
encephalogram in Epilepsy”; “Epilepsy and the Public Health Nurse”;
“Clinical Electroencephalography”; “The Differential Diagnosis of

Neurosis and Psychosis”; “An Essay on the Innervation of the Limbs.”

AFTER graduating in 1925, I had a year of travel in Europe, with
two weeks in the bowels of the Regina Coeli. I decided on medi-
cine rather than fine arts and completed the conventional train-
ing with internships in the Strong Memorial, Boston Psycho-
pathic, and Massachusetts General Hospitals (first year of Dr.
Cobb’s neuropsychiatric service). I began practice in 1935, with
a job as part-time instructor in the Department of Psychology at
Harvard (at the Harvard Psychological Clinic) as a back-log for
the first year. My practice is devoted to neurology (with empha-
sis on brain waves and epilepsy) and psychiatry (with emphasis
on psychotherapy ).

In 1945 I married so well that I have not regretted the long

[2]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

delay occasioned by waiting for Mrs. Abbott to move from India
to New England. Lawrence Anderson designed for us a modern
house on a sylvan ledge in Lincoln, Massachusetts (no ledges in
the living room: a sort of glass cottage as compared with the
prewar mansions of our friends), and we moved in on August 20,
1949. We feed the birds outside the kitchen window (mainly
chickadees), friends inside it (at least tea almost every Sunday
afternoon at five o'clock: household chores continue uninter-
rupted until five, but house and woodlot with open fires are
theirs for any who arrive earlier).

My hobbies in the past were riding, white-water canoeing, sail-
ing (notably in the wonderful little boats on “The Basin,” which
is just right for anyone who gets acutely ship-bored after more
than one hour at sea). My present hobbies are chopping, the
rudiments of mathematical logic (because the knowing ones say
that something which they call, I believe, “logical positivism”
offers to psychology essentials such that there may someday hold
between psychology and psychiatry a relationship like that which
holds today between physiology and medicine), and household
carpentry (a usually painless, moral equivalent of minor surgery).

+ HERBERT SPENCER ABEL

BORN: Aug. 1, 1903, Bradford, Mass. parents: Bernard Abel, Anna Kodney.
PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Providence, R. I.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; M.D. (Cornell Univ.),

1929.
Mmarriep: Adele Rubenstein, April 4, 1929.
piep: Dec. 3, 1934, Providence, R. I.

AFTER two years’ study at the Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology, Herbert Spencer Abel transferred to Harvard, where he
was active in the Glee Club and the Menorah Society and was a
member of Phi Sigma Delta fraternity. After receiving his A.B.
degree with our Class, he studied medicine at Cornell, taking his
M.D. in 1929. During his last year at Cornell he was consul of his
chapter of Phi Delta Epsilon, medical fraternity.

He served an internship at the Beth Israel “Hospital i in Boston
from July, 1929, to April, 1931, and was resident at the Skin and
Cancer Hospital at New York City for one year.

[3]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

In April, 1932, he started the practice of dermatology and
syphilology in Providence. He was in active practice until his
death. He was a member of the staff of the Rhode Island Hospital,
the Miriam Hospital, the Charles V. Chapin Hospital, all of Provi-
dence, and the Beth Israel Hospital in Boston. He was a member
of the Rhode Island Medical Society and the Providence Medical
Society, treasurer of the Jacobi Medical Society, and a posthumous
member of the New England Dermatological Society.

Both as friend and as physician Abel was remarkable for his
uncompromising adherence to the highest principles.

ROBERT LOUIS ABELL

ADDRESS: 1119 St. Paul St., Baltimore, Md.

BORN: Jan. 31, 1902, Baltimore, Md. parents:, Arunah Shepherdson Abell,
Anna Teackle Schley.

PREPARED AT: Harstré6m School, Norwalk, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

occuPpaTion: Lawyer.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Abell did not return a questionnaire.

a

NATHAN GABRIEL ABRAHAMSON

HOME Appress: 6 Lothian Rd., Brighton 35, Mass.

OFFIcE appress: Iris Drug Store, Campello, Mass.

Born: April 14, 1893, Sheffield, England. parents: Paul William Abraham-
son, Esther Shear.

PREPARED AT: Berkeley Preparatory School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: 8.B., 1925.

married: Ethel Rushel Levy, Jan. 1, 1928, Boston, Mass. cHitpren: Anne
Esther, Sept. 22, 1930, Paul Abraham, Oct. 21, 1932.

OCCUPATION: Druggist.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War I: Enlisted June, 1917; sergeant,
1918; duty overseas, September, 1918-October, 1919; discharged 1919.

orvices HELD: First vice-president, Temple B'nai Moche, Brighton.

membre or: Harvard and Temple Lodges, AF. & A.M.; American Legion;
Veterans of Foreign Wars.

FARLY in 1926 I sold my drug store and started work as a
chemist for the American Proteins Company. There my work
consisted of separating the various components of blood for such

[4]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

uses as imitation white of eggs, and fibrin and hemoglobin for
medicine. I still think that I learned considerable about meats,
but in the twenty-one years since our marriage I have not con-
vinced my wife, as my advice on cuts or kinds of meat is never
asked. -

In 1927 American Protein Company went out of business and
again I was in the drug business. I married Ethel Levy, a sister of
Aaron Levy of our Class. I opened my own store in 1928. You
might think my work is confining, but I have made it a point to-
be interesting and I have well-spoken and well-bred people coming
and going throughout the day and I really enjoy life.

During 1945 my doctor convinced my wife that I worked too
hard and Ethel had me sell the store so that I might take things
easier, with the result that I have never worked so hard in my life.

I wish I could have made this more interesting but then it
would not be my life.

JAMES DONALD ADAMS

HOME ADDRESS: 29 Marlborough St., Lowell, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Newmarket Mfg. Co., Lowell, Mass.

BoRN: April 13, 1904, Billerica, Mass. pARENTs: Thomas Edward Adams,
Evelyn Laura Polk.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924.

MARRIED: Marjorie Budd, Feb. 16, 1929, Toronto, Ont., Canada. cup: Gay
Mardon, May 19, 1930.

OccUPATION: Purchasing agent and traffic manager.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Civilian administrator, U. S. Army Ordnance
Department, Eastern U. S., 1942-44; War Production Board, Washing-
ton, D. C., 1944-45.

OFFICES HELD: Director, 1948, vice-president, 1949-50, Lowell Temple Choir;
secretary, Harvard Club of Lowell, since 1947; president, Eliot Choral
Society, since 1946; official greeter, William North Lodge, since 1948.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Lowell; Lowell Temple Choir; Eliot Choral
Society; Masons, Paint & Powder Club Chorus; Rotary Club; Elior
Men’s Club.

UNTIL 1942 my life was reasonably uneventful. In May, 1942,
I joined the WAR EFFORT as a civilian administrator with
Army Ordnance. My work was organizing, training, and direct-
ing highly skilled mechanics in the repair, maintenance, and prep-
aration for overseas of all kinds of engine-driven equipment, from

C5]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

motorcycles to tanks. We also set up and trained both fixed and
mobile units of Army and Air Force personnel in transport
maintenance. Our units were called “TAT” for Travelling Auto-
motive Technicians and operated throughout the eastern United
States.

In August, 1944, I was transferred to the War Production
Board in Washington, D. C., where I remained until December,
1945. [his was a most interesting experience which I hope never
to repeat. As an internal combustion engine specialist in the
Automotive Division, I had a ringside seat at the awesome dis-
play of international politics and our wonderful domestic indus-
trial might. I didn’t enjoy the politics but I was tremendously
: impressed with our industrial powers and the surprisingly univer-
sal patriotism that existed in high industrial places throughout the
war.

In December, 1945, I returned to Lowell in my present capacity
and devoted myself to finding and sharing among my home town
social and business friends that same spirit of brotherly love which
had so impressed me in our national leaders. Happily, it did not
require too much searching and I am inclined to believe the old
adage that “life is a mirror reflecting back what we show it.”

My daughter, Gay, studied three years at Northfield School
for Girls, graduating in June, 1948. She is presently studying to
be a medical secretary at Westbrook Junior College in Portland,
Maine, and hopes to graduate in June, 1950.

JOHN ADAMS, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 704 Huntington Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: July 3, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: John Adams, Edith Gordon.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.; Public Latin
School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; M.D., 19209.

mMarRieD: Mary Danker, April 25, 1931, Brookline, Mass. cH1LpreNn: Patricia,
March 17, 1934; Joan, July 1, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Physician, specializing in dermatology.

OFFICES HELD: Member department of dermatology, Harvard Medical School,
since 1934, Massachusetts General Hospital, since 1932; consulting
dermatologist, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, since 1942; mem-
ber administrative staff, Massachusetts Women’s Hospital, member
board of managers, Visiting Nurse Association of Boston, since 1948.

[6]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

marrieo: Anna Maria Augusta Josephson, Sept. 20, 1947, Rahway, N. J.

occuPATION: Foreign scientific manager, Merck & Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: British Army, Territorial Forces, 1910-14,

1915-16; active duty in Southern Persia, Afghanistan, and Waziristan
with Indian Army, 1916-23.

MEMBER OF: American, British and Swiss Chemical Societies.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles and brochures on medicinal chemicals.
AS I was the oldest member of the Class it was perhaps fitting
that I was probably the last to leave the sheltering walls of the
University, perhaps somewhat reluctantly. Almost fifteen years
in India and in Cambridge had been scarcely an ideal preparation
for a perfect adjustment to a professional career in American
industry, particularly in the early thirties. Fortunately, my work
in the research division of Merck & Company, Inc., was to give
me a first-hand view of and a limited participation in the trium-
phant renaissance of chemotherapy in the almost accidental devel-
ment of the sulfanilamides, the incredible unravelling of the
knotty problems. of the vitamins and their true rdJe in human
and animal nutrition, the miraculous metamorphosis of micro-
biology from the muddy mysteries of soil biology to the shim-
mering fantasy of the antibiotics, and the painstaking steady prog-
ress of the chemical, pharmacological, and clinical knowledge of
the hormones.

Although World War II meant no more nor less to me than to
any other American of my age level, apart from opportunities to
participate to some extent in the medicinal chemical develop-
ments of those years, the end of hostilities provided an oppor-
tunity to volunteer to assist in the program of the Department of
Commerce. Under the Office of Technical Services I made a
survey of the manufacture of synthetic hormones by the German
chemical industry during the war years. It was my good fortune
during this lengthy visit to be of some assistance to the military
government in bringing to fruition plans for the construction of
a unit to provide domestic penicillin for the German economy.

Since that somewhat successful foray into European industrial
affairs, most of my time has been spent in Furope, in visits to
industrial concerns and scientific institutions in most of the coun-
tries of Western Europe. Most interesting and spiritually satis-
fying have been two extended trips into Spain for the purpose of
making a detailed study of Spanish industrial conditions and of

[8]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the plans by interested Spanish economists to bring new life into
the somewhat moribund industrial organism of Spain. To an
expatriate European almost completely acclimatized to American
standards of thought and living, Spain — with its widely diversi-
fied peoples, its contrasting geographical and political division, its
complexity of medieval and modern cultures, its medley of cus-
toms and habits of life, its contrasting wealth and poverty — was
intellectually overwhelming and intriguing.

After becoming thoroughly acquainted and depressed with the
often senseless destruction of the evidences of civilization through-
out Europe, the survival of such a wealth of historical and cultural
monuments and traditions in Spain was highly consoling. The
permanent solidarity of the Roman aqueduct in Segovia, the
medieval grandeur of walls and gateways of Avila, the Moorish
artistry of the halls and gardens of the Alhambra, and the eccle-
siastical and regal stateliness of the Escorial, all mute witnesses to
the overlapping cultures of Spain, seemed to testify that, despite
the possession by mob leaders of high-powered weapons of
destruction, the best in modern civilization might conceivably
survive for the edification of future generations.

And thus the lessons as to the vitality and permanence of truth
learned twenty-five years ago in our ancient University have been
confirmed and reasserted in a land where, in medieval darkness
and ignorance, Salamanca and Alcala de Henares raised the torch
of learning and illuminated the path for seekers in quest of the
eternal verities.

HERBERT EDMUND AITKEN

HOME ADDRESS: 41 Curtis Ave., Dalton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dalton High School, Dalton, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 24, 1903, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Herbert McDonald Aicken,
Mary Gertrude Grady.

PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926, DEGREE: A.B. 1925(26).

marrigeD: Dora Frances Anderson, Feb. 14, 1932, Gloucester, Mass. cup:
Raymond (adopted), Aug. 1, 1940.

OccuPATION: Teacher of social studies, secondary grades.

BEFORE graduation I managed to work my way abroad as a
seaman. Vivid impressions still remain of Germany, then at the

[9]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

close of its great inflation. Later’ a position in the purser’s depart-
ment of a New York line serving South America provided oppor-
tunities to visit many ports in Latin America and use high school
Spanish, which helped solve more problems than German A did
for me in Germany.

The madness of the late twenties I watched from the vantage
point of a position with a member house of the New York Stock
Exchange. The crash emptied dreams (not mine, happily) and
revealed such sidelights as gullible Boston partners providing
markets for their “misleading” New York partners. My place of
employment (shortly former place of employment) presented the
spectacle of every partner’s being in debt to the only one who
remained solvent. S.E.C. came as no surprise.

The thirties saw me selling life insurance with success ranging
all the way up to warm. It helped build up a valuable background,
however, as did several years of production work with a giant
manufacturing concern, for my advent into teaching. This oc-
curred towards the close of hostilities in 1944. Since then I have
taught in several rather small systems of our vast public school
setup. But before considering the impressions gained as a teacher,
and mine only confirm earlier conclusions, I suppose it would be
more chronologically correct to dispose of my war record. There
seems to be none. By the time my number may have been con-
sidered it was evident that time spent training our age group to
become killers was rather wasted. They never examined me, a
mistake perhaps as I have always been in good shape.

This brief viewing of a career lacking in accomplishments and
notable events may seem dull and of little avail, but it has left me
with time for some abstract thinking. A Harvard man in the
March, 1950, issue of The Atlantic Monthly gives us much food
for thought, in my opinion, in the often neglected field of our
public schools. His title contains the rather sensational word
“quackery,” but from my observation point of teacher, he is mak-
ing only too much sense. Standards must be mighty low when
some of these cow pasture colleges are allowed to grant degrees,
and common sense must long since have departed the scene when
such degrees (salary-wise for teachers) are rated the equal of any
other degree.

The philosophy of education becomes more than a thought to

[10]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

toy with when one sees labor unions making an honest effort to
rid their ranks of Communists, while college faculties awaken
echoes with sounds — sounds politely issued and seeming to center
rather mellifluently about freedom, always an undefined freedom.
For definitions limit. Nowadays academic freedom may be used
to deny the Veritas that a college once stood for. And it seems to
this observer that too many of the Harvard faculty would not
subscribe to a belief in a changeless truth. That would mean an
absolute, of course. Someone counted seventy-six members of the
Harvard faculties as being members of Communist-front organiza-
tions, one gentleman belonging to as many as thirty-eight fronts.
Please remember that public school teachers are forced to study at
colleges even after their first degrees with the result that the ideas
predominating in the college halls very quickly permeate the public
school classrooms which by law all children with a few exceptions
are forced to attend. It might be noted in passing that Harvard’s
President Conant in the latest annual report tells us that our
faculties are in a class by themselves. Then some of the others
must really be something.

While reading the president’s report, just mentioned, it seemed
to this critical reader that there is too much concern for the
citizenship of future Harvard graduates. Isn’t it a purpose of
education to improve men, to try to make them better men?
Would one expect good citizenship from a wicked person? Then
isn’t good citizenship a fruit or by-product of real education,
rather than a chief aim? More than that, Jet’s take a look at the
views of an English educator on the subject. The gentleman is
the Right Honorable Lord Eustace Percy. As rector of the New-
castle Division of Durham University, England, he spoke at the
Congress on Education for Democracy held at Teachers’ College,
Columbia, in August, 1939. What follows is part of his talk, ap-
parently lost so far as the atheists of Dewey and company are
concerned: “As democrats, we believe in government by the
people. There must therefore be a people united enough to gov-
ern. But, as educators, it is not our business to school people into
unity of sentiment. That way lies fascism, communism, Hitlerism.
Our business is not to make nations, but to make men.

“Let us then be cautious even about the modern idea of training
children in ‘habits of cooperation.’ We have been doing thar for

[ir]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

generations in our old schools in England and we know that it
may easily lead to the sort of society where ‘eternal laws become
conventions and conventions become eternal laws’ — where the
duty of keeping the sixth commandment is felt to be, on the whole,
less compelling than the duty of playing up for one’s side, or
shouting ‘Heil Hitler,’ or voting the party ticket.

“Our starting point must be another definition of democracy.
Democracy is an attempt to measure the exercise of political
power by the average man’s sense of right and wrong. But if the
ordinary man measures right and wrong by what he thinks will
contribute to the strength and welfare of the state, we are arguing
in a circle. And if the state deliberately schools its citizens so to
think, it is tampering with its own yardstick. Nay, it is silencing its
own conscience. . . . But the democratic philosophy of govern-
ment presupposes personal religion and is meaningless without that
presupposition.”

If this worry about citizenship leads to teaching about the sub-.
ject, it means that someone’s ideas will be inculcated (for there is
unavoidably some degree of inculcation in teaching) and develop-
ment of future citizenship will be to some extent stultified.

If it seems, and it must I grant, that an obscure Harvard gradu-
ate is critical of our public schools and even of some facets of the
Alma Mater —I admit I quit our School of Education in disgust
at its aping the atheism of Dewey — isn’t it better that need for
correction (if need there be) be pointed out by friends rather than
forced, possibly, that is, by others? The anemia of the athletic
department may not follow the sending of transfusions to other
branches.

FRANK GUTHRIE AKERS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 77 Sherman Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 9, 1902, Louisville, Ky. parents: Matthew Love Akers, Frank
Guthrie.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREE: A.B. 1925(26).

Marriep: Gerry Geddes, May 20, 1928, Southboro, Mass. cuitLprReN: Frank
Guthrie, Jr., April 25, 1929; Matthew L., Oct. 26, 1930; Michael, Sept.

12, 1934. |
OCCUPATION: Industrial consultant.

[12]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Member Harvard R. O. T. C., 1921-25; U. S.
Army Reserve, 1925-35; active duty with U, S. Navy Reserve, 15th
Naval District, Panama Canal Zone, 1941-43; Orange County Company,
Virginia Reserve Militia, 1943-45.

I WAS assistant coach of the Harvard freshman football team

during the fall of 1925. I was associated with Lee, Higginson &

Company of Boston from 1926 to 1932, with Clark, Dodge & Com-

pany, Boston, from 1932 to 1935, and treasurer of Gates Packing

Company, Florida, during 1935-36. I was associated with Incor-

porated Investors, Boston, industrial analyst for Management As-

sociates from 1936 to 1941 and sales manager for the Parker Cor-

poration from 1939 to 1941. I was in active service in the U. S.

Navy from June, 1941 to 1942. I was in farming and real estate in

Gordonsville and Charlottesville, Virginia, from 1943 to 1948.

Since 1948 I have been an industrial consultant and business prop-

erty broker.

My two older sons are in the U. S. Marines; Frank, Jr., is cur-
rently stationed in the Guard Company, Parris Island, South Caro-
lina; Matthew is on the U.S.S. Missouri; youngest son, Michael,
attends St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Massachusetts.

The past twenty-five years have been pleasant and full in more
ways than one. I have lived through prohibition, inflation, defla-
tion, New Deal, the past war, and into this wonderful bigger and
better inflation. The Twenty-fifth Reunion sounds like the best
party yet. So why worry about hydrogen atoms or chain reac-
tions, unless maybe you know something about them? The next
twenty-five years should average out to be as pleasant as the past.

GEORGE SAMUEL ALBERTS

HOME apprEss: 40 Solon St., Newton Highlands 61, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 73 Tremont St., Boston 8, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Isaac Alberts, Annie Podibisky.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1925; 11.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Sylvia Rosenthal, Dec. 10, 1933. Boston, Mass. cHmpren: Alan
R., May 20, 1936, Ann C., May 4, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Emanuel Victor Alberts, ’16; Harold Alberts, ’19; Sidney
Max Alberts, ’23.

OccUPATION: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association; Shawmut Lodge A.F. & A.M; Belmont
Country Club; various religious, social, and fraternal societies.

[13]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

A NATURAL reticence makes it quite as difficult for me to sit
for a portrait by Bachrach as to write a story of my life. I always .
thought that these things were reserved for the Men of Dis-
tinction.

After three years at the Law School, followed by three years
with a Boston firm, I opened an office with a law school class-
mate. We have been together ever since, adding to our personnel
as the years rolled by.

In 1933 I married Sylvia Rosenthal, We have been together
ever since, adding to our personnel as the years rolled by. A son
and a daughter complete the family picture. We have led a full
and happy, even if not spectacular, life. Actively participating in
numerous communal and charitable activities during the winter
months, we particularly enjoy the restful charm of Nantucket
during the summer.

RICHARD STODDARD ALDRICH

HOME ADDRESS: 17 W. gq4th St., New York 109, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1430 Broadway, New York 18, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 17, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: Edward Irving Aldrich, Mary
Pickering Joy.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B, Cum laude, 1925.

MarRIED: Helen Beals, Nov. 5, 1927, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1936);
Gertrude Lawrence, July 4, 1940, Dennis, Mass. cHitpreN: Richard
Stoddard, Jr., July 10, 1929; David Beals, Feb. 17, 1931.

HARVARD SON: David Beals Aldrich, ’52.

occupation: Theatrical producer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve,
attached to staff, commandant, Third Naval District, 1941; sent over-
Seas as executive officer to U. S. Navy Advance Amphibious Base,
Fowey, Cornwall, England, with rank of lieutenant commander,
October, 1943; commanding officer, U. S, Navy Advance Amphibious
Base, Southampton, May—November, 1944; public relations officer for
Admiral Stark, commander, U. S$. Naval Forces in Europe; returned
to inactive duty as commander, U. S. Naval Reserve, November, 1945;
awarded Navy Commendation Ribbon.

MEMBER OF: Union Club; Harvard Club of New York; Players’ Club,
Badminton Club; Coffee House Club; Dutch Treat Club; Army and
Navy Club of Washington; Buck’s Club and International Sportsmen’s
Club, London, Travellers Club, Paris, Society of Mayflower Descend-
ants; Colonial Wars Society; Society of Sons of the American Revolu-
tion; Society of War of 1812.

[14]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SINCE our 1940 Class Report, I have continued producing plays
on Broadway and operating the Cape Playhouse at Dennis on
Cape Cod, except for the four-year period, 1941-45, when I served
in the Navy. Immediately upon my return to civilian life I became
managing director for Theatre Incorporated. During its brief
but distinguished career it brought the famous Old Vic Theatre
Company to America, starring Sir Laurence Olivier and Sir Ralph
Richardson, and presented Gertrude Lawrence and Raymond
Massey in Shaw’s Pyg7valion, Burgess Meredith in The Playboy
of the Western World, Michael Redgrave and Flora Robson in
Macbeth, and the Habimah Players from Palestine. Other theatri-
cal ventures with which I have been associated since the war were
Martha Scott and Hugh Marlowe in It Takes Two, the importa-
tion of the Dublin Gate Theatre Company from Ireland, Made-
leine Carroll, who was later replaced by Ruth Hussey, and then
by Ann Harding, in Goodbye, My Fancy, Sir Cedric Hardwicke
and Lilli Palmer in Shaw’s Caesar and Cleopatra, and Bernard
Shaw’s comedy, The Devil's Disciple, starring Maurice Evans,
Dennis King, Marsha Hunt, and Victor Jory, currently on
Broadway. Last summer I opened the new Falmouth Playhouse
at Coonamessett on Cape Cod, so my summers are rather busy
with two summer theatres to worry about.

The theatre is a most uncertain profession but never dull, and
I do manage to fly to Europe every now and then in search of
new plays and players, and also to Hollywood for the same
reasons, with an occasional few weeks in Florida for a brief
vacation. The years since graduation have been exciting ones for
‘me and I would not have missed any one experience during that
period, and especially the years in the Navy.

NATHANIEL DRAPER WHITIN ALLEN

HOME ADDRESS: 37 Hancock St., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: First National Bank of Boston, 67 Milk St, Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 31, 1903, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Edwin Howard Allen, Linda
Whitin Forbush.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREE: A.B., 1925(26).

UNMARRIED.

[15]

______]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

occupation: Manager, Business Extension Department, First National Bank
of Boston. .

MEMBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline, Mass., Whitinsville Golf Club,
Whitinsville, Mass.

LOUIS ALPERT

BoRN: Feb. 22, 1903, in Russia. paRENTS: Morris Alpert, Annie Barr.
PREPARED AT: East Boston High School, East Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 1925; M.D. (Boston Univ.), 1920.
MARRIED: Sally Cohen, July 11, 1930, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Pauline
June, June, 1932; Adrien Phyllis, March, 1934.
piep: Aug. 17, 1947, Middleboro, Mass.
winow: Mrs. Louis Alpert, Wareham Street, Middleboro, Mass. _
LOUIS ALPERT prepared at the East Boston High School be-
fore entering Harvard with the Class. In college he received the
Price Greenleaf Aid during 1921-1922, and was a member of the
Menorah Society and the Boylston Chemical Club. After receiv-
ing his A.B. degree with the Class, he entered the Boston Univer-
sity School of Medicine and was granted an M.D. degree in 1929.
He completed two years of internship at the Massachusetts Me-
morial Hospitals in July, 1930.

In December, 1930, after a few months of private practice in
Dorchester, he accepted the post as physician at the Lakeville State
Sanatorium, Massachusetts Public Health Department. He later
published several articles dealing with the treatment of tubercu-
losis, but continued to serve at the Lakeville State Sanatorium until
the time of his death. He was a member of the Massachusetts
Medical Society, the Blue Circle, and the Boston chapter of the
Phi Lambda Kappa alumni club.

His wife and daughter, Pauline, survived him,

ROBERT HUNT AMES

HOME apprEss: 654 Greenbrook Rd., North Plainfield, N. J.

OFFice apprEss: New Jersey Bell Telephone Co., 540 Broad St., Newark,
N. J.

BoRN: Jan. 13, 1904, Montclair, N. J. Parents: William Whitney Ames,
Hattie Olcutt Hunt.

prepareD at: Montclair High School, Montclair, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925.

[16]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MaRRIED: Dorothy Waldau, Sept. 7, 1929, Jersey City, N. J. curren:
Priscilla Hunt, June 21, 1930; William Whitney, April 5, 1932 (died
Jan. 9, 1949); Richard Fisher, April 22, 1936; Robert Francis, May 2,
1941,

occuPATION: Commercial engineer.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1940-49, president, 1949, Board of Education.

NOTHING in my life could possibly interest you fellows. I am
a perfect example of F. Scott Fitzgerald’s Vegetable, The older
I get the fatter, and the less [know, My convictions, such as they
were, get weaker all the time as the other fellow’s opinion gen-
erally seems pretty sensible when considered from his point of
view.

In general, human activities seem rather futile and improperly
motivated. If the goal of the race is to learn to live together in
peace and friendship, I doubt that we have made much, if any,
progress in the last two thousand years. It appears to me that
progress along these lines must come from the individual rather
than from the group.

In probing around in myself for convictions to display I find
that to me one of the greatest sins appears to be conformity.

- MALCOLM FRANKLIN AMSDEN

HOME appress: 32 Winchester St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: Boston Stock Exchange, 53 State St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Sept. §, 1902, Brookline, Mass. Parents: Franklin Dana Amsden,
Fannie Mabel Downing.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREE: A.B., 1925 (26).

MARRIED: Susanne Sophia Rogers, July 23, 1943, Los Angeles, Calif. cum:
Malcolm Franklin, Jr., Dec. 22, 1944.

occuPATION: Floorbroker and odd-lot dealer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted U. S. Marines, Nov. 27, 1942; active
duty including 15 months overseas, through Jan. 6, 1946.

MEMBER OF: Marine Corps Association; Marine Corps Reserve Officers
Association; COM, U. S. Navy, Boston, Mass.

WE ARE still working on: 1) the first million; 2) a second son;
3) the daily limit on grouse and woodcock; 4) a new athletic
director; 5) a change in administration.

As someone once said, “We can dream, can’t we?”

[17]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

LORING BEAL ANDREWS

HOME ADDRESS: 300 Clayton Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 21 N. Broadway, White Plains, N. Y.

BorN: July 31, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Andrews, Emily Minot
Loring.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925, DEGREES: A.B. 1925; A.M., 1927; PH.D., 1933.

mMaRRIED: Flora Spencer Hinckley, March 27, 1934, Newton, Mass.
CHILDREN: Loring Beal, Jr., March 5, 1935; Benjamin Hinckley, Jan. 22,
1940; Gordon C., March 25, 1941.

occupation: Agency manager (insurance).

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chief, Planning Division, Facilities Bureau,
O.W.I.; assistant director, Radio Division, O.1.A.A.; chief of Planning,
Radio Bureau, O.LI.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant in astronomy, 1925-28, instructor in astronomy,
1928-32, faculty instructor, 1932-36, Harvard; master, Harvard Lodge,
AF. & A.M., 1939-40; deacon, 1949, elder, since 1950, Greenville
Community Church.

MEMBER OF: American Astronomical Society; Astronomical Society of the
Pacific; Greenville Men’s Club; Greenville Couples Club; Greenville
Community Council; Fort Hill Civic Association.

IF VARIETY is the spice of life then I’ve certainly had a well
seasoned existence. I didn’t leave the Yard with most of you but
immediately started the climb up the faculty ladder from assistant
in astronomy. With appointment as faculty instructor in 1932
came also appointment as executive secretary of the Harvard
College Observatory. This was also a period of broad experience
in education outside Harvard since it involved teaching courses
at Radcliffe, in University Extension, and at the Boston Center
for Adult Education. Meanwhile I not only taught but was
taught and researched sufficiently to punctuate this first decade
with two graduate degrees.

It wasn’t until 1946 that, wooed into the post of program
manager of the World Wide Broadcasting Foundation, I finally
bade the University adieu. Since one alias of the Foundation is
World Radio University, this step was an experiment in a broader
educational field: that of educating the world by international
broadcast, a noble thought but difficult to achieve. Anyone who
has manipulated a short-wave receiver to tune an incoming broad-
cast from Siam or Chile and ended by tuning to a local “platter”
show may wonder at the probable success of any attempt to

[18]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

convey education to the masses on a world scope. I wondered,
too, and invoked my knowledge of math and physics in seeking
a solution, of which more below. In the spring of 1941 I trans-
ferred my allegiance to the international division of Westinghouse
Radio Stations in charge of programs in English.

With the outbreak of World War II, all international broad-
casting and facilities fell under government contro] and operation.
January, 1942, found me in government service in the first of a
series of executive capacities, first on the program side but later,
and for the longest period, on the technical or facilities side of
our psychological warfare campaign. I followed government
alphabetology along until 1946, serving the C.O.L, O.W.I., O.L-
A.A.,, and O.LI. in turn. My work was that of contributing to the
continuity of policy and of operation of our growing number of
international broadcast transmitters while still pursuing the an-
swer to the problem of making the reception of a short wave
broadcast across thousands of miles akin to that of a local trans-
mitter but a dozen miles away. On this last subject steady prog-
ress was made during those five years as field tests proved.

With the war’s end a hide-bound Republican’s place within a
Democratic administration became so increasingly unsteady that
the purlieus of Mackay Radio seemed much the better place to
pursue further technical research. I like to think that today inter-
national broadcast reception might be on a plane with the recep-
tion of local broadcasts as a result of this research. The most ad-
vanced results stagnate in the form of blueprints and formulae,
with which I too might be stagnating today, since the field is so
narrow a one that ultimate success opens no new vista.

In the spring of 1947 I heeded the prolonged exhortation of a
close friend that I really belonged in the insurance business, a far
broader field. Thus began the latest chapter of my vocational
life, that of agency manager for the Hudson Valley Branch Office
of Mutual of Omaha, the world’s largest exclusive writer of acci-
dent and health insurance (adv.) and of its owned and operated
subsidiary, the Companion Life Insurance Company of New
York. The work happily utilizes all the experience with statistics,
sales promotion, and education accumulated during the prior
twenty years.

Avocationally, my hobby seems to be that of organizing and

[19]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

directing activities which. of late bear a strong tinge of commu-
nity civics. I’ve been presiding officer of six social, civic, or educa-
tional organizations, Gamma Alpha, the Harvard Lodge, A.F.
& A.M., the Bond Club, the Longview Civic Association, the
Couples Club and the Eliot Players, a junior executive or two, of
the Greenville Community Council and the Greenville Men’s
Club, and just plain member of four of the American Astro-
nomical Society, the Astronomical Society for the Pacific, the
Eight O’clock Club, and the Monday Evening Club. For a time
there were also memberships in the American Association for the
Advancement of Science, the Boston Yacht Club, and the Adver-
tising Club of New York. There is also currently the religious
aspect of my service to the community, that of an elder of the
Greenville Community Church (Dutch Reformed).

Also avocationally, there are three hectic months each year
devoted to computing the almanac pages of the Old Farmer’s
Almanac, a personal yearly undertaking since 1942.

There has been my family life too. On March 27, 1934, I
married Flora Spencer Hinckley of Newton, Massachusetts.
We've three boys, Loring, Jr., Benjamin H., and Gordon C., now
fifteen, ten, and nine years old respectively. The family was
domiciled in Newton until the war began. Since then we’ve
been Westchesterites, but for a brief interlude of living in New
York City. While family-wise we haven’t exhibited the mobility
that is characteristic of America today, business travel has carried
me border to border of the United States, to England and the
Continent, and to Brazil.

JOHN KAPPELER ARNOLD >

HOME ApprEss: 1 South St., Rockport, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESs: New England Telephone & Telegraph Co., 245 State St.,
Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 16, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: John Barry Arnold, Marie
Jessie Kappeler.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925,

MarRiED: Margaret Miller Woessner, Oct. 21, 1933, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
John Kappeler, Jr., Dec. 24, 19345 Marion Scott, Jan. 24, 1936, David
Phillips, July 27, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederic Kappeler Arnold, ’29.

[20]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Directory production manager.

OFFICES HELD: Chapter chairman, American Red Cross, 1944-45; chairman
of Advisory Committee (Finance Board), 1947-48, chief air raid
warden, chairman Protection Division, A.R.P.; trustee, Granite Savings
Bank.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Sandy Bay Yacht Club, Telephone
Pioneers of America; Rockport Art Association (associate).

LOOKING back over nearly twenty-five years brings to mind
countless situations which were more critical at the moment than
they appear in retrospect. A detailed report of my doings would
be dull indeed to those who have had adventurous or really inter-
esting careers. To others who have likewise followed the well-
beaten paths, my ups and downs would taste like the hash of their
own Sunday roasts, so they also shall be spared.

I have spent all of my business life working for a large corpora-
tion, which enjoys the services of many more gifted, some more
personable, and a few more assiduous. Therefore I lay no claim
to distinction, for it is still the same ladder, even if my feet are
a couple of rungs higher. It is interesting to have some part in
formulating and carrying out policy, and it involves adjustment
of personality and opinion to earn and hold a regular position on
the team.

Perhaps my unspectacular progress with its rather static aspects
has qualified me as an observer of the contemporary scene.
Fundamentally I am convinced that the American fallacy is that
of becoming so concerned with making a living as to neglect to
make a life. In other words, business or professional success and
material gain have a tendency to produce an inverse grist of
domestic failure and indifference. It should be remembered that
the purpose of the income is to provide for the outgo, which
means the operation of the home, our most compelling instinct.
The paradox of civilization is that it takes more and more time
away from the family circle to secure the means of maintaining
a home from which the master is usually absent.

After graduation I spent eight pleasant but rather purposeless
years exercising my bachelor’s degree before I had the good
fortune to meet an irresistible reason for making a change. Within
three months we were married, and now, after sixteen years, mv
only regret is that it took so long to find her. From an apartment
we progressed to a small single house, and from that to a larger

[21]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

one. Then we counted the children, and decided that we did
not want to move again, So in this small community by the sea
we are “blow-ins” who have remained and earned tolerance if not
acceptance from the natives.

The more leisurely tempo of conservative village life has helped
us to cushion the impact of civilization upon our offspring. The
movies are five miles removed, and difficulties of time and trans-
port conspire to keep the children away from some of the more
undesirable programs. Instead of hearing about the bees and the
flowers, they have beheld calves and colts just a few hours old.
Arrests for inebriation and instances of bastardy occur to people
with definite identities, instead of being partly-digested headlines
from the metropolitan press. Thus they may learn that lapses
bring trouble to real people, rather than to vague shapes in the
background; also, that it is possible for intelligent people to lead
normal and happy lives despite complications. Familiarity with
the microcosm should assist in understanding the macrocosm.

At times the children have brought perspiration, frustration, or
desperation, but mostly they have spelled comfort, companion-
ship, and a raison d’étre. Margaret and I have tried to remember
that we don’t own them, that they are lent to us awhile for
nurture and guidance, after which they will fly off and leave us
in possession of a battered and lonesome nest.

We have been very happy living together, enjoying the present
and avoiding too much deferment to the future. Our plan is to
make the most of each day, to get in some work, and to work in
some pleasure. Already the vista behind extends further than the
distance ahead, so carpe diem is well advised. I hope the time will
come when we can feel that we have done as well as our parents
before us. Of Harvard and her position I become more proud
with the passage of time; for the privilege of my own association
with the college and company of Harvard men, I am deeply
grateful. |

MORTON ARNOLD

HOME appress: Windham, Conn. -

OFFICE AppREsS: 29 North St., Willimantic, Conn.

BORN: July 1, 1905, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Albert Arnold, Ida Kate.
preparep at: Glenville High School, Cleveland, Ohio,

[22]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: S.B., 1925; M.D., 1929.

MarrieD: Ruby Russ, Dec. 15, 1934, New York, N. Y. cuitpren: Morton
Richard, Nov. 30, 1936; Susan Ann, March 2, 1945.

occuPaATION: Physician and surgeon, specializing in eye, ear, nose and
throat.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Consultant, State Selective Service System.

OFFICES HELD: Chief, Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat Service, Windham Com-
munity Memorial Hospital; consultant in otolaryngology and ophthal-
mology, Mansfield State Training School, Mansficld Depot and Day
Kimball Hospital, Putnam, Conn.; president, Windham County Medical
Society, 1939-40; secretary and treasurer, Connecticut Eye, Ear, Nose
and Throat Society, 1946, 1947, and 1948.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology
(fellow); American College of Surgeons (fellow); Rotary Club;
Journal Club.

I SHOULD like to be able to tell my grandchildren (to be) that
my appointment in 1934 as chief of the Eye, Ear, Nose and
Throat Service of the Windham Community Memorial Hospital
and consultant at two neighboring hospitals was the result of
diligent and skillful practice of my specialty, But in the interest
of truth I shall have to tell them that my predecessor was kind
enough to die just as I was completing my residency at the Man-
hattan Eye and Ear Hospital and that I happened on the scene in
time to fill the vacancies created by his death. After contem-
plating long and anxious months of building up a practice it was
a pleasant surprise, to say the least, to have a busy practice thrown
into my lap.

That I was able to qualify in both ophthalmology and oto-
laryngology I can thank the poor state of our nation in 1932. I
had intended to limit myself to ophthalmology ever since my
interest in the specialty was aroused during my third year of
medical school. But after completing my training in ophthal-
mology in 1932, I found the demands for my services negligible
so accepted the residency in otolaryngology and remained at the
hospital another two years. I have always been glad I did so
because I find the combined practice ideally suited to a small
town.

While in New York, I met Ruby who was a law student from
South Carolina. She lost her first case when I persuaded her to
marry me instead of continuing her studies. We live among the
beautiful hills of eastern Connecticut about four miles from my

[ 23]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

office in Willimantic and about eight miles from the University
of Connecticut. We have made many friends among the faculty
there, not least of whom are our classmates, Ralph Gilman and
James Rockel. Interestingly enough, Ralph was the first man I
bumped into when taking over my duties at the hospital. Our
wives have become good friends —-Ruby Gilman and Ruby
Arnold —and the four of us have had many good times to-
gether. For a number of years we have had an annual double date
for the Harvard-Yale game, where for brief moments we regain
the enthusiasm of our undergraduate days.

Our two children, Dick and Susan, enjoy living in the country
with their parents and are as lively and wearing as most children.
Their parents take off a few days every few months and go to
New York, Chicago, or some other relatively peaceful place to
get away from them and, incidentally, to see some shows and
other entertainment. Once a year we have a two to four weeks’
vacation, at which time we plan to visit some place we’ve never
seen before. On such trips we have been to Canada, Europe,
South America, and the Caribbean.

I have developed no hobbies. This worries me no end because
I’m afraid I won’t have anything to do when our politicians give
us the complete welfare state and no one will have to work.

In the meantime I'll continue to try to get a few sick people
well and try to convince a few more well people that they aren’t
sick. At least I'll do so as long as we, as doctors, are allowed to
practise medicine according to the principles laid down by
Hippocrates, unfettered by the political interference that
threatens us. If the day ever comes that the people of this country
allow themselves to be pushed into a system of political medicine
that Truman and some of our senators are advocating, then that
day I shall be tempted to quit the practice of medicine. For I
sincerely believe that no medicine is better than poor medicine,
and that poor medicine has been the result of socialized medicine
wherever it has been tried in the past and can be the only possible
result wherever it may be tried in the future.

RALPH KIRK ASKEW, JR.

HOME aAppreEss: East Greenville, R. D. 1, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Durlacher Bros., 11 E. 57th St., New York 22, N. Y,

[24]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BoRN: Nov. 19, 1903, Kansas City, Mo, parents: Ralph Kirk Askew, Marion
Pauline Ess.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.

MarrieD: Constance Atwood, May 18, 1929, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Pamela, Feb. 2, 1925 (stepchild); Phoebe, Dec. 17, 1930; Atwood,
March 15, 1932.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Ess Askew, °28.

occupation: Art Dealer.

GEORGE BOSWORTH ASPINWALL

HOME appreEss: 124 N. Symington Ave., Catonsville, Md.

OFFICE ApprEss: Corkran, Hill & Co., 1001 §. Dukeland St., Baltimore 23, Md.

porn: April 25, 1903, Wheeling, W. Va. parents: William Humphrey
Aspinwall, Mabel Louise Bosworth.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926, DEGREE: A.B. 1925 (27).

mMarRRIED: Mary Luke Scheifly, June 26, 1926, Kingston, Pa, cump: Mary-
Louise, June 29, 1929.

occupation: Manager, Provision Department, Corkran, Hill & Company
(subsidiary of Swift & Company).

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Maryland; Mayflower Society.

I AM certainly a fortunate person, in that—

1. I married a remarkable, not to mention beautiful, woman
who has spent the succeeding twenty-four years in trying to
keep me straight, and proving fairly successful.

2. I have a daughter as beautiful as her mother, graduating
this June from Smith at the age of twenty, whose engagement
has been recently announced to a fine, outstanding lad (what else
can I say?) from Dartmouth (Oh well, it might have been
Princeton).

3. I have never starved to death, although it was a close call
during the depression, when the firm for which I started working
after college folded (they were expert advisers who could tell
other businesses how to prosper). I don’t think I walked the
streets more than six months, finally deciding to take the lesser of
the only two evils offered me (the other was the Waldorf Lunch
and I hate washing dishes), and entered upon the career of pack-
ing the products of the lowly hog, with the J. P. Squire Company
in Cambridge. This is a pseudonym for Swift & Company, who,
soon realizing my allergy towards snow and ice, transferred me

[25]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

to Baltimore, the land of sunshine and Bourbon — or is it straight
rye with a beer chaser?

4. My health is good and I have left hospitals alone except
for two visits, on each of which a cataract was removed from
an eye at the early ages of thirty-nine and forty-one (I, who
thought glasses were only for those attending Twenty-fifth
Reunions —and preferably dark ones). This prevented any
military service, although I doubt that I would have been
accepted anyway, due to the fact that I like to go to bed late, and
my only regret was when I read about all my classmates who
were generals and admirals.

5. I voted for Roosevelt the first time in a weak moment, but
regained my strength, and from that time on was identified with
the loser, having by now attained the firm conviction that we are
(I hope not) irretrievably headed towards the Socialistic (Wel- |
fare to you?) State, and with a few more years of Truman can
clasp hands with Great Britain and say “Hi, sucker.”

6. I still have plenty of hair (but oh, how gray). My hobby
of stamp collecting doesn’t cost me much money, because I don’t

have it. I hope to see you in June.

LINDSLEY AUSTIN

HOME ApprEss: 5505 Kalanianaole Highway, Honolulu, Hawaii.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Morgan, Beadle & Austin, 921 Fort St., Honolulu, Hawaii.
BORN: June 17, 1901, Boston, Mass. parENTs: Walter Austin, ’87, Mabel

Lindsley Frazar.

PREPARED AT: Nlilron Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926.

MARRIED: Beatrice MacDonald, April 25, 1930, San Francisco, Calif.
CHILDREN: Ariana, June 23, 1933; James Walker, July 14, 1936.

occupation: Realtor and auctioneer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Navy, Pearl Harbor, 1942-44; Real Estate
Division, U. S. Navy, January-June, 1946; Massachusetts State Guard
ist Corps Cadets, 1944-46.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: In charge, 1942-44, Kailua, Oahu O.C.D. area.

OFFICES HELD: Executive secretary, for 12 years, Honolulu Realty Board;
member, House of Representatives, Territory of Hawaii Legislature,
1941; member, Honolulu Police Reserve, since 1941; director, realty

organizations and loaning associations.
MEMBER OF: Pacific Club; Outrigger Canoe Club; Honolulu Skeet Club.

[26 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IN RETROSPECT, a man looking at twenty-five years in his
life, from the time he leaves college at his physical best and ready
to take on the world to the present, when he has changed so much
physically and is now referred to comparatively by his son and
daughter as “an old man about your age,” wonders if he would
like to live his life over again. I believe [ would! I have been
very fortunate in my family life and, although not the successful
businessman I would like to have been, I fcel that [ have had my
share of life and have contributed to the growth and progress of
these United States and, particularly interesting to me, the Terri-
tory of Hawaii.

Fresh out of college in 1926 (I never did pass those divisionals)
I went off to Hawaii to follow in the footsteps of my grandfather,
James W. Austin, Class of 1849. Elis grandfather was Class of
1790. Grandfather Austin found gold in California, came to
Hawaii and lived here for twenty-two years, raising his family
here. I also came to Hawaii and have lived here for twenty-two
years and have found it to be the greatest place in the world. I
was especially fortunate in being able to enjoy the last five years
of “Old Hawaii” in the first quarter of the century, and then
follow its modernization to the present date.

Through force of circumstances, because of family real estate
holdings in the Territory, I automatically became associated with
the real estate profession and have continued on in that business.
I enjoy the free and easy way of doing business in these Islands,
the fact that you are not lost in a large population and have an
aquaintance with a majority of its citizens, and, as a “haole”
(white man), automatically become a leader of varying degree
in the community. ,

I treasure positions and personal ambitions at which I have taken
a fling, including realtor, trustee, appraiser, auctioneer, insurance
agent, member of the legislature, active police officer, state and
national guardsman, gasoline and liquor rationing head (this one
was really worth while! !), Skeet Club manager, lobster diver,
surf-board expert, wild dog exterminator, and numerous other
important (sic) positions of trust and ability!

My family and I have progressed phlegmatically through
volcanic eruptions, a major tidal wave, the opening of a war, in
which I believe I was the first Harvard man shot at on December

[27]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

seventh, 1941, countless strikes and other occurrences not usually
encountered by the average mainlander. We of Hawaii accept
what comes and look forward to what another day may bring.
We have a Hawaiian word which aptly illustrates our way of |
life — ““Hoomanauwanui,” which means “take it easy, everything
will work out O.K.” Or as other citizens say, “cool head main
thing.”

We have no particular urge to return to settle in the United
States. We are content with a two months’ vacation, preferably
on the east coast, every two or three years, just to keep up to
date on what is going on and to renew acquaintances with family
and friends.

My two children, fourteen and seventeen, are true “keiki o ka
aina” (children of the land) through birth and life in Hawaii.
They have attended Punahou School and will doubtless graduate,
have attained passing grades there, have a useful knowledge of
the Hawaiian language which they find beneficial in the States
wherein they can criticize and freely air their likes and dislikes of
their elders with perfect impunity, and seem quite contented,
like their mother and father, with their mode of life and all things
Hawaiian. ,

I look forward to a continued pleasant life in these changing
times, more or less unworried, knowing that sooner or later a new
administration will take over in Washington and hopefully trust-
ing that the New Deal and the Fair Deal will give way to a Real
Deal!

WILLIAM MASON AUSTIN

HOME appreEss: 766 Chestnut St., Needham, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Austin-Hastings Co., Inc., 226 Binney St., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 7, 1902, Jamaica Plain, Mass. parents: Francis Boylston Austin,
Mary Lydia Fisher.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MarRiED: Marjory Low Weld, Feb. 12, 1927 (divorced 1934); Dorothy
Richards, Dec. 20, 1934. CHILDREN: Marjory Weld, Nov. 22, 1927;
Francis Reed, Dec. 21, 1929; Katherine Richards, Dec. 29, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Reed Austin, ’20 (deceased).

occupation: President, Austin-Hastings Company, Inc.

[ 28]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Free Hospital for Women, Boston; president, Blue
Hill Memorial Hospital, Blue Hill, Maine; director, Parker D. Perry
Company, Inc.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline; Harvard Club of Boston,
Tihonet Club, Trigger Club; Dedham Country and Polo Club.

AFTER obtaining my diploma in June, 1925, from a pigeonhole
in the basement of Memorial Hall I suddenly experienced a
peculiar sensation. What a let-down—the lid was off — my
studies were over and my scholastic education was about as com-
plete as it probably ever would be. Now I was a “roughly
finished” product of Harvard, just rolling off the production line
and about to enter the iron and steel business, for which the
degree of A.B. was about as useful as Lydia Pinkham’s Compound
to my future business career.

Shortly after graduation I had the opportunity of spending
considerable time in various steel mills in the Pittsburgh area,
under the guidance of George A. Hastings, my father’s junior
partner. Most of this trip was concentrated in the Ellwood City
Works of the National Tube Company, with shorter visits to
mills at Homestead, Duquesne, Vandergrift, McKeesport, Christy
Park, Superior, Lorain, and also the copper mills at Rome, New
York.

Events occurred fast from then on. My father liquidated his
partnership and Austin-Hastings Company, Inc., was created, I
being tagged with the dubious title of assistant treasurer and gen-
eral drawback. Five months later my father died very suddenly
and as a result Arthur Hastings and I were left with a corporation
on our hands either to sink or swim. Fortune was kind to us dur-
ing the next few years and the new corporation successfully
weathered its infancy and has steadily progressed ever since.

Returning from a summer’s trip to Europe in 1924, on the S.S.
Scythia | met my future wife, Marjory Low Weld. We were
married in New York on February 12, 1927. Our daughter,
Marjory Weld Austin, was born in November of that year and
two years later a son, Francis Reed Austin, was born. Sadly
enough this marriage was of short duration and a divorce was
granted me in May, 1934. Very fortunately for me and my two
children I soon met Dorothy Richards, formerly of Cleveland,

[ 29]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

then of Cambridge, and we were married shortly afterwards.

Katherine Richards Austin was born on December 29, 1936.

My two beloved uncles, James W. Austin and Richard Austin,
of Dover, Massachusetts, passed away in 1933 and 1934 respec-
tively, leaving considerably more family responsibility on my
shoulders in the form of taking care of my three aunts’ affairs,
etc., in Marion. These additional cares, plus a very actively
growing business, have kept me more than busy and, fortunately,
out of trouble.

As for the children, Peggy attended the Charles River School
in Dover, spent one year at Winsor School, three years at Green-
vale Schoo] on Long Island, three years at Garrison Forest School,
and two years at Bennett Junior College. She later took a full
course at the Washington, D. C., School for Secretaries and
subsequently obtained a very interesting position in the Central
Intelligence Agency.

Larry enjoyed four years at Charles River School, two years
at Noble and Greenough, and five years at Middlesex School in
Concord, Massachusetts. One year at Hobart College, Geneva,
New York, and a month’s hard labor in the warehouse of Austin-
Hastings Company, Inc., apparently created a desire to transfer
to Boston University to take the ever-popular business administra-
tion course. If he successfully completes this course he intends
to join the company and thus become the fourth generation of
Austins to be continuously employed in the iron and steel business
here in New England since 1849. Kitty completed five years at
Charles River School and at present is enjoying her second year
at Winsor School.

Since graduation twenty-five years of business have slipped
by very quickly; they’ve been active, exciting, completely
interesting, and I have enjoyed them immensely.

However, upon reviewing the last twenty-five years of this
country’s politics, I deeply deplore the fundamental and basic
principles of the Roosevelt Era, as well as those of the present
weak-kneed incumbent of the White House. For the government
to educate Jabor to believe that Uncle Sam “owes them a living”
is quite beyond any red-blooded manly ethics. But when the
government allows unemployment compensation to labor on

[ 30]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

strike in the basic industries of this country it is, to me, nothing
more than national sabotage.

The trouble is that our government has become too bureau-
cratic, paternalistic, and socialistic, without care of how it spends
the people’s money. Our national debt to any business man is pre-
posterous and still four years after World War IL our President
hasn’t been able to balance the federal budget. What we need
is a damn able business man in the White House, who can bring
back the old Yankee principles of economy and saving and give
this country a sound financial business administration, instead of
our present government’s ruinous policy of “It’s economically
sound to spend out more than you take in.”

The six verses that follow echo many personal sentiments of
the few remaining Republicans here in New England:

The Government Way

“Father, must I go out to work?”
“No! no! my darling son!

We're living now on easy street
With funds from Washington.”

“We're cared for, now, by Uncle Sam
So don’t get exercised.
We do not need to care a damn

" Because we’re subsidized.”

“But if he’s going to treat us well,
And give us milk and honey,
Please tell me, truly, where the hell
He’s going to get the money?”

“Don’t worry, child, there is no hitch
About this glorious plan.

He'll get the money from the rich
To help the common man.”

“But, father, won’t there come a time,
If we take all their cash

And they are left without a dime,
When things will go to smash?”

[31]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

“You need a lot of seasoning,

You nosy little brat,

You do too damn much reasoning
To be a ‘Fair Deal Democrat.’ ”

Who the author of these verses is I never did know, but at
least he had an idea.

DAVID FREDERICK BABSON

HOME ADDRESS: 55 Elmwood Ave., Waterbury, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 43 E. Main St., Waterbury, Conn.

porn: Nov. 27, 1896, Pigeon Cove, Mass. PareNts: Frederick Babson, Ella
Marie Bailey.

PREPARED AT: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924.

MaRRiIED: Emma Rikert, Sept. 2, 1922, Stanfordville, N. Y. cur~pren: David
Frederick, Jr., Oct. 19, 1923; Helen Hall, Dec. 25, 1927; Ruth Rikert,

Jan. 5, 1931.

HARVARD SON: David Frederick Babson, Jr., 45.

OCCUPATION: Scout executive, Mattatuck Council, Boy Scouts of America.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Private first class, Infantry, Yankee Division, -
World War I.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, disaster committee, Waterbury Chapter, Red Cross,
1937-46; chairman and member of various committees, Civilian Defense,
World War II, 1941-46,

MEMBER OF; University Club of Waterbury; Rotary Club.

BEFORE writing about any activities since college, I feel it some-
what necessary to identify myself in college, since I entered con-
siderably older than the average member of the Class, a veteran of
that, if you recall the phrase, “War to End War.” (I might add
that I was attending college quite without assistance from our
Uncle Sam.) Then, half-way through my freshman year I took
the part-time job of directing the activities of the Cambridge Boy
Scout Council, and was married just before the beginning of
sophomore year — all of which precluded in great part the other-
wise desirable and normal acquaintances of college days.

For two and a half of the three years I spent at Harvard, and
all the years since, I have been working as a Boy Scout executive:
at Cambridge until 1929, at Holyoke, Massachusetts, until 1936,
and from that time here in Waterbury, Connecticut. It has been
extremely interesting work. In my opinion the scouting program

[ 32]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

continues to offer a most constructive experience for boyhood
days. Its organization probably could and should be simplified,
nor is the movement entirely free from some banalities. From
time to time it suffers from the too extravagant claims of sponsors
or well-wishers. But the balance is overwhelmingly on the credit
side, and the movement has not yet reached its full potential.

Hobbies? Bridge, mostly duplicate, and definitely a hobby;
some fishing, but seemingly less with the years, quite a bit of
reading and study of the political, social, and military history of
our Civil War period (not the “War Between the States,” please).

Convictions? Not too easy to hold in this atomic age. I be-
lieve we lost a great deal by not putting our full weight behind
the League of Nations, imperfect an instrument as it may have
been. I fear we may lose everything if we do not support the
United Nations, granting again that the instrument is not perfect.

Family: David, Jr., finishing his third year at the University of
Michigan Law School; one daughter, Helen, working and living
in New York City; the youngest, Ruth, a freshman at the
University of Connecticut, at Storrs; and my wife and I at home,
almost settled down to an evening of cribbage for excitement —
and so it goes!

WILLIAM BABSON

HOME ADDRESS: 1069 Boylston St., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Field Enterprises, Inc., 35 E, Wacker Drive, Chicago, Il.

BORN: July 24, 1903, Brookline, Mass, parents: Robert Tillinghast Babson,
82, Alice Cary Jordon.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925.

UNMARRIED.

OccUPATION: Field representative.

UPON leaving college in 1925, I joined Lever Brothers Company,
soap manufacturers, where I remained twenty years. I spent
most of that time in travelling, thereby exchanging the education
received by being in practically every nook and corner of these
United States, with vacation trips outside, for perhaps the more
comfortable one of being at home and seeing more of my class-
mates.

[ 33]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

After twenty years I found I still hadn’t learned how to wash
and dry behind my ears, so we parted amicably: they on to
continued success and me to Saturday night, instead of daily,
contacts with soap. I am now associated with Field Enterprises,
Inc., whose headquarters are in Chicago.

I have never been married, so all I know about wives is that m
friends have them and that I am useful occasionally for shoulder-
ing the blame for leading them (the husbands, that is) astray. I
still have most of my hair and health and, I trust, a sense of humor
chat will carry me through to 1975 at least.

HUGO LINDEN BAIR

HOME ADDRESS: 1118 Plummer Circle, Rochester, Minn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn.

BoRN: Oct. 12, 1904, Harrisburg, Ill. parents: Frederick August Bair, Lela
Smith.

PREPARED AT: Western Military Academy, Alton, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; M.D., 1929.

MarRiED: Harriet Sullivan, June 22, 1929, Boston, Mass. cHttpREN: Hugo
Linden, Jr., March 1, 1934; Timothy M,, Jan. 19, 1941; Molly and Sally
(twins), Jan. 8, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Medicine.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Medical Reserve Corps, U. S. Army, 1927-34.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman of council, 1948-49, member of council, 1949-50,
Minnesota Academy of Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology.

MEMBER OF; American Medical Association, Minnesota Academy of Oph-
thalmology and Otolaryngology; American Academy of Ophthal-
mology and Otolaryngology; American Ophthalmology Society; Sigma
Xi; Phi Chi Medical Fraternity; Rochester Toastmasters Club; Rochester
Golf and Country Club.

PuBLicaTions: “Some New Conceptions Regarding Fgocentric Visual
Localization”; “Physiological Principles of Visual Field Study”; “An
Analysis and Interpretation of Anomalous Localization and Allied
Phenomena in Strabismus.”

AS I reflect on it, my college Commencement marked the be-
ginning of a more serious phase of life. 1 entered Harvard Medical
School the next fall, after spending a memorable summer in
Europe playing with a dance band. Medical school was somewhat
a repetition of college, inasmuch as I continued to be a student
and had yet to make a productive dent in the world. However,
these four years furnished me with more lasting memories than

[ 34]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

did college — memories of classmates, faculty, and incidents. I
became a member of the Phi Chi Medical Fraternity. I also met
my future wife during this time and upon my graduation in 1929
we were married. The financial crash of 1929 did not affect us
very greatly since we married on the proverbial shoestring
anyway.

I spent the next year in internship at the new Passavant
Memorial Hospital in Chicago on its medical service and then in
January went back to Boston for a residency in ophthalmology
at the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary. Upon completing
this in 1932, I opened an office for the practice of ophthalmology
in Boston. I was also appointed an associate in research at the
Howe Laboratory of Ophthalmology and an instructor in
ophthalmology at the Harvard Medical School. In 1934 I re-
ceived an appointment to the staff of the Mayo Clinic as a
consultant in ophthalmology and have remained in this position
ever since. My work has consisted of the diagnosis and treatment
of eye disease, eye surgery, some investigative work, and teaching.
I am an associate professor of ophthalmology in the Mayo Foun-
dation, a department of the Graduate School of Medicine in the
University of Minnesota.

During my years here I have become a member of Sigma Xi,
American Ophthalmological Society, American Academy of
Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology, and the Minnesota Acad-
emy of Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology in which I was
chairman of the council the past year. I have written twelve
scientific papers on various subjects in ophthalmology and have
given a number of talks before various medical societies.

My life out here in this somewhat unusual small midwestern
city has been very pleasant. The group of physicians at the Mayo
Clinic include some of the finest men it has been my pleasure to
know and have as associates and the whole-hearted codperation
between them, I believe, can hardly be equalled anywhere. This
naturally breeds refreshing and enjoyable living.

Shortly after coming here our first child and son was born.
Since then another boy and twin girls have been added to our
family. We enjoy many close friendships. Harriet and I like
very much to dance and we try to keep up on the latest dances.
We have thought of taking up the old-fashioned dances but as

[35]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

yet have not found the time for it. For quieter evenings we play
bridge or poker. Vacations have been few and far between be-
cause of our children, but we hope that soon the children will
require less supervision and we shall be more free to leave them
occasionally.

My individual pastimes are chiefly golf and hunting, although
the demands of my profession limit my golfing considerably. I
am now reduced to being an every-other-weekend golfer. I
enjoy upland game and wild fowl hunting and although there is
a relative abundance of such game in this part of the country,
the decrease of it in recent years is quite noticeable. My fine
golden retriever is now getting old and spoiled by the children,
so I recently bought another one as a pup and plan on training him
myself. I have a small workshop in the basement but my original
vision of turning out woodworking projects has become eclipsed
by repair jobs around the house, keeping the children’s toys in
working order and working on a few new or modified instru-
ments for eye surgery.

All in all I seem to have enough to do to stimulate interest as
well as keep myself fairly well occupied and I am beginning to
realize the truth in the statement, “Life is short; the art is
long. . .”

FRANK BURKETT BAIRD, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1069 Delaware Ave., Buffalo 9, N. Y.

BoRN: Aug. 25, 1902, Marquette, Mich. parents: Frank Burkett Baird, Flora
Cameron.

PREPARED AT: Chestnut Hill Academy, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.

OCCUPATION: Personal investments.

FOR some years I was engaged principally in advertising, a busi-

ness I sold upon my entrance into the Army during the war. I am

now occupied with personal investments. My main hobby is

travel, to which I’ve always devoted considerable time.

EDGAR HOWES BAKER, JR.

HOME apprEss: 40 Cochrane St, Melrose, Mass.
OFFICE ADpRESS: Hood Rubber Co., Watertown, Mass.

[ 36]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: June 26, 1905, Everett, Mass. paRENTs: Edgar Howes Baker, Leona
Rand Lee.

PREPARED AT: Portsmouth High School, Portsmouth, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. Cum laude, 1925.

MARRIED: Maxyne Jennings, Nov. 15, 1931, West Hartford, Conn, cyto:
Frederick Lee, Sept. 20, 1933.

occupation: Employment supervisor; also other phases of personnel work.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member, Boston Area Manpower Appeal
Board, member, Mayor's Citizens Manpower Committee.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Retail Personnel Association, New York City,
1934-35.

MEMBER OF: Personnel Managers Club; Boston Chamber of Commerce.

I CAN lay no claim to either fame or fortune, nor can I, like
some of my classmates, bring glory to Harvard by my deeds. I
have lived a very average business life, working seriously and
pretty hard in a field I have enjoyed for some twenty years now.
I have tried to do some service to my fellow-men in helping them
in their job and family worrics, and in so doing have got a great
deal of personal satisfaction, if not a fortune. I shall probably live
on in the hopeless anonymity of an average New England Repub-
lican who enjoys his family, his home, his reading, and his little
world, and is not consumed with a burning desire to do other than
continue to work with men to make a better world for us all.

There has been nothing startling in my career and nothing to
note in large letters. I’m trying to be a good citizen, a good father,
and a good executive. I hope the results will prove me successful
in all three counts. To more than this I do not aspire.

GEORGE PIERCE BAKER

HOME Appress: 93 Mt. Vernon St., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE appREsS: Harvard Business School, Soldiers Field, Boston 63, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 1, 1903, Cambridge, Mass, parents: George Pierce Baker, °87,
Christina Hopkinson.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; A.M., 1930; PH.D., 1934.

marrieD: Ruth Parker Bremer, Sept. 4, 1926, West Dover, Vt. CHILDREN:
George Pierce, June 15, 1931; Sarah Bremer, March 30, 1934; Ruth,
Dec. 19, 1937; Elizabeth, Sept. 24, 1941.

HARVARD SON: George Pierce Baker, '53.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Hopkinson Baker, ’15; Edwin Osborne Baker, ‘17;
Myles Pierce Baker, ’22. ‘

[37]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

occuPATION: James J. Hill Professor of Transportation, Graduate School
of Business Administration, Harvard University.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant colonel, Q.M.C., Nov.
23, 1942; promoted colonel, G.S.C., Nov. 25, 1943; Legion of Merit,
1945.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Vice-chairman, Civil Aeronautics Board, 1942;
director, Requirements Division, Office of Quartermaster General, War
Department, 1942.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Arts and Sciences; American Economic
Association; Council on Foreign Relations; Newcomen Society of
England; Rhode Island Society of the Cincinnati; Harvard Club of
New York; Chevy Chase Club, Metropolitan Club, Washington, D. C.;
Somerset Club; Badminton & Tennis Club; Harvard Club of Boston.

PuBLicaTions: T'be Formation of the New England Railroad Systems, Har-
vard University Press, 1937, 1949.

IMMEDIATELY after graduation I went to work with Scudder,
Stevens & Clark in Boston but found that my childhood interest
in all things to do with transportation had not diminished. When
I had an opportunity in 1927 to take on an administrative job at
Harvard, with time to work towards a graduate degree, I left
Scudder, Stevens & Clark to go back to the University, with
which I have been associated ever since.

In 1936, after teaching part-time as an instructor in economics
and tutoring in the fields of history, government and economics,
I came to the Business School as an assistant professor of transpor-
tation, I continued teaching there until 1940, when I went on a
leave of absence which was to last until 1946. In that year I came
back to succeed Professor Cunningham as James J. Hill Professor
of Transportation, a professorship endowed in 1915 by the builder
and former president of the Great Northern Railroad and some
of his friends.

In 1940 the Baker family moved to Washington, D. C., where
I served as member and vice-chairman of the Civil Aeronautics
Board until 1942. Early in that year I took on the job of re-
organizing the Requirements Division in the Office of the Quar-
termaster General. Since the work of the Civil Aeronautics Board
was fast losing any important connection with the war effort, I

resigned in the fall of 1942 and went into uniform. I remained
chair-borne and very safe in Washington throughout the war.
After setting up the new Requirements Organization for the
Quartermaster Corps, I was transferred to the Special Planning

[ 38]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Division of the War Department General Staff. My main job was
the working out of requirements for a one-front as opposed to a
two-front war, and the translation of these requirements into
aircraft production schedules in order to facilitate a smooth
transition in the production of aircraft upon the fall of Germany.
After the fall of Germany my job was to work out a plan for the
demobilization of the aircraft industry after the fall of Japan, the
purpose being to prevent the contraction of that industry to such
a low point that it could not be quickly and adequately ex-
panded in time for a World War III. This plan was subsequently
presented to Congress as the Report of the Air Codrdinating
Committee on Demobilization of the Aircraft Industry, early in
1946. It was received with interest and quietly tucked away in
some pigeonhole.

I spent the year between the fall of Japan and my return to
the Business School as director of the Office of Transport and
Communications Policy in the State Department, the job there
being to set up an organization to carry out the negotiations for
opening up the world to American airline operations. Since 1946
I have been the U. S. member of the United Nations Transport
and Communications Commission. I have continued to do con-
sulting work of one kind or another for numerous government
agencies since coming back to the Business School.

Of the jobs I have had since graduating, the ones which have
been most rewarding have included: setting up the Requirements
Division in the Quartermaster Corps in the early days of the war;
my job in the State Department, especially as chairman of the
U. S. delegation to the U. S.-U. K. Aviation Conference in Ber-
muda in the winter of 1945-46, when a new type of international
aviation agreement was worked out, closing the breach which had
previously existed between the British and French concept on one
hand and the U. S. concept on the other; membership on the
President’s Air Policy Commission, a group of five men who were
asked in the summer of 1947 to give the President recommenda-
tions on national aviation policy; and lastly, a job I have just
finished as chairman of the Aeronautics Committee of the Re-
search and Development Board of the National Military Estab-
lishment.

[39]

- HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

The President’s Air Policy Commission was set up primarily
because, as Congress had paid no attention to the Air Coér-
dinating Committee Report on Demobilization of the Aircraft
Industry, that industry was already operating at a lower level
than had been recommended as safe in the report, and it was hoped
that the recommendations of a presidential commission might be
taken more seriously by Congress. By the time the commission
was set up, however, its purpose had expanded to cover all avia-
tion matters and the inquiry into the proper size of the aircraft
industry led inevitably to questions as to the proper size of the
military establishment. Answers to such questions required in-
quiry into the most vital matters dealing with our national
security. The result was as interesting and sobering a five months
as I have ever had.

I consider that my twenty-five years since graduation have
been unusually lucky ones, because [ have a sizeable and happy
family and have been able to combine teaching, research, and
industry consulting in an area that has always interested me, with
government service of an even more rewarding type.

+ JOHN DENISON BALDWIN

BoRN: Nov. 28, 1902, Worcester, Mass. Parents: John Denison Baldwin,
Mary Fiske Eaton.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 1925; M.B.A. 1927,

MarrieD: Muriel A. Bowra, March 23, 1938, San Francisco, Calif. cHitp:
John Denison, 2d (by previous marriage).

piep: Sept. 26, 1946, Sydney, Australia.

JOHN DENISON BALDWIN entered Harvard after complet-

ing preparatory studies at Milton Academy. In his freshman year

he was a member of the Freshman Rifle Team, Freshman Finance

Committee, the Red Book and Lampoon, Freshman Musical Clubs,

and served as manager of the Freshman Gym Team. In 1924 he

was a member of the Republican Club Committee. During his

senior year he served as president of the Mountaineering Club. His

memberships also included the Hasty Pudding Club-Institute of

1770 and the Phoenix Club. After receiving his A.B. degree with

the Class, he entered the Harvard Business School and was granted

an M.B.A. degree in 1927.
[40]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After his graduation from the Harvard Business School, he re-
turned to his home in Worcester where he was engaged in the
trust department of the Worcester Bank & Trust Company. The
following year he was with Jackson & Curtis, a stock and bond
firm. Active in local aviation, he was one of the first men in
Worcester to own a private plane, and played a prominent role in
the establishment of the Grafton Airport. In December, 1929, he
took a trip to Tahiti and the South Seas spending several months
in New Zealand, Australia, and Hawaii. He later returned to Aus-
tralia for a stay of three years. In 1936, while there, he achieved a
record, when he caught a 996%-pound shark off Sydney Heads
with a rod and reel. This catch was considered at that time to be
a world’s record. In 1937 he returned to the United States and
settled in California, but in 1940 he wrote in the Quindecennial
Report that he was interested in returning to Australia to establish
an agricultural enterprise.

He was survived by his wife and son, both of Sydney, Australia.

THOMAS BANES

HOME appreEss: 27 Linnaean St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 19 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 14, 1900, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Robert Coleman Banes,
Margaret Wrenn.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921~1923.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

AFTER twenty-five years of striving I am still striving.

JAMES OUTRAM BANGS

HOME ADDRESS: 44 Summer St., Nahant, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Fiduciary Trust Co., 10 Post Office Sq., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 4, 1902, Nahant, Mass. parents: Francis Reginald Bangs, ’g1,
Anna Dummer Anderson.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MarrieD: Dorothea Frothingham, Sept. 12, 1936, Beverly Farms, Mf{ass.
CHILDREN; Lucy Jandon and Diana Outram (twins), July 22, 1938;
Jonathan, Jan. 8, 1943.

[41]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

HARVARD BROTHERS: Edward Bangs, ’21 (deceased); David Hinckley Bangs,
36.

occupation: Banking.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club.

AFTER graduation and two years in the Harvard Business
School, I went to work for Scudder, Stevens & Clark (investment
counsel). In 1929 I joined the Fiduciary Trust Company and I
have been treasurer of it ever since, and a vice-president since

1949.
In 1936 I married Dorothea Frothingham. In 1938, we had

twin girls, Lucy and Diana. This seemed to call for a house
instcad of apartment life in Boston, so we bought one in Nahant,
and are still there. Jonathan joined the group in 1943.

My main hobbies have been cruising (except for a short inter-
lude on other people’s boats), and guns and gunning. Since
moving to Nahant, we have added to our hobbies the study of the
theory and practice of local town government, a field which any
dweller in a town should find highly interesting.

NORTON BARBER

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Bennington, Vt.

BorN: July 10, 1903, Bennington, Vt. parents: Orion Metcalf Barber, Mab
Norton.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A-B., 1925.

marriep: Marcia Lamberton Stevens, Sept. 10, 1932, Hoosick Falls, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Orion Metcalf, 2d, Oct. 20, 1935; Nancy Stoughton, July 31,
1938; Elizabeth Stevens, Feb. 26, 1945; Jonathan Luman, Oct. 25, 1949.

occupATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Vermont State Guard, 1941-42.

OFFICES HELD: State’s attorney, 1930-35; member, Committee to Propose
Amendments to Vermont Constitution, 1939-40, House of Representa-
tives (Vermont), 1939-44, Senate (Vermont), 1945-47, Vermont Judicial
Council, 1945-47, Emergency Board, 1945-47, Committee on State
Government and Finance, 1945-47; trustee, University of Vermont and
State Agricultural College, since 1945; member board of managers,
1944-47, Vice-president, 1946-49, president, 1949-50, Vermont Bar Asso-
ciation; member Board of Examiners, since 1942; master, Mt. Anthony
Lodge #13, F. & A.M. 1933-34; vice-president; Henry W. Putnam
Memorial Hospital, since 1948.

MEMBER oF: Bennington County Bar Association; American Bar Association;
Bennington Club.

[42 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IT ISN’T hard to think back to Harvard and Cambridge. The
time seems short. The difficulty is to realize that already I have
been practising law here in Bennington for twenty-one years. |
came a cropper at Harvard Law School but was admitted to the
Bar in 1928.

My father had been a judge at Washington during the entire
period of my education so, although I had been born here, the
only time I saw Bennington after the age of six was during
summer vacations. Hating the city as I did, I came to regard
Bennington as home and headquarters far more strongly than
might have been the case had I actually grown up here. With
schooling completed, I promptly headed for good old Vermont.
The decision to live and die in my home town, to return to my
native state where I belonged, to get my roots down so they
could never pull out — that was what, I am convinced, spelled
happiness and what success there has been for me.

I started, as all young lawyers in Vermont do, in a law office
looking up land titles and legal questions for the older lawyers,
getting embroiled in bitterly contested suits over $75 or less
before a justice of the peace. Much experience resulted but
little income. After two years of that, friends got me appointed
to fill the unexpired term of the state’s attorney (county prose-
cuting officer) and then the fun began. That year of 1930, you
remember, prohibition was rampant. The Wickersham Report
on the subject listed as the place where enforcement was the
poorest in all of these United States, none other than Bennington,
Vermont.

At first it was like using a sieve for a pail. If on a raid we caught
any liquor (which was pure luck because the sheriff was in
cahoots with the joints), the jury wouldn’t convict. Gradually I
learned who the honest officers were and the hauls increased.
Once one of these men arrested a large sedan solidly packed with
burlap bags of Canadian ale. As in duty bound, he phoned the
sheriff the news and was roundly blasphemed for interfering with
one of the sheriffs friends. However, I finally began to make a
little headway and with the help of a stern and teetotaling judge,
succeeding in drying up the county at least so we were down a
few notches in the next Wickersham Report.

Not all the state’s attorney’s business concerned prohibition.

[ 43 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Adultery, rape, assault, and arson became more or less common-
place with me. It was surprising to find that each of the various
towns apparently specialized in its own favorite type of crime:
for Arlington, adultery and incest; for Sandgate, breaches of the
peace; for Rupert, chicken stealing, and so on.

My activities in law enforcement lasted from 1930 to 1935.
In that period Marcia Stevens and | were married and started to
raise our family. I became master of our Masonic Lodge and
Marcia complained that if I wasn’t out on a criminal case I spent
the time at home mumbling Masonic ritual under my breath.

In 1938 I ran for the General Assembly and represented Ben-
nington in the House at the 1939 session. It was an eye-opener.
Two hundred and forty-five other towns sent their representa-
tives: farmers, merchants, mechanics, undertakers, lawyers,
teachers, ministers, engineers, a few frauds, but not many fools.
I heard varieties of Yankee twang worse than my own and found
that the men with the most on the ball were not necessarily either
the best educated or the most polished speakers. “he farmers as
a group usually held the whip hand and used their power with
intelligence and foresight. Partisan politics were largely absent.

I continued as town representative at each biennial session from
1939 to 1943 and in 1945 graduated to the Senate. It was impos-
sible not to make friends all over the state. Constant pressure from
Washington for the passage of half-baked New Deal legislation
brought out the usual Vermont characteristics of independence
and self-reliance. We called most bills that took more than three
printed pages “Sears Roebuck bills.” One such I recall in par-
ticular. It prohibited any publicity as to the names of those re-
ceiving old age assistance and since the towns contributed to that
program, thereby prevented the voters from finding out just who
their tax money had been spent on. No less than the head of the
regional Social Security Office in Boston attended the committee
hearing on the bill and threatened prompt withdrawal of federal
funds if it wasn’t passed.

“Wal, naow,” remarked a farmer, “You mean to tell us if we
pass this bill, we ain’t agoin’ to be able to git up in taown meetin’
and find out where our money’s gone?”

The regional head replied stiffly that that was just so and that
the social security board couldn’t be bothered with local peculi-

[ 44 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

arities. In the ensuing ominous silence I put the question to a
vote. Unanimous “agin.” Our committee reported the situation
to the House, saying that this feller had threatened to cut off the
federal money. The bill was killed by a vote of some 200 to 30.

They say with reason that Vermonters are conservative, yet
that is not the whole picture. In 1943 the General Assembly
passed the War Powers Act which gave the Governor a practical
dictatorship. During the session of the House which passed the
measure I was on my feet for better than two hours at a stretch
explaining the various provisions. The people had never in the
history of the state surrendered such far-reaching authority, yet
they rose to the necessities of the situation with but a few dissent-
ing voices.

As the result of my legislative experience I gained some knowl-
edge of the state government and served as member of various
bodies, among them the Emergency Board, which makes appro-
priations during the interim between legislative sessions and serves
as a kind of unofficial Governor's cabinet, the Commission on
State Government and Finance, which was appointed by the
Governor to recommend simplification in the state government’s
various departments and improvements in the tax laws, and the
board of trustees of the University of Vermont and State Agri-
cultural College.

PHILIP WILLSON BARBER

HOME apprEss: 163 E. 33rd St., New York 16, N. Y.

OFFICE AppRESS: Robbins, Barber & Baar, 270 Madison Ave., New York 16,
N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 11, 1903, Mason City, Iowa. parents: Charles Henry Barber,
Mary Willson.

PREPARED AT: Mason City High School, Mason City, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1925.

MarriED: Doris Frankel, May 18, 1933, New York, N. Y.; Stephanie Frey,
June 7, 1947, New York, N. Y. cuitpren: Willson Benn, July 29, 19373
Benjamin Reynolds, Aug. 2, 1939.

occuPaTION: Public relations counsel.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT PosTS: Chief, community services, War Relocation
Authority.

OFFICES HELD: President, Conferences, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Public Relations Society of
America.

[45]

HARVARD CLASS OF 192§

RICHARD MALONE BARBER

HOME ADDRESS: 175 Stonewall St., Memphis, Tenn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Barber & Leduke, Sterick Bldg., Memphis, Tenn.

BoRN: Oct. 24, 1903, Memphis, Tenn, parents: James Monroe Barber, Mary
Emeline Dunagan.

PREPARED AT: Messick and State Teachers’ College, Memphis, Tenn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925; LL.B. (Univ. of Memphis),

1935.
marRiED: Harriette Beckham, Aug. 25, 1934, Memphis, Tenn.

occuPaTION: Attorney-at-law.
IN THE words of some of our highest and most recent public
figures, “No Comment.”

GEORGE ELY BARKER

HOME ADDRESS: 1697 Cambridge St., Apt. 10, Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDREsS: First National Bank of Boston, 67 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

porN: March 14, 1902, Malden, Mass. parents: Walter Barker, Maude
Van de Warker. .

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass., Malden High School,
Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926.

MarriepD: Ann Stewart, April 16, 1927, Framingham, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

orFices HELD: Elected member, Town Meeting, Watertown, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Bank Officers Association of Boston; Harvard Class of 1925
Association.

THE years since graduation have found me a resident of Water-

town, Massachusetts, and lately of Cambridge, with summers

spent at the ancestral site, Stephentown, New York. The work-a-

day world has been spent first with the Old Colony Trust Com-

pany of Boston and, with the merger of that institution and the

First National Bank of Boston, I continued, working with various

departments. My present assignment is with the foreign division.

One hobby has served these years — trout fishing — an avoca-
tion I have found that fills not only the months spent in the open

but those by the fireside as well.

LAURENCE JUSTIN BARNES

HOME AppRESs: 33 Hillcrest Pl., Westwood, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 332 S. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.

[ 46 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Sept. 20, 1901, Barre, Vt, parents: Arnold Robert Barnes, Lila Inez
Ball.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926,

MarRieD: Frances Kathryn Peterson, March 27, 1929, Boston, Mass.
CHILDREN; Jocelyn Lee, Dec. 10, 1931; Meredith Guilford, May 11, 1936.

occupation: Special representative, International Association of Lions Clubs.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Westwood Civilian Defense Organization.

OFFICES HFLD: Secretary, 1927-33, president, 1933-36, Department on Em-
ployment and Industrial Conditions, Boston Council of Social Agencies;
charter president, Westwood Lions Club, 1940-41, deputy district
governor, 1941-43, district governor, 1943-44, Massachusetts Lions Club,
international counsellor, International Association of Lions Clubs, since
1944, president, Westwood Taxpayers Association, 1946-47; member,
Westwood Town Finance Committee, 1945-48.

MEMBER OF; Westwood Lions Club,

PuBLICATIONS: “Employment of the Physically Handicapped” (reprinted
from a speech at the National Conference of Social Work), 1933.

T REMAINED in Cambridge until marriage in 1929, and kept my
keen interest in all Harvard teams around the sports calendar.
After College I went into the field of physical rehabilitation which
held my interest until 1944; in that year [ began my present work
of organizing and servicing Lions Clubs in New England.

Ulcers followed an injury sustained while playing soccer at
Harvard and I have had to battle that condition since then. I still
manage a little golf and bowling.

Whatever social, political, and religious convictions I did acquire
through the early years and college have vanished and I have an
open mind. You never can tell — perhaps the next fellow with
whom you take issue on such controversial subjects could become
your best friend. From “Omar” we learned: “He who hath a
thousand friends hath none to spare.” You have asked for our
“convictions,” not a nice word, especially if you drop the ending
from it. But for this one, may I have the courage to have no more.

Carpentry and woodwork are chief hobbies with me, and I
might take more time with a hen house than a model cathedral.

ISAAC MARGOLIS BARNETT

HOME apprEss: 304 Roselle Ave., Cedarhurst, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Silver & Saperstein, 150 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 23, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Samuel Barnett, Bertha
Margolis.

[47 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

PREPARED AT: Far Rockaway High School, Far Rockaway, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B, SumIma cum laude, 19253 LL.B.
(Columbia Univ.), 1928.

MarRIED: Evelyn Safran, May 5, 1931, New York, N. ¥. cHmpren: Joan,
April 19, 1933 (died Aug. 7, 1934); Barbara, March 13, 1935; Patricia,
May 19, 1938.-

occupaTION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Counsel, Association of Private Hospitals, Inc., New York;
director and counsel, Westchester Square Hospital, New York; member
committee on insurance law, Association of the Bar of the City of New
York.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York, Woodmere
Club, Woodmere, Long Island, N. Y.

SINCE 1928 I have been engaged in the private practice of law
in New York City with the customary tribulations as well as
the trials inherent in such activity. Every now and then interest-
ing legal problems have come along to stir up my limited supply
of gray matter, and the satisfactions derived from wrestling with
them have combined with the pleasures of quiet suburban living
to produce the opiate of a reasonably contented way of life.

RICHARD CARRINGTON BARRETT

HOME ADDRESS: 191 Summer St., Bristol, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 30 School St., Bristol, Conn.

BORN: Dec. 6, 1902, Bristol, Conn, Parents: William Lawrence Barrett,
Martha Pearl Pardee.

PREPARED AT: Bristol High School, Bristol, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1025.

MarrigD: Ethel Benton, Dec. 20, 1926, New York, N. Y. cHrtpren: Holly
June, June 16, 1928; Richard Hunter, Dec. 5, 1929 (died Dec. 12, 1929);
Ethel Warner, Jan. 7, 1932; Donald William, Sept. 29, 1934.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Walker Barrett, ’30,

occuPATION: President, William L. Barrett Company, manufacturers of
metal products.

THANKS to the industry and foresight of my parents I have
had a very happy life ever since graduation. Everything has
worked’ out exactly according to plan. Life has been one sweet
song.

From college I went directly into my father’s business. When
I married in 1926, he gave us a house next to his for a wedding
present. In 1931 he gave us the factory and business outright;

[ 48 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT .

until he died in 1943 we had a wonderful time working together.
In 1941 my brother Bob gave up his law practice in Boston and
joined me. Today we have a nice little business which exactly
complements pleasure to make every day interesting.

My family life has been ideal. Thus far at least we have been
able to foresee the rough spots and take them in our stride, but
they have been few in number.

Our elder daughter, Holly, graduates from Connecticut College
for Women this June. Ethel plans to enter Pembroke College
next fall. Donald is fifteen and weighs 160 pounds. He is burning
the midnight oil over his Latin in the hope of playing center on
the team in 1956 (I hope there will still be one little door left
open at University Hall where sons of Harvard men can get in).

We have spent our summers at the shore or at New England
lakes, with an occasional cruise or tour in between. I have
dabbled in most hobbies and had some fun without going over-
board on any of them. I messed around with politics a bit, but
an old-line Democrat is out of step pretty much these days with
everybody. |

We visit Cambridge regularly as guests of George Barker and
his wife. They still live there like undergraduates and keep the
whole atmosphere as it was for us in 1925. We plan to attend the
big reunion this year, since we missed the others in the press
of events. :

It is difficult to express the fullness of my life since college,
but I realize that without some knowledge of the history of
peoples, the immensities of the universe, things seen and things
unseen, the years could not have meant so much. I am thankful
to Harvard for all that.

The rest is a mystery — just why God has been so good to us.
We shall continue in all humility and gratitude until the answer
unfolds. .

LEO JOSEPH BARRY

HOME ADpDRESS: 243 May St., Worcester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Bell Co., 67 Millbrook St., Worcester, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 31, 1903, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Michael Joseph Barry,
Lillian Agnes Buckley.

[49 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

versity of Grenoble. My second son, David Cogswell, eight years
younger, promises to be the student of the family. He is attend-
ing Tilton School in New Hampshire. My youngest child is a
daughter, Diana Eliot. She is living at home and attending Grace
Church School in New York City.

My business life got off to a bad start: I chose tire manufac-
turing because the immediate rewards made early marriage prac-
ticable. Later, after careful consideration, I became a financial
reporter on the Wall Street Journal. This led to analytical work
on securities. During the war, I was commissioned in the Army,
my principal work being statistician for the Chief of Transporta-
tion. It permitted extensive travelling, including inspection of
the railroad we operated in India. After the war, I became assist-
ant vice-president of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company,
working principally on the negotiation of private industrial loans.
Last October I made another change, becoming secretary and
treasurer of the New York Trap Rock Corporation. Trap rock,
for those who did not take Geology I, is an igneous rock, like
quartz, forced up from the hot interior of the earth and gradually
cooled. It is used largely in road construction. 4

New York has become my home, and I like it. I was a com-
muter while my children were young. Now I have moved back
into the City. My relaxations center around a summer place in
Gilmanton, New Hampshire, which is more and r more becoming
a year-round recreation.

GEORGE ESTES BARTON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 5635 S. Kenwood Ave. Chicago 37, Il.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Department of Education, Judd Hall, University of Chicago,
Chicago 37, Ill.

BORN: March 5, 1905, Millville, N. J. parents: George Estes Barton, Alverda
Margaret Yocum.

PREPARED AT: Millville High School, Millville, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921~192§. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1925; A.M.
(Univ. of Pennsylvania), 1930; PH.D. (Ohio State Univ.), 940.

~ marrizp: Dorothy Atwood Yarnell, Jan. 30, 1943, Searcy, Ark.

OCCUPATION: Teacher.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II; Entered service as first licu-
tenant; teacher, supervisor of instruction, assistant director, and director
of various ground schools for pilots, bombardiers, and navigators; direc-

[52]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tor of research, development, and curriculum, United States Armed
Forces Institute; achieved final rank as major.
MEMBER OF: American Philosophical Association; Philosophy of Education

Society.

WHILE completing work for the A.B. in economics at Harvard,
I decided that my real interest was philosophy. I did not at that
time transfer to philosophy because such a transfer would have
delayed my A.B. and prevented me from being graduated with
my class.

In order to earn a living after graduation, I got a job teaching
at Middletown Township High School, Leonardo, New Jersey,
1925-27 and 1929-30. In order to qualify for this, I found it
necessary to accumulate credits in education. I therefore studied
summers and Saturdays, off and on, at the University of Penn-
sylvania, where I received my A.M. in education in 1930. During
this time I decided that I wished eventually to contribute to the
philosophy of education. I was dissatisfied, however, with the
general level of writing that passes for philosophy of education,
and therefore became more than ever convinced that I wanted to
prepare myself by studying general philosophy.

Meanwhile, I got an opportunity to teach for one year at an
American secondary school in France (Chateau de Bures par
Villennes, Seine-et-Oise) during 1927-28. At the close of that
year, I studied French intensively during the summer and then
went to the Sorbonne in 1928-29, where I began my study of
philosophy. ,

At the end of these years, I returned for one year to my old
job at Middletown Township High School, and then went to
Rochester Institute of Technology, Rochester, New York, where
I taught from 1930 to 1939. There I taught liberal subjects
(including philosophy) to students whose primary interest was
vocational. Meanwhile, I studied philosophy during the summers
at Johns Hopkins, at University of Michigan, and finally at Ohio
State University (where it was possible to do a full “quarter” of
work each summer). I received my Ph.D. from Ohio State in
1940.

In 1939 I came to the University of Chicago as research asso-
Ciate in humanities on the staff of the Cooperative Study in
General Education (a study jointly supported by its some twenty

[53]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

member colleges and by the General Education Board through
the American Council on Education). The Study undertook to
help each college to develop its own hypotheses about general
education and to improve its own program in the light of its own
insights.

In 1942 I left the Study to enter the Air Corps and spent four
years in various educational chores for the services. During this
period I married Dorothy Yarnell, whom J] had met when she was
developing a general humanities course at the Junior College in
Little Rock, Arkansas—one of the member colleges in the
Cooperative Study.

As I left the services in 1946, 1 was determined to get at the job
I had been preparing for —the teaching of philosophy of educa-
tion. I have been working at it since then at the University of
Chicago. I have also been teaching part-time in the Basic Pro-
gram of Liberal Education for Adults. This gives me an oppor-
tunity to get paid for reading and re-reading the “great books.”
I enjoy it, find it exceedingly profitable, and intend to stick
with it.

Since beginning work at Chicago, I have reluctantly concluded

that my previous study of philosophy was simply not good enough
— largely because I then did not know what it meant really to
read a philosophic text. I am therefore now engaged in doing this
study all over again. In spite of the years it took me to get into
philosophy, I think I came to it resembling Plato’s “little bald-
headed tinker” who deserts his trade and rushes into philosophy
(Republic, Bk V1), and I think that any book I had tried to pro-
duce immediately would have been as “baseborn and worthless”
as the progeny Plato talks about.
Tam now interested in studying how the principles which men
propose for education are related to their more basic principles
of metaphysics, epistemology, or inquiry. I am particularly inter-
ested in the relation between different doctrines of general and
educational philosophy and different methods of philosophizing.
So far, the University of Chicago has had sufficient interest in this
enterprise to refrain from commanding “publish or perish.” In
justice both to them and to myself, however, I want to try to put
things together for publication before very long. I think that I
am at last about ready to get started.

[54]

1

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROGER AVERY BARTON

HOME AppreEss: 22 Arlington Ave., Caldwell, N. J.

orcs ADDRESS: Advertising Agency Magazine, 9 E. 38th St. New York,

BoRN: Dec. 27, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: Joseph Jewett Barton,
Olive Marthe Pettipierre.

PREPARED AT: Passaic High School, Passaic, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925, DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1925; A.M. (Columbia
Univ.), 1932.

marriepD: Priscilla Marion Sargent, Sept. 10, 1932, North Weymouth, Mass.
CHILDREN: Seth Sargent, Jan. 26, 1938; Deborah Ann, Nov. 16, 1942.

occuPATION: Editor, Advertising Agency Magazine.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned second lieutenant, Military
Intelligence Reserve, June 10, 1938; promoted first lieutenant, Sept. 21,
1941, captain, Oct. 22, 1941, major, Feb. 9, 1943, lieutenant colonel, May,
1, 1946; called to active duty Nov. 8, 1940; served as intelligence officer
and public relations officer, Picatinny Arsenal, Dover, N. J.; relieved
of active duty, Aug. 6, 1946; awarded Legion of Merit; currently
active in Reserve as chief of Intelligence and Security Division, 1443rd
Major Port.

OFFICES HELD: Lecturer in advertising, Columbia University, 1947-50; mem-
ber executive committee, National Conference of Business Paper
Editors, 1949-50.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of New Jersey
(executive committee); Society of Colonial Wars; Sons of the Revolu-
tion; Marine Corps League (hon.); American Marketing Association;
American Ornithologists Union; Picatinny Arsenal Officers Association
of World War II (secretary-treasurer).

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, Advertising Handbook, 1950; contributor on adver-
tising, Encyclopaedia Britannica, 1947-50; American correspondent,
Advertising and Marketing Review, London, 1948-50; editorials on
nature subjects and weekly column on outdoors for Newark Evening
News, 1944-50; co-author, The Quiz Book, 1924; Is that So?, 19273
Faith, Fear and Fortunes, 1934; Ordnance Cannon March, a song, 19453
magazine articles in Nature Magazine, Advertising @ Selling, and other
magazines,

FIVE years as a newspaperman, ten as an advertising agent, Six aS
a soldier, and the last four years as editor of a magazine — that is
how I have spent my time since 1925. Essentially my business has
always been the communication of ideas, and even during the war
I was in public relations and intelligence work.

This has all been a fascinating business, and I would not have
chosen any other. My present occupation as editor of Advertising

[55]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Agency Magazine is especially interesting, as it brings me into
constant contact not only with advertising agencies, but also with
advertisers, with newspapers, magazines, radio, and the other media
of advertising, and with all forms of commercial and opinion
research.

Curiously enough, both my family and I found the six war
years the most pleasant of these periods. We lived on the military
reservation at Picatinny Arsenal, the ordnance center for the
development and manufacture of artillery ammunition, bombs, and
high explosives. The work was absorbing, the military community
a congenial one, and the natural setting ‘lovely.

It has been said that with natural “history and the domestic
affections a man might be truly happy. On the domestic side, I
married a Radcliffe girl who is the sister of a classmate. We enjoy
many things together: our son and daughter, bird-watching,
gardening, and fishing, for example. It is largely through her in-
fluence that we pass vacations on Cape Cod. My interest in natural
history finds expression in editorials and a weekly outdoors column
that I write for the Newark News.

During the past quarter-century I have acquired certain skills
and have verified for myself certain age-old axioms. I long knew
the axioms, but it has taken a considerable amount of living to
make them real parts of my personal experience. I have gained in
appreciation of the durable satisfactions of life, and have improved
my judgment of other values.

As for political convictions, I am a Republican, ; as were my
father and grandfather, but I am not very happy about the fact.
I helped found the Young Republican League of New Jersey in
1928, but discovered that young Republicans were not essentially
different from old ones. As for religious convictions, 1 am grad-
ually being drawn into the Episcopal Church through the activi-
ties of my family there. As for social convictions, I believe that a
person has certain obligations to his family, to his country, and
to the society of which he is a part, and I am working to fulfill
these obligations and have a little time Jeft over for myself,

I suspect that the best provision for the future is a present well
accounted for. Hence I am busy with editing, writing, teaching,
and training in the Army Reserve. I hope that the next twenty-five
years will be as busy, as healthful, and as happy as the past and that

[56]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

they will be unmarked by another great war or another great
depression.

- BENJAMIN FRANKLIN RICE BASSETT

BORN: July 26, 1902, Washington, D. C. parents: Charles Chester Bassett,
Francis Rice.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 19253 LL.B. 1933.

MarRiep: Gertrude Sutton Russell, June 22, 1925, North Andover, Mass. (di-
vorced); Alice Louise Scharman, New York (divorced); Nancy Spier-
point, Sussex, England. cHitpren: Benjamin Franklin Rice, Jr., May 6,
1926; William Sutton, Dec. 10, 1929; Victoria, aged 6, Melanie, aged
6 months.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Chester Bassett, Jr., ’19.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War I: active duty, U. S. Naval Reserve,
July 3, 1918-1921; served as able seaman, 2d class. World War II: active
duty as captain, Intelligence Division Headquarters, Washington, D. C.,
October, 1941; promoted major, March, 1942, lieutenant colonel, August,
1942, colonel, Feb. 1, 1946; transferred 8th Air Force, July, 1942; overseas
duty in Ireland, England, and France, 1942; separated from service, 1946;

~ awarded Croix de Guerre, Eame Ribbon, World War II Victory
_ Medal, American Campaign Medal, War Department Citation, World
War I Victory Medal with Bronze Star, Lapel Button (ASR), and
Bronze Star ETO Ribbon.
piep: March 12, 1950, Houston, Texas.

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN RICE BASSETT prepared for college
at Middlesex School. Before coming to Harvard he was a mem-
ber of the U.S. Naval Reserve and saw active service from July 3,
1918, to January 29, 1919. As an undergraduate he was active in
sports, particularly football and crew. He was also interested in
social service. He was Class president in 1922-23 and served on the
Student Council three years. Active in Phillips Brooks House
affairs, he was president of the Phillips Brooks House Association
in his senior year. He became a permanent Class officer as second
marshal. His memberships included the Hasty Pudding Club-
_ Institute of 1770, of which he was secretary in 1923-24, and the
Porcellian Club.

From 1925 to 1927 he engaged in the brokerage business in New
York and subsequently gave investment counsel i in Boston for one
year. He then studied foreign banking with M. M. Warburg &
Company in Hamburg, Germany, and entered Harvard Law

[57]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

School in the fall of 1929. In 1933 he graduated from law school
and later became associated with Chadbourne, Hunt, Jaeckel &
Brown in New York. In 1941 he entered the Army Air Force as
a captain and in 1944 he earned the Croix de Guerre. He was
separated from the service as a colonel in the Reserves in 1947. He
then served as judge for the United States Army Criminal Court
in Stuttgart for two years.

He was survived by his wife and by his two daughters and two
sons.

For some Americans it has been their destiny to spend many
years of their lives upon other shores. Benjamin Rice Bassett was
one of these; never for one moment was he less American because
of this. There was another soldier, a poet, of whom this too was
true, and he made immortal the words “there is some far corner of
a foreign field that is forever the country of my birth.” For Benja-
min Rice Bassett the importance of being American lay in the first
freedom, freedom from fear, and for him liberty meant eternal
vigilance.

Government, history, and law were his objectives. Keenly in-
terested in the political systems of other countries he attended
sessions of British parliament as the guest of the one-time Secretary
of State for Air, the late Marquess of Londonderry. It was he who
inscribed for him his book, Wings for Destiny, with the words:
“The example of the United States of America should be followed
by the countries of the world.”

Conscious of the part America was to play in world affairs after
the war, Bassett realized that now the great task of his country was
to build and aid the war-torn nations. He played a small part in
this tremendous task, but played it with a great belief which will
not go unheeded by many peoples of those countries — everyday
people, people who make a nation, those upon whom the responsi-
bility will finally rest to choose the first freedom, to fear nothing
except God, and to learn that ony is not a thing easily gained
but obtained only through vigilance.

It was his way, when weighed down by the inadequacy of the
law to meet the many man-made tragedies of war, to remind
his defendants that in the final analysis, “We must all meet the
only Judge and it is to Him that the Stoic Natural Law of Truth
can ‘have no, indeed demands no, other payment than man’s adher-

[ 58]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ence to the commandment “Thou shalt love thy neighbor as
thyself.’ ”

The spirit of this American was greater than his strength; he
shall not be forgotten for his name is multitude.

Judge Robert L. Guthrie of Land Bremen wrote the following
tribute to Bassett in April, 1950:

“It was in April, 1948, that I first became acquainted with Ben
Bassett, Jr. He came to Bremen, Germany, where | was then and
am now stationed to serve the United States as a magistrate in the
Military Government Court system which had been previously
established by the Military Governor, Despite his poor health
then, which became progressively worse, Ben had a sunny dis-
position which immediately attracted one to him. He had a
genuine sympathy for the under-dog and did not Jet anyone in-
fluence him in making decisions in court that did not coincide with
his own ideas of right and wrong. His devotion to his ideals often
led him to rule in favor of some lowly German, who was at his
mercy, when probably an opposite decision would have been
more expedient. He left Bremen in January, 1949, to accept a
more responsible position as magistrate at Stuttgart. After he had
gone I was surprised at how many Germans of lowly origin
stopped me in the street and inquired, “Wo ist Herr Richter
Bassett?” Their faces would light up as they pronounced his
name. It will be a sad day for many of these little people when
I tell them in my broken German that Judge Bassett will never
come again to Bremen.”

EDWARD HOLLAND BATES

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Rincon Point, Santa Barbara Co., Carpinteria,
Calif.

BORN: Dec. 23, 1901, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Bell Bates,
Katherine Mitchell.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

MARRIED: Julia Reed Bygrave, July 31, 1936, Concord, Mass. CHILDREN:
Channing Delano, Feb. 15, 1943; Cynthia, July 6, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Wentworth Bates, ’11.

occupation: Agriculture and building.

MEMBER OF: Channel City Club, Santa Barbara, Calif.

[59]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

AFTER graduation it seemed logical to plant lemon trees on a
good many acres of land I had inherited in Santa Barbara County.
Whatever ability I had, or have now, seems to find expression in
hand work rather than head work at a desk, so agriculture was a
natural. As it turned out, real property was perhaps the best in-
vestment in California in the late twenties, in view of the economic
débacle which soon occurred.

A tiny board and batten bachelor’s cottage served at first, and
even after our marriage in 1936, though rooms have been added
since. Now we enjoy the luxury of a bridge across the creek at
our entrance, which formerly the car splashed through at “low”
water. It stayed on the other side at “high” water. I realize the
terms “high” and “low” water are archaisms at present, in view
of the last few years of drought. I met my wife, a Radcliffe girl,
in Ojai, California, about as far away from Radcliffe as it’s possible
to be, and still remain in the country. Probably our Cambridge
heritage drew us together. Our little boy got his first bicycle this
Christmas, and his sister is in kindergarten.

Our travels have been restricted to a few summer visits to New
England and much exploring by car throughout the Southwest.
Lake Tahoe is a favorite vacation spot with us, and of course, the
Sierras in summer or winter. .

Since graduation there has been sufficient time for a lot of
orchard to be planted, trees to grow, roads to build, wells to drill,
etc., etc. In fact acres of these trees I planted have run their life
course, and are no more. Humans have been allowed a somewhat
longer span, so I still carry on. Lately I have turned to another
type of hand work, that is, house construction. California has |
never had quite enough roof area to shelter the new arrivals. As
fast as we build one city, we discover that we need another. So
far I haven’t been commissioned to build a city, but might consider
it if approached.

Twenty-five years out seems to catch me in a ‘philosophical
mood — a symptom of middle-age. I wish ’d done more with my
opportunities. I’m glad I didn’t do less, if that makes sense. I’ve
reached the conviction that it is of the utmost importance that a
man be employed doing the work he is best fitted to do, and is
most happy doing. Sometimes this is easier said than done, but it

[ 60 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

should be the goal. If we are lucky enough to find the right girl
(as I was) and raise a family, then I think we have had our reward.

JOSEPH MARTIN BATTAGLIA

HOME ApDpREsS: 26 Clinton St., Cambridge 39, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: % Arlington Five Cents Savings Bank, Arlington, Mass.
BoRN: Nov. 27, 1904, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Battaglia, Mary Oteri.
PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.
UNMARRIED.
occuPaTION: Manager of the Savings Bank Life Insurance Department.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted, private, April 2, 1942; assigned to
Coast Artillery, Boston Harbor, through October, 1942; transferred to
Counter Intelligence Corps (G-2), corporal, October, 1942; stationed
in Boston for instruction through October, 1943; transferred to Camp
Holabird and Camp Ritchie, Maryland, and several other camps for
advance courses in combat intelligence, October, 1943; assigned to
AAF Materiel Command to conduct investigations involving loyalty,
. disaffection, sabotage, espionage, etc., Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio,
_and Los Angeles, November, 1943; duty in New York City, 1944-45;
discharged, technical sergeant, July, 1945.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York,

IT IS going to be rather difficult for me to write a Class Life as
none of the samples I have on hand covers that of a bachelor, a
deficiency that I hope will be taken care of by future classes. I
cannot very well point with pride at my beauteous wife and five
lovely children, expand my chest, dilate my nostrils, and acclaim
to the world: “I am a success even though I don’t have any
money.” » : |

_ If, I had been voted least likely to succeed by my classmates
back in 1925 I think that I would have fulfilled a Class prophesy,
that is, if material wealth is to be considered the yardstick for
success. At the present writing I have $2,200 in the bank, about
$1,500 in a retirement fund, $10,000 worth of term insurance, an
excellent supply of new clothes, a 1939 Oldsmobile sedan in good
condition, $4,500 worth of worthless stocks, and, except for a
hacking cough and the fact that everything is receding on me
(hair, gums, etc.), my health. This inventory would hardly place
me in the category of the most eligible bachelor in town. Another
yardstick of success is to leave the world a better place in which

[61]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

to live. Tl leave that impossible job to some other applicant.

However, along the way, I have managed to accumulate a
goodly supply of friends simply because I have attempted to apply
the tenets of the Golden Rule, regardless of race, color, or creed,

in my dealings with my fellow-man. How well I have succeeded
in this respect, only time and my obituary will tell.

My piano has served me in good stead over the course of the
years. It provided me with a trip to Europe in 1926, when I went
over with the Crimson Ramblers. Later it served as a means of

extra income during the early years of the depression. Finally I

made the mistake of giving it up completely for a period of
thirteen years, and was almost forced into that unnatural insti-

tution laughingly known as marriage for lack of an outlet. After
my discharge from the Army I resumed my interest in and my

activity at the keyboard. Now I am starting life all over again
in that 1 am taking lessons all over again from one of the best
classical teachers in Boston. I find myself practising scales and
arpeggios with gusto in an effort to obtain a good solid technique.
It represents a challenge and I love it. If you want to hear how
1 am progressing drop into the Savoy Café, a paradise for college
kids and their debutante friends at 410 Massachusetts Avenue,
Boston, where you are very apt to find me playing with a trio
or solo every night in the week. If I am not there, it will prob-
ably be because I am resting. It is a little difficult to manage a
life insurance department in a bank during the day and play
every night.

My piano has also provided me with activity in another field,
the theatre. During the summer of 1946 I played witth Bert Lahr
for four weeks in Burlesque at the Cambridge Summer Theatre
(where I used to be a partner), the Boston Summer Theatre, and
with the Marblehead Players. The following summer I was in
Slight Case of Murder by Damon Runyon, starring James Dunn.
This past summer I had a minor part and played piano in Happy

Birthday with Joan Blondell. My acting ability would be rated
as three minus two by Variety and it is quite funny to see how
quickly the director gets me to the piano the minute I make my
appearance on stage. However, I am used to such rudeness.
Enough of this boasting, because, it says here, “the Class wants
to know all about your social, political, or religious convictions.”

{ 62]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I shall dispose of these subjects with neatness and dispatch. I
have no social or political convictions worth putting on paper
and shall leave that department to the more erudite members of
the Class. As for my religious convictions, I have no patience
with revealed religions and will have no truck with them. I think
that I would classify myself as a combination Druid, Hedonist,
and Sybarite, aided and abetted by the tenets of the Golden Rule.
The last has produced some tense moments with the members of
the opposite sex, but the law of averages has always come to my
rescue.

Now I shall have to dispose of a question I frequently hear
from my various friends and acquaintances. I am asked what I
shall do when I get old and lonely and have no Whistler’s mother
to cater to my various wants and desires. My answer is always the
same: it is much better to be lonely alone than lonely with some-
one else, particularly if she is a Medusa.

WILLIS PAINE BEAL

HOME ADpREss: 48 W, Cedar St., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hunnewell & Co., 49 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 15, 1902, Nahant, Mass. PARENTS: William Fields Beal, ’93, Lillian
Sprague Darrow.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Cecily Daniels Livermore, July 20, 1933, Hamilton, Mass. cum-
DREN: Cecily Adams, June 6, 1935; Robert Livermore, Jan. 27, 1937;
Willis Paine, Jr., May 27, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Holland Beal, ’27.

occupation: Stock, bond and commodity broker.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Established and commanded harbor defenses at
Portsmouth, N. H., as lieutenant and lieutenant commander, U.S.N.R.,
1941-43; joined amphibious forces, 1943, and commanded LCI (L)
groups in D-Day landings in Normandy and the Riviera; relieved of
active duty, October, 1945, as commander; awarded Legion of Merit,
V (Combat) award.

OFFICES HELD: Trust officer, Second National Bank of Boston, 1932-34;
member, Chicago Board of Trade and other commodity exchanges.
MEMBER OF: Somerset Club; Myopia Hunt Club (non-resident); Bond Club

of Boston.

HAVING just wrestled with the questionnaire, which seems to
cover about every possibility since graduation, I am a little

[ 63 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925.

embarrassed by not being able to fill in anything under “publica-
tions.” However, this is more than compensated for by the great
pleasure in having only one line under “married.” Likewise, being
a resident of Beacon Hill, and not the hills of Kentucky, I am
unable to report the marriage of any children (the eldest is
fourteen).

Among the views requested, you mention ‘family, which,
though eminently satisfactory to me, stands ready to submit to
your candid appraisal at the Reunion. Hobbies are normal, if
not trite, such as golf, tennis, the Maine coast, birds; and were I
not a broker, travel would unquestionably be included. On the
last-named I have not been completely starved, as Uncle Sam
provided several little scenic tours otherwise beyond my means.
I have always liked the idea of watering places, or spas, and had
the opportunity to “take the baths” in such lovely spots as the
south coast of England (Torquay, Bournemouth, Dartmouth,
Fowey, et al.), as well as the blue Mediterranean, where it was
difficult to choose among the beaches of North Africa, Italy,
and the Riviera. When speaking of those days, it is necessary to
add that one of the greatest lessons and satisfactions was the
first-hand knowledge that there is little basic difference between
so-called social strata and geographical distinctions of the Ameri-
can people. With the obvious exception of the occasional stinker,
they all truly constitute one swell bunch.

ARTHUR WHITNEY BEALS

AppRESS: % Russell B. Beals, P. O. Box 442, Christchurch, New Zealand.

Born: April 27, 1903, Christchurch, New Zealand. parents: Russell Bow-
ditch Beals, 94, Alice Warren Rice.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B, 1925 (26).

OccuPATION: Mercantile business.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’ s files. Ar-

thur Beals did not return a questionnaire.

EDWARD MAURAN BEALS, JR.

HOME ApprEss: South Hamilton, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Hunnewell & Co., 49 Federal St., Boston, Mass,

[ 54 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: May 28, 1902, Marblehead, Mass. parents: Edward Mauran Beals,
Bertha Williams Thomas.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925, DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MarrieD: Julia O. Blake, Sept. 7, 1929, Lenox, Mass. cHtLpreNn: Jane Boit,
Oct. 23, 1931; Julia O., Sept. 24, 1933; Margaret H., March 5, 1938,
Isabella T., Jan. 23, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Investments.

MEMBER OF: Myopia Hunt Club; Tennis and Racquet Club; Somerset Club;
The Country Club, Brookline; Racquet and Tennis Club,

IN JUNE, 1925, after completing an expensive academic educa-

tion, I entered the financial business. Now, after twenty-five

years, all in the investment business, I am sure of just one thing

—a financial education is much more expensive than an academic
one and it is never complete.

ARTHUR ORVILLE BEAMER

appress: RF.D. 1, P. O. Box 69, West Chicago, Ill.

BORN: Aug. 19, 1903, Cleveland, Ohio. Parents: Edgar David Beamer,
Eva Soden.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1923, 1927-1929. DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude,
1925 (29); A.M., 1930.

MaRRiED: Thema Hobson, Sept. 4, 1926, Cleveland, Ohio. cuizp: Patricia
Anne, Jan. 11, 1937.

OCCUPATION: Letters.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Beamer did not return a questionnaire.

BERNHARD GOLDMAN BECHHOEFER

HOME ADDRESS: 2943 Benton Pl., N.W., Washington 8, D. C.

BORN: Jan. 24, 1904, St. Paul, Minn. Parents: Charles Bechhoefer, Helen
Goldman.

PREPARED AT: St, Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1925; L1-B5
1928.

MARRIED: Estelle Mildred Scharfeld, Nov. 28, 1929, Cleveland, Ohio. cntt-
DREN: Charles, March 28, 1933; Arthur Scharfeld, April 21, 1935;
William B., Nov. 27, 1941.

occupATION: Officer in charge of international security affairs, Office of
United Nations Political Affairs, Department of State, Washington,
D. C.

[ 65 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Miscellaneous positions in Department of State
including liaison between State Department and Board of Economic
Warfare; assistant to director of Foreign Service.

OFFICES HELD: Miscellaneous positions in charitable organizations prior to
1942.

MEMBER OF: Minnesota Bar Association; Ramsey County Bar Association;
American Bar Association; American Society of International Law;
National Press Club of Washington; Woodmont Country Club, Fort
Lesley J. McNair Officers Club; Minnesota Historical Society; B’nai
B'rith; St. Paul Athletic Club; Phi Beta Kappa.

PUBLICATIONS: “Voting in the Security Council,” State Department Bulletin,
“The Monroe Doctrine and International Law,” American Bar Associa-

tion Journal, “Investing for a Widow,” Barron’s Financial Magazine;
“State Taxation of Radio Law,” Journal of Radio Law

IN THE twenty-five years since my graduation three main events
have had the greatest effect on the pattern of my life. The first
was the decision made immediately after my graduation from
college to enter the Harvard Law School and to practise law.
The second was my marriage in November, 1929. The third was

my decision shortly after the start of the second World War to
enter government service in Washington.

1 spent four very happy and hectic years after my graduation
from college in Cambridge, three at the Harvard Law School and

” one working for the Massachusetts Survey of Crime and Criminal
Law and doing postgraduate work at Harvard Law School. In
my second year of law school I became aware of the existence of
my future wife, who was attending Wellesley College, and during
the remainder of the time that I was in Cambridge my visits to
Wellesley had the highest priority. We were married in Novem-

ber, 1929.

In April, 1929, 1 commenced the practice of law as a partner
in the St. Paul, Minnesota, law firm of O’Brien, Horn & Stringer,
where | remained for thirteen years. During this time I developed
a civil practice with emphasis on representation of small businesses,
estate and trust work, and tax work. The practice of law in a
medium-sized city such as St. Paul was leisurely and pleasant.

During my vacations I travelled extensively in the United States
and, beginning in 1934, in Latin America. From 1936 on I spent
my summers at White Bear Lake, fourteen miles from St. Paul

where 1 acquired a summer cottage which might be called my
hobby. Our lake home continues to be my family’s refuge from

[56 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the Washington summers and I steal as much time from my work
as possible each summer.

Shortly after Pearl Harbor I came to the conclusion that
probating estates and foreclosing mortgages was not a particularly
suitable war activity. Since I was not qualified for military serv-
ice, I came to Washington with some well-intentioned and very
vague ideas about government service. More or less by accident
and largely because of my vacations in Latin America, I suddenly
was surprised to find myself in the State Department as a Mexican
expert.

I have remained in the State Department ever since with a
wide variety of interesting assignments. For two years during
the war I was assistant to the director of the Foreign Service and
was in charge of relations between the Foreign Service and the
war agencies. I was one of the many who collaborated to make
possible the Foreign Service Bill of 1946. I spent two months in
London during this period on the staff of Ambassador Robert
Murphy who was political adviser to General Eisenhower.

In 1946, after the completion of my wartime work, I accepted
a position in the section of the State Department dealing with
United Nations affairs. Since then I have shuttled between
Washington and Lake Success working on a number of political
problems that have confronted the Security Council and the
General Assembly, in particular the much maligned veto in the
Security Council. From August, 1948, to June, 1949, I had the
magnificent and stimulating experience of returning to school
under most delightful auspices. I was designated by the State
Department as one of the civilians to take the course at the War
College at Fort Lesley McNair in Washington where political
and strategic factors in United States policy are codrdinated.
After completing this course last June, I returned to the Office
of United Nations Political Affairs where I have been placed in
charge of the international security problems confronting the
United Nations (such as provision of military forces for the
Security Council, regulation of armaments, etc.).

What strikes me as particularly important in a résumé of
twenty-five years is that not only has my work been consistently
interesting and stimulating but also my life at home and with my
friends. Our three boys are most satisfactory youngsters and

[ 67 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

each seems to be developing a definite personality. My wife and
I continue to derive as much fun and enjoyment out of our com-

mon and separate interests as we did in the days of Harvard-
Wellesley courtship. Our friends, we think, are delightful, worth-
while people of varied interests and achievements, and still among
the most treasured friendships are those of my college period.
There have been frustrations, of course, but if the next twenty-
five years can be, as have the past twenty-five, more productive
than retrogressive, then — unless this smacks too much of smug-
ness —I can indulge in the “counting of blessings.”

+ HENRY ABRAHAM WINCHESTER BECK

BorN: Jan. 22, 1903, Indianapolis, Ind. parents: Henry Abraham Beck,
Jane Griffith.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.
pep: Feb. 18, 1939, Washington, D. C.

RANKING highest in his class in the College Entrance Board
examination, Henry Abraham Winchester Beck entered Harvard
after completing his preparatory study at Phillips Academy. As
an undergraduate he was active in the affairs of the Cercle Frangais.
For a year after graduation he attended the Law School of
George Washington University in Washington and also the For-
eign Service School of the Department of State. In 1926 he was
appointed to the Foreign Service of the United States, serving
successfully thereafter in posts at Geneva, Athens, Alexandria,
Hankow, and Tsingtao. In 1935 he was re-assigned to Athens, At
the time of his death he was on leave of absence as senior consul
and secretary of the legation at Athens.
Beck was an accepted authority on ancient and modern Greece
and his ability as a linguist was marked. He spoke seven languages.
He was considered a most able diplomat by his superiors and it

was felt that he would have derived great satisfaction from return-
ing to Greece as secretary of the legation.

JOSEPH EMANUEL BECK
HOME appress: 102 Edgemont Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.

orrice, appress: United Service for New Americans, 15 Park Row, New
York, N. Y.

[ 68]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
BORN: June 28, 1904, Racine, Wis. parents: Albert William Beck, Bayle
Ciori.
PREPARED AT: Central High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925, DEGREES: S.B., 1925; SM. (Western Reserve
Univ.), 1928.

MARRIED: Celia Frances Garfinkle, April 10, 1927, Hartford, Conn. cun-
pREN: Albert William, April 4, 1931; Deborah C., July 10, 1935.

HARVARD BROTHER: Samuel Jacob Beck, 16.

OCCUPATION: Social welfare administration.

OFFICES HELD: President, N. E. Pennsylvania-American Association of Social
Workers, 1933, Pennsylvania Conference on Social Welfare, 1937-38;
member board of directors, U. S. Committee for European Children,
1943-49, American Council for Voluntary Agencies in Europe, 1942~49.

MEMBER OF: Town Hall Club; American Association of Social Workers;
National Conference of Social Welfare.

PUBLICATIONS: “Social Effects of Unemployment in Scranton Coal Industry”;
“Study of Dependency Agencies in Providence, Rhode Island”; other
articles.

IMMEDIATELY on graduation I worked in political and gov-
ernmental organizations in Cleveland, Ohio. I then entered grad-
uate school at Western Reserve University in Cleveland. I entered
the field of social work after receiving my degree in 1928 and
have been engaged in social welfare administration since, first
with Associated Charities in Cleveland and then with family serv-
ice agencies in Scranton and Philadelphia. In Scranton, during
the early depression years, I helped to organize the first unem-
ployment relief organization in the country and helped to admin-
ister the first federal relief program.

For the past seven years, as executive director of the National
Refugee Service and then United Service for New Americans,
I have directed the admission of refugees and displaced persons
to the United States and assisted them in their economic and
social adjustment. We helped place professors and scientists in
university and scientific research positions. During the war we
assisted the O.S.S. in gathering information of European industrial
resources. We placed many physicians, with government direc-
tion, in strategic areas throughout the country. We are now
assisting in solving a world economic, social, and political problem
by helping clear out the displaced persons camps, and we are
helping thousands of these displaced persons become producers
instead of recipients of international charity. We hope to find a

[ 69 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

final solution to this extensive problem in the next year or two.
I shall then return to the field of analysis, planning, and treatment
of social welfare problems of the American citizen, possibly with
some teaching and training of new personnel for American social
work.

MANFRED IVAN BEHRENS, JR.

ADDRESS: 29 Washington Sq., W., New York 11, N. Y.

BORN: July 31, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: Manfred Ivan Behrens,
Anna Edith Haas.

PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture High School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925.

MARRIED: Marjorie Wortmann, Oct. 19, 1933.

occuPATION: Mercantile business.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. .
Behrens did not return a questionnaire.

EDMUND BEIZER

HOME ApprEss: 114 Westerly Terr., Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE AppREsS: 56 Garden St., Hartford, Conn.

porn: April 25, 1903, Hartford, Conn. parents: Morris Beizer, Rose Abel.
PREPARED AT: Hartford Public High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; M.D. (Long Island Coll. of
Medicine), 1930.
MARRIED: Maxine Kolodney, Aug. 21, 1938, Hartford, Conn. cHILDREN:

Robert Allan, Dec. 13, 19393 Richard Lawrence, July 20, 1942.
OCCUPATION: Surgeon.
OFFICES HELD: Assistant surgeon, McCook Hospital, since 1939, Mt. Sinai

Hospital, since 1935; president, Arkag Building Corporation, 1948-49.
MEMBER OF: Hartford Medical Society; Connecticut State Medical Society;

American Medical Association, Tumblebrook Country Club.

SINCE twenty-five years ago, when I graduated from Harvard
College, time has been rushing by me at such an accelerated pace
that I feel propelled by it constantly. Upon receiving my
Harvard diploma in the quadrangle in the Yard, I started in the
pursuit of medical training and knowledge and I am still at it.

I graduated from the Long Island College of Medicine in 1930.
During the next year I served a rotating internship at St. Mary’s
Hospital, Waterbury, Connecticut. After this I served as surgical
intern at Kings County Hospital in Brooklyn, from 1931 to 1933.

[70]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In March of 1933, another Harvard man and I started to serve
the public. Franklin Delano Roosevelt was inaugurated as presi-
dent of our country and promptly closed the banks. I started in
the general practice of medicine that day in Hartford. With
such an auspicious start I gradually came out of the doldrums
with our country, and even acquired enough of the world’s boun-
ties to be able to be married in 1938 to Maxine. After the arrival
of Robert Allan and Richard Lawrence, who we hope will be
_ Harvard ’62 and ’6q4 respectively, my life’s pace became even
faster. However, what little time I had away from practice I
utilized being in the company of my wife and sons.

When World War II came on, I discontinued my general
practice in Hartford, after being deferred from military service.
I was accepted as surgical resident at Queens General Hospital
and successfully performed the duties of that office from 1944 to
1946. My family moved with me from Hartford to New York
for those two years. In 1946 we resumed our residence in Hart-
ford, where | re-entered practice in the field of general surgery.

Since that time I have been kept frantically busy with hospital
staff work, staff and medical society meetings, private practice,
and preparation for the certifying examinations of the American
Board of Surgery. This last preparation included my taking
postgraduate courses in surgery at Yale and Columbia
Universities.

However, never having forgotten the admonition of our class-
mate and my roommate at Harvard, Bernard Bettman, to be
well-rounded always, I have in the past twenty-five years con-
tinually tried to improve my piano keyboard capers in symphonic
jazz, as well as my rhumba.

While the going may have been difficult at times, what with
long hours and trying cases, I have never had a monotonous
moment. If I had it to do again I would choose to have it the
same.

EDWARD ROOT BELDEN

HOME AppREss: 23 Centerwood Rd., Newington, Conn.
OFFICE apprEss: Niles Bement Pond Co., Charter Oak Blvd., West Hartford,
Conn.

[71]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

porn: April 27, 1903, Thomaston, Conn. parents; Louis Isaac Belde:

Helena Caroline Root.
pRePaRED AT: Hartford Public High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1921-1925. DEGREE! A.By 1925,
Maggie: Marjorie Stevens Eliot, June 18, 1938, West Hartford, Conr

cuipren: Katherine Eliot, June 19, 1939; Marian Root, June 24, 1941

occupation: Metallurgist,
MEMBER OF; American Society for Metals.

WITHIN a few days after graduation I returned to Hartford,
my home city, and went to work for Pratt and Whitney Division

of Niles Bement Pond Company, manufacturers of machine tools,
small tools, gauges, and aircraft accessories, I have been with
them ever since as a chemical and metallurgical engineer.
Metallurgy with its rapid development has proved most interest-

ing to me.
in the early years I did considerable church work, especially

among young people —scouting and teaching Sunday School.

But with the long hours required at work during the war years,
this interest necessarily was lessened, Today my family with two
young daughters is my main concern.

GORDON KNOX BELL, JR.

HOME appress: 1155 Park Ave., New York, N. Y.
BorN: Jan. 7, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: Gordon Knox Bell, Marion

Mason Crafts.
prepare at: Groton School, Groton, Mass. —
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREES: A.B. 1925 (27); a.m. (Columbia Univ.),
1930.

MaRRiED: Virginia Ferguson Bickford, Oct. 10, 1942, Greenwich, Conn.
cmipren: Helen Ferguson, Feb. 14, 1946; Mary Anne Ellis, Sept. zz,
1947; Barbara Jordan, Aug. 23, 1948.

occupation; Technical and economic analyst; editorial writer for the metal,
petroleum, and chemical industries.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Associate economic analyst, Ferro Alloys

Branch, War Production Board; mechanical products technologist, War

Department.
orrices HELD: Member board of managers, Seamen’s Church Institute, New

York, vestryman, St. John’s Church (Protestant Episcopal), Lewisboro,

a
MEMBER oF: New York Academy of Sciences; Harvard Club of New York;
Racquet and Tennis Club; American Institute of Mining Engineers;

Seventh Regiment, New York State Guard.
[72]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pupLicaTions: “Electronics from War to Peace,” “The Acute Need for
Fats and Oils,” “Impact of War on the Minor Metals,” “Modern
Chemurgy in War and Peace,” “Paint and Raw Material Shortages,”
Industry Record, “Explosives and Petroleum,” Explosives Engineer,
“Poundridge Granite,” Geological Society of America (bulletin); “Dis-
puted Structures of the Mesoncidae and Their Significance,” American
Museum Novitates.

FOLLOWING a seven-month trip to North Africa and Europe,
where I took a course in geology at the University of Geneva,
Switzerland, I settled down to several years of postgraduate study
and research in geology and paleontology at Columbia University
— conducting much of my work at the American Museum of
Natural History which published one of my articles. During
this period I had occasion to examine mineral deposits in various
parts of North and South America and also South Africa where
I attended the rsth International Geological Congress in 1929.
On this excursion I was privileged to visit the diamond mines of
Kimberley, the gold mines of the Transvaal and other points of
interest like Victoria Falls and Elizabethville in the Belgian
Congo. Other trips took me to the nitrate deposits in Chile’s
Atacama Desert — drier by far than the Sahara—and also the
lake district and Patagonia, as well as the Braden mine at Sewell
where they mine copper from above instead of from below. I
also acquired a love for the northern Rockies of Montana and
Wyoming during several summers spent in this region, one of
which was devoted to geological exploration with the Princeton
geological faculty.

I subsequently engaged in consulting work in geology until
the outbreak of World War II when I found myself landed in
Washington as economic analyst for the War Production Board.
I later worked on the night shift of a powder metallurgy plant
and also for the War Department in the Quartermasters Corps
of the Army. Near the end of the war I became associated with
the National Industrial Conference Board where I wrote articles
analyzing the metal, chemical, and electronic industries and later
with the American Petroleum Institute where I did some technical
writing as well as economic research on the oil industry.

I find that curtailment of travel and other activities in recent

years has been more than made up for by home interests includ-

C73]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

teaching. The College should be very careful to correct any such
defect as the faculty should in all respects be of practical assistance
to young men about to go out into an uncertain and changing
world. Lastly, the religious side of education should not be neg-
lected — that the learning acquired at Harvard may prove sig-
nificant over the years,

SAMUEL WINSLOW BELL

HOME appress: 35 Midland Ave., Rochester 20, N. Y.

orFice apprEss: Allendale School, Rochester 20, N. Y.

BoRN: Feb. 25, 1903, Cincinnati, Ohio. parents: William Herbert Bell,
Elizabeth Haughton.

PREPARED AT: Hughes High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925, 1930-31. DEGREES: A.B., 1925(31); A.M. (Colum-
bia Univ.), 1932. .

marrieD: Mary Isabel Sweet, Feb. 3, 1934, New York, N. Y¥. CHILDREN:
Patricia Joan, Aug. 13, 1940; Roger, Jan. 23, 1945. -

HARVARD BROTHERS: Herbert Haughton Bell, ’17,; William Proctor Bell, ’20.

occuPATION: Instructor in English. |

HAVING developed as an undergraduate a latent but not-very-
sharply-defined desire to teach English, and even upon graduation
being somewhat undecided as to my particular niche in this
broad field, I decided upon three or four years of newspaper
work, as a kind of “postgraduate course.” This, I felt, would not
be time wasted (nor have I ever regretted this experience); it
would give me a close-up look at life in its multiple ramifications
and it would enable me to “square” some of our classroom “ideas”
and “ideals” with those of the world outside of college walls.
For nearly three years | was on the news staff of the Cincinnati
Times-Star, doing various general-assignment chores and spending
the afternoons of my last year as literary editor, writing and put-
ting together the Saturday book page. Then followed five un-
forgettable months roaming Europe on bicycle (much of the way
with our classmate, Boyd Dunbar), some forty miles a day through
some seven different countries—a “literary pilgrimage.” Then
came a year in business, a year or so at Columbia University get-
ting my A.M. in the teaching of English in the secondary school,
and, since then, teaching high school English — by no means
so dull as it would sometimes seem, My first few jobs were de-

[76 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pression-era odds and ends. Since 1936 we have lived in three
different localities: Plattsburgh, New York, for nine years; Au-
burn, New York, for three; and, since 1948, in Rochester where
I am head of the English Department of the Allendale Country
Day School for Boys. I have not only enjoyed my profession
with its many pleasant associations but have done some gratifying
work in it, and have had fairly good fun all round.

The theatre, on both sides of the footlights, has been a fascinat-
ing hobby and a rewarding pastime during the last dozen years.
Besides managing to see a dozen or so Broadway and summer
theatre plays each year I have staged amateur (high school) pro-
ductions of Julius Caesar, As You Like It, Janie, Trial By Jury,
_ The Gondoliers, and several others, as well as several dozen good
one-acts. (I have yet to write one.) Another hobby has been
music, ranging through folk-song, ballad, choral, symphonic, and
my first love, grand opera! All this started way back in my teens
but was immeasurably strengthened and broadened and matured
during three years in the Harvard Glee Club and the chapel choir,
and as a member of several choral societies since. My present job
as mentor, in matters of literature and language, to more than
fifty individual minds as well as two young “devils on wheels” at
home, has somewhat curtailed such extra-curricular activities.
Fortunately, however, Rochester is very strong musically.

During July and August we are always “at home” at our sum-
mer cottage on Willsboro-Point-on-Lake Champlain (across from
Burlington), and would be most happy to see any old classmates,
even to ferry them across the ten miles of open water to Vermont
in our eight-foot pram — the winds and waves willing.

JOSEPH WILLARD BELSER

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: East Greenbush, N. Y.

BORN: Nov, 1, 1902, Albany, N. Y. Parents: Joseph Belser, Jr. Mary
Elizabeth Holtslag.

PREPARED aT: Horace Mann School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 1925; M.D. (Columbia Univ.),
1930.

MARRIED: Josephine Kingsley McEneny, June 4, 1929. cHILDREN: David
William, Aug. 24, 1934; Joseph Willard, Jr., Dec. 8, 1939.

Occupation: Physician.

C77]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, Medical Corps, 351st F.A.Bn., Sept. 15,
1942, to Nov. 6, 1945; ETO, December, 1944, to September, 1945;
awarded Bronze Star.

MEMBER OF: Phi Chi; Omega Club; Veterans of Foreign Wars; Masons.
AFTER graduation I spent the summer of 1925 searching for a
job. Then, after two months as an insurance broker’s assistant,
I decided to return to my first love— medicine. Taking forty
hours a week of classwork at Columbia enabled me to complete
the requirements for entrance to medical school I had so assid-
uously avoided at Harvard, and I entered the College of Physicians
and Surgeons in 1926. Without fuss or furor, I was duly grad-
uated and licensed to practise medicine in 1930. Since then I have
endeavored to live the prosaic, but full and interesting life of a
country doctor.

Spending three or more years with colored troops gave me an
awareness of class struggle difficult to acquire elsewhere. And
although I am not a member of any organization dedicated to the
advancement of any minority group (except the Republican
party), I feel that much of the turmoil and tension in the world
today could be mitigated by a satisfactory solution of this prob-
lem. However, I also believe that this is much like “prohibition”
— better solved by education and evolution than by legislation.

My further opinions are:

Politics: Liberal Republican.
Religion: Unaffiliated Christian.
Ambitions: 1. To continue to serve medicine,

God, family, and country for a
little while longer.

2. Break eighty.

3. Catch a five-pound bass.

Hobbies: Golf; fishing; woodwork.
What’s wrong with the country: | Squandermania,
Bureaucracy,

Immoral politicians,
What's right with the country: Everything else.

[78]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JEROME HOUSTOUN BENJAMIN

LAST KNOWN ApprEss: Kent Stores, Inc., 1745 Cross Island Blvd., Whitestone,
N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 2, 1904, Providence, R, I. parents: Samuel Benjamin, Bertha
Rosen.

PREPARED AT: New Utrecht High School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924, 1926~1927.

JEROME BENJAMIN has been carried as a “lost” man on our
records since July, 1940.

RICHARD NEWTON BENJAMIN

HOME ADDRESS: 834 Standish Ave., Westfield, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 90 Broad St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: May 5, 1904, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Frank Tarbell Benjamin, Ida
Malone.

PREPARED AT: Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: S.B. Cum laude, 1925; M.B.A., 1927.

MmarRIED: Linda Tabb, June 26, 1936, New Brunswick, N. J. CHILDREN:
Richard Dyke, May 11, 1938; John Tabb, Oct. 9, 1940; Thomas Bruce,
March 9, 1943; Elizabeth Payne, June 23, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Stone & Webster Service Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Engineers Public Service Company, Virginia Elec-
tric and Power Company, Gulf States Utilities Company, El Paso
Electric Company, 1938-47; assistant secretary, Stone & Webster and
Blodgett, Inc., 1935-38; vestryman, 1941-47, warden, since 1947, St.
Paul’s Episcopal Church, Westfield.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; New York Society of Security
Analysts.

AFTER college and business school I confidently went to New
York to claim a job at $75 a week that one of my friends had
promised me in his father’s advertising agency. Unfortunately, it
was the first time his father had heard of it and apparently the
balance of the advertising industry was in a position to struggle
along without my services.

Stone & Webster hired me within a month after graduation
and happily I am still working for them. The organization has
three main activities: construction, investment banking, and utility
Service with the emphasis on electric and gas utilities. I am as-
sociated with the service branch. In the late twenties, before the
crash, we were busily engaged in building up public utility hold-

[79]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

ing companies; the largest of these was Engineers Public Service
Company, owning properties from Key West to Puget Sound.
Then came the crash and F.D.R. Stone & Webster divested itself
of Engineers and me in 1937. I was made secretary of the com-
pany and in that capacity spent most of the following ten years
trying to convince the Securities and Exchange Commission that
our holding company should be permitted to continue — with the
result that Engineers was dissolved on June 30, 1947. During that
ten-year period, which was an extremely interesting one, we were
able to effect mergers, sales, and refundings which enabled the
stockholders to end up with improved earnings and good operat-
ing utilities.

From there I went back to Stone & Webster and I am working
with utility companies all over the country. My particular work
is principally financial, advising companies on long- and short-
range financial problems. It is refreshing not to be working with
dissolutions under the Holding Company Act but to be working
with growing companies and planning for the future. The work
involves travelling about half the time which makes family life
hectic but the job is intensely interesting.

I live in Westfield, New Jersey, with my wife, three sons, and
a daughter. Only one boy is old enough for junior high, but all
three are conditioned for Harvard. Without trying to influence
them I've told them they could go to any college they wished.
I did add that if they went to Harvard I'd pay their way.

My good wife bears the brunt of bringing up the children when
I am away on too frequent trips. She is a Southerner from Ken-
tucky and Alabama, and votes a Republican ticket as regularly as
Ido. We are both involved in many civic activities, from church
school to Cubs, so spare time is one thing we don’t have.

The past twenty-five years have been busy ones, but I can
ask no more of the next twenty-five.

FRANKLIN BARTLETT BENKARD

HOME AppREss: 1000 Park Ave., New York 28, N. Y.

oFFice appress: Rathbone, Perry, Kelley & Drye, 70 Broadway, New York
4, N. ¥.

BoRN: Nov. 16, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: Harry Horton Benkard,
Bertha King Bartlett,

[ 80 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Browning School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1925; LLB.
(Columbia Univ.), 1928.

marrieD: Laura Derby Dupee, June 4, 1932, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Joan
Derby, Sept. 15, 1933; James Willard Bartlett, April 10, 1937.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Appointed associate government appeal agent,
April 4, 1944, government appeal agent, May 28, 1945, of Local Board
No. 27, Selective Service, New York, N. Y.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Juilliard School of Music, since 1941.

MEMBER oF: The Century Association; Knickerbocker Club; Association
of the Bar of the City of New York; American Bar Association; New
York State Bar Association; Holland Lodge, No. 8, F. & A.M.; New
York State Society of the Cincinnati; The Pilgrims of the United
States; Saint Nicholas Society of the City of New York; Society of
Mayflower Descendants.

I WENT to Columbia Law School after we graduated because I
wanted to practise in New York, which is and (Deo volente)
always will be my home. I had been slated for the law from the
beginning because my grandfather had been a lawyer and my
great-uncle a judge. This is hardly an infallible formula; Colum-
bia is not interested in antecedents, and I had to sweat for my
degree. However, I got it finally and began practice in the au-
tumn of 1928.

My career at the Bar can be summarized in a very few words.
I took a job with a large downtown firm and went to work.
After some years I became a member of the firm. I am still with
it and plan to stay. Incidentally, our classmate T. Pearson was
hired with me. We are now partners but remain on excellent
terms.

My actual practice has been no more spectacular, from the lay-
man’s standpoint. It has had nothing to do with espionage or
crimes of violence, and little with infidelity, alienation of affec-
tions, or the allied arts. Chiefly it has been concerned with the me-
chanics and intricacies of finance, high and low. But within its
scope the work has been very varied, often exciting, and rarely
dull. Years ago I spent months digging in the ruins of the Kreuger
empire, and more recently played a modest part in setting up the
legal framework for some billions of dollars of war production
loans. More than once I have been near an ulcer diet, but I have
never found time hanging heavy on my hands,

[ 81 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

In 1932 I married a Boston girl who was spending the winter
in New York and did not get back in time. She is at my side as ]
write, or at any rate somewhere around the house, if she has not
gone out. We have two children, sixteen years and twelve years,
who also are quite satisfactory. Since we were married we have
lived in a succession of New York apartments, changing SIZeS as
the family grew. In the early days we rented summer houses in
the country, except when we were hard up (any New Yorker
who says that the City is a good summer resort is hard up). A
few years ago I bought a house in St. James, Long Island, where
we spend the summer and most weekends. My wife loves St.
James because it is like New England, and I am content there
because, although rural, it is not too far from town.

My main outdoor interest is fishing, a weakness which my wife
fortunately shares. We have been as far as Newfoundland after
salmon, and have spent many vacations in Quebec and northern
Maine, trout and landlocked salmon being the objectives. When
we can do nothing else, we catch flounders in St. James harbor.
My travels, other than vacation and business jaunts, stopped ab-
ruptly with my wedding trip to France and Germany, Earlier,

I spent the better part of three summers abroad, in a Europe

which now seems fabulous and remote.

Music is my chief mental relaxation, but I still read and have
even built up a modest collection of books on ancient and me-
diaeval history. I am an enthusiastic though inexpert cook. I
play the piano constantly but (by request) only in my own hear-
ing, and I am the unquestioned worst doubles tennis player in St.
James (I no longer play singles).

Besides the children, we support a brown poodle and an aged
alligator; the latter was sent to me as a wedding present by a
Florida lawyer whom I must have offended in some way. Provi-

dentially, he (the alligator) stopped growing when he reached
three feet in length.

I am moderately active in the Bar Association and similar activi-
ties, and serve on the boards of a school of music and one or two
charities. However, I am very far from a public figure or a civic
leader. All in all, the years have made of me just another New
York lawyer, but it suits me. There is a jingle in the South about
the profession which concludes, “Good lawyers work hard, live

[ 82 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

well, die broke, and go to hell.” Maybe so, but it’s fun while it
lasts.

MARSHALL HENRY BERNSTEIN

HOME ADDRESS: 48 Selden St., Dorchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Division of Employment
Security, 881 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

BORN: March 27, 1901, Chelsea, Mass. PARENTS: Henry Bernstein, Bessie
Harrison.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Worcester, Mass.; Chelsea High School,
Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

MarRiED: Esther Lasker, 1924, Boston, Mass. cuitp: Audrey Nelda, Jan. 17,

1931.
OCCUPATION: Field auditor.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Naval Aviation.
MEMBER OF: Everett C. Benton Lodge, East Boston.

WHOEVER reads this excuse for an autobiography should be
informed that it is an extreme effort for me to write, even about
myself; give me a concrete problem in mathematics and I take to
it like a duck to water. Reluctantly I begin this arduous undertak-
ing with the full knowledge that unless I complete this narrative
I shall never fulfill this part of my obligation.

From what I can remember at the present time it seems that I
have always had a desire to be a travelling auditor, How did I
accomplish this, my modest ambition in life? It is impossible for
me to say. I know that I graduated from the Bentley School of
Accounting and Finance where I did pretty well with the assist-
ance of my Harvard background. I kept books and records for a
period of five years during which I received recommendations
for professional accounting engagements. The depression of 1929
put a stop to my progress until about 1934 when I began receiving
civil service appointments which finally brought me to my pres-
ent-day occupation as field auditor for the Massachusetts Division
of Employment Security.

In my above-mentioned capacity it has been necessary for me
to travel throughout the State of Massachusetts from Pittsfield
to Provincetown and all way stations including the “Islands.” In
my travels I have interviewed many executives, have contacted
many Harvard men, and have made audits in those offices that

[ 83 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

reflected from the highest degree of success to extreme failure,
Had I been an individual with editorial talents I would have been
able to write several interesting volumes on my experiences,
1 am very happy with my wife, Esther, and my daughter,
Audrey. Esther is quite congenial and is not averse to having me
spend an evening with the boys or at the Lodge. Audrey is at

present attending the General College of the Boston University

where she also makes her residence.

1 have reached the stage where I enjoy taking my exercise |

sitting down and when I can find the time I delight in playing a

game of chess or discussing the trend of popular opinion in this
country.

Mention should also be made of the facts that I have passed the
examinations for Certified Public Accountant and that during the
income tax season I am employed by Robert, Finnegan & Lynah,
at 24 Federal Street, Boston, in the preparation of income tax
returns.

The preceding generally describes the main events in my life.
As | look back upon the years I am reminded of Marcus Aurelius

who says, “The Universe is changed; our life is what our thoughts
make it.”

ANDREW CAMPBELL BERRY

appress: 123 N. Green Bay St, Appleton, Wis.

Born: Nov. 23, 1906, Somerville, Mass. parents: Charles William Berry,
Lexie Macdonald.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1925(26); A.M-
1926, PH.D. 1929.
Marriep: Hope Osgood Clark, Sept. 14, 1930, West Medway, Mass. cHIL-
DREN: Barbara Ann, Aug. 20, 1932; Janet Lee, April 3, 1935.
occupation: Education.
THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. An-
drew Berry did not return a questionnaire.

% JOHN HENRY BERRY

porn: Feb. 24, 1904, Cambridge, Mass, parents: Henry Ward Berry,
Lizzie Medora Odde.

[ 84]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-10923.

UNMARRIED.

pieD: Feb. 23, 1923, Watertown, Mass.

JOHN HENRY BERRY came to Harvard as the holder of a
Harvard Club of Boston Scholarship, after graduating from Wa-
tertown High School as the leading scholar of his class. While in
college he was a member of the Gore Hall Tennis team, sang with
the Freshman Glee Club, and during the first part of his sophomore
year, with the University Glee Club.

He had high aspirations and a mind which gave promise of un-
usual brilliance.

ALBERT LEONARD BEST

HOME appREss: Dogwood Lane, Darien, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Guy B. Panero, Engineers, 420 Lexington Ave., New York,
N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 6, 1903, Evanston, Ill. parents: A. Starr Best, Marjorie Ayres.

PREPARED AT: Evanston Township High School, Evanston, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: S.B. IN C. ENGIN., 1925.

MARRIED: Janet Cairns Wilson, Dec. 17, 1935, Dunbar, Scotland. cHiLpREN:
Starr, Jan. 29, 1937; Bruce, March 21, 1940; Meg, Feb. 28, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Marshall Ayres Best, ’23.

OCCUPATION: Engineering.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Engineering Society.

A YEAR with the New York Telephone Company and reports
to my supervisor, revised for his, and scrapped by his, sent me
to Delano and Aldrich, architects —draughtsman by day and
“projets” by night, with George Licht as mentor, critic, and
driver. March, 1929, found me in Belgium, on the construction
of Hallam Tuck’s estate at Waterloo, near Brussels. Two years
there were marked by initial loneliness, gradual mastery and love
of the French language, good, though humble, friends in the
country, welcome summer visits by my aunt, and ripening friend-
ship with my colleague on the job, a French engineer of Basque
descent.

The crash of 1929 had not touched me, nor were the ensuing
apple-cart episodes known to me other than by hearsay, for during
the next four years the Paris Embassy, designed by “Mr. Delano,
was built (I helped, now with Hegeman-Harris, builders) to com-

[85 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

plete Gabriel’s plan for the Place de la Concorde. Other projects
followed. Trips to Prague, Holland, England — short vacation
wanderings in the French chateau country — tiny Peugeot car —
at first life in small Paris hotels on the left Bank, then an apartment
in a little square with cropped plane trees (Place Violet) with
my aunt — theatres, opera, concerts, little restaurants, fine res-
taurants, apéritifs, boulevards, February riots in the Place de la
Concorde, museums, long family evenings with my good Basque
friend, and finally loss of my aunt.

In 1935 and 1936 I was in London — Earl’s Court Exhibition,
and London Embassy construction. A flying trip to Scotland —
Dunbar and Edinburgh, not Gretna Green — resulted from an
agreement made with a lovely Scottish girl whom I had met in
Paris. I was supported by my French friend and surrounded with
friendly Scottish relatives-in-law, in a little village church,

After a year and a half of settled married life in London, we
pulled stakes and returned in 1937 with five-months-old Starr
to Delano and Aldrich, the planning and construction of La
Guardia Field, W.P.A., and the end of the depression. A year
on the Fast Side in a remodeled tenement, with soot on our noses
in the morning, convinced us that children need the country. We
moved to Darien, bought a piece of rock, and built our home on
it, Here we took root, with only a short business trip to New-
foundland, and early in 1942 another by air to Buenos Aires for
two months, and back over the Andes. There were many there
who thought we should lose the war.

This same war, and Guy Panero, then involved me with the
Ferguson Company in building ammunition loading plants and
rubber plants in Mississippi and Louisiana, so we rented our house,
moved to Tupelo, Mississippi (family now includes Bruce) and
learned the, pleasant way about southern hospitality during our
year’s stay. At this point, with the war plants completed, Richard
Delano invented the Sunstill for making fresh water from sea
water by use of solar heat, as equipment for our flyers down at
sea. He needed help, so we all returned to New York and our
own home again, happy to be able to work on life-saving rather
than life-taking equipment.

Plastics research for Sunstills made us feel that plastics might
provide an answer to most of the world’s wants. However, a

[ 86 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

short experience with my own small company at war’s end soon
disabused me. I was delighted to return to building and engineer-
ing work with Guy B. Panero, now consulting engineer, successor
to Clyde R. Place, engineers. Here I find solid satisfaction in
helping to make buildings of all kinds more convenient, econom-
ical, and useful through sound engineering and planning.

I enjoy a million ways of exercising my mechanical and handi-
craft interests at home, along with gardening and a spot of read-
ing. I have kept contact with France and England, with visits by
relatives here as well as a recent trip by my daughter for three
months to my Basque friends in Paris. The worry of sending the
children to college is beginning to rear its ugly head, for I have
never been able to enrich the government with large income tax
payments. I fear greatly the headlong rush of our country into
the socialism represented by bigger and bigger government, still
bigger business, and armies of security-conscious little employees
pushing papers across desks, The Communists are more danger-
ous than we realize. The tendency of the public grade schools in
the East to relax discipline and standards of scholarship dismays
me and seems to be reflected in increased lawlessness among
youngsters — can it be, perhaps, that the Church needs a little
more of our attention? And yet I still do not know what part
of the globe can offer a fragment of the opportunity for a good,
useful, and full life which is so readily to be found here.

I have the most wonderful wife in the world, modest ambitions
for my children, and hopes of further travel, in a more tranquil
future, to see new places and people, and renew old acquaintances
with places and people. On returning from France, my daughter
remarked that if more of us could know and understand the people
in other countries, it would be a lot harder to start wars. I agree.

BERNARD BETTMAN

HOME Appress: Hill House, River Road, Macon, Ga. (not mailing address).

OFFICE ADDRESS: P. O. Box 19, Mercer University, Macon, Ga.

BORN: Oct. 19, 1903, Cincinnati, Ohio. parents: Edgar Bettman, Ruth
Freiberg.

PREPARED AT: University School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1925; a.m. (Univ. of
Cincinnati), 1931; pup. (Univ. of California), 1934.

[ 87 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

marRiED: Barbara Louise Colson, Dec. 19, 1948, Charleston, S, C.
occupation: Professor of chemistry; head of chemistry department, Mercer
University.
WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Shift supervisor for U. S. Government, Inspec-
tion Division, West Virginia Ordnance Works, Point Pleasant, W. Va.
MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Sigma Xi; American Chemical Society.  __
PUBLICATIONS: Four papers in the Journal of the American Chemical Society
based on Ph.D. thesis, “The Dissociation Constants of Organic Deriva-
tives of Boric Acid”; one subsequent paper, “An Improved Method of
Synthesizing Fthyl Isobutyl Ether”; two patents based on the prepara-
tion of water-soluble dyes from petroleum products. (Ph.D. thesis was
one of the pioneer contributions to the theory of molecular resonance.)
MY LIFE has been an illustration of the old adage, “life begins
at forty.” After many fruitless attempts to “find myself,” it was
not until I reached forty-three that I got exactly the type of
position I had always wanted to obtain. It was not until this same
age that I met the only girl I ever wanted to marry, and whom I
did marry two years later.

I wonder if any other members of the Class of 1925 have been
as much of a rolling stone as I have. My employment record
since graduation has consisted of nine jobs in eight different states
of the union, these ranging from assistant shipping clerk to re-
search chemist, supervisor in a high explosives plant to full-time
college professor. It took me three years to find out, from two
positions I held in Ohio and Kentucky, that I had no aptitude for
business. It was then, during the first of nine trips that I have
made to California, that I took advantage of a little chemistry I
had picked up at Harvard. I invented a process for dyeing mara-
schino cherries, a fast “non-bleeding” color for use in canned
fruit salad, which I sold for cash down and a five-year royalty.
That made me decide to forsake business and make chemistry my
life’s work,

The royalty saw me through the five years I required to get
my A.M. and Ph.D. degrees. After receiving the latter 1 took a |
three-month trip to Egypt, Palestine, Syria, Western Europe, and
England. Being badly smitten by California, [ returned there,
and managed, in the heart of the depression, to land a chemical
position in San Francisco, but two days before I was to go to
work I was struck by an automobile and received a fractured
spine, a broken leg, concussion of the brain, and a few other
annoying injuries. Since good fortune seldom strikes twice dur-

[88]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

. ing a depression, I had to give up my idea of working in California
and it was two years before I was able to find work again. Fol-
lowed then six years as industrial research chemist in firms located
in Philadelphia and Buffalo. When the war broke out I accepted
a government position as a shift supervisor in a T.N.T. plant in
West Virginia. When one returns from the graveyard shift and
has to sleep in the daytime thirty-six consecutive days in which
the temperature reaches ninety degrees or more, one begins to
have a faint idea of the real hell our fighting soldiers must have
gone through.

At the end of the war I returned to industrial research, first
in Jersey City, then at Rensselaer, New York. However, I had
contracted asthma while in my Buffalo position and the asthma
now returned, with the result that I had to resign the latter posi-
tion after only six months. I was advised to give up industrial
work because of the chemical fumes and move to a drier or
warmer climate, either in the West or South.

This was a little discouraging, particularly as I had just fallen
in love with a teacher of home economics in an Albany, New
York, high school. So I took advantage of the shortage of college
teachers occasioned by the war to do what I not only always
really wanted to do but also considered myself best fitted to do:
that is, enter the academic field. With no experience, on the
strength of a Harvard Detur and Phi Beta Kappa key, I managed
to obtain an assistant professorship in chemistry at the College of
Idaho, Caldwell, Idaho. After a year at this lonely, isolated spot
I became an associate professor at Mercer University, Macon,
Georgia. After one year there I was promoted, in 1949, to full
professor and head of the department of chemistry. I am per-
fectly contented with academic life in spite of the notoriously
low salaries that prevail. My wife and I live in a small cottage
on an old twenty-six-acre southern colonial estate surrounded by
dense groves of bamboo, magnolia, and pine trees, with two
brooks with cascades about a three-minute walk away. We have
flowers twelve months a year and brilliantly colored birds we had
never seen before.

During the intervals between my many jobs I have always
indulged my hobby of travel. I have spent at least one night in
660 different places in the world, exactly 600 of them being in

[ 89 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

the U.S.A. and the remaining sixty in foreign countries. I have
visited every major national park.

Music has always been my most beloved hobby. I have com.
posed some ninety piano pieces. I have never seriously concen-
trated on having them published, but did have the opportunity of
playing two at Local Composer's Day at Cincinnati, I am an en-
thusiastic amateur pianist and during my days of unemployment
once possessed a memorized repertoire of some 200 classical piano
pieces. I have built up, over a period of some twenty-five years,
a very complete library of piano music (scores for piano solo, not
recordings) much of which is unobtainable at any price since the
war. This music will eventually go to the Cincinnati Public
Library; it will be my gift to posterity.

Mountain climbing has been another major hobby of mine. |
have conquered dozens of peaks from Mt. Lassen, California, the
only active volcano in the U.S.A., to Mt. Katahdin, the highest
peak in the State of Maine.

In closing, while I cannot claim that my life has been free from
many lonely and unhappy moments, I can say that it has been
one of constant change with “never a dull moment.” And because

of my eventual happy marriage and finding the work for which
1 was most suited, it all worked out all right in the long run.

LOWELL PIERSON BEVERIDGE

HOME ADDRESS: 411 W. 114th St., New York 25, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDREss: St. Paul’s Chapel, Columbia University, New York 27, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1905, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Orris Lyford Beverage,
Rose Emma Pierson.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1922-1925. DEGREES: A.B, 1925; A.M., 1928; PH.D. 1943.
MaRRIED: Ida Louisa Gattrell, Dec. 25, 1926, Newburyport, Mass. CHILDREN:
Lowell Pierson, Jr., April 7, 1930; Thomas Gattrell, April 6, 1938.

HARVARD SON: Lowell Pierson Beveridge, Jr. 52.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Lyford Pierson Beveridge, ’22; Arnold Pierson Bever-
idge, ’24; Eliot Pierson Beveridge, ’30; Norwood Pierson Beveridge, 732.

OccUPATION: Teacher, organist and conductor.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Music Library Association, 1945-48; member
executive board, American Musicological Society, 1946-47, National
Music Council, 1946-48.

MEMBER oF: American Guild of Organists, American Musicological Society;
Hymn Society of America; Music Library Association,

[90]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PUBLICATIONS: Editor of miscellaneous church music published by G,
Schirmer, E. C. Schirmer, and J. Fischer & Brother.

THREE centers of interest have chiefly occupied my attention

since graduation: my family, my profession, and our summer

home on North Haven, Maine.

Looking back upon my days in Cambridge, I realize that the
Glee Club meant more than anything else as it was the basis of my
social life, gave meaning to what otherwise would have been a
drab existence, and, under Dr. Davison’s guiding hand, served as
the foundation for my training in the music profession. To be
sure, there were some agonizing moments as when Doc would
bawl me out for messing up the accompaniment, but that all wears
a halo now.

Ida shared many of these experiences, at least vicariously, and
our more than twenty years of married life began shortly after
I graduated. We lived in Hamden Hall while I continued in
the Graduate School, at the same time serving as organist and
choirmaster at Dr. Crother’s Church in the Square and teaching
at Browne and Nichols and the Leslie School. We took part in
local musical activities, went frequently to the “Cambridge
Sings,” and helped organize the Motet and Madrigal Club
which met at our apartment. The friendships which grew out
of these associations have become increasingly precious over the
years.

During the first year or so of our marriage Ida continued her
teaching in the Wellesley Hills High School and substituted oc-
casionally in Somerville so that, with what I was able to pick up
on the side while still studying, we saved enough for a year of
travel and further study in England and Europe in 1928 and 1929.
While we were away that year the job organist and choirmaster
at Wellesley turned up and we came back full of excitement to
the first real job. The Columbia job came up the following spring
just about the time Lowell, Jr., was born and with some reluc-
tance we gave up Wellesley to try our luck in New York. It is
difficult at this point to appraise the wisdom of the choice but
on the whole it has been very rewarding.

A complete inventory of activities during these past twenty
years at Columbia would be boring even to us but I might men-
tion my connections with Union Theological Seminary where

[or]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

I have been teaching and conducting at the School of Sacred
Music, the Greenwich Choral Society, and the Greenwich Acad-
emy where I have been active as choral director for over ten
years, and the University Women’s Chorus of New York. The
continuity of these activities was broken by a trip to Italy and
Sicily in 1937 during a sabbatical leave and in the spring of 1938
by the arrival of our second son, Thomas.

The routine has been broken regularly each summer by our
migrating to North Haven. There we have indulged to the full-
est our intense love of everything which that part of the world
represents, building and taking care of our cottage, working in
the woods and garden and recently buying a real farm there.

Lowell, Jr., went to Horace Mann where he made out quite
well scholastically and led a fairly well-rounded existence. He
took up the flute at an early age and we have had great fun
playing together. Now in his second year at Harvard, he is faced
with a variety of serious problems which we don’t seem to be
able to help him with as much as we would like. Tom went to
Horace Mann-Lincoln and then to Trinity and now is at Land-
haven in Camden, Maine. Landhaven has an enrollment of about
twenty boys with seven or eight men and women on the faculty

headed by the Reverend Michael Millen, Harvard ’45. The cur-
riculum is based upon discipline in the classical fundamentals but
the emphasis is upon social understanding and responsibility built
upon a foundation of religious conviction, We have high hopes
for this enterprise.
By the time this appears in print my resignation from Columbia
will be about to take effect. This is a voluntary action based
upon the conclusion that the spiritual life in the educational in-
stitutions with which I have been associated is divorced from
reality. Also, I am distrustful of the current slogan, “more money,
more buildings, and more research.” My plans for the immediate
future are indefinite but I am hoping to find some way to help
in solving some of the basic issues involved in my recent decision.
Our college generation has done something to help stem the
tide of materialism and prejudice but we must make an even
greater contribution. I feel sure that I am not alone in believing
that we cannot continue to put full confidence in the mechanistic
theories which are largely accountable for our present situation

[92]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

but that we must rediscover and reéxamine the religious approach
to the problems with which the world is faced today.

HARLOW BISHOP

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Cottage Ave., Nanuet, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lederle Laboratories, Pearl River, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1902, Cleveland, Ohio. PARENTS: Julius Bishop, Ida Steinmetz.

PREPARED AT: South Hills High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1022-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; A.M., 1926; PH.D., 1937.

MARRIED: Faith Haddock, Sept. 9, 1930, West Newton, Mass. cuitp: Nancy,
Feb. 23, 1932.

occupation: Development mycologist in aureomycin.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in botany, University of Tennessee, Knoxville,
Tenn., September, 1930-September, 1931; assistant professor of biology,
University of Louisville, Louisville, Ky., September, 1931-February, 1946;
plant mycologist, Lederle Laboratories, since March, 1946.

MEMBER OF: New England Botanical Society; Mycological Society of
America; Botanical Society of America; American Association for the
Advancement of Science; Kentucky Academy of Science; Kentucky
Society of Natural History.

PpuBLicaTions: “The Austin Collection from the Labrador Coast,” Rbodora,
March, 1930; “A Study of Sexuality in Sapromyces Reinschii,”
Mycologia, August, 1940.

THE desire for classical studies under Harvard professors led
me to Harvard. A marvelous course with Professor Howard was
the high spot. It kindled a feeling of linguistic ease and also
fixed my attention, perhaps strangely, on agriculture through
the reading of Tacitus. Desiring to remain in the Harvard at-
mosphere and yet study agriculture, I eased from the classics to
English to chemistry to zodlogy (A.M.), and finally to botany
(Ph.D.), the last being the best compromise I could make be-
tween the science of agriculture and the academic realm. For
sixteen years I taught botany at Knoxville and Louisville, develop-
ing there two consuming passions: the attempt to induce students
to think for themselves by the Socratic method and the attempt
to collect specimens of and identify the Louisville flora. An
opportunity to express myself in the economic aspect of botany
came with an appointment to the Lederle Laboratories staff,
where as a fermentologist it is my privilege to assist in the pro-
duction of the vitamin riboflavin and of the antibiotic, aureo-
mycin.

[93 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

My wife and I are proud of our seventeen-year-old daughter,
Nancy, who has distinguished herself in high school dramatics
and has aspirations for the stage. We are hopeful that she will
enter Wellesley next year. She has made for herself and for us
a precious circle of friends in Louisville and Pearl River. My
wife, a Simmons girl, was very active in church work in Louis-
ville and in the Louisville League of Women Voters. Since mov-
ing to Pearl River, we have had to concentrate on modernizing
the home we bought. The large lot it is on presents opportunity
for gardening and landscaping. Much pleasure and a deal of hard
work with a crowbar are combined in the construction of a series
of rock walls from the natively abundant rocks of Rockland
County.

My chief social activity in Louisville was to assist in the found-
ing and nurturing of the Kentucky Society of Natural History.
The photographic section of this society, under the aegis of
Kent Previette, bids fair to making a real place for itself in the
photographic world. Since coming to New York State, I have
taken part in our local civic association’s affairs and was elected
secretary this year.

The most steadying and satisfying convictions have come
through my wife’s Unitarianism. For this religious viewpoint
I have developed my present consuming passion. Here are to
be found a welding of Klebs’ theory of the conditioning effect

of the environment, my own interpretation of the effect of the
environment on the organisms I have studied, the possible re-inter-
pretation of human history according to Professor Tscham’s pre-
cepts, Toynbee’s theory of challenge and response, and the semi-
mysticism of De Noity. The best hope for the future of mankind,
it seems to me, lies in a really universal brotherhood, which must,
however, be dynamic, not static. ‘To achieve this we need to work
very hard at understanding the fundamental drives of men every-
where. Liebman has advanced this line of attack further than
anyone else. His work furnishes the outline we need to follow,

Toynbee summarizes the findings of history on the benefits of

continuing challenges, but Klebs gives the real clue to setting up

these challenges. The clue, to my way of thinking, is a sense of

security. A sense of security that is too deep leads to decay of the
race, while a sense of complete insecurity leads to fanatical ex-

[94]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pression. A balanced, realistic sense of security, coupled with a
dynamically increasing awareness of our insecurity offers the
continuing challenge that would produce the highest type of man.

+ LAWRENCE BLACK

BORN: Nov. 22, 1903, Pueblo, Colo. parents: Herbert Allen Black, Bertha
Sophia Lawrence.

PREPARED AT: Centennial High School, Pueblo, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 1925; LL.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Caroline Stewart, June 18, 1925, Newton, Mass. (divorced 1938);
Dorothy Scudder Thayer, June 15, 1946, Simsbury, Conn. cHILpREN:
Frank Stewart, May 16, 1927; Herbert Allen, 2d, Dec. 13, 1929.

pieD: April 21, 1950, Boston, Mass.

wipow: Mrs. Lawrence Black, 507 Washington St., Holliston, Mass.

LAWRENCE BLACK died on April 21, 1950, as this Report was

going to press. Since he had returned his questionnaire, the Secre-

tary thought it best to print it as it is. On February ro, the Secre-
tary received the following:

“If samples from the ’24 lives sent out with this particular in-
strument of torture were to point with pride to a proper ex-
ample, this is pre-doomed to abysmal failure for any reasonably
competitive mood, whether egotistically, psychologically, or
introspectively, refuses to be conjured.

“So, in the wording of the esteemed ‘Charles C, Charles,’ leave
us get factual and chronological. You may remember June 18,
1925, as the date of our graduation — it was also the date of my
first marriage. Followed three years in the Law School and then
ten years’ practice with Stewart & Chase, five as an employee
(and when I think of what stenographers receive now!) and five
as a partner, then my own office at 31 State with more fun than
money.

“After that, factual and legal separation. I went to Brookline,
the divorce was November 15, 1938. In Brookline I started play-
ing arouhd wigh politics, being elected Town Meeting Member,
becoming a sponsor of (too old for active membership in) the
Brookline Young People’s Republican Club, acting as campaign
manager for a ‘very tired horse’ for Selectman and almost un-
seating the ‘fair-haired boy’ —a Yale man by the way — (near
misses are more fun in retrospect) and being appointed to the

[95]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

In the meantime, December first, to be exact, my father who was
still practising medicine in Colorado, a surgeon, had a stroke, and
although I was out there for a while I may have to go again and
for as long as it will seem advisable to stay. Of course, too,
I] may stay here alone, or with some firm, all of which uncer-
tainty has caused me to keep putting George Goodspeed off on
this in the hope that I might know more before going to press.
But George is a little beaver — and he is doing a grand job — so,

closing on this necessary note of uncertainty, may we all be back,
even in wheel chairs if indicated, for our Fiftieth.”

THOMAS DAWES BLAKE

HOME ADDRESS: 3026 N St., N.W., Washington 7, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: International Telephone and Telegraph Corp., 1025 Con-
necticut Ave., N.W., Washington 6, D, C.

BORN: Sept. 28, 1903, San Francisco, Calif. parents: William Horton Blake,
’97, Maria Teresa de la Guerra Hartnell.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926.

marrieD: Maria Christine Brown, Jan. 28, 1928, Atlanta, Ga.

occuPATION: Washington representative of the International Telephone and
Telegraph Corporation.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Assistant press officer, Department of State;
assistant to the Honorable Stephen T. Early, press secretary to President
Roosevelt; press officer, Far Eastern Commission; assistant to Associate

Justice of the Supreme Court Robert H. Jackson at the Nuremberg
trials,

MEMBER OF: Metropolitan Club, Washington, D. C.

JUNE, 1925, to September, 1949: 290-odd months, some thrill-
ing, some tragic, some gay, all exciting and all now merged in
an indistinct pattern. November, 1925, Cambridge, Massachu-
setts: Harvard o, Yale o—the culmination of three months’
scouting by Yale. September, 1926, Orlando, Florida: investment
banking was a delight in this lovely state. January, 1928, Atlanta,
Georgia: marriage during the happiest and gayest of all months,
a marriage which has lasted through all the years and which has
made brighter the gay months and lightened the load in the
tragic ones. January, 1930, Philadelphia: depression. June, 1931,
New York: a jobless series of months lightened: only by the
courage and devotion of my wife and mother.

[98 ]

if

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

March, 1933, New York —and a never-to-be-forgotten voice
reassuring the whole country that “We have nothing to fear but
fear itself.” June, 1937, Hollywood, California: return to the
native state. November, 1938, San Francisco: right after Munich.
Remember “Peace in our Time?” — and the start of a planned
five-year trip around the world with delightful months of travel
in the Far East, India and Europe, new places, new faces, new
and old friends. September, 1939, LeLavandou, France: war.
January, 1940, Rajpipla, India: maharajahs and panther shooting.
May, 1940, Naples, Italy: end of the “phony war.” May, 1941,
Lisbon, Portugal: off for Rio. August, 1941, Presidente Epitacio,
Brazil: down the Parana River from the Matto Grosso to Buenos

Aires. December, 1941, Buenos Aires: Pearl Harbor.

February, 1942, Washington, D. C.: return to the U. S. and
discovery that the hole in one’s eardrum is a permanent disbar-
ment from the military forces; around-the-clock work in the
musty old State Department building on Pennsylvania Avenue.
December, 1942, Washington: an hour-long session starting at
two in the morning with Britain’s Prime Minister, Winston
Churchill, who sent an indecipherable message over from the
White House to the State Department and who, when I went to
see him to get it clarified, evidently wanted a bit of company at
that hour. If he doesn’t know all there is to know about Har-
vard, American football, the state of California, and the night-
time operations of the State Department, it’s not my fault, for
he pumped me on all of them.

February, 1944, Washington: to the White House. The Presi-
dent’s interest in my flamboyant ties, Mrs. Roosevelt's unfailing
concern and kindness, Fala and my defense of him during the
turbulent campaign months, D-Day and the President’s Prayer,
composed late at night before the boys hit the beaches — there
are a thousand moments in these months which set them apart
from all the others. January, 1945, Washington — all the myriad
details of the presidential inauguration and my return to the
State Department to help on the great legislative program of
1945: trade agreements, the Mexican water treaty, Bretton
Woods. April, 1945, Washington: the bell on the press service
‘icker clangs incessantly, the fateful letters dance across the
yellow paper, “PRESIDENT DIES”; grief and consternation in

[99]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

the White House and a pale, determined Harry Truman repeat-
ing the President's oath in a firm voice; the funeral train leaving
for Hyde Park; the last-second order from the Secretary of State
to prepare a statement for the President to be issued at the mo-
ment when the Allied and Russian forces should meet in Ger-
many (Churchill had requested it as he believed the meeting
imminent); Buffy Bohlen’s brother, Chip, and Ad Stevenson, now
the Governor of Illinois, and I sitting up all night on the
sixteenth of April preparing it. (The meeting did not take place
till April twenty-seventh and I have never been able to discover
what happened in those eleven intervening days.)

May, 1945, Washington: rumors of Japanese peace feelers
which plagued the life out of Under Secretary of State Joseph
Grew and me as we sat in Washington while the first team was
in San Francisco helping to form the United Nations. June, 1945,
Washington: the happiness in former Secretary of State Hull's
voice when I told him that the Senate had extended his Trade
Agreements Act for another three years. August, 1945, Wash-
ington: V-J Day at last. September, 1945, Nuremberg, Ger-
many: the shock at seeing first-hand the terrific damage to the
cities of Germany; the horrible stench still hanging over Dachau,
and the contemptuous mien of Goering as he parried his question-
ers in private interrogation proceedings before the trial started,
secure in his knowledge that he would never hang because of
the poison secreted on his person; reunion with old friends in
battered but proud London, December, 1945, Washington: new
work with the Far Eastern Commission, highlighted by a battle
with General MacArthur, courtesy of the press, which provided
a teacup storm for that month.

April, 1946, Washington —and the departure from govern-
ment service to join the International Telephone and Telegraph
Corporation as their Washington representative. The govern-
ment work was, of course, intensely interesting and I want to
pay tribute here and now to the career people in government
service. I have never met a finer, harder working group of men
and women, all of them imbued with the spirit of service to their
country. I am grateful that my present work with the Inrer-
national Telephone and Telegraph Corporation. still keeps me
busy in world-wide affairs and enables me to continue my pleas-

[ 100 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ant relations with my friends in government. We have a great
team in the I. T. & T. and I am proud and happy to be on it.
September, 1947, Montreal, Canada —a tragic month. Many of
you will remember my mother and her vast interest in life and
you will be glad to know that she died as she would have wished,
in her sleep and on a boat.

Now we come to the present moment, to a house in George-
town with a lovely garden, to a dog called Shmoo, to friends
and associates well beloved, to the occasional game of golf and
the ever recurrent battle to maintain the waistline at approxi-
mately 1925 limits.

As for the future, the best months are always ahead of you,
no matter where you stand in time. As long as I can look
forward to seeing old friends and making new ones, I am content.

WALTER SCOTT BLANCHARD

HOME apprEss: Hewlett, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Blanchard Lumber Co., 450 Seventh Ave., New York 1, N. Y.

BORN: July 18, 1901, Concord, Mass. parents: Herbert Wheeler Blanchard,
"84, Julia Wood.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: AB., 1925.

marRigD: Elizabeth Percival, Aug. 2, 1924, Marblehead, Mass. (divorced
1932); Evelyn Evans, April 29, 1932. cHmpren: Elizabeth Percival, July
28, 1926 (m. W. G. Tankoos, March 23, 1946); Judy, Oct. 17, 1928
(died 1936); Walter Scott, Jr., Sept. 26, 1937; Hartman E., Sept. 22,
1941. GRANDCHILDREN: W. G, Tankoos, Jr., Feb. 25, 1947; Anne Lindsay
Tankoos, July 10, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Wells Blanchard, 716 (deceased).

occuPATION: Wholesale lumber merchant.

OFFICES HELD: President, Blanchard Lumber Company, since 1933.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Rockaway Hunting Club; Law-
rence Beach Club; Atlantic Beach Club; Island Club of Hobe Sound,
Florida.

DURING the war I spent much time in Washington feeding
the War Department all the lumber we could furnish and service.
Since then I have been taking it easier, spending part of each
winter in Florida. Otherwise I reside on Long Island.

As you may note, my daughter seems to be producing grand-
children with alarming rapidity, with another one coming along
shortly, My elder son is at the Aiken Preparatory School, Aiken,

[ ror ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

South Carolina, and will next head for Andover, Exeter, or
Middlesex and then, I hope and God willing, to our Alma Mater.
Likewise my second son.

My business has taken me many times to the West Coast and
vacations have covered the Caribbean including the Virgin Is-
lands, Jamaica, Cuba, and the Bahamas. My favorite hobby is
fishing, particularly for tarpon, since in my old age the stomach
does not react as it used to in the gulf stream and Nova Scotia.
Also, I still attempt to play some feeble tennis and race small
boats in Florida.

BERTRAM CARLYLE BLAND

appREsS: 539 High St., Newark 2, N. J.

BoRN: July 26, 1903, Newark, N. J. parents: William James Bland, Maggie
Thomas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1927.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Bland did not return a questionnaire.

BYRON ALFRED BLIVEN

HOME ADDRESS: 1143 Covert St., Evansville, Ind.

OFFicE ADDRESS: Servel, Inc., 930 Division St. Evansville, Ind.

BORN: Jan. 3, 1903, Westerly, R. I. parents: Samuel Hyde Bliven, Ada
Belle Nichols.

PREPARED AT: Dean Academy, Franklin, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

marrigp: Frances Day Paul, Aug. 1, 1925, New York, N. Y. cuitp: Byron
Alfred, Jr., May 27, 1926 (m. Jean Nelson, Jan. 4, 1947).

OCCUPATION: Sales.

CARLETON BLOCK

HOME ApprEss: 858% S. Mariposa Ave., Los Angeles 5, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % City Planning Commission, City Hall, Los Angeles, Calif.

Born: April 22, 1904, Buffalo, N. ¥. parents: Max Block, Rose Levy.

PREPARED AT: Dwight School, New York, N. Y,; DeWitt Clinton High
School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

[ 102 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
UN MARRIED.
occupation: City planner.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II: Non-commissioned officer,
Army Air Corps; honorably discharged.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California, American Institute of
Planners.
MY LIFE since graduation can be summarized in a few brief sen-
tences. I spent some fifteen years in newspaper advertising, most of
them in New York City with Paul Block and Associates. In 1941 I
joined the Chicago office of the same firm, moving my home to
the Windy City. The following year I was inducted into the
Army Air Corps. At the war’s end I decided to seek new fields to
conquer, which resulted in my entering city planning work, a
profession which I have found interesting and stimulating, if not
lucrative. After three years with the Chicago Plan Commission, I
took a competitive examination for the position of planning ana-
lyst with the Los Angeles Department of City Planning. I was the
successful candidate and in the fall of 1947 I packed bag and bag-
gage and headed west. At this rate I should be in Honolulu before
long.

As a bachelor I have little to report on family life. I can’t say
that I recommend bachelorhood but at forty-six years of age it
may be too late to change. Otherwise I’m most content with the
blessings the Good Lord has seen fit to bestow upon me. And not
a day goes by that I don’t thank God for my having been born in
this great, free country and for the privilege of being an American.
Let us hope and pray that the people throughout the world will
enjoy similar freedom before long. Greetings to all the “old men”
of ’25.

JOHN JOSEPH BLONIARZ

ADDRESS: 1§ Hoosac St., Adams, Mass.

BORN: June 7, 1903, Adams, Mass, parents: Anthony Bloniarz, Catherine
Robakowska.

PREPARED AT: St. John Kanty School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREE: A.B., 1925 (26).

OccUPATION: Education.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files, Blo-
niarz did not return a questionnaire.

[ 103 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925 .

CECIL ARCHIBALD BLUE

HOME ADDRESS: 411 Lafayette St. Jefferson City, Mo.

OFFicE AppREss: Lincoln University, Jefferson City, Mo.

BoRN: Oct. 6, 1903, British Guiana, South America. parents: James The-
ophilus Blue, Mary Anne McRae.

PREPARED AT: Dunbar High School, Washington, D. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925, DEGREES: A.B., 19253 A.M., 1926.

marrieD: Barbara Irene Henry, June 3, 1936, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:

Barbara Estelle, Aug. 9, 1937; Diana Granville, Aug. 31, 1940.
occuPATION: Teacher.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Department of English, Lincoln University, since
1930; president, Association of Teachers of English in Negro Colleges,
1939-40; secretary, 1939-41, vice-president, 1947-48, Lincoln University
Chapter, A.A.U.P.; vice-president, Jefferson City Chapter, N.A.A.CP,,
1947-48, Key Member for Lincoln University, N.E.A., since 1949.

MEMBER OF: National Council of Teachers of English; College English
Association; Modern Language Association; National Education As-
sociation, American Association of University Professors; Omega Psi

Phi.

AT THE beginning of my senior year in college 1 came to the
decision that teaching, preferably college teaching, would be my
occupation. Since a second degree would improve my chances of
getting a good job, I returned to Harvard in the fall of 1925 and
got a Master’s degree in English the following June.

For a Negro in those days college teaching meant some Negro
college in the South. I chose a small Presbyterian college in North
Carolina, partly because my classmate and friend, Bill Knox, had
preceded me down there by a year, and partly because North
Carolina had the reputation of being the best of the southern states
for Negroes. My two years in North Carolina were pleasant
enough. Jim Crow, the icy glare of some white men I encoun-
tered, could not annul the ebullience of youth (“No young man
thinks he will ever die”), the pleasures of a salubrious climate, and
the kindly people among whom I lived.

Also, ever since I had met Countee Cullen during my graduate
year at Harvard, I had been caught up in the fervor of the “black
renaissance.” That meant trying my hand at writing. A couple of
short stories and a poem were published in little magazines, and in
1928 a short story tied for first prize in the Opportunity magazine
contest.

[ 104 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Then came an invitation from Lincoln University in Missouri,
the state college for Negroes. I could not resist the sizeable in-
crease. I have been out here since.

The transfer to the Middle West — Missouri is in fact a border
state with a strong Southern accent — meant changes in my own
attitudes and interests. One I have continuously regretted was the
rapid loss of drive for creative writing. The pedagogic emphasis
of a state school, the harsher tone of “atmosphere,” were not
congenial to what I decided must have been, after all, mere dil-
ettantism. But there was a compensation in a new awareness —a
political one. In Washington nobody votes, in North Carolina
twenty-five years ago few Negroes voted. Here, in the state capi-
tal of Missouri, you breathed politics, mostly fetid. Yet here was
the first opportunity for me to achieve some tangible form of
identification with my adopted country -- to vote. As quickly as
I could I became naturalized. I have taken pride in exercising my
rights of citizenship, and I have urged upon the young people with
whom I have come in contact not only the rights but the respon-
sibilities of citizenship. I have broadened my knowledge of po-
litical literature and my rereading of basic documents to which I
was introduced at Harvard has brought me new meanings .

I think this had something to do with my decision to choose a
middle-western university (Michigan) when in 1933 I decided to
continue graduate study. The decision was right. For my experi-
ence at Michigan broadened my understanding of American life
and American education.

In politics I have been independent, even to the extent of sup-
porting Henry Wallace in the last presidential campaign. For I
am desperately in quest of democracy — the real thing, not the
glittering generalities — for myself and for my children. And for
everybody. I reject no hand that is held out to me in sincere fel-
lowship. I miss no chance to support interracial efforts for under-
standing and for the abolishing of racism. |

Just now I am helping to fight Jim Crow in education, i in the
institution at which I teach and the local grade school my two
girls attend.

My religion is primitive Christianity, and similar forms.

[ 105 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

FRANCIS HENRY BLUM

HOME ADpRESS: 270 Park Ave. New York 7, N. Y.; East Hampton, Long
Island, N. Y.

OFFICE appREsS: Hermes of Paris, Inc., 270 Park Ave., New York 17, N. Y,

porn: Nov. 4, 1903, New York, N.Y. parents: Henry Leon Blum, Frances
Claire Cahn.

prePareD AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Alexander Blum, M.B.A. °38.

occupaTioN: Importation of textiles, leather goods, etc., as American (US.)
representative of the French retail house of “Hermes, S.A.,” Paris,
France.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcoRD: Interpreter and driver, American Field Service
in France, 1940; inducted as private, 1942; service with technical ground
forces, U. S. Army Air Forces, Atlantic City, N. J. and Chicago, IIL.,
1942-43; discharged as non-commissioned officer, 1943.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Inspector, machine gun turret plants, Roches-

ter, N. Y., 1943; appointed O.S.S. for service in France (released on
account of illness), 1944.

OFFICES HELD: Executive, United Piece Dye Works, Codi, N. J., 1926-353
treasurer, Auteuil Fabrics, Inc. New York, 1945-48; vice-president,
Hermes of Paris, Inc., 1949-50; trustee, family affairs, 1945-50.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; American Field Service, New
York; Montauk Golf Club, Long Island.

IT IS not always easy to go back over twenty-five years — that
is to say, it is too easy to remember many painful things but
many pleasant ones are taken for granted and forgotten. To
generalize, some of us might like to start again and try to im-
prove those twenty-five years, while others may be quite satis-
fied. I suppose for the average some regret and some elation
must be mixed in varying proportions and their final feeling,
in retrospect, of this considerable “slice of life” must be based
on the balance between these two factors. In any case the
“water is over the dam” and my own feeling conforms to what
I assume the average may feel: some good, some bad, so-so. Life
is what we make it but what may be fulfillment to one may not
be to another.

Chronologically, the highlights are as follows: for a year end-
ing in °26 I travelled around the globe with a friend (male)
seeing Cuba, the Coast, Hawaii, Japan, China, Indo-China, Siam,

[ 106 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Malaya, Java, India, Afghanistan, Ceylon, Egypt and Europe,
which I already knew — fascinating and as fine an education in
its way as Harvard.

On my return, my business career in textile printing and dye-
ing started. A factory existence was most repulsive, naturally,
after globe-trotting! However, in time, life adjusted itself and
after a few years, I spent most of my time in various executive
capacities in the New York offices, which were pleasanter. This
lasted until ’36, interspersed with trips to Europe on business in
1929, 1931, and 1932.

In 1936 textiles collapsed and though the firm continued on in
a reduced manner, I did not. I studied investment counsel and
managed family affairs until ’40, though not a productive period
for me.

In ’4o I joined the American Field Service in France where
I witnessed the painful and tragic collapse of that once great
country.

In 1942, war and the U. S. Army — ’nuff said.

In ’43 and 744, the official posts elsewhere described.

In ’45 and until the present time, the business affiliations al-
ready described in the questionnaire section, plus increasing
family responsibilities after my father’s passing in ’45.

As for other aspects of my life, it can be seen from the ques-
tionnaire that I am still unmarried, which at least helps out the
Class treasury at the coming Reunion. When I refer to family
affairs I refer to my mother, sister and her three children (one
of whom will soon be ready for Harvard), and married younger
brother.

On Long Island, during the summer, I am trying to turn into
an amateur gardener on my two-acre “estate.” The ocean is fine
in the Hamptons but my golf exceedingly variable though I am
fond of it —also of fishing.

I have not grown in height (though possibly in head) since
leaving Cambridge, but unfortunately very definitely in the
mid-section. I am not totally bald yet, but what little there is
gets grayer.

Politically, I am an enrolled Republican, but voted twice for
F.D.R. I do not, however, see much use practically in being a
Republican.

[107] .

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925.

My social life is pleasant and varied.

My religious convictions can be summed up, as I hope most
others who would be good Americans would feel, in the phrase
“live and let live’ — ot, however, where applied to any radical
element. With this I take leave of you.

% HENRY MORGAN BOHLEN

BoRN: Dec. 13, 1902, Aiken, S. C. parents: Charles Bohlen, ’88, Celestine
Eustis.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926, DEGREE: A.B., 1925(26).

MarrieD: Margaret Curtis, Dec. 4, 1926, Boston, Mass. (divorced). cHIL-
DREN: Edwin Upton Curtis, Sept. 29, 1927; Celestine Eustis, March 5,
1931.

pep: Dec. 25, 1934, Boston, Mass.

BROTHER: Charles Eustis Bohlen, Dept. of State, Washington, D. C.

DURING his freshman year Henry Morgan Bohlen was a mem-
ber of the class football and hockey teams. As a sophomore he
rowed on the class crew and as a junior was a member of the sec-
ond university hockey team. He was a member of the Hasty
Pudding Club-Institute of 1770, the S. K. Club, the Stylus Club,
and the Porcellian Club.

Following his graduation he entered the real estate business i in
Boston with the office of R. DeB. Boardman and later with T. Den-

nie Boardman, with whom he was associated at the time of his
death.

WILLIAM CHRISTIAN BOHN

AppRESS: 124 Walker St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 4, 1895, New York, N. Y. parents: William Bohn, Nane Hagen.

PREPARED AT: DeWitt Clinton High School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921~1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.

marriep: Alida Chanler, Sept. 8, 1920, New York, N. Y. cuitpren; Wil-
liam Chanler, June 29, 1921, Lewis Christian, May 20, 1924.

occupaTIoNn: Research.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Bohn did not return a questionnaire.

[108]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HERBERT FRANCIS BOLES

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 456 Washington St., Canton, Mass.

BoRN: March 28, 1901, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: John Francis Boles, Martha
Josephine Lavey.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREES: 8B. 1925; M.D. (Middlesex Coll.),
1936.

Marrigep: Agnes Veronica McCarthy, Jan. 2, 1943, Richmond, Va.

OccUPATION: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, U. S. Army Medical Corps, 1942-45.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Canton Board of Health, 1946-49.

FOLLOWING graduation I went to Europe with a seven-piece
dance band. Five members were from Harvard, one from Tech,
and one from Tufts. It may not have been the best band you ever
heard but what it lacked in musical quality was compensated for
by the energetic youthful exuberance of its members. The Cun-
ard Line exchanged transportation for our services and gave us
de luxe staterooms six feet below the water line between the
propeller shafts. In Paris we played one- and two-night engage-
ments at L’Abbaye and Zelli’s in the Montmartre and finally got a
job at the International Exposition on a houseboat moored on the
bank of the Seine. Our employer was the famed Paul Poiret, the
big gown and girdle man, who sold $25 dresses for $200 to Ameri-
cans, as his labels cost $175. The Peniches Poiret, three in number,
one boat for dining, one for dancing, and the third a modernistic
apartment, were the last word in luxurious interior decoration.
One day it dawned upon the French Musicians’ Union that an
American band had the best and highest paid job at the Exposition.
As this occurred at a time when old Uncle Shylock was trying to
collect World War I war debts and, worse still, the United States
had no exhibit, we were fired.

After a trip to Switzerland we landed a better job playing at
Chez Vous, the night club at the Excelsior Palace Hotel at Lido,
Venice. On the way to Italy we all became infested with fleas and
to this day I sympathize with a scratching dog. We remained at
Lido until late September and then had to journey all the way to
Glasgow to catch our boat home.

In October I secured a position with the A. C. Lawrence Leather

[ 109 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

in a military jeep, slept in barns, sheep pens, cellars, nice houses
and occasionally a chateau or garage and the inevitable fox hole,
Food varied from “K” rations to steaks from an unfortunate cow
shot by a GI, chickens stolen by my jeep driver, or horse meat
procured from some black market operator. I returned in 1945
and spent the next three months learning to be a civilian.

Returning to private practice in Canton, I learned about the
housing shortage, the hard way. To secure a suitable location and
four rooms and bath I had to buy two houses totalling twenty-
nine rooms and four baths, three garages, and an acre of land.
Since then taxes have increased $18.50 per thousand and rents are
frozen. It shouldn't happen to a kennelful of dogs. .

My hobbies are music, gardening, and painting. By painting I
do not mean the artistic type on canvas but the more realistic
daubing of porches, woodwork, and walls, I enjoy this activity

because, like the hen that laid an egg, I can see the result of my
effort when the job is done.

In closing, my compliments to Mr. George T. Goodspeed, who,
by his originality, tenacity, goads, and everything short of phys-

ical violence, finally cracked my shell of procrastination. I didn’t
think he could do it.

JAMES COWLES HART BONBRIGHT

appress: % Dept. of State, Washington, D. C.

BORN: Jan. 19, 1903, Rochester, N. Y. PARENTS: George Dana Boardman
Bonbright, Isabelle Hart.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MaRRIED: Helen Sybil Rhodes, April 9, 1933, Ottawa, Ont., Canada.

occupation: American Foreign Service officer.

OFFICES HELD: Vice consul, Canton, China, August, 1928-May, 19293 third
secretary, Legation, Ottawa, Ont., Canada, March, 1930-June, 19353
Department of State, Washington, D.C., July, 1935—-July, 1939; second
secretary, Embassy, Brussels, Belgium, and Luxembourg, July, 1939-
July, 1940; second secretary, Legation, Belgrade, Yugoslavia, July, 19q40-
May, 1941; consul, Budapest, Hungary, May, 1941~June, 1942; Division
of Western Furopean Affairs, Department of State, Washington, D. C.,
June, 1942-May, 1946; adviser to American delegation, Peace Confer-
ence, Paris, May—October, 1946, minister-counselor, American Embassy,
Paris, since October, 1946.

{ 112 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I ENTERED the Foreign Service in 1927 and have been in it ever
since. In spite of the general disrepute in which the profession is
held (to judge at least by the press), it has been on the whole a
most satisfying experience. There has been much of exceptional
interest, a good deal of drudgery, and, thank God, very little
glamour. If the monetary reward is low, the intangible rewards
have been high indeed.

The chief drawback to many of us is the nomadic existence
which we are forced to lead and which deprives us of a fixed abode
and close contact with family and friends. With advancing age
this drawback looms larger, but so does the challenge of our times.

LOUIS HUMBERT BONDI

HOME ADDRESS: 1285 Bradley Rd., Springfield, Mass.
"OFFICE ADDRESS: Sawyer & Co., Inc., 1808 Columbus Ave., Springfield, Mass.
BORN: Nov. 16, 1902, Springfield, Mass. parents: Amedeo Bondi, Amelia
Montverdi.
PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Springfield, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.
MARRIED: Nelle K. Ward, Feb. 4, 1939, Lafayette, Ind.
occuPATION: Manager, Sawyer & Company, Inc.
MEMBER OF: Springfield Country Club (Board of Governors, 1947-49);
University Club; Corned Beef and Cabbage Club; Traffic Club.

WITHOUT interruption during the past twenty-five years, I
have been in the old family business of distributing fresh fruits and
produce. Until 1933 I was affiliated with the old family firm of
Bondi Brothers, but since then have been Springfield manager for
Sawyer & Company, Inc., of Boston, which opened a branch house
in Springfield. My connections with Sawyer & Company, Inc.,
have enabled me to enlarge the scope of operations, as I now serve
all western Massachusetts, Vermont, and northern Connecticut.
As for hobbies, I continued to play tennis till about 1935, meet-
ing several members of my old Harvard tennis teams in various
tournaments throughout New England. When tennis became
work instead of play, I turned to golf, joining the Springfield
Country Club. I have now been a member for ten years, having
served as member of the Board of Governors for the years 1947-49
and as chairman of the Greens Committee during 1948 and 1949.
I travelled some in the Middle West, where I met and married

[113 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

my wife in Lafayette, Indiana, on February 4, 1939. Otherwise ]
have led a regular life of work a lot and play a little. I attend the
Holy Name Roman Catholic Church in Springfield.

ALLAN WILLSON BOOTH

HOME ADDRESS: 32 Whitman St. New Bedford, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cornell Dubilier Electric Corp., 1609 Rodney French Blvd.,
New Bedford, Mass.

BoRN: Jan. 3, Kingsland, N. J. parents: Allan Starr Booth, Louise
Willson.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Garden City, Long Island, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREE: A.B, 1925(26).

MaRRIED: Flora Virginia Morris, Nov. 10, 1928, Sagamore, Mass. (divorced
1939). cHiLp: Allan Willson, Jr., July 2, 1930.

occuPATION: Engineering.

MEMBER OF: Masons.

JOHN SIMON BORG

HOME aAppRESs: 91 Garden Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y. ‘

OFFICE ADDRESS: May, Borg & Co., 61 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 4, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: Myron Irving Borg, Gertrude
Wallach.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

MARRIED: Janice Hellman, July 9, 1925, Purchase, N. Y. (died Dec. 28, 1936)
Frances Marx, April 13, 1941. cuLpren: Donald Cecil, July 26, 1926 (m.
Mary Alice Aub, June 18, 1949); Kenneth Dana, Dec. 7, 1928; Wendy
(stepchild), June 21, 1938, Cynthia Frances, Jan. 9, 1942.

HaRvARD sons: Donald Cecil Borg, ’47; Kenneth Dana Borg, ’so.

HARVARD BROTHER: Myron Irving Borg, Jr,’ 21.

occupaTION: Securities broker.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Educational Alliance; member college committee,
Public Education Association; chairman Scarsdale Chapter, American
Social Hygiene Association, member Men’s Special Gifts Committee,
New York Cancer Committee, past trustee, Child Study Association;
past vice-president and director, Vadsco Sales Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

I SUPPOSE that no one can have led twenty-five altogether un-
eventful years since graduation. Certainly I can’t say that mine
have seemed too dull to me. Nevertheless, as I contemplate a
review of that period in writing, 1 am struck with the absence of

[114]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT ~

newsworthy happenings. I have done my share of travelling, but
have not crossed the Atlantic in a sloop. I have made some busi-
ness changes, but at no time have I threatened to become an indus-
trial tycoon. After graduation I started in the real estate business,
thence into cosmetics and proprietary drugs, and in 1931 to Wall
Street and securities brokerage.

Outside of business, I find myself very busy with a large family,
modest — though rather demanding — philanthropic and com-
munal activities, and a couple of ardent hobbies: namely, trout
fishing and painting. My wife, in turn, is actively interested in a
New York Art Gallery, so that, in an oblique and indirect fashion,
I find that that has become one of my interests also.

Of greater relevance, from the point of view of a Harvard pub-
lication, is my continuing close connection with the College
through my two sons, each of whom will be getting a Harvard
degree coincident with my Twenty-fifth Reunion — the elder an
M.D., the younger, an A.B. Since Kenneth has also been accepted
by Harvard Medical School it appears that I shall still have a spe-
cial reason to visit Cambridge for the next four years. In summary,
it seems to me that much of my most interesting news is currently
in the making.

+ MURRAY EUGENE BORISH

BORN: Dec. 17, 1903, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Jacob Borish, Rebecca
Braderman.

PREPARED AT: Wilmington High School, Wilmington, Del.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 19253; A.M., 1926; PH.D. 1931.

MARRIED: Elizabeth P. Borish.

DIED: Jan. 29, 1943, at sea.

wipow: Mrs. Murray E. Borish, 55 Charles St.. New York 14, N. Y.

MURRAY EUGENE BORISH prepared for college at the Wil-

mington, Delaware, High School. After spending three vears

with our Class, he studied in the Harvard Graduate School of

Arts and Sciences and received the Master's degree. He spent

two years as an instructor at the University of Missouri, and then

returned to Cambridge to work on his doctorate. In 1931 he re-

ceived a Ph.D. degree in English philology after the approval of

a4 thesis on “John Day.” The following year he held a Rogers

Travelling Fellow ship in London and later joined the f. aculty at

[115 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

the College of William and Mary, where he was associate Pro-
fessor of English.

He entered the Army censorship service in December, 1942.
After a brief training at Fort Washington in Maryland, he was
ordered overseas as a second lieutenant in the Military Intelligence
Department. He was lost at sea en route to North Africa when
his ship was torpedoed. His wife survived him.

Murray Borish’s tragic death deprived the academic world of
a profound scholar and stimulating teacher, and his friends of the
companionship of a sympathetic and engaging human being. ' Es-
pecially unfortunate was the fact that he died before he had put
into final form the results of much of his research. He was an
extreme perfectionist from his undergraduate days, and this trait
was evident in every aspect of his academic life. As a student he
was never satisfied until he had gone far beyond the goal set by
the most exacting instructor; as a teacher he often put more re-
search into the preparation of a single course than another might
use to write a book; and as a scholar his innate modesty prevented
him from ever believing that his most exhaustive investigations
had been enough,

He was not, however, in any way the dehumanized and circum-
scribed expert. On the contrary, he was well read in all the
humanistic disciplines from classical times to the present, and his
approach to literature was marked by lively appreciation and a
keen critical sense. Though quiet, sometimes deceptively so, he
was essentially a gay person, with a delightfully quizzical sense
of humor. He was intolerant of sham and pretense and could
apply the lash of a mordant wit, which charity made him use
perhaps too seldom.

Borish’s personal and scholarly qualities were those which go
to make a great teacher and all accounts, from colleagues and
students alike, suggest he was that to a high degree. His friends
and students will not soon forget him or cease to mourn his pre-
mature death.

DONALD BOURNE

Home aporess: Far Hills, N. J.
orFicz appress: Schmid & Bourne, 382 Springfield Ave, Summit, N. J,

[ 116 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Oct. 31, 1903, Cranford, N. J. parents: Henry Allen Bourne, Anna
- Reliance Jones.
PREPARED AT: Westfield High School, Westfield, N. J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: $.B. cU72 laudeé, 1925; LL.B. 1928.
MARRIED: Meredith Wilson, June 14, 1930, Summit, N. J. CHILDREN: Robert
Bradford, Nov. 2, 1931; Donald Wilson, Oct. 17, 1934; Judith Allen,
' April 19,. 1938.
HARVARD SON: Robert Bradford Bourne, ’53.
OCCUPATION: Lawyer.
OFFICES HELD: Member City Council, Summit, N. J., 1937-40; member Board
of Adjustment, Bedminster, N. J., since 1949; president, Summit Bar
* Association, 1943-45, Family Welfare Society, 1942-44, Summit, N. J.;
trustee, Kent Place School, since 1949; vice-president and trustee, Far
Hills Country Day School, since 1949.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Essex Fox Hounds, Peapack, N. J.

THE more I reflect upon it the more this report to my contem-
poraries seems a brief for the defendant, and the occasion, the
semi-finals before Judgment Day. Perhaps the next twenty-five
years hold the big things, to be accounted for at our Fiftieth.

As to the first twenty-five, I have few complaints, notwith-
standing our generation’s peculiar gift for being present at major
disasters. | went on to Harvard Law, graduated in 1928, and made
my not very Grand Tour with Howard Eveleth, ’25. Thence to
the next conventional step: I married my roommate’s sister, Mere-
dith Wilson, Vassar ’29, sister of Donald B. Wilson, ’25. In due
and proper time we had two boys and a girl. The eldest, Bob, is
now a freshman at Harvard, and Don will be along in 1952. Judy
goes to Vassar in due time, and that, I think, is that.

By great good fortune I chose the right girl and the right pro-
fession and only hope I don’t sound too damned smug about it.
After law school I practised in Wall Street’s exacting, instructive,
and nerve-wracking environs until 1936, when an opportunity was
presented to practise in Summit where we lived. I eagerly ac-
cepted this (visions of country lawyer, cracker barrel, Mr. Tutt,
and all that),:and I am still at it, and still think it’s wonderful. A
turn in local politics was inevitable and educational. One victory,
one defeat, private life again.

In 1946 we fled the exactions of suburban life (committees,
causes, and crises), bought a farm in Bedminster, near Far Hills,
and settled right down to rural committees, causes, and crises.
(“Daddy, the horses are in the broccoli again.”) All this is fairly

[117]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

strenuous — the pleasures and the obligations of the country which
mean redoubled efforts at the bar (no cracks now). I devote some

time to being a Town Father, and rather suppose this activity may

increase in time. Meredith is very good at Good Works and keeps
the family’s account with the forces of evil in balance.

My law practice iS pretty much old family solicitor stuff, with

plenty of variety to keep i it interesting. My avocations: the bucolic
life, horses, and dogs.

Politically, I yearn for progressive Republicans to lead us for-
ever away from reaction and isolationism to enlightened conserva-

tism. There are signs in New Jersey that it can be done. When
and if it happens, Harvard will doubtless have a share in it.

CURTIS GLOVER BOWES

HOME appress: 2 Tupelo Rd., Swampscott, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 147 Milk St., "Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: June 19, 1902, West Roxbury, Mass. parents: Nathaniel William
Bowes, Edith May Allen.

PREPARED AT: Swampscott High School, Swampscott, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

MarRiep; Marie Alis Witham, April 6, 1929, Cincinnati, Ohio. CHILD:
Carolyn Frances, Nov. 5, 1939.
OccUPATION: Insurance broker.

WARIIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Active in Civilian Defense; unit cited by
Cruft Laboratory of Harvard.

OFFICES HELD: Past master, Wayfarers Lodge, AF. & A.M., 1937-38; secretary,

Marblehead Arts Association, 1939-47; president, Swampscott Couples

Club, 1940; currently chairman of the Board of Appeals, Town of
Swampscott.

MEMBER OF: Wayfarers Lodge, Swampscott Couples Club; Swampscott
Royal Arch Chapter, Harvard Club of Lynn; Marblehead Arts Asso-
ciation; Corinthian Yacht Club; North Shore Past Masters’ Association

ALTHOUGH my stay in Harvard College was somewhat short,
the friendships 1 made there have meant a great deal to me. One
of my roommates, Robert L. Hebart ’23, became my brother-in-
law, and 1 am still very proud of having had a part in this. Being
located in Boston, I frequently meet many of our classmates, and
have been able to retain many valued friendships.

For several years after leaving college 1 was associated with
Carbone, Inc., of Boston, and in 1928 went into the insurance busi-

[118]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ness for myself. In November, 1938, we bought our home in
Swampscott which, together with our summer home at Marble-
head Neck, keeps me busy most of the time. For the past five years
I have been fortunate in being invited to spend my vacations with
a friend on his schooner Flying Fish sailing out of Marblehead
both east and west. This has given me excellent opportunities to
take advantage of my other hobby, colored photography, which
I consider one of the best as it gives pleasure to others, as well
as to me.

All in all, my life since college days has been a happy one, for
I am blessed with a wonderful wife and a sweet daughter, a good
home, and good health.

WILLIAM CLOUSER BOYD

HOME AppREss: 7 Gezira El] Wusta, Cairo, Egypt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 80 E. Concord St., Boston 18, Mass.

BorN: March 4, 1903, Dearborn, Mo. parents: William Oliver Boyd,
Wilmuth Clouser.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, St. Joseph. Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREES: A.B 1925; A.M., 1926; PH.D. (Boston
Univ.), 1930.

MARRIED: Lyle A. Gifford, June 9, 1931, Lawrence, Kans, cuiLp: Sylvia Lyle,
Sept. 22, 1934.

HARVARD BROTHER: Oliver Wryght Boyd, ’29.

occuPATION: Professor of immunochemistry, Boston University School of
Medicine.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Responsible investigator, O.S.R.D. (blood
group research); consultant, U. S. Public Health Service; member,
Bacteriology Study Section, U. S. Public Health Service.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in biochemistry, Boston University School of
Medicine; special research associate, Department of Physical Chemistry,
Harvard Medical School; consultant to the Children’s Hospital, Boston.
(All during war years.)

MEMBER OF: American Association for the Advancement of Science; New
York Academy of Science, American Association of Immunologists;
American Academy of Arts and Sciences; American Association of
Biological Chemists, American Association of Physical Anthropologists;
American Anthropological Association; American Genetical Associa-
tion; Gezira Sporting Club, Cairo.

PUBLICATIONS: Blood Grouping Technic, 1942; Fundamentals of lnmrunology,
1943, 1947; Genetics and the Races of Man, April, 1950; over 100 scien-
tific papers in various journals,

[119 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

TRAINED as an organic chemist, I have devoted much of my
time to research in organic chemistry, but have not confined m
activities to that field. An interest in organic chemistry led rather
naturally —in a medical school where I was teaching biochem-
istry — to an interest in the chemistry of immune processes. Most
of my scientific work has been in this field. Immune reactions are
very similar to blood group reactions: perhaps there is no real
difference. So I rather naturally included blood groups in my
studies, first from the mathematical-genetical point of view, then
from the serological point of view, then from the anthropological
point of view (that is, I studied the distribution of the various
blood types in various human races). This last interest led finally
to the composition of the book, which will appear in 1950, on
physical anthropology. In order to study the blood groups of
various races, and to obtain samples of mummified tissues to study
the blood groups of ancient man, a certain amount of travel was
involved. I was fortunate enough to obtain a fellowship from the
Guggenheim Foundation, 1935-1936, and a renewal in 1938, en-
abling me to visit England, Wales, Ireland, the USSR, Turkey,
Greece, Egypt, France, Spain, Syria, Palestine, Transjordan, Iraq,
etc. | found travel in foreign countries agreeable, which accounts
for my now being in Egypt, working as a civilian employee of the
American Navy, while I am on leave of absence from Boston Uni-
versity. This gives me a chance to extend my interest to tropical
diseases. During the Second World War, I worked in various
civilian capacities in connection with research on blood plasma,
blood transfusion, blood groups, and immunochemistry. Probably

I made some slight contribution to the war effort, at least the
government assured me I did.

Outside of science, I have had other interests, in addition to the
usual interest in my family. (My wife, by the way, has worked
with me in research, and helped me in my writing, in addition to
running a home and raising a daughter.) Travel encouraged an
interest in languages which I already possessed to some extent, so
that I now speak, in addition to the usual French and German,
Spanish, Russian, and Arabic. I can read, more or less readily,
most of the languages of Europe, and some literary Arabic. I had
one course in Chinese, but that failed to stick. Another interest
has been music, but five or six years of piano lessons convinced me

[ 120 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

that I was no performer. I am a good listener, however, and b
listening to symphonies, choruses, and soloists, both in the flesh
and on records, I have become fairly familiar with a lot of music.
As a result, my original enthusiasms for the usual romantic com-

osers have broadened to extend to the moderns, such as Berg,
Sibelius, Walton, etc., and the classics such as Bach, Palestrina,
Schwellinck, etc. My favorites are probably Bach and Beethoven.
I have also indulged in a good deal of reading, including fiction,
philosophy, and biography. Among favorite authors I could think
of Shakespeare, Dante, Thomas Mann, Proust, and various authors
of “science fiction.”

I have not been very active in politics or social life, but usually
vote in the elections, and voted for FDR once and against him
three times, I have read a good deal about religion, but : am not an
active member of any church. I have investigated such things as

“extra-sensory perception,” but feel pretty skeptical.

I have been very fortunate in my family. My wife is generally
regarded as attractive, intelligent, and amiable, and so is my
daughter. My wife has published a number of scientific papers
and written a biography which is yet to be published. My daugh-
ter has consistently led her classes, both in Cambridge and Cairo,
has ability in art, and composes music (as yet unpublished). For
relaxation I have travelled, listened to music, and spent quiet
vacations in winter (skiing) or in summer (loafing or writing).

_ WALTER LINCOLN BOYDEN, JR.

HOME apprEss: 12 Washington St., Beverly, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 53 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 28, 1903, Beverly, Mass. parents: Walter Lincoln Boyden, ’87,
Elizabeth Beal.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: AB. 1925; M.ARCH. 1930.

MaRRIED: Ruth Trafford, June 25, 1930, Short Hills, N. J. cumpren: Walter

~ Lincoln, 3d, Feb. 19, 1932; Candace Elizabeth, Sept. 27, 1933; Perry
Trafford, Sept. 29, 1939.

HARVARD SON: Walter Lincoln Boyden, 3d, ’ 53.

HARVARD BROTHER: Roland William Boyden, 732.

occupation: Architect (Somes, Griswold, Boyden, Wylde & Ames).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECoRD: Air Corps Intelligence School, Harrisburg, Pa.,
July, 1942; third photo group, July, 1942—-January, 1943; sent from

[ 121 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Colorado Springs to England to Algeria, serving with French section,
Northwest African Air Forces Headquarters, January-October, 1943;
duty at advanced headquarters, N.A.AF., Algiers, Constantine, Tunis,
October-December, 1943; headquarters isth Air Force Intelligence
(target section), Bari-Foggia, Italy, plus way stations, January—October,
1944; returned to US. on leave, November-December, 1944; executive
officer for oil division, U. S. Strategic Bombing Survey, assessing effect
of bombing of German oil industry, London, France, Germany,
January-September, 1945; awarded Bronze Star Medal.
OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Beverly Public Library, 1938.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; Boston Society of Architects;
Tavern Club, Myopia Hunt Club.

MY DIFFICULTIES and inexperience in writing an autobigraphy
are, I suspect, no greater than those of most fellow-classmates. So,
in the hope that critics are kind, and to appease George Good-
speed, an account of my Life, Liberty, and Pursuit of Happiness
follows.

Picking out the events of the last twenty-five years which

might be considered worth recording here is a new and interest-
ing game, but I can’t say the results add up to much. Family life,
though not exciting, has been by far the best part and I regard
myself as fortunate indeed to be so pleased with and proud of my
wife and three children. Keeping the wolf from darkening the
door has presented its problems, but here again I have been for-
tunate and at the present writing he, the wolf, appears to be
under control.

On graduating from college I was offered a job in Morgan
Harjes Bank in Paris for a year of broadening before returning to
the Law School. Banking, as a career, did not take; but, thanks to
Joe Child, 1 was introduced to the possibility of becoming an
architect. This meant transferring my activities from the Rive
Droit to an Atelier on the Rive Gauche for six months. Archi-
tecture did take and I have so continued ever since, even to occa-
sional references to “Rive Gauche Boyden.”

Architectural School in Cambridge plus a summer travelling in
Europe in 1928 consumed the time up to January, 1930, when with
a Master of Architecture under the belt, 1 emerged from the ivy-

covered halls to find the business world vastly altered since the
roaring twenties. And the one thing people seemed to be able to
do without quite easily was the services of an architect.

[ 122 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Undaunted, I married Peter Trafford’s sister in 1930, which has
proved to be the smartest thing I ever did. We settled for that
year in New York, but the job soon evaporated. We then made
a quick trip to Europe to follow up a promising opportunity which
never materialized and so returned to Cambridge and parental
shelter to weather the economic storm. By 1934 the architectural
profession got underway again and soon afterwards I was kept
busy on my own work in the office of Kilham, Hopkins & Greeley,
Boston. We moved to Beverly this same year with two young
children and have lived here ever since.

All was quiet on the Boyden front until that memorable June
when during our Fifteenth Class Reunion no amount of martinis
could offset the pall that hung over us as it became apparent that
Hitler’s armies were about to take Paris and over-run France.

The decision to enlist in the Air Force as a first lieutenant was
not difficult to make. Like so many others, it was evident to me
that there was work to be done and no time to be lost in getting
about it. After an intensive two months’ training in photographic
intelligence at the Air Force School in Harrisburg, I landed in
Colorado Springs. In less than twenty-four hours I was assigned
to the Third Photo Group, Elliott Roosevelt commanding, and
told to start packing. Posts in England and Africa followed in
rapid succession, but the day came when an uncontested divorce
separated me from his command and I transferred to the French
section under General Spaatz. During the campaigns in North
Africa, Italy, and later at the break-up of Germany, I was treated
to a travel tour which conservatively estimated would come to at
least $10,000. In the course of all this I saw enough of war to be
free and willing to do anything possible to avoid another one.
Seeing the best and the worst in man come out in unexpected
situations was all very enlightening, but I sincerely hope my sons
can be spared this ordeal. On the pleasant side, I can say that
touring North Africa in spring is a really worthwhile experience;
to run into John Toulmin in Cairo was a lifesaver; and to accom-
pany General Spaatz on the piano while he played the guitar in
the key of six sharps was an exacting but most enjoyable change
from the normal military life.

On returning to the best rank of all — Mister — in September,
1945, the two months-plus of terminal leave were spent in getting

[123]

an

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

adjusted to the fact that children, when given orders, would prob-
ably not understand them, and that someday I would have to pick
up the T-square and triangle to go to work. Finding my old place
occupied, I banded together with others who had been in the
Army to form our present association and things have rolled along
ever since with a large variety of work to look after.

With the small amount of free time I find available these days,
my hobbies are pretty much limited to golf or the piano — am
proficient in neither, but enjoy and get relaxation from both. I
have even gone so far as to accept, at an unguarded moment, the
golf job known as “Captain of the Green” at our local club, which
has proved to contain more joy than pain, but not much.

On a few occasions I have had the diversion of taking a small
part in a Tavern Club theatrical production which among other
rewards lets me see Stanley French do his song and dance act as a
far from innocent little working girl.

With a son who entered Harvard last fall, I am forcefully re-
minded that we as a Class are not so young as we used to be. I
have done well to retain hair on the head and to resist a gain in
girth which may belie the fact that sometimes I feel like a candidate
for the Old Men’s Home. Maybe | shall live to see a Republican
President, but unless they have something more to offer, I shan’t
worry. Since voting for Al Smith in 1928, my presidential candi-
dates run second or third. At the same time it is hard to believe
that Truman ef al. have all the answers required to avoid the “wel-
fare” or as has been better said, the “farewell” state. .

Not having a particularly religious turn of mind, the only con-
victions I can come up with at the moment are: (1) He who lives

in America is lucky; and (2) Never sell the younger generation
short.

GEORGE DEWEY BRADEN

HOME AND OFFice appress: R.F.D. 1, South Berwick, Maine.

BORN: July 11, 1898, Washington, Pa. PaRENTS: William Henry Braden,
Anna Strope.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.; Phillips Academy,
Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREE: A.B. 1925(27),

MARRIED: Elizabeth G. Dittmar, June 22, 1933, Boston, Mass,

[124 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Education and farming.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, A.U.S., A.AF., VI Air Force, Aug. 20,
1942-August, 1945; Intelligence School, Harrisburg, Pa., September-
October, 1942; foreign service, twenty-nine months.

OFFICES HELD: Salesman, Kidder, Peabody & Company, Boston, Mass. 1927-
31; business manager, teacher, coach, St. Mark’s School, Southboro,
Mass., 1931-39; assistant comptroller and purchasing agent, Phillips
Academy, Andover, Mass., 1939-41.

MEMBER OF: A.F. & A.M.

I FINALLY won my diploma from college in 1927. After a cou-
ple of practice runs in industry and investments, I began working
as business manager of St. Mark’s School where I also taught math-
ematics and coached some football and baseball. In the spring of
1939 I was asked to return to my Alma Mater at Phillips Academy
in Andover as assistant comptroller and purchasing agent. Two
years of intensive and difficult work produced a dismissal for
saving funds and improving the working conditions of the school
employees.

When war broke out in December, 1941, it seemed to me that
the training received in military science as an undergraduate should
be put to use. I wrote the War Department offering my services
and was assigned to the Army Air Force. I was released from
active service in August, 1945. Chaos and confusion were preva-
lent throughout the Jand as I began work with the V.A. as train-
ing officer that fall. In August, 1947, I resigned to return to school.

I had bought a farm in Maine in 1941 and my family has lived
there since that time.

In the fall of 1947 I entered the University of New Hampshire
as an undergraduate in a two-year course on scientific farming and
learned how to raise quality animals, poultry, and produce. This
great rural area of the United States produces large and various
crops, the most important of which is, believe it or not, babies.

I think we are fortunate to be living in a wonderful age such as
this. The industrial revolution was tame compared to the social
upheaval that is gathering momentum now, but I am sure we shall
ride out this storm and emerge a stronger, happier, more healthy
people provided we keep our heads clear, work hard, play some,
help our neighbors a bit, allow the other fellow a point of view,
and keep faith in each other.

[125]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

EDWARD BARCLAY BRAUNS

HOME ADDRESS: 913 Idaho St., Wenatchee, Wash.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Keystone Warehouse Co., Entiat, Wash.

BORN: Dec. 21, 1903, Iron Mountain, Mich. parents: August E. Brauns,
Daisy Barclay.

prepareD AT: Iron Mountain High School, Iron Mountain, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: 8.B. cum laude, 1925.

MarRIED: Ingrid Mathilda Alving, Dec. 31, 1929, Iron Mountain, Mich.
CHILDREN: Elsa Mathilda, Sept. 14, 1933; Karin Ingrid, Aug. 24, 1937.

OCCUPATION: Fruit grower, packer, and shipper.

OFFICES HELD: Partner manager, Keystone Warehouse Company, Keystone
Fruit Company, Barker Fruit Company; president, NuChief Sales, Inc.;
trustee, 1942-49, president, 1948, First Presbyterian Church of Wenat-

chee; trustee, Washington State Horticultural Association, Wenatchee
Valley Traffic Association, 1949-50.

MEMBER OF: B.P.O.E.; Kiwanis; Appleatchee Riders; Wenatchee Country
Club.

THE summer after graduation I spent working on the family fruit
ranch near Entiat, Washington. The next two summers I pros-
pected for lead silver in the Lardo district of British Columbia.
No luck!

In January, 1928, I worked as rodman on a county survey crew
in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. The temperature was ten to
twenty below zero, and I decided there must be an easier way to
make a living, so I telegraphed Washington State College and
enrolled for the second semester as a graduate student in horti-
culture. The following spring I bought an apple orchard on credit,
and have been farming ever since.

In December, 1929, | married Ingrid Alving, whom I had known
since childhood. We have two blonde and beautiful daughters,
Elsa, sixteen years, and Karin, twelve years. We all swim, ski,

skate, and ride together. Our particular hobby is raising Morgan
horses.

I still believe in the economics of Adam Smith and Dr. Taussig,

so I am getting the reputation of being an eccentric. May the
“pie in the sky” be apple pie.

JAMES ROLLINS BREWSTER

HOME AppRrEss: 9 Dobbs Terr., Scarsdale, N.Y.
orrice Appress: Young America Films, Inc,, 18 E. qrst St., New York 17, N. Y-

[ 126 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BoRN: July 21, 1902, Andover, Mass. parents: Edwin Tenney Brewster, ’go,
Alice Sophia Rollins.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: S.B., 1925 (26); A.M., 1933; ED.M., 1934,

MarRIED: Nelle Bates Rathbun, Aug. 28, 1932, Brookline, Mass. cHitpren;
William Rathbun, March 26, 1934; Martha Rollins, Oct. 21, 1939; Eliza-
beth, Nov. 19, 1941; Susan, May 31, 1944. ©

HARVARD BROTHER: William Rollins Brewster, 22 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Visual education (educational films).

MEMBER OF: Phi Delta Kappa, Society of Motion Picture Engineers;
National Television Film Council; Department of Audio-Visual In-
struction of the National Education Association.

MY FIRST year out of college, I spent in Miami, Florida, to make

my fortune in real estate, and ended up teaching school.

The next three years I spent in Upper Egypt as a member of the
Metropolitan Museum of Art’s Egyptian Expedition. This was
extremely interesting work, but my lack of artistic and linguistic
abilities soon proved that I was not cut out to be an Egyptologist.
I was able, however, to travel around Europe and the Near East
for three summers (1927-29).

The next three years I spent back in Cambridge with the Uni-
versity Film Foundation. This was an independent, non-profit
organization which was lent to Harvard buildings and worked in
close codperation with the University. By 1932 it became obvious
that it was doomed to a life of non-profitable existence. The next
two years I spent as a graduate student at Harvard taking an A.M.
in biology and an Ed.M. in the School of Education.

In March, 1934, the University Film Foundation was legally
dissolved and taken over by Harvard as a self-supporting service
department of the University. Somehow or other I got mixed up
with the Foundation’s assets and good-will, and my first surprise
was that I suddenly began to get money out of Harvard. My
second one was that in due time I was made director of this new
department, now known as the Harvard Film Service. This was
very interesting work, combining as it did some business, some
teaching, some technical work, some research, and some creative
work all in an academic framework. But in the summer of 1943
the University had so few civilian students left to service that the
Film Service was abandoned.

From Harvard I came to New York and joined Erpi Classroom
Films which had just been purchased by the Encyclopaedia Britan-

[127]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

nica. After I had been a little over two years with them, the
pulled up stakes and moved to Chicago. I decided to stay in the
New York area where I had already bought a house and got my
family settled. I then joined Young America Films, Inc., as assist-
ant editor, where I am still located.

My weekends I spend rebuilding my house, but not nearly as
fast as my four lively youngsters can pull it apart. 1 am beginning
to gain a little on them now, and soon hope to make some real
headway. A four-day work week would be my salvation!

ALDEN BRIGGS

HOME ADDRESS: 33 Emerald St., Hingham, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: % Webster-Thomas Co., 217 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

Born: April 9, 1903, Brookline, Mass. parents: George Loring Briggs, Maud
Fuller Smith.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1021-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

MarRIED: Hazel Radcliffe Wood, Sept. 29, 1934, Waban, Mass. CHILDREN:
Brenda, April 10, 1936; Alden, Jr., Dec. 25, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Payson Briggs, ’15.

occuPaTION: Wholesale food merchandising.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Food Procurement Specialist, U. S, Marine
Corps and War Shipping Administration, Washington, D. C.

MEMBER OF: Hingham Yacht Club; Cohasset Golf Club.

IT IS incomprehensible that you and I are getting ready for our

Twenty-fifth Reunion! Do you feel that old? I don’t. On the

other hand I find that a great deal has happened and perhaps time

has flown by.

The peregrinating Briggses came home again to roost in No-
vember, 1948, after living in Providence, Brookline, Newton,
Washington, and New York — home, that is, if Hingham may
be considered contiguous to the old homestead in Brookline.

Ours has been an interesting experience but one we’re glad to
have behind us. It is definitely broadening for me to have experi-
enced the “Confusion on the Potomac” during the war and such
ordeals in New York as my three-hour commuting round trip
between my home in Westchester County and the ssth floor of
my office building in the Wall Street area of New York City.
(I figure I spent over one working week a year riding up and
down on the elevator.)

[128 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Hazel, my considerate and “rock of Gibraltar” wife during
these unsettled years, and our two. children, Brenda and Denny
(Alden, Jr.), have discovered, as did I, that we were not going

* into the wilderness when we left Boston. What a privilege for the
children to see Washington—the government buildings, the
White House, Lincoln Memorial, Mount Vernon —-and to be
awed by the magnitude of New York City and its many show
places. Now that we are home again perhaps the children will
introduce me to the glass flowers at Harvard and the Bunker Hill
Monument. It is with some sadness, however, that I report that
Denny, while in New York, became an ardent Yankee baseball fan
and at this writing still is! May I solicit the help of you Bostonians
next June? ,

As assistant to the president of Webster-Thomas Company
(Matchless Brand foods) I am becoming familiar with all the
phases of our wholesale grocery business. Incidentally, about the
time this T-wenty-fifth Report is published my company will be
celebrating its fiftieth anniversary.

It has been interesting to see how my other work along the way
has helped me in the job at hand. Twelve years of buying for the
A & P, three years of selling insurance, three years of food pro-
curement and administrative work during the war years in Wash-
ington, first with the U.S. Marine Corps and later with the War
Shipping Administration, and finally all phases of food exporting
in New York, have given me a well-rounded experience.

There must be a paragraph on Washington. My only fear is
that once started I may not stop. Here are the highlights of my

_ three years there:

1. With the Office of Procurement and Materiel of the Navy
Department assigned to the U. S. Marine Corps and paid by the
- Bureau of Ships. |

2. With the Food Control Division of the War Shipping Ad-
ministration on loan from the Foreign Economic Administration.
Twice a month it was necessary for me to get a visitor’s badge to
enter the building where I would receive my pay check.

3. Sad to say, Hazel, acting in the role of censor, won't let me
include my pet story of wartime Washington so suppose I save it
for next June.

Although the Briggs family has benefited in many ways from

[129]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

having lived in six different towns and cities during the last fifteen
years, we have missed that feeling of being settled in a community
and being part of it. No sooner did the four of us make friends
and become involved in community affairs than we were on our -

way. Sometimes it was a blessing in disguise but more often not.
It was hard on the children.

I must mention the significance to me of the date May 17, 1949.
It was then that I smoked my last cigarette (at this writing) after
averaging far more than a package a day!. The cigarette cough has
disappeared and the singing voice has returned, but far more im-
portant is the fact that I can now last three sets of tennis — dou-
bles, that is! Want the cure? You might think I would be saving
money but quite the contrary. My sense of taste having returned,
I am no longer satisfied with the inferior grades of whiskey I had
been buying!

We are in love with Hingham, a delightful all-year-round com-
munity with historical charm. In our travels we had missed the
salt water. The children are making up for lost time. And oh yes,
they are all wrapped up in tennis, Denny more than his sister.
Brenda likes the social fun of the game whereas Denny says he is
going to be a tennis player and I believe he’s right. Hingham is a
friendly community; it certainly has been to us. Perhaps we feel

this the more because we, a closely-knit family, have had such a
happy year, secure in the knowledge that we shall now “stay put.”

AARON JACOB BRONSTEIN

HOME appREss: 184 Ward St., Newton Center 59, Mass.
OFFICE Appress: Sugarman, Schneider & Bronstein, 85 Devonshire St.,
Boston, Mass.

BoRN: May 8, 1905, Baltimore, Md. parents; Max Solomon Bronstein,
Rosa Leibow.

prepareD aT: Baltimore City College, Baltimore, Md.; Dorchester High
School, Dorchester, Mass.; Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: az. cum laude, 1925; LL.B. 1928.

marrigp: Gertrude Nagels, July 5, 1930, Portsmouth, N. H. (died May 20,

1942); Jeanette F. Lyons, April 23, 1944, Newton, Mass. cuitp: Judith
Rose, Dec. 19, 1935+

warvarD prorHers: Arthur Bronson, ’24; Morris Bronstein, 31, Albert
Bronson, °33.

occupation: Attorney.

[ 130]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chief area air raid warden.

OFFICES HELD: Member board, many years, president, 1939-41, Brotherhood
Kehillath Israel, member board, many years, president, 1947-49, Brook-
line-Brighton-Newton Zionist District, Zionist Organization of America;
vice-president, New England Zionist Region since 1948, member execu-
tive board, New Century Club, 1947-49; member executive committee,
Harvard Class of 1925 Association, since 1948.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Massachusetts Bar Association;
Boston Bar Association; New Century Club; American Jewish Con-
gress; B'nai B'rith, Zionist Organization of America; Friends of the
Harvard-Radcliffe Hillel Foundation; Harvard Class of 1925 Association
of Boston; Harvard Law School Association.

THIS is my attempt, in brief, to advise my classmates concerning
my:

) Family: see statistics above. I apologize for being one of
those who keep the Class birth rate low. I am also sorry I have no
son who might savor, as I did, the air of Harvard Square. But,
believe me, it “warn’t” for lack of trying.

2) Travels: self-employed professional men, whose stock in
trade is availability, cannot just “up and travel,” except in the
course of business. Such course has not as yet produced a trip
beyond the confines of this country. I’m still hoping.

3) Hobbies: primarily the purchase of books, to be read some
day. I estimate that if I never buy another book — and I shall —
and that if I read a book a week —and I shan’r—I have now
enough books in my library to last me until our Seventy-fifth
Reunion. Beyond that, who cares!

4) Social, political or religious convictions: I am a Jew. I be-
lieve in God and the efficacy of religion. I believe, too, that one
must put his religion to practical use among people. And I believe,
finally, that American democracy can be an exportable product,
if we work at it. Adding these together will explain why I have
been a long time communal worker and Zionist. Says Quentin
Reynolds, in his fine work, Leave it to the People, anent Zionism
and the establishment of the state of Israel:

It has turned out to be a great investment in humanity and if
one wishes to think of it in terms of ideology it is resulting in
the growth of the only strong democratic nation in the Middle
East . . . Palestine is a democracy in its purest form. The peo-

[131]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

ple of the country have a fierce hatred of any kind of totalitar.
ianism (whether it be) Communism (or) Fascism.

Mayhap the little I do may keep it So.

JOHN EVELETH BROOKHOUSE

HOME AppREssS: Gahanna, Ohio.

BORN: July 15, 1900, Reading, Mass. parents: Harley Brookhouse, Florence
Gertrude Williams.

PREPARED AT: Hartford Public High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

marriep: Helen Morton, Oct. 23, 1926, Columbus, Ohio. camp: John
Christopher, Jan. 6, 1938.

occupation; Farming and property management.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Club of Central Ohio, 1935, 1936.

MEMBER OF: University Club, Harvard Club of Central Ohio; Rocky Forl
Hunt and Country Club.

FARMING and property management occupy most of my time.
Our farming activities consist of dairying and grain raising princi-
pally, on a farm located about fourteen miles from Columbus. Our
twelve-year-old son likes fishing in the creek and looking for
arrow heads at which he is quite successful.

ARTHUR BARTON BROWN

HOME ADDRESS: 155-01 goth Ave., Apt. qF, Jamaica 2, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Queens College, Flushing, N. Y.

Born: Feb. 10, 1905, Roxbury, Mass. PARENTS: George Brown, Elizabeth
Goldberg.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: AB. summa cum laude, 1925; A. My.
1926, PH.D. 1929,

MarrieD: Ruth Levison, Aug. 18, 1935, New York, N. Y. cxmp: Alan
Richard, Feb. 1, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward James Brown, ’29.

occupation: Teaching.

OFFICES HELD: Part-time instructor, 1927-29, Harvard, National Research
Fellow, 1929-30, Princeton; instructor of mathematics, 1930-35, assist-
ant professor 1935-38, Columbia; assistant professor of mathematics,
1938-47, associate professor of mathematics, since 1948, Queens College.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Sigma Xi; American Mathematical Society;
Mathematical Association of America; Institute of Mathematical Statis-
tics; American Association of University Professors,

[ 132 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PUBLICATIONS: ‘Twenty-odd papers in mathematical journals published in
the United States; also reviews of mathematical papers in Zentralblatt
fiir Math. and in mathematical reviews.

AFTER receiving the A.B., I studied mathematics at the Harvard
Graduate School for four years, during the last two of which I
was teaching part-time. The biographical data above give a pretty
good summary of my doings since that time. My teaching is made
pleasant by the good-humoured, and good-looking, boys and girls
in my classes, as well as my very congenial colleagues, many of
whom I knew earlier at other institutions of learning. My teaching
“load” has been somewhat reduced so that I can take care of some
student counseling, which I find interesting and agreeable.

Our little family spends its summers in Cornwall-on-Hudson,
New York, where we have a bungalow, friendly neighbors, and
are not too far from swimming. As to recreation, aside from
things which go on indoors and are enjoyed more or less by every-
one, we like to take auto trips, walk or “hike,” swim, of course,
and ride bicycles when we get the chance.

DOUGLASS VINCENT BROWN

HOME ApDpREsS: 46 Griggs Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass.

BORN: May 16, 1904, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. parents: George Henry Brown,
Frederica Beinert.

PREPARED AT: Wyoming Seminary, Kingston, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B, magna cum laude, 1925; AMs
1926; PH.D. 1932.

MARRIED: Mary Alberta Nuss, Dec. 2, 1933, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. CHILDREN:
Deborah Nuss, Jan. 26, 1940; Constance Adams, Nov. 1, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Sloan Professor of Industrial Management.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Various positions with advisory commission
to Council of National Defense and Office of Production Management;
staff member, Harriman-Beaverbrook Mission to Russia; consultant,
War Department, public member, New England Regional War Labor
Board.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Research Advisory Board, Committee for Economic
Development, since 1944; permanent arbitrator in many segments of
New England cotton industry, since 1943; chairman of the faculty,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, since 1949.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association; American Academy of Arts
and Sciences; National Academy of Arbitrators; Industrial Relations
Research Association; Harvard Travellers Club.

[133]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

pusLicaTions: Co-author: Economics of the Recovery Program; Industrig]
Wage Rates, Labor Costs, and Price Policies. Author: Management,
Rights and the Collective Agreement, Industrial Relations Research
Association Proceedings, 1948.

LIKE all of the other honest members (if any) of our Class, I had
great difficulty in starting this section of my report. After the
questionnaire had lain in the living room for some months, and
after my elder daughter had pestered me to return it, she volun-
teered to write this part. Here — unedited — is what she wrote:

“After my graduation in 1925, I worked as a teacher in Harvard
College until 1933, when I married. Then I taught at Harvard
Medical School until 1938. Since then I have been a professor at
Mass. Institute of Technology. In 1940 I had my first child, a
daughter. She was a cute little daughter, and I spent many good
times with her. In 1941 I went to Russia and got home just before
Thanksgiving. I was also home for Christmas.

“In 1947 I had to go to Detroit on business. I received a letter
from my wife — or daughter. They said that they hoped daughter
wouldn’t get the mumps before I got home. On the back of the
envelope was printed, ‘Debby — mumps today, no temperature.’

“In 1949 my second child came. It was another daughter, very
much like my first one. I now call them ‘my females.’ ”

There is very little to be added. I spend all too little of my time
with my family. I spend altogether too much of my time in
arbitration of labor-management disputes and in bureaucratic
activities at M.I.T. (which is almost as bureaucratic as Harvard
and more so than government, but fortunately not nearly so much
so as business).

You ask about my convictions. I have only one, which becomes
more pronounced as I attain old age: all convictions are bad. In-
creasingly, it seems to me, flexibility is of the utmost importance.
As a result, I am denied the solace of convenient labels such as, for
example, Republican or Democrat.

GEORGE ALFRED BROWN

Home appress: 7 Ashland St., Melrose 76, Mass.
oFFice appress: Yale School of Music, Sprague Memorial Hall, New Elaven,
Conn.

[134]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BorN: April 7, 1901, Chelsea, Mass. parents: Alfred Wiliam Brown, Alice
Estelle Small.

PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1021-1925. DEGREE: $.B., 1925.

OCCUPATION: Assistant professor of violoncello playing and teacher of cham-
ber music, Yale School of Music, and privately; conductor.

OFFICES HELD: Conductor, Springfield Community Orchestra, Vt., 1927-33,
Andover Community Orchestra, 1938-49, Melrose Orchestral Associa-
tion, since 1929, Brandenburg Concerto Orchestra, Cambridge, 1938-41.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Musical Association, Boston; Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia;
Phi Kappa Lambda, Yale Faculty Club; Graduates Club, New Haven;
Harvard Club of Eastern Middlesex.

PUBLICATIONS: Co-editor, Vermont Folk Songs and Ballads, Stephen Daye
Press, 1931, The New Green Mountain Songster, Yale University Press,

1939-

HOLY smoke, George,” wailed my ’cello teacher in 1921. “If
you stop real practising and go to Harvard, you will never reach
the great heights.” He was right. I haven’t! But I have played and
played. For several years I gave Boston recitals in Jordan Hall
with Arthur Fiedler accompanying. Jésus Sanroma assisted me
on the first of these. Later I turned to chamber music more and
more, giving many sonata recitals with Heinrich Gebhard. More
recently the pianist has been Bruce Simonds. This season our
schedule has included all-Beethoven programs at both Yale and
Harvard. The present Harvard interest in chamber music is far
ahead of that of our college days. On the evening of the Cam-
bridge concert, Sanders was jammed even to stage and aisles and
three hundred were turned away!

After a send-off of conducting the Pierian in 1924-25, I began
leading orchestras, both student and community types, and am
still doing it. I have had groups in Springfield, Vermont, Andover,
Cambridge and Melrose, Massachusetts. ‘The last-named orchestra
is still going strong. I have been guest conductor with the New
Haven Symphony and the Boston Pops at Symphony Hall. Dur-
ing World War II the Army would have none of me but they
were enthusiastic about M. H. Holmes ’28, so I added to my regular
work the Harvard-Radcliffe and Wellesley orchestras, The im-
provement in undergraduate playing since 1925 was quite startling.
The return to old haunts was a real pleasure but also very hectic.
Key players were always telling me at the last rehearsal before an
important concert, “My unit leaves for parts unknown just before

(135 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

the performance tomorrow night. I’m so sorry. I wanted to play
that solo for you.”

As for teaching, immediately after college I began instructing
all ages in ‘cello playing and chamber music. In the early years
this was done privately and in schools. My first college teaching
was chamber music at Wellesley. For the past five years it has
been ‘cello and chamber music at Yale. At present I spend part of
each week in New Haven and part in teaching in the Boston region
with a studio near Harvard Square.

I voted Republican except for one lapse to the Democratic
ticket in the campaign for Roosevelt’s first term. I am a member
of the Congregational Church.

My travels have included France, Italy, and Switzerland (192 8);
Germany (1929), with conducting study in Berlin under Bor-
chard; France and Switzerland (1932), with ’cello study under
Alexanian and conducting under Weingartner, Austria (1935),
with Mozart scores study under Paumgartner, England (1938),
and the circuit of the American West (1941). Rush to the South-
west, classmates, if you have missed this unique region so far.

As for sports, tennis and skiing come first with me. I have
looked for ’25 men in my frequent trips to New England ski re-
sorts and even at such enticing places as Alta, Aspen, Sun Valley,
Tremblant, and the Columbia ice fields, but I am beginning to
suspect that they don’t ski.

Summers are divided between teaching (for years at the Green-
wood Music Camp in Cummington, Massachusetts, now at Yale’s
summer school of music at Norfolk, Connecticut) and vacationing
at Chatham, Cape Cod, where you are all cordially invited to have

a sail any August or early September.

MARCELLUS NOYES BROWN

HOME Appress: P. O. Box 438, Sandy Hook, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: New Haven State Teachers College, 2 Howe St., New
Haven, Conn.

Born: May 5, 1904, Hillsboro, N. H. Parents: Irving Charles Brown, Alice
Violette Noyes.

PREPARED AT: Woodsville High School, Woodsville, N. H,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREE: 8.B., 1925,

[ 136 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Madeline Elizabeth Dik, June 29, 1929, Needham, Mass. cun-
DREN: Beverly Ann, April 9, 1933; Robert Noyes.

occupaTION: Assistant professor of social sciences.

WE LIVE in Sandy Hook, Connecticut, where we have pur-

chased an old colonial house. At present I am a member of the

faculty of the New Haven State Teachers College and have held

my present position for four years. During the last few years I

have pursued a doctoral program and should in a few months be

granted the appropriate degree.

MORRIS LOVEJOY BROWN

HOME ADDRESS: 40 Waldorf Rd., Newton Highlands, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: First National Bank of Boston, Massachusetts Avenue
Branch, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 26, 1902, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: James Brown, Mabel Julia
Lovejoy.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192I~I925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.

MARRIED; Frances Adria Holmes, May 10, 1930, Brooklyn, N. Y. cHmpReEN:
David Wellington, March 14, 1931; Alison Lovejoy, Jan. 17, 1934.

OccuPATION: Assistant vice-president, First National Bank of Boston.

OFFICES HELD: President, Kenmore Association, Inc., 1948-50, Auburndale
Men’s Club, 1949-50; treasurer, Washingtonian Hospital, 1947-50, Hyde
Park Y.M.C.A., 1937-40; trustee, Price Scholarship Fund, 1939-50; vice-
president, Harvard Class of 1925 Association, 1948.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

LIFE started off with something of a bang for me after graduation
in 1925. I was talked into taking the lead in the Duncan Sisters’
show, Topsy and Eva, before exams were over so that my last
week in college was divided between the exam room and watching
how things went in the Colonial Theatre (rehearsals, etc.). I
opened in the show here in Boston as soon as my degree was in
hand and stayed with the show for somewhat over eight months.
It was an exciting and interesting life and I learned much about
many things, but finally decided to give it up and go into the work
that I had planned and something far more stable than the show
business.

After a few months of taking stock, which included a trip to
Europe in the summer of 1926, I went to work for the First Na-
tional Bank of Boston in January, 1927. In the fall of 1928 I be-

[137]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

came engaged to Frances Adria Holmes, sister of Roger W.
Holmes, ’26, and we were married in Brooklyn by her father,
John Haynes Holmes, of the Community Church in New York
on May 10, 1930. Our son, David Wellington, was born in 1931
and our daughter, Alison Lovejoy, came along in 1934, and we
have enjoyed a happy family life ever since. |

Although I have not turned into a concert singer, as I predicted
in our Class book, I have kept up my music pretty steadily and
have directed church choirs regularly since 1925. I also conducted
the First National Bank’s chorus from 1928 to 1945, which in-
cluded conducting the Boston Pops Orchestra and the “Sunday at
4:30” program over Station WBZ for the First National Bank. I
have given informal recitals from time to time for the entertain-
ment of friends and musical groups but feel somewhat rusty in
that field now, preferring to be entertained by others.

In 1940 I attended the Graduate School of Banking at Rutgers
University and completed my thesis in 1943. I became manager
of the Massachusetts Avenue Branch of the First National Bank of
Boston and am now assistant vice-president. Outside of that I
manage to keep out of trouble by being active in banking and trade
organizations, local community groups, music and church work,
with now and then a quiet game of bridge.

My son, David, is now a sophomore at Swarthmore College in
Pennsylvania, which he chose because of its smaller size and excel-
lent scholastic standing. He expects to do graduate work at Har-
vard as a compromise to the old man’s disappointment at not at-
tending Harvard as an undergraduate. My guess is that he will
turn out to be a teacher in philosophy or mathematics or go into
the ministry. I worked hard to swing him towards the big “H”
but his arguments for wanting to go farther from home and to a
small and co-educational (girls again) school convinced me that
he knew what he wanted. My daughter is a junior at Newton
High School and is probably going to college in the Midwest,
possibly Carleton College in Minnesota.

And so it goes — after the first few months of theatre life it has
been an ordinary and quiet life, but I have liked ir.

[138]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ RICHARDSON BROWN

BORN: June 1, 1903, Auburndale, Mass. parents: George Gay Brown,
Alice Abert Richardson.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924.

pieD: About Feb. 4, 1938, Hull, Mass.

RICHARDSON BROWN entered Harvard after preparatory
work at the Fessenden School and Newton High School. While
an undergraduate he sang in the Appleton Chapel choir and was
a member of the Musical Club. His devotion to music was the
most important factor in his life, and he aroused in many of his
friends a love and understanding of fine music. He attended all
the Boston Symphony concerts and numbered among his friends
the conductors and many notable soloists and opera stars who
came to Boston.

He left Cambridge at the end of his junior year to study voice
with Margaret Clement of Boston and Estelle Liebling in New
York. For a time he was soloist at St. Thomas’ Chapel in New
York and also New York representative of the Afzsical Leader of
Chicago. He wrote articles for the Mzsical Advance and Musical
Digest. Later he acted as representative of Lotte Lehmann. In
1935 he was lecturing and writing on musical subjects around
Boston. He was instrumental in founding the American Sibelius
Society and afterwards became its president. He had worked on
the adult recreation project and the writers’ project of the Works
Progress Administration and shortly before his death he had de-
livered a series of lectures on Wagner at the Y.W.C.A.

Out of his extensive knowledge of music and its interpreters
by instrument and song, he had an amazing ability to impart to
others a tremendous appreciation of and enjoyment in music. In
addition, he had a genius for extracting from life joy in even the
simplest things and giving generously of himself to others.

SAMUEL BROWN

ADDRESS: 357 Highland Drive, Seattle, Wash.

BorN: Oct, 23, 1902, El Paso, Texas. parents: Joseph Louis Brown, Julia
Goldstein.

PREPARED AT: Yakima High School, Yakima, Wash.

[ 139 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 1925} LL.B, 1928(29).
OCCUPATION: Theatre.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files,
Samuel Brown did not return a questionnaire.

+ STEPHEN DeEVALSON BROWN

porn: Nov. 3, 1902, Glens Falls, N. Y. parents: Louis Mayo Brown, ’8o,
Edith Gertrude Pratt.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926, DEGREE: A.B, 1925 (26).
pep: Jan. 21, 1938, Glens Falls, N. Y.

STEPHEN DEVALSON BROWN entered Harvard after com-
pleting his preparatory work at Glens Falls Academy and Phillips
Exeter Academy, As an undergraduate he was a member of the
Speakers’ Club.

Since graduation he had not communicated with the Class Sec-
retary, but philatelists among the Class knew him as an ardent
stamp collector and the author of numerous articles on philatelic
subjects. He became nationally known as a stamp collector, was

a member of numerous philatelists’ clubs, and had exhibited his
own collection.

JACKSON MARTIN BRUCE

HOME appress: 414 E. Appletree Rd., Fox Point, Milwaukee 11, Wis.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 213 W. Wisconsin Ave., Milwaukee 2, Wis.

BORN: July 8, 1902, Milwaukee, Wis. PARENTs: Martin Peter Bruce, Grace
May Booth.

PREPARED AT: Riverside High School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: $.B. cuz laude, 1925(24); LL.B. (Univ.
of Wisconsin), 1927.

MarRiED: Harriet Edgell, Aug. 17, 1929, Gardner, Mass. cHmLDREN: Jackson

Martin, Jr., April 10, 1931; Sara Eugenia, April 17, 1935; Calvin Sumner,
March 16, 1948.

HARVARD SON: Jackson Martn Bruce, Jr., °53.
occuPATION: Attorney; partner, Wood, Warner, Tyrrell & Bruce.
WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Civilian Draft Board Appeal Agent,

OFFICES HELD: Formerly: President, Blackstone Club, Children’s Service
Society of Milwaukee, Harvard Club of Milwaukee; member of board,
Milwaukee Bar Association, Boys’ Club of Milwaukee, Blue Cross of

[ 140 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Milwaukee, Harvard Club of Milwaukee, Government Research Bureau,
St. John’s Home of Milwaukee, Inter-professional Men’s Institute; mem-
ber Board of Governors, Wisconsin Bar Association; treasurer, All
Saints Cathedral, Milwaukee; senior warden, Christ Church, White-
fish Bay; secretary, Harvard Club of Milwaukee, 1938-39, Associated
Harvard Clubs; clerk, Fox Point School Board; committee chairman,
Milwaukee Bar Association. Currently: President of board, Columbia;
member of board, Milwaukee Hearing Socicty, Milwaukee Club, Mil-
waukee Plastics, Inc., Shorewood Hospital; clerk and president-elect,
Barrister Club; member, Committee on Lawyers in Public Affairs,
American Bar Association; chairman, Scholarship Committee, Harvard
Club of Milwaukee; trustee of Scholarship Fund, Harvard Club of
Milwaukee, Church Literature Foundation, vice-president, Western
Builder Publishing Company, member Scholarship Committee, Asso-
ciated Harvard Clubs, member, Wellesley College National Committee
on Bequests.

MEMBER OF: Milwaukee County Community Fund; Saturday Noon Law-
yers Club, English Speaking Union, American Law Institute, Alpha
Delta Phi; Phi Delta Phi.

AN AMATEUR attempt at an abbreviated autobiography tempts
the author to disregard the subject’s shortcomings, to exaggerate
his virtues, and to magnify his accomplishments. However, after
some slight soul-searching, candor compels the conclusion that my
“career” and attainments have not been spectacular. I do, how-
ever, lay claim to a grand family, a fascinating profession, and a
wide assortment of very good friends.

After leaving Wisconsin Law School, I joined forces with
Edgar L. Wood (now one of the finest old gentlemen of the Wis-
consin Bar) and his two younger associates with whom I have
practised general business and corporate law in Milwaukee ever
since. The firm has expanded and I am very happy in my profes-
sional association. |

Our Harvard-Wellesley romance jelled in 1929. Jack, Jr., ar-
rived in 1931 and graduated from Exeter this June (1949) with
honors and was awarded an honorary scholarship by Harvard.
Sally is a joy, entering Downer Seminary this fall. In our ripe
middle age, to the jesting of our friends and our own delight, Cal
arrived to make us relearn much we had forgotten, regain the
happiness a baby brings, “up” the life insurance load, and (Heaven
forfend), rejoin the P.T.A., no doubt. He should be about the
youngest baby in the Class. During the war an English refugee

[141]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

youngster, the son of a Royal Navy Commander, lived with us
nearly five years and it was a rich experience.

My extra-curricular activities are reflected in the summary of
offices and memberships. My legal work consists in large part of
trials and appeals before courts and administrative bodies with a
substantial percentage devoted to representing management in
labor problems. (I “point with pride” to a five-to-four victory this
spring in a very tough one, for details of which my legal classmates
can see 93 U.S. Adv. Op. 510.)

Besides rearing our young and keeping me in line, Harriet has
been busy from time to time in many community activities includ-
ing family service, child care centers, Junior League, civilian de-
fense, et al. Her vigorous volunteering led me to name our last
dog “Earnest Volunteer” in her honor.

As for politics, I frequently cross party lines, particularly in
local and state elections. However, after voting for F.D.R. the
first time, I have supported the Republican national ticket in the
hope that a Labor Government may be avoided in this country.

While my existence has never seemed dull, I am looking for-
ward to the reading of the activities of my classmates, being sure

that many of them will make much more interesting reading than
this prosaic account.

CONSTANTINE MICHAEL BUCUVALAS

HOME appress: 54 Virginia St., Dorchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 92 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 12, ro01, Laconia, Greece. PARENTS: Michael Constantine
Bucuvalas, Zoé Pieroutsakou.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: $B. 1925; LL.B. (Suffolk Univ.), 1938.

Marriep: Paraskeve Sarhanis, Jan. 13, 1929, Boston, Mass. cHtLpReN: Michael
G. C., Oct. 22, 1929; Zoé Euphrosyne, Aug. 30, 1934.

HARVARD SON: Michael G. C. Bucuvalas, ’51.

HARVARD BROTHER: Peter Michael Bucuvalas, 33.

OccuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: President, Helicon, Greek Professional Men’s Club, 1926, 1933;
1934, 1946, 1947, Ahepa Chapter, 1934, Hellenic Confederation of
America, 1950, supreme president, Pan-Laconian Federation, 1948, 1949
1950.

[142 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Helicon, Inc.; Ahepa Chapter, Boston; Pallaconian Association;
Lycurgus of Boston; Boston Bar Association; Massachusetts Bar Asso-
ciation; American Bar Association, Law Society of Massachusetts;
Masons; Foreign Policy Association; Academy of Political Science.

I HAVE devoted most of my efforts to the practice of law until

recently, when I became interested in the East-West ideological

struggle, and more particularly with the threat of subjugation of

Greece by the Communist-inspired guerrillas. I have given a good

deal of time to the unification of the Greek-American organiza-

tions in the United States into a single codrdinating organization
which came into being recently under the name of Hellenic Con-
federation of America.

JAMES ERNEST BUNTING, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 243 S. Main St., Wallingford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 12 N. Main St., Wallingford, Conn.

BORN: Nov. 3, 1902, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: James Ernest Bunting, ’98, Agnes
Mary Gillies.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Adah Webster, Oct. 17, 1936, Great Barrington, Mass.
CHILDREN: Mansfield Allen Lyon, Jr. (stepson), Dec. 25, 1930; Daniel
Webster Lyon (stepson), Oct. 1, 1933; Mary Elizabeth, July 11, 1937;
Peter Gillies, Nov. 8, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Loring Bunting, ’28.

OCCUPATION: Publishing a directory of private independent schools and
conducting a school advisory service for parents.

MEMBER OF: The Wallingford Club.

MY FAMILY and I live a comfortably prosaic life here in Wal-
lingford, Connecticut, where I have resided for the past eighteen
years. Our town manufactures a great deal of silverware and other
metal goods and most of our 20,000 fellow-townsmen are well em-
ployed. The nearby Long Island Sound provides us with good
swimming in the summer and Yale, of course, is just over the hill.

The prime interest of Lee and myself at the moment is the edu-
cation of our children which is the most trying and instructive
activity either of us has ever undertaken. My two stepsons, whom
I acquired when they were very young (a year or two after their
father died), have developed very well and now they serve as
mentors for our two younger ones. One of the boys took four

[ 143 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

years at Westminster School and is now at Yale; and the second
one was away for two years and is now in high school and may
go to Wesleyan.

My own interests outside the family and my business are few.
For a postman’s holiday I serve on the local school board with
four other Democrats and four of the opposition. Through the
children and my wife, who are all musically inclined, J am devel-
oping an appreciative ear. I enjoy golf and swimming and Dan
and I are building a small boat. I am a member of the Democratic
Town Committee though not a wheel and belong to an old club
here that offers billiards, cards, and conversation “where I refresh
my soul from four until five most afternoons.

We are accepted in our community as a good Christian family.
My membership remains in the Congregational Church but the
children are becoming Episcopalians like their mother. My church
lacks the centralized authority that strengthens the Catholic
churches and I favor the Episcopal Church for that reason. o-

My wife is truly a wonder. I am a crotchety fellow who has
been slow to temper rigid rules for a more cushioned approach to
reality, and Lee has spared me a great deal of discomfiture by
showing me how to roll with the punches. We first met as young
people years ago at Skaneateles, New York, and, therefore, on our
second meeting we seemed quite well matched.

Harvard has always meant a great deal to me. I fee] the same
way about Andover although what I remember about the school

is my teachers, and of Harvard my strongest affection is for my
classmates.

EDWIN WHITNEY BURCH

HOME AppREss: 1110 Fenwick Pl. Oklahoma City 6, Okla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2718 First National Bldg., Oklahoma City, Okla.

BoRN: Nov. 22, 1901, Rockwell City, lowa. parents: Edwin Welch Burch,
Lillian Esther Longhead.

PREPARED AT: Rockwell City High School, Rockwell City, Iowa. /

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 19253 LL.B, 1930(32).

marrieD: Roberta Swartwout Johnson, Jan. 28, 1939, Chicago, Ill. cattpREN:
Jonathan Whitey, Feb. 10, 1940, Nancy Carolyn, Sept. 25, 1942; Emily
Louise, Aug. 21, 1945.

occupation: Attorney and tax counselor (head of my firm consisting of
three attorneys specializing in federal tax practice).

[ 144 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts:. Block captain, Civil Defense Organization,
Chicago.

OFFICES HELD: Republican precinct committeeman, Chicago, 1938-41; chair-
man, board of trustees, Hyde Park Baptist Church, Chicago, 1941-44;
instructor in taxation, John Marshall Law School, Chicago, 1940-44;
chairman tax section, Oklahoma State Bar Association, 1948-49; presi-
dent, Oklahoma City Tax Lawyer’s Association, 1950; steward, Metho-
dist Church of Nichols Hills.

MEMBER OF: Masonic Blue Lodge; Kiwanis, Beacon Club of Oklahoma City;
Chicago Bar Association; Oklahoma State Bar Association; American
Bar Association, past member Harvard Club of Chicago.

PUBLICATIONS: Co-author: Nichols, Illinois Civil Practice, Vol. 7, 1942;
Initial Supplements to Mertens, Law of Federal Income Taxation, 1943;
Cyclopedia of Federal Procedure (and edition), 1944. Articles: “Income
and Estate Taxes— State and Federal,” 1947, “Planning and Probating
of Oklahoma Estates,” 1948, Oklahoma Bar Journal, “Estate and Gift
Planning Under the Revenue Act of 1948,” Oklahoma Law Review,
1948; “Effects of Repeal of Oklahoma Community Property Law,”
The Certified Public Accountant Bulletin, Oklahoma, 1949.

FOR two years after graduation I taught history, government, and

economics in high schools in Idaho. I found teaching to be a most

pleasant profession but remember Idaho particularly as a hunter’s
and fisherman’s paradise. Then I came back to the Law School and
completed my three years there with the Class of 1930. The excel-
lent instruction in the Law School prepared me for my life’s work
as a member of the Bar, which I have pursued since that time.
After living several months in New York City, I went to Chi-
cago early in 1931 where I began the practice of law and continued
practising until 1946. During this period I was associated at vari-
ous times with the firm of Ryan, Condon & Livingston, with

Benjamin Wham, and with Robert F. Spindell. My most interest-

ing experience in practice in Chicago was as defense attorney on

the Insull cases, which were packed with tremendous public in-

terest. For a time I was with Callaghan & Company where I did

considerable legal research and writing. My most exciting experi-

ence in Chicago was in the field of politics. Beginning in 1934 I
was active in the regular Republican organization and in 1941 was
a candidate for judge of the municipal court of Chicago. I en-
joyed the exhilaration of the campaign which lasted about two
months and on election day received approximately a quarter of
a million votes. This tremendous vote was, however, insufficient
to elect me and my Democratic opponent took the office. One of

[145 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

the distinctions I enjoyed in Chicago was being listed in Marquis’
Who's Who in Chicago.

In 1946 an opportunity presented itself in Oklahoma and the
family and I moved to Oklahoma City to make our permanent
home here. There are many advantages to living in the Golden
Southwest. One of these is the weather. Here the weather is much
more moderate than in Chicago, and yet invigorating. Another is
commuting. Two and one-half hours a day were required to go
to and from my home in the city of Chicago, but in Oklahoma
where I live in Nichols Hills, a suburb, the commuting time is
only twelve minutes each way.

Another is opportunity. I am proud, justifiably I hope, of the
professional progress I have made in Oklahoma. Three and one-
half years ago I opened my office in Oklahoma City and started
from scratch. Today I have an extensive practice in wills and
estate analysis and other tax fields, and have two young attorneys
associated with me to aid me in legal work for my clientele. [ have
become recognized as an authority in my field of practice in the
Southwest and have spoken to organizations interested in estate
analysis and lectured at universities in both Oklahoma and Texas.
I have also made many speeches to legal institutes over the State of
Oklahoma and have been chairman of the tax section of the Okla-
homa State Bar Association. I have also written articles which
have been published in Oklahoma legal periodicals.

I have been blessed with a very lovely wife and family. We
have three very fine young children who create our greatest in-
terest in life. My wife is a graduate of DePauw University where
she was a member of Phi Beta Kappa. She has been active in the
Phi Beta Kappa associations in Chicago and Oklahoma City and I
have enjoyed the pleasure and distinction of being a “brother-in-
law” to Phi Beta Kappa. My farher and mother are both living in
Oklahoma City where they have lived for many years, and it is a
pleasure to be with them in their older years. My father, in his

eighty-first year, is still very active in business.

It has been my good fortune to travel through nearly all the
states of the United States and the provinces of Canada. Since I
was not in the service in either war, I have not had the global
travel that many of our classmates have had. My wife and I are
still looking forward to a trip to Europe. My greatest hobby has

[ 146 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

been stamp collecting but I am also interested in music. My experi-
ences in the Harvard Glee Club and at the symphony concerts in
Sanders Theatre created a background of musical appreciation
which has enabled me to enjoy good music through the years.

I have been a life member of the Baptist Church but recently
joined a neighborhood Methodist Church. I am active in church
work and try to live the Christian life.

Since college days I have been essentially conservative in my
political and economic views. 1 believe with all my heart in the
free enterprise system. It has made this country great and can
accomplish greater things for us in the future. It is the greatest
guarantee we have in the world today of individual liberty and
freedom. I believe that greater social justice for all people can be
attained under a progressive system of free enterprise than under
either socialism or communism. The actual existence of these
forms of government in the world in the last few years has proved
that they are destroyers of human freedom.

I feel strongly about our policy in Asia. By failing to aid the
government of Chiang Kai-shek over a period of many years our
government (probably with hidden Russian inspiration) has lost
China to our enemies with the result that the balance of power in
the world is now against us. It is q disaster which the American
people do not yet realize.

Nevertheless, I am optimistic about the future. I confidently
believe that with the failure of socialism in Europe evident to us
we Shall be able to protect and preserve our system of free enter-
prise and individual freedom in this country. Moreover, I believe
that the good sense of men everywhere in the world will prevent
the use of atomic weapons which could make the world a shambles.

GEORGE WADSWORTH BURGESS

HOME ADDRESS: 1411 35th St. N.W., Washington 7, D. C.

OFFicE ADpREss: Civil Aeronautics Administration, Washington 25, D. C.

BORN: Jan, 28, 1902, Berlin, N. H. parents: George Ebenezer Burgess, Eliza-
beth Wadsworth.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1025. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

MARRIED: Helen R. Lovering, Sept. 26, 1927, Brookline, Mass. cump: George
Wadsworth, Jr, April 30, 1938.

[ 147 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

occupation: Department of Commerce, U. S. Government.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Assistant to the director, War Production
Board, 1942; assistant to the Rubber Coordinator, War Production
Board, 1942; assistant to the Assistant Secretary of Commerce, 1943-47.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant trust officer, Brooklyn Trust Company, 1932-40;
president, Self Winding Clock Company, 1937-403 assistant treasurer,
Crompton & Knowles Loom Works, 1940-41; deputy administrator,
Civil Aeronautics Administration, 1947-50; chairman of commerce,
C.A.A. Committee on State (Aviation) Legislation and Enforcement;
member of several interdepartmental aviation committees, including
Air Coordinating Committee and its Economic Division and subcom-

mittees on surplus aircraft disposal and financing of aeronautical
exports.

MEMBER OF: National Aeronautics Association; Harvard Club of Wash-
ington.
PUBLICATIONS: Economic Aspects of America’s Air Navigation Program.

SOON after graduation I went to work for Stone & Webster in
Boston, which I still regard as my “home town.” That and my
matriculation at Harvard, however, caused my employers to place
me in the category described by Will Rogers as a “twice laid egg.”
Consequently they sent me to Houston, Texas, for “foteen”
months, the first two of which I spent on the front end of a street
car and bus. The climate was bad from a New Englander’s view-
point, but the experience and hospitality more than made up for it.
On returning to Boston, I married Helen Lovering and we set-
tled down in Milton, only to be moved to New York. We resided
in Greenwich, Connecticut. Till early in the memorable year of
our lavishness, 1929, I remained with Stone & Webster, investigat-
ing utility operating companies that might be purchased, and then
went into a newly formed aviation investment trust. At the end
of that year, and for reasons we all remember to our sorrow, I
transferred to the more conservative investment field of rail and
utility securities, first in investment banking and then (early in
’32) in the trust department of the Brooklyn (not Brookline)
Trust Company. Thanks to a slow loan or two and a couple of
estates, the bank put me in partial charge of a few close corpora-
tions which needed some resuscitation. That was fun, as well as
work, and with the investment work, continued until 1940, when
New England called and I went as assistant treasurer to Crompton
and Knowles Loom Works in Worcester, Massachusetts.
Then came “the day of infamy,” Donald Nelson’s office in the ©

[ 148 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

War Production Board in Washington, the Synthetic Rubber Pro-
gram, and early in 1943, the Department of Commerce, where I
have been ever since, first as assistant to the Assistant Secretary of
Commerce (for Air), and then Deputy Administrator of the Civil
Aeronautics Administration.

I have been in most of the States, and Alaska, and have travelled
briefly in postwar Europe. As a result, the New Englander has
learned to appreciate and enjoy something of the variety of view-
points, beauty of terrain, and character of many cities, communi-
ties, and people throughout the U.S.A. The airplane has brought
this about and is having a similar effect on the viewpoints and
mutual understanding of a small, but influential and increasin
portion of the world’s population. With more than half of the
two million people who travel annually overseas, to and from
this country, doing so by air, international relations should bene-
fit, and the airplane be regarded more as an influence for peace
than as a carrier of destruction.

As for my hobbies, I am hopeful that the next two decades
will provide more time than have the last two, for such things as
tennis and golf, sailing and fishing, puttering around the house,
and enjoying my small family.

Since the above was written I have accepted the position of loan
officer in the International Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.

RANDOLPH FORREST BURKE

ADDRESS: 290 S. County Rd., Palm Beach, Fla.

BORN: Sept. 22, 1901, Baltimore, Md. parents: Edward Fredrick Burke,
Madeleine Forrest.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925.

OCCUPATION: Real estate.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary's files.
Burke did not return a questionnaire.

CLARENCE JOSEPH BURNS

HOME ApprEss: 3 Elton Rd., Barrington, R. I.

OFFICE ADpREss: /Etna Casualty and Surety Co, 1502 Industrial Trust Bldg.
Providence, R. I.

[ 149 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

porN: April 15, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: John Henry Burns, Josephine
Claire Murray.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.; Phillips Academy, Ando-
‘ver, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925.

marrieD: Rose G. Frawley, May 31, 1930, Boston, Mass. cu1LprEN: Gerald
Joseph, Feb. 3, 1928 (adopted); William Joseph, May 14, 1931; Virginia
Therése, Aug. 2, 1935; Christopher John, Nov. 20, 1946.

HARVARD SON: William Joseph Burns, ’53.

occupation: Manager, Providence Office, A‘tna Casualty and Surety Com-

any.

sMEMOER OF University Club; Chamber of Commerce of Providence; Sales
Managers’ Club; Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of Rhode
Island.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in insurance trade journals.

IN OCTOBER, 1925, after a summer of hotel work and a brief
trial in the rug business, I was hired as assistant employment man-
ager of a shoe factory near Boston. One of the requirements was
that the applicant for the job be an M.LT. man because Harvard
men did not know how to work. Somehow I convinced them
that I should be hired and after my first week there found out
what they meant. After a full day’s work, which lasted from
seven-thirty in the morning until five at night, it was my duty
to go out to the homes of factory workers and sell them on
working for our plant. We were operating under a system not
liked by the unions and it was my job to convince the shoe
worker that while his hourly rate was not so great with us, his
prospects of a steady job were much better.
In March I was appointed manager, mainly because the em-
ployment manager accepted a position with another company
and I was left behind to take care of his work and mine too. To
my great surprise, one day in April I was informed by the vice-
president that the plant had become bankrupt and was closing
the next day. He also informed me that I had better remain
away from that part of the city for a good long time since I
was the man who made all the promises to the workmen. A
couple of weeks later a baseball team with which I had signed
to pitch scheduled a game in that vicinity. I don’t know if any
of my former employees were there, but if they were they cer-
tainly did not recognize me because no knives were thrown and .
I escaped with my life. On July 5, 1926, I was employed by the

[150]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

‘Etna Casualty and Surety Company as a special agent and I
have remained with that company to this day.

The luckiest day of my life was May 31, 1930. That was the
day I was married and my bride turned out to be a wonderful
inspiration to me and our children. Our first son, Bill, was born
on May 14 the following year and was christened on our first
wedding anniversary. At the time I was special agent for my
company in Westchester, Rockland, and Putnam Counties north
of New York City. We were living in Tomkins Cove on the
crest of a mountain overlooking the Hudson River. The first time
I visited the place I found myself whispering, so majestic was
the scenery.

When 1935 came we were living in New Rochelle, New York.
I had been transferred to our New York City office and Bill was
an only son. Realizing that one only son (meaning me) in
the family was enough, Rose, my wife, began negotiations to-
wards adopting a child. Most foster parents ask for a baby girl
with blonde hair and blue eyes. Bill wanted a big brother so we
requested a boy, six or seven years old. The only requirements
were that he be healthy and intelligent, although Rose said that
she did not mind one with a behavior problem. Jerry arrived
and we all had our troubles getting adjusted but, as we look back
on it, we’re glad we did it and still are. He has become one of the
family and there is no distinction. That same year Bill had his
tonsils out and the doctor gave him a dog for being such a good
boy. Also, my father died and grandma arrived. It took some
time to get through with the usual investigations for a foster
child and shortly after Jerry arrived we discovered that another
child was on the way. She was Ginny, our only daughter. There-
fore, in the space of one short year, our family increased from
three to seven, if we include the dog.

It required money to do all these things and in the thirties it
was necessary to supplement my income. With a spirit of energy
beyond comparison, Rose decided to go back to teaching which
she had always loved. She had graduated from Lowell Normal
School but standards in New York had become higher, so while
teaching as a substitute in New Rochelle, she attained her Bachelor
of Science degree at Columbia University, outside of school
hours. Later she was awarded her Master’s degree at the Uni-

[is1]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

versity of Pittsburgh. Now you may begin to understand why
I said at the beginning of this narrative that her energy and work
had always been such an inspiration to us.

In January, 1940, I was transferred to Pittsburgh to become
agency supervisor of that office. Those were the days when there
was no smoke control, industry was booming, and you awakened
in the morning coughing and wheezing and looked with utter
amazement at the cinders covering the bed clothes. It did not
take us long to realize that one never slept in the winter with the
windows opened even a crack. Things have changed now and
smoke control is improving the situation rapidly. People are
very friendly in Pittsburgh and we spent a very happy eight
years there in spite of the smog.

I believe it was in 1945 that I won the low net prize in the
annual golf tournament of the Harvard Club of Western Penn-
sylvania. My name was inscribed on a very large silver cup which
stands near the bar (a very appropriate place as far as I am con-
cerned) in the Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club of Pittsburgh. The
cup was won under most favorable circumstances for me because
all the good golfers were away at the wars and my handicap
was particularly generous. I hope that if we have a golf tourna-
ment during our Reunion the handicap committee will forget
this lucky little incident in my life because my gross score on
that day happened to be a 93 and I have never come near that
since.

Like all itinerant New Englanders, we dreamed always of the
time when we would return. Advancement in my company was
always foremost in my mind. We did not dream that the ad-
vancement could ever happen in New England. To our great
joy our hopes were realized and I was appointed manager of the
Providence office in January, 1948. We bought a home in Bar-
rington, Rhode Island, and Rose, the eternal dynamo, is now art
supervisor in the schools there. At last we own our own home
in the part of the country we love, and we are financially able
to educate our children with, of course, some help from them.
God has been good to us and has given us everything in this
life that we have any right to expect. We pray that He will give
us the grace and the strength to live the kind of lives which will
inspire our children to continue to practise faithfully the religion

[152]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

which has been so comforting to us and which has been the chief
cause of our happiness.

Jerry is with the Navy Air Corps in Bermuda, specializing in
electronics. He will be out next July and ready, we hope, for
college. Ginny is attending Peck High School in Barrington.
She plays the piano and a good game of tennis, and is preparing
for Radcliffe. Chris, while not yet three, is beginning his edu-
cation at a nursery school. Grandma, a lively eighty, is with us
yet and thinks nothing of spending a day in town shopping and
going to the movies, besides helping, as usual, with the housework.

I have left Bill to the last because today I have just returned
from Cambridge. I have driven him to the Yard and installed
him as a freshman in his room on the fifth floor of Matthews Hall.
As I staggered down the stairs, after climbing the five flights five
times, I felt very proud but very old and very tired. I hope the
Twenty-fifth Reunion will rejuvenate me. I am glad to relate
that Bill has won a scholarship through the Harvard Club of
Rhode Island which simplifies the problem of educating him at
Harvard, where we always wanted him to go but we never
dared hope we could send him.

HERBERT CAYFORD BURRELL

HOME ADDRESS: 319 Woodland Rd., Sewickley, Pa.

OFFICE ADpREsS: United States Steel Corporation of Delaware, 436 Seventh
Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa.

BORN: Dec. 26, 1903, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Herbert Leslie Burrell, Caroline
White Cayford. )

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922, 1923-1928. DEGREES: S.B., 1925(28); A.M., 19303
PH.D., 1946.

MARRIED: Mary Josephine Runkel, July 28, 1929, Portage, Wis. CHILDREN:
Frederick Runkel, July 12, 1930; Patricia Runkel, March 4, 1932.

HARVARD SON: Frederick Runkel Burrell, ’52.

HARVARD BROTHER: Randal Cayford Burrell, ’24.

occuPATION; Mining geology.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Minerals Specialise Codrdinator of Inter-
American Affairs, O.E.W,, B.E.W,, and later Foreign Economic Ad-
ministration,

MEMHER OF: American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers;
Mining and Metallurgical Society of America.

[153 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

AFTER missing part of freshman year and all of sophomore year,
I did not actually graduate until ’28. Late in 1926 I became in-
terested in mining geology for the first time and carried on to
receive a Master’s degree in geology in 1929.

In the summer of ’29 I married Mary Runkel of Portage,
Wisconsin (Radcliffe ’29). Shortly thereafter we left for Peru

where I was geologist at Cerro de Pasco Copper Corporation’s
Morococha Mine.

I suppose there is no finer training ground for the budding
geologist than the magnificent mountain exposures in the Peruvian
Andes. However that may be, I returned to the States in the
summer of 1932 hard bitten with the urge to win a sounder

understanding of the elusive principles which might explain the
occurrence of ore deposits as I had seen them.

I spent the year of 1932 to 1933 in the department of geology
at the University of Wisconsin. The following year I returned
to Harvard and passed off the preliminary Ph.D. oral examination.

In the spring of 1934 an unusual opportunity presented itself,
and I went to Broken Hill, New South Wales, Australia, as geol-
ogist for the Zinc Corporation Limited. The Zinc Corporation
assignment was originally intended as a six-to twelve-month geo-
logical exploration of the district around Broken Hill but evolved
into a five-year detailed investigation of the great Broken Hill
ore body itself. Of the happy memories of that five-year experi-
ence the one that stands out most sharply is the sheer fun of
meeting and living with “back country” Australians, enjoying

their wonderful hospitality and the warmth of their almost uni-
versal extrovert enthusiasms.

In the spring of 1939 we returned to the States, I with material
for a laboratory project which could be used as a Doctor’s thesis
and the children with Australian accents that were wonderful
to hear. We spent the next summer in Wisconsin where the
children undertook to Americanize themselves at once, achieving
in the process an overcompensated mid-western “r” that was an
amazement to their Bostonian father.

During the next two years, partly at Wisconsin and partly in
Cambridge, 1 completed the laboratory project and passed final
Ph.D. examinations.

During the war I served with a small group of mining engineers

[154]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and geologists in that series of organizations which ultimately
became the Foreign Economic Administration, Our function
throughout all of the various reorganizations remained the same,
namely, to procure all of the strategic metals and minerals pur-
chased by the government from overseas. My own particular
responsibility was manganese ore.

After the war I joined the Oliver Iron Mining Company and
went to Venezuela as geologist for a group which the United
States Steel Corporation was organizing in that country to ex-
plore for iron ore. Three absorbing years of exploration followed,
much of it in geologically almost virgin territory.

In the spring of 1949 I was transferred to Pittsburgh as geologist
for the United States Steel Corporation of Delaware, where I
expect to remain for an indefinite period.

For the first time since leaving for Peru in ’29 we are enjoying
a more or less normal suburban life —I commute to Pittsburgh.
My son is in his sophomore year at Harvard. My daughter is
finishing school in Wisconsin and expects to enter college next
fall. My wife and I are studying garden and house plans. Perhaps
that means we are finally settling down, but we still have an
occasional restless urge to be off to new places and I would call
it a fair bet that the present calm won't last too long.

ABNER KELLOGG BURTT

HOME ADDRESS: 917 Prairie Ave., Downers Grove, Il.

OFFicE ADDRESS: Hawthorne Plant, Western Electric Co., Chicago, Ill.

BORN: Dec. 23, 1902, Ludington, Mich. parents: Benjamin Hardin Burtt,
Sarah Fiefield Keyes.

PREPARED AT: Huron High School, Huron, S. Dak.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922, 1923-1926.

MarRIED: Evelyn Grenier, Feb. 19, 1938. cuttp: Catherine Irene, Jan. 2, 1939

occuPaTION: Time study engineer.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Hawthorne Branch, Council of Western
Electric Technical Employees; delegate, National Council of Western
Electric Technical Employees.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Chicago; Industrial Management Society;
Hawthorne Science Club.

I SIT at my desk in the offices of a large mid-west manufacturing
Organization and look out over what seems at times to be acres
of desks, a few of which now have abbreviated Christmas trees

[155 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

sprouting from them. Surveying this busy and cheerful scene,
I attempt to review the past twenty-five years. Inevitably, in
retrospect, at first the “what might have beens” crowd the center
of the stage, but gradually recede to their proper proportion in
the scene, and the solid substance of the past emerges. —

Directly out of Harvard College I went to work at the Chicago
plant of Swift & Company. Two other jobs in the Chicago area
followed until “the recession” of the early thirties literally swept
me off my feet, but I landed “heads up” in far off Kansas to go
into business with my brother. There, surprisingly enough for
those times, I found relative prosperity, but after a few years
the mesmeristic attraction that northern Illinois has always held
over me exerted itself and again I was back in Chicago, this
time to work for the telephone company, specifically the manu-
facturing phase of it, where I have been ever since.

With the onset of World War II, I was frozen on the job.
Then followed the hectic years from 41 to ’45 of intense appli-
cation on my contribution to the manufacture of such items as
directional finders for anti-aircraft gunnery, the proximity fuses,
air-born radar, and detecting and transmitting standard frequency
crystals; and then, the almost equally frantic, though not quite
so secretive, period of °45 to ’48, to catch up with the backlog
of telephone equipment orders.

But to go back a little, I was married in the early part of
1938 and as soon as possible afterward we moved to one of
the western suburbs of Chicago where we continue to reside.
Our eleven-year-old daughter, even at her tender age, has started
selecting her college, and according to a recent broadcast by a
prominent radio commentator, she can enter the present Harvard
College when she becomes of age. But I am still skeptical, and
not too happy about such a possibility.

During the past two years I have become affiliated with a
fast-growing movement to unite the engineering personnel of
the Western Electric manufacturing plants into a unit for col-
lective bargaining. Practically every branch and twig that make
up our complex business and industrial structure are organized in
order that certain benefits will accrue to the members. Between
this upper mill, so to speak, or organized business interests, and
the lower wheel, organized labor, the unorganized industrial

L156]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

professional is simply so much grist. At present I am serving as
vice-president of the Chicago unit and also I am a delegate to
the company-wide “council,” as we call our organization. Our
petition for certification is at present (December, 1949) await-
ing a decision from the New York National Labor Relations
Board. |

Somewhere I have read that the years a man spends in college
are the happiest of his life. Twenty-five years ago I would not
have agreed but now those four years I spent in Cambridge loom
high on the horizon of my most treasured memories.

DOUGLAS SWAIN BYERS

HOME apprEss: Phillips Street, Andover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Robert S. Peabody Foundation, Phillips Academy, Andover,
Mass.

BORN: Jan. 15, 1903, Newton Center, Mass. PARENTS: William Byers, Susie
A. Kunhardt.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 1925; A.M., 1928.

MARRIED: Dorothy Hayes, June 15, 1929, Andover, Mass. cHILpReN: Corinne
Weston, Oct. 5, 1933; William, Jan. 27, 1936; Marjorie Hayes, May 28,
1939.

HARVARD BROTHERS: George Edward Byers, ’14, Wheaton Bradish Byers, ’15
(deceased); Randolph Kunhardt Byers, 718; William Lloyd Byers, ’21
(deceased).

occupation: Archaeologist.

OFFICES HELD: Editor, 1938-46, president, 1946-47, Society for American
Archaeology; editor, 1939-40, since 1941, trustee, since 1949, Massachu-
setts Archaeological Society; representative, 1945-48, National Re-
search Council.

MEMBER OF: American Anthropological Association; Society for American
Archaeology; Massachusetts Archaeological Society; Harvard Club of
Boston; North Andover Country Club; Kolledgewidwok Yacht Club;
Blue Hill Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous papers in archaeological periodicals; chapter on
environment, Man in Northeastern North Arerica, Papers of the
Robert S. Peabody Foundation, Vol. TI; co-author with Frederick
Johnson, Two Sites on Martha’s Vineyard, Papers of the Robert S.
Peabody Foundation, Vol. I, No. 1.

AFTER a year in the Business School I felt that banks in general,
and international banking in particular, would benefit by my
services. I therefore joined the team of the State Street Trust

[157]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Company, where I ran the streets assiduously until one day in
January, 1927, when Oliver La Farge wired that he had a spare
horse for me on an expedition to Guatemala to study the modern
Highland Maya. In May we returned to New Orleans, after a
trip on a fruit boat made more interesting by the running account
of Lindbergh’s trip which emanated from Sparks’s shack. Then I
went back to Graduate School, this time to become an authority
on the Highland Maya. However, chance, and a poor ear for lan-
guages, threw me into the inanimate archaeological field.

After my marriage, I joined the team in University Hall and
ran the Records Office for two years. Then | transferred to
the Peabody Museum where the mantle of assistant to the director
fell to my lot. In 1933 I came to Andover where I have been
ever since.

Ruins in the Southwest, graves in Panama, old garbage piles
and camp sites in New England —all have left dirt on my nose.
As time went by I became convinced that most American archae-
ologists had forgotten that they were dealing with people and
had become absorbed in their arrowheads, pottery, and stone
axes without regard for the people who made them. Then too,
most people forgot the fact that other sciences such as geology,
geography, botany, and zodlogy, might throw light on the con-
ditions under which people lived. In line with this thought our
work has been directed towards as full an understanding of pre-
historic conditions as is possible. Collaboration among scientists
has been proved successful by two publications from our Foun-
dation.

Why collaboration can’t be extended to everyday life remains

a mystery. This country was founded by people seeking inde-
pendence and freedom and working together. It seems to me that
its danger is from people who read “license” for “liberty” and
whose idea of independence is the elevation of selves and their
group above all others. The emphasis is now on groups, be they
groups of workers or church groups, rather than on the United

States as a whole. Let’s submerge some of this self-seeking. And

how about a real opposition party that offers something? “Me

too” never got anyone anywhere, nor did “Yer all wet!”
I stayed at home during the recent unpleasantness, and in
addition to usual duties, instructed in first aid, headed up the

[158 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Red Cross Disaster Committee, and eventually the Town Civilian
Defense. We found what could be done by working together
then, as did every other town. What a pity we have forgotten
so quickly.

HENRY LEO CABITT

HOME ADDRESS: 46 Browne St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 520 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 17, 1905, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Harry Cabitt, Rose Frishman.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: AB. 1925; MD. (Tufts Medical
School), 1931.

marriED: Aileen Cohen, 1944, Boston, Mass.

occuPATION: Ophthalmologist.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Examiner in ophthalmology, Boston Induction
Board.

OFFICES HELD: Visiting ophthalmic surgeon, Boston City Hospital, 1943-49;
assistant ophthalmic surgeon, Boston Dispensary, 1944-49; consultant
ophthalmologist, Jewish Memorial Hospital, 1944-49, Jewish Tuber-
culosis Sanatorium, 1944-49.

MEMBER OF: International College of Surgeons (fellow); Massachusetts
Physicians Club (president); Kappa Nu Fraternity; Phi Delta Epsilon
Fraternity, New Century Club; Masons.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in medical magazines.

I AM at present specializing in ophthalmology and am on vari-
ous hospital staffs in Boston. I have been married five years and
have no children. My hobbies are music, painting, and writing.

My religious convictions are unchanged and it is difficult to
have any political convictions in this changing world.

EVERETT WARE CADY

HOME appress: 755 Park Ave., New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Carl M. Loeb, Rhoades & Co., 61 Broadway, New York
6, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 7, 1902, Buffalo, N. Y. parents: Clarence Cady, Bertha Ware.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922.

Mararigp: Clarissa Hurd, April 14, 1925, New York, N. Y. cuttpren: Everett
Ware, Jr., May 7, 1926 (m. Ruth Payan, April 19, 1947); George Hurd,
July 7, 1927; Clarissa, Jan. 6, 1929 (m. James Leslie, Jr., Sept. 7, 1949).
GRANDCHILD: Alison Ruth Cady, May 12, 1949.

[159]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

HARVARD SON: George Hurd Cady, ’50.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederick Lee Allen Cady, ’21 (deceased).

occuPATION: Partner, Carl M. Loeb, Rhoades & Company; member, Chicago
Board of Trade.

orFices HELD: Director, The Budd Company, Philadelphia, Pa.

MEMBER OF: Union Club, New York.

I LEFT college in May, 1922. I entered the firm of Rhoades &
Company as a runner, worked up through the organization and
was taken in as a partner on January 1, 1925. On April 14, 1925,
I married Clarissa Hurd and we moved from New York City to
Hewlett, Long Island, where we remained for fifteen years. We
have three children, Everett Ware Cady, Jr., George Hurd Cady,
and Clarissa Cady, all of whom went to Buckley School and
then to Pomfret, Kent, and Farmington, respectively. We bought
a farm in Towners, New York, shortly after we moved to Long
Island and spent most of our summers there, raising our children
in a truly rural atmosphere. I continued through the years in
the brokerage business. In 1931 I became senior partner - of
Rhoades & Company, and later merged my firm with Williams,
Nicholas & Moran under the name of Rhoades, Williams & Com-
pany. In 1938 I worked out a merger with Carl M. Loeb &
Company and have been one of the partners of Carl M. Loeb,
Rhoades & Company since that time.

My hobbies are my farm and watching my children develop.

JAMES ALOYSIUS STANISLAUS CALLANAN

HOME appreEss: 2 Fairland St., Boston 19, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: Public Latin School, Ave. Louis Pasteur, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 18, 1903, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: James J. Callanan, Helen M.
Sugrue.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; A.M. (Boston Univ.), 1926;
pup. (ibid.), ro4r.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Teaching.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member, Selective Service Board #21; instruc-
tor, civilian defense.

oFFices HELD: Class representative, Public Latin School, Class of 1921; mem-
ber, Advisory Board, Newman Preparatory School.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Boston; Peterboro Historical Society; Chari-
table Irish Society; Catholic Alumni Sodality,; Boston Latin School

[ 160 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Alumni Association; Knights of Columbus; Deutsche Tafelrunde,
National Education Society; New England Association of Teachers of
English; Harvard Teachers Association; High School Masters Associa-
tion; Peterboro Golf Club.
pusLications: A History of Literary Censorship in England; co-author,
The Boston Latin School Tercentenary Pageant, 1935.
DAZZLED by the large blank space here allotted, I find but
little to say for myself. In the absence of things rebellious or
sensational, | probably fit into the great average group on that
score. I have followed the vocation of teaching since the ac-
quisition of my Master’s degree in 1926 and have never found
it an irksome career. I spend my summers fighting off the jungle
fast-creeping in around our summer home, “Cahirciveen,” facing
Monadnock in Peterboro, New Hampshire.

MURRAY CAMPBELL

HOME ADDRESS: 5101-H 39th Ave., Long Island City 4, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREss: D, L. Parsons Co., 52 Vanderbilt Ave., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: April 17, 1904, Baltimore, Md. parents: William Arthur Campbell,
Anna Woerner.

PREPARED AT: McDonogh School, McDonogh, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923, 1924-1926. DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1925(26).

MARRIED: Tietye Virginia Van Vliet, June 22, 1938, Baltimore, Md. cHiLpREN:
Marion Hopkins, May 20, 1942; Murray Francis, May 24, 1946.

OccuPATION: Public relations writer; spare-time free-lance magazine writer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Worked in Glenn L. Martin Aircraft Plant.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Parent-Teachers’ Association of
Public School II.

PUBLICATIONS: Fiction and articles in Fortune, Saturday Evening Post, Time,
Collier's, Woman’s Home Companion, Reader’s Digest, etc.

I MAKE my living writing histories of high-powered business
corporations and often contrive to get them to present them-
selves as they are, instead of as if they were running for president
on the Republican ticket and so had no convictions. This naive
and artless approach has startled and then pleased some pretty
awesome outfits, and, I believe, done them and the cause of
democracy some good. My hobby is writing spare-time stuff for
magazines, mostly humor and medical reporting, the latter chiefly
in the realm of psychiatry made understandable.

I think all this does some mild good in the world, though my
seven-year-old son, now in his cowboy phase, feels that my chief

[ 161 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

usefulness is to take him to wild west movies. I am unable to
find it disturbing that he is probably right.

ABRAHAM CANTOR

HOME ADDRESS: 28 Whitman St., Dorchester 24, Mass.

OFFIcE ADDRESS: Mercury Display, 316 Washington St. Brookline, Mass.

BORN: June 25, 1903, Worcester, Mass. paRENTs: Louis Cantor, Catherine
Kritcher,

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1925; M.B-A., 1927.
UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Milton Leonard Cantor, ’q2.
occupation: Advertising and display (advertising novelties).

ETTORE FRANCIS CARNIGLIA

HOME AND OFFICE appress: 5 N. Main St., Windsor Locks, Conn.

BORN: Jan. 8, 1904, Windsor Locks, Conn. parents: John Peter Carniglia,
Jennie Martha Tornielli.

PREPARED AT: Loomis Institute, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. sunmma cum laude, 1925; M.D,
1929.

MaRRIED: Blanche Margaret Goodsell, March 6, 1933, Wethersfield, Conn.

CHILDREN: Peter Michael, March 8, 1936; Margaret Elizabeth, June 17,
1937+

OccUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Associate in medicine, Hartford Hospital, Hartford, Conn.;

medical examiner, health officer, Board of Education, Windsor Locks,
Conn,

MEMBER oF: Hartford City, Hartford County, and Connecticut State
Medical Societies; American Medical Association.

ALIVE and well.

FAIRBANK CARPENTER

HOME appress: 15 S. Stonegate Rd., Lake Forest, Tl.

BorN: Feb. 17, 1902, Chicago, Ill. parents: Benjamin Carpenter, Helen
Graham Fairbank.

PREPARED AT: Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924.

Marrigp: Marion Farnsworth, Jan. 28, 1930, Chicago, Ill. cramp: Fairbank,
Jr., Nov. 13, 1930.

HARVARD SON: Fairbank Carpenter, Jr., ’52.

{ 162 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: Benjamin Carpenter, Jr., 16 (deceased).

occupation: Agriculture (temporarily).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve, April, 1942;
attended Naval Indoctrination Group, Harvard, July, 1942; instructor,
Newport, Cornell, and Dartmouth; duty with 7th Fleet, Brisbane, Aus-
tralia, assistant secretary to Admiral Barbey, 7th Amphibious Force,
prior to the Leyte, Subic Bay, and Manila move, promoted lieutenant
commander, returned to inactive duty, October, 1945.

LIFE history is all too simple. The family firm of George B.
Carpenter & Company, originally ship chandlers in 1840, grad-
ually evolved into railroad supplies, contractors’ supplies, mill
distributors for canvas, rope twine and rubber hose, belting, and
a catalogue of other items. Finally, after I worked as a mill hand,
stock clerk, salesman, office worker and manager, the family sold
the business in 1938, despite the wishes of the only two active
members. Life insurance came next, mainly because ‘of a mis-
guided interest in being of use to individuals who owned an odd-
lot, ill-assorted box full of insurance. This was interesting work
but, not trained as a lawyer, it was a pretty steep hill.

In 1941 I became an industrial engineer for Johns Manville
using whatever powers of observance and imagination I had to
improve certain mechanical jobs from the worker’s point of view
as well as for Johns Manville. The following year I signed up
with the Naval Reserve and was packed off to Harvard University
to attend the first indoctrination group in July, 1942. Next came
two months as an instructor at Newport, six months at Cornell,
and four months at Dartmouth. I was finally sent to join the
Seventh Fleet in Australia and ended up as secretary to Admiral
Barbey, Seventh Amphibious Force,

In December, 1945, I opened shop in Chicago as the western
editor of Mill Supplies, a monthly magazine published by Mc-
Graw Hill.

Last year, for reasons of health, I laid off and became the
country squire with all inclusive duties. I’m feeling so full of
prunes lately that I am planning to get back into harness in the
very near future.

+ GEORGE EDWIN CARR

BORN: Feb. 17, 1902, Mclrose, Mass. parents: Ashton Livermore Carr, ’98,
Clara Elise Vossnack.

[ 163 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Bacon ran against James Michael Curley and we took the greatest
shellacking the Republican party has ever taken in this state.

I have been active in the charitable affairs of Springfield, having
held about every possible job on the Community Chest from the
lowest worker to co-chairman of the drive. Currently, I am
head of the codperation division. I am also a trustee and member
of the executive committee of the Springfield Hospital.

My hobbies have chiefly to do with the out-of-doors. In the
winter I ski, but poorly. In the warmer months | play tennis,
sail, and fish, usually taking my son to the Gaspé for salmon
fishing. But my greatest Jove is shooting in the fall. Truly “My
Health is Better in November.”

JAMES ALBERT CARTER

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Milton Academy, Milton 86, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 5, 1903, Antigonish, N. S., Canada. parents: John Joseph Carter,
Alice McInnis.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1925; A.M., 1926.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Teacher and dormitory master.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Attended A-V(S) officers’ school, Quonset
Point, R. 1.; commissioned lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve, Panama Sea
Frontiers, assistant air officer; served as assistant air operations officer,
USS. Ranger; duty as personnel officer, Naval Air Station, Miami,

Florida; released from active duty as lieutenant commander, U. S. Naval
Reserve, 1945.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Philological Association; New Eng-
land Classical Association.

I AM flattered to think that the rather commonplace events of
my life, dull as they seem to me, can be a matter of interest to
anyone, even to my classmates. The career of a bachelor school-
master may be necessary, or, at all events, praiseworthy; it is
hardly inspiring or diverting even to those who are most closely
associated with it.

After two years in the Harvard Graduate School, which I
devoted to the field of classical philology, I accepted a position
as instructor in classics at Dartmouth College, a position which
I held for one year. I proceeded from there to Milton Academy
where I have remained ever since as teacher of Latin and of Greck

[ 166 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and as dormitory master in Robbins House, one of the four board-
ing establishments in the boys’ school. To this post I have re-
mained faithful, if continuity of service at least is any criterion,
for here I find myself more than two decades later, with only
two interruptions in that interval. The year 1938-39 I spent on
sabbatical at the Harvard Graduate School; and during the years
1942 to 1945 I served as lieutenant in the U. S. Naval Reserve,
retiring therefrom with the rank of lieutenant commander.

My year in the Graduate School was notable for renewing
acquaintances that had been partly forgotten over a decade or
so, and for giving me a new perspective on education, now that
I had labored in the vineyard myself and seemed destined long to
continue. I was surprised to find several of my classmates holding
forth with professorial rank in the very halls where some of
them had much ado to keep pace in their more tender and less
pretentious years.

My military experience would hardly fit the Hollywood for-
mula; for the Navy, unlike Sam Goldwyn, has not yet learned
how to make war glamorous, though I think it is trying harder
all the time.

After two months of rugged indoctrination at the A-V(S)
officers’ school by Quonset’s “stern shore,” I was ordered off to
Balboa in the Canal Zone, where I served on the staff of the
commander of the Panama Sea Frontiers. Hardly had I grown
used to a tropical clime when I was detached and assigned to
the U.S.S. Ranger, one of our older carriers, “with a skin,” as
the boys said, “like a debutante,” and a most unaccountable
fascination for Hitler’s U-boats. The Navy’s classification for
the Ranger was CV-q (that is aircraft carrier number 4), though
some wag suggested that it should have been CV-4F, probably
because of the delicacy of its highly fragile epidermis. We made
. trips to Iceland, the vicinity of Norway, and even to Spitzbergen
high above the Arctic Circle (north of 75 degrees north latitude.
I wonder if any of my classmates can top that?). And as a task
force attached to the British Home Fleet, we attempted to lure
the German Navy out of its hiding place in Norway, but to no
avail, We just couldn’t get anyone to fight us. Eventually we
returned to Quonset Point, Rhode Island, and to N.O.B., Norfolk,
Virginia, for refitting. After this the Ramger wound up its career

[ 167 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

on the West Coast training night fighters (F 6 F) for the war in
the Pacific.

Twenty-five years, after college, hardly give one a title to
omniscience, a faculty that seems peculiarily reserved to news-
paper columnists and radio pundits. And, yet, in that time cer-
tain ideas have formulated themselves in my mind and gained
a measure of permanence in my thinking, ideas that I trust I am”
not alone in believing or accepting since ultimately they concern
us all, whatever our position in life.

1. Religion, with a big or little “R,” is essential to our happi-
ness and centuries of tradition will prevail over the skepticism
of this or any other age.

2. Communism is the greatest menace to civilization and
should be extirpated as a cancer at whatever cost. Tolerance is
a virtue but not in dealing with this most ruthless and implacable
foe.

3. The traditional pattern of education, with reasonable modi-
fication to suit the exigencies of our own times, is still superior
to any or all of the latter-day substitutes that have been devised
for it. In no field do so many sophists and crackpots abound,
each of whom, to his own thinking, is an “expert” and a messiah,
however dubious his credentials and however palpable his fraud.

4. The splendid Socratic approach to, and solution of, a
problem — precise definition and analysis— is a more satisfac-
tory mode of procedure than reckless name-calling and appeal-
ing to prejudice, whether the issue be purely local and temporary
or universal and eternal.

5. There is a “compensation,” as Emerson called it, in our
world. Things have a way of readjusting and equalizing them-
selves, given a long enough space of time. Sab specie aeternitatis
is still an excellent motto and a most worthy point of view.
There is justice in the world if we are not too impatient or im-
petuous in our evaluation of what goes on about us.

EDWARD JOSEPH CASEY

HOME ADDRESS: 144 Sherman St., Belmont, Mass.
OFFIce appress: Warren Brothers Roads Company, 38 Memorial Drive,
Cambridge, Mass,

[ 168 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: June 5, 1902, Albany, N. Y. parents: Maurice Edgar Casey, Julia
Berrigan.

PREPARED AT: Albany High School, Albany, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1925; LL.B. (North-
eastern Univ.), 1932.

marrieD: Elizabeth Gertrude Dolan, May 28, 1927, Hudson, Mass. cuitp:
Elizabeth Ann, Aug. 10, 1935.

occuPATION: Attorney and accountant.

MEMBER OF: Middlesex County Bar Association, Catholic Alumni Sodality.

HOW the years pass! I imagine that I dislike as much as many
others to write an account of my life since graduation (it is not
all imagination — two classmates politely informed me recently
that I was one of the delinquents).

After graduation I was employed by the Boston Chamber of
Commerce as a research assistant in the Civic Bureau, serving as
secretary of the committee on taxation, revising their publica-
tion Massachusetts Taxes, writing on matters of current interest,
and publishing in their magazine one of the first articles on the
then new Massachusetts Compulsory Motor Vehicle Insurance
Act.

Subsequently, I went to work for my present company, studied
law and accounting at Northeastern University and Boston
University, passed the Massachusetts Bar examinations, and was
admitted to the practice of law in the Commonwealth and in the
Federal District Court.

I have served this company in many capacities: clerk-account-
ant, attorney, assistant to the president. During this period we
faced and survived a depression, a reorganization under 77B, a
fight for control by the brilliant but misguided Serge Rubinstein,
and some “fightin’ and feudin’” within.

During the war (II) the increased business activity brought to
me additional problems and the opportunity to travel a bit. This
included a trip to Florida to attempt settlement of a contract
problem with the Navy Department arising out of the construc-
tion of a large airfield, subsequent appearances in Washington,
and final successful disposition in 1949. I also made appearances
before the War Labor Board in New York and Washington, and
lastly was involved in a contract renegotiation problem at Sa-
vannah, Georgia, where we accepted and enjoyed for the first
time “southern hospitality,” for which we are grateful. We did

[ 169 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

not refight the Civil War, but I am convinced that Sherman’s
March to the Sea is a blot on our record.

As I sit here, four miles from Harvard Square (I have not been
very far away since 1921), I recall vividly the pleasures, failures,
disappointments, and discouragements of those four years. Yet
I dare to label them as the best and happiest years of my life,
for in retrospect the problems encountered were insignificant
when compared with the problems to come later. It is easy to
understand now: immaturity had assessed them too high.

During my college days my engagement in gainful employ-
ment restricted greatly the opportunity to meet many classmates
and curtailed likewise my extra-curricular activities. It is a
pleasure for me to recall and record the friendly, kindly, and
courteous treatment accorded to me by those classmates, teach-
ers, and employees of Harvard whom it was my good fortune
to meet.

My successes, if they can be called that, are comparatively
unimportant. Yet I have had the happy faculty of magnifying
them to a position in my life which prevents my being envious —
to me a worthy objective. At the same time it has kept my blood
pressure normal and my mental and physical state excellent.

As I get older the “important” things grow into insignificance
and those things which I have regarded as unimportant are
taking their proper place in the order of things. I believe honestly
that I am growing more tolerant — older people tell me I have
to travel along life another twenty-five years before I am cer-
tain. My religious convictions are firmer and at times I find I am
calmer.

We have passed through a trying twenty-five years. War came
and went shortly before our entrance to high school and college
and another war came and was over shortly before our twenty-
fifth year, proving that man in our time was not at peace with
himself or his fellow-man for war is but a projection of what
takes place in men’s hearts and souls. Many of us have failed
because we did not recognize and accept the divine concept of
the dignity of man. Instead we “recognized” Russia and any and
all concepts other than the important ones. Let us hope and pray
that we can write another and happier story “twenty-five” from
now.

[170]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD SEARS CASTLE

HOME ADDRESS: 42 Walker St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Biological Laboratories, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 25, 1903, Cambridge, Mass, PARENTS: William Ernest Castle,
’93, Clara Sears Bosworth.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B, summa cum laude, 1925; A.M.,
1927}; PH.D, 1920.

MARRIED: Natalie Watson Berle, June 12, 1930, Cambridge, Mass. cHILpREN:
Peter Watson, Feb. 17, 1933; Philip Sears, March 20, 1935.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Bosworth Castle, ’18.

OccuPATION: Associate professor of physiology.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Biological Laboratories, Harvard University, 1940-45.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Association of University Pro-
fessors; American Academy of Arts and Sciences; American Phy-
siological Society; American Society of Plant Physiologists; Botanical
Society of America; Society of General Physiologists.

PUBLICATIONS: Contributor to technical journals.

SINCE graduation I have been almost uninterruptedly associated
with Harvard and with one phase or another of research, teach-
ing, and administration in its department of biology. From this
vantage point I have, like all of us, observed and tried to make
sense out of the spectacle of life. Sometimes it has been pleasant,
sometimes painful, nearly always interesting. I am sure there are
values but these are generally not what the other guy believes in,
and, like most of the clothes I buy, require individual firting.
There is an extra charge for this service, and extra time required,
but the result can be pleasing. And, apart from the proper and
requisite external motions, I doubt that there is anything more
important that we do than striving to find, and acting upon, our
values.

JOHN LYON CAUGHEY, JR.

HOME apprEss: R.R. 3 Chagrin Falls, Ohio.

OFFICE AppREss: School of Medicine, Western Reserve University, 2109
Adelbert Rd., Cleveland, Ohio.

BORN: May 30, 1904, Rochester, N. Y. parents: John Lyon Caughey, Olive
Strayer.

PREPARED AT: Glens Falls High School, Glens Falls, N. Y.; Glens Falls
Academy, Glens Falls, N. Y.

[171]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1925; M.D. cum laude,
1930; D.MED.scI. (Columbia Univ.), 1935.

marrigD: Winnifred E. Scott, May 22, 1937, New York, N. Y. cuttp: John
Lyon, 3d, March 28, 1941.

occupation: Physician; associate dean and associate professor of clinical
medicine, School of Medicine, Western Reserve University.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned major, Medical Corps, A.U.S,,
1941; never called to active duty because of visual defect, and later,
essential occupation.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Technical aide, Committee on Medical Re-
search, Office of Scientific Research and Development.

MEMBER OF: American Society for Clinical Investigation; American Psy-
chosomatic Society.

pusLications: “Cardiovascular Neurosis,” Psychosomatic Medicine, 1939,
1:311; “Analysis of Breathing Pattern,’ American Review of Tubercu-
losis, 1943, 48:382; Human Constitution in Clinical Medicine (with
George Draper and C. W. Dupertuis), Paul B. Hoeber Company, New
York, 1944.

SINCE my decision to study medicine was made only shortly
before graduation from college, I spent the year 1925-26 at
Columbia taking required science courses, before returning to
Boston for four eventful years as a member of the Class of 1930
at Harvard Medical School.

From 1930-37 I was successively intern, assistant resident, and
resident at the Presbyterian Hospital in New York City, in the
Department of Internal Medicine. From 1937 to 1945 I was on
the staff of the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center as an in-
structor in medicine doing clinical work, teaching, and inves-
tigation in the field of Human Constitution under Dr. George
Draper.

In early 1941 I was on the tentative staff of the Army #2
General Hospital, the Presbyterian Hospital unit which was then
made ready for call to active duty in the anticipated emergency.
When orders came in January, 1942, the waiver I had been given
for defective eyesight was cancelled and I was declared ineligible
for foreign duty. This was a cruel blow at the time. However,
in 1943 I was given leave of absence from Columbia to go to
Washington as a technical aide for the Committee on Medical Re-
search of the Office of Scientific Research and Development.
For one year I was working principally with the National Re-

search Council Committee on Convalescence and Rehabilitation.

[172]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After that I helped edit the Summary of Reports which the
C.M.R. sent out to keep its hundreds of investigators and other
civilian and military scientists informed on the progress of medical
research. My only wartime distinction was that I gave up smok-
ing at the time people were standing in block-long lines to get
a package of cigarettes, and I haven’t gone back to it since,

In 1945, after fifteen most pleasant years in the hospital to
which I had originally gone for a two-year internship, I left
Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center to join the staff of the
School of Medicine, Western Reserve University, Cleveland.
Here I do some teaching and clinical work in the Department of
Medicine, but spend most of my time on administrative problems
related to students. The biggest single job is that of chairman of
the Committee on Admissions, since we can accept only eighty
of the many hundreds of applicants, and selection of these few
is a very difficult task.

In medicine, my orientation is principally towards the study
of people as well as the diseases they have. ‘There ts a fantastic
discrepancy at present between the precise terms we are able to
use in the basic laboratory sciences and the vague generalities to
which we resort when describing individual human beings, their
constitution, their behavior, and the environmental stimuli to
which they are responding.

As a teacher, I try to keep alive in medical students the interest
in people which for most was their reason for entering the pro-
fession. This interest is in jeopardy during their indoctrination
in laboratory sciences when all but the wisest students tend to
devalue anything which cannot be measured and described in
quantitative terms.

As a medical school officer, I am very often distressed by the
failure of normally well-informed people outside the profession
to understand the problems of selecting and training physicians
or to distinguish between the attitudes and policies of various in-
dividuals and groups within the medical profession. However, I
am always busy enough to keep from getting morbid about it,
and sometimes reasonable enough to attribute most of the blame
to the doctors.

As a person, I am addicted to the simple life and, by accepting
the modest income of the school teacher, have managed to live

[173]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

in a relatively rustic atmosphere even though working in New
York and Cleveland. Since I have continued for some years to
be an enthusiastic observer of people, I am sure I am an optimist
since no pessimist could look carefully at people for very long
and remain even partially sane. I am convinced that human beings
are inevitably variable, fallible, insecure and predatory to some
extent, in spite of the thin veneer of civilization, and that con-
siderate behaviour does not come naturally, and is therefore an
accomplishment worthy of praise. Failure to appreciate these
characteristics of homo sapiens is a potent source of frustration
since it leads us to expect too much from ourselves sometimes, and
from others always.

WALTER LEEDS CHAPIN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 2128 Stanford Ave., St. Paul 5, Minn.

OFFice ADDRESS: Minnesota Mutual Life Insurance Co., St. Paul, Minn.

BORN: Dec. 18, 1902, St. Paul, Minn. parents: Walter Leeds Chapin, Susan
Winifred Sewall.

prepared AT: Mechanic Arts High School, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MarRieD: Frances Rowe Fleming, June 10, 1933, St. Paul, Minn. CHILDREN:
Walter Leeds, 3d, June 8, 1935; George Duncan, Nov. ro, 1943; Deborah,
April 17, 1947.

occuPaTION: Associate actuary, Minnesota Mutual Life Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Minnesota Unitarian Conference, 1949.

MEMBER OF: St. Paul Athletic Club, Society of Actuaries; Actuarial Society
of America (fellow); American Institute of Actuaries (fellow).

I HAVE had only one employer since graduation, a life insurance
company. I started as a clerk in the accounting department in
the home office and soon moved into the actuarial department.
It was suggested that I take a series of examinations which, if
passed, qualify one as an actuary, ie., a technician who reduces
the results of investment, mortality, and cost statistics to the in-
gredients you find in your life insurance policy. The examinations
proved to be a lirtle rough but I finally worked through them.
At present I am working on group insurance and pensions, both
challenging subjects.

Family history began in 1933 with marriage to Frances Rowe
Fleming (Radcliffe ’30). We have come to feel that the best of
life comes from the family group. Our three children are still

[174]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

young, ages 15, 6, and 3, SO we have many years of their growing
up to look forward to.

I have been fortunate in enjoying the best of health SINCE 1925.
There are no travels or war service to report, and no developed
hobbies, unless you count family touring and house renovation
and repair.

My convictions on social, political, and religious subjects seem
to be resultants of the following: being brought up and con-
tinuing in the Unitarian tradition of liberal religion, being a firm
believer that material and scientific progress depends upon a free
atmosphere in which creative minds may work, and being (per-
haps by training) very conscious of the delayed disaster in store
for social plans where the financial support is founded too much
on guess.

I share in the common concern that moral and religious in-
_ fluences are at present apt to be crowded into so small a corner
of our consciousness that they are not the help they should be
in meeting the problems created by rapid material progress and
the revolutionary lengthening of the span of life.

GEORGE THORNDIKE CHASE, JR.

HOME appress: Pawling, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 17, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: George Thorndike Chase,
"80, Lauretta A. Hanford.

PREPARED AT: Cutler School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Loockerman Andrews, Oct. 10, 1925, New York, N. Y.
CHILDREN: George Thorndike, 3d, Feb. 10, 1927; Charlotte Elizabeth,
April 5, 1929; Barbara Townsend, May 12, 1931.

MEMBER OF: Sons of the Revolution, New York State; New York Historical
Society.

UPON graduating from college I went into the banking business
and spent approximately the next fourteen years in that line. I
was associated for the greater part of the time with the Central
Hanover Bank and Trust Company. Because of the illness of
one of my daughters, I gave up business and moved to Tucson,
Arizona, thence to a small town in Maine, and finally bought a
house and settled down in Pawling where I have resided for the
past nine years.

[175]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

+ JACK PORTMAN CHESNEY

BORN: Feb. 4, 1904, St. Joseph, Mo. parents: Jesse Portman Chesney, Nar-
cissa Kennedey.

PREPARED AT: \Vestport High School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

marrieD: Afarian Shryock, Feb. 18, 1928, Kansas City, Mo.

pip: Feb. 6, 1931, Kansas City, Mo.

  

AFTER attending the public schools of Kansas City, Jack Port-
man Chesney attended the Westport High School, graduating in
1921. He came to Harvard on a scholarship from the Harvard
Club of Kansas City. After two years he was forced to leave
college because of poor health.

After regaining his health, he entered business in Kansas City,
becoming active in the field of real estate loans. At the time of
his death he was employed by the Shryock Realty Company and
was considered to be on the threshold of success in his profession.

JOSIAH HUMPHREY CHILD

HOME ApDDRESS: 304 Clapboardtree St., Westwood, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: Ames, Child & Graves, 50 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 14, 1901, Newport, N. H. parents: Ezra Howard Child, Margaret
Harrison.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: 8.B., 1925.

marRiED: Ellen Lovering, April 18, 1925, Boston, Mass. (divorced); Eleanor
Dodge, March 27, 1941 (died April 5, 1948); Lillian Parrish, June 11,
1949. CHILDREN: Josiah Humphrey, Jr. Aug. 8, 1926; Anne, June 27,
1929 (m. Charles Cajori, July 7, 1949); Edwin Dodge, Dec. 8, 1941.

HARVARD SON: Josiah Humphrey Child, 748.

occuparion: Architect.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned captain, Air Corps, April, 19423
duty as intelligence officer, 466th Bomb Group, 8th Air Force, England;
promoted major, 1944; service as executive officer (lieutenant colonel)
of photo technical section, director of technical services in France,
liaison officer with the French Air Ministry; consulting architect with
Office of War Information for Air Force Exposition, Paris, June, 19453
discharged, September, 1945.

orrices HELD: Chairman, Planning Board of Westwood, Mass., 1938-403
member, visiting committee of Architectural School, M.LT., 19423
director, State Association of Architects, 1945; Governor, Gore Place
Society, since 1946.

[ 178]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: American Veterans Committee, Massachusetts Chapter of
_. American Institute of Architects; Boston Society of Architects, Air

Force Association; Somerset Club; Massachusetts Civic League, Massa-
chusetts Building Congress. .

puBLications: Articles in American Home (February, 1948), School Board
Journal (March, 1947), and Hounds and Hunting (June, 1948).

I OVERDID yesterday and today I have to stay in bed. Every

now and then this happens because I forget that I am middle-

aged. My wife has gone shopping and all is quiet. I have just

been going over the papers which have accumulated at my bed-

side. From the bottom of the pile has dropped the second notice

from George Goodspeed to stare me in the face, so I am reminded

that I must write something for the Class Report.

As I reflect upon the pains and pleasures, the discontents and
satisfactions I have experienced, I feel that my life since college
has been an interesting one — | have never been bored. My major
complaint is that there has always been too much to do.

When I graduated from college I had no call to any avocation.
I had spent a good deal of time during my youth in France and
had an interest in the arts, so | decided to return to France to
study architecture and then give it a try. Architecture became
my profession and I have always found it interesting, absorbing,
and rewarding. My two partners, one older and one younger,
are my most intimate friends. We have worked together in per-
fect harmony whether our work involved the design of a garden
gate or a science museum.

When the war broke out, architecture came to a standstill,
so I became an “air man” for three and one-half years. During
that time I learned to understand and appreciate my country
and its people and many of my comrades in arms became my most
intimate friends and remain so today.

My love of France has persisted and I have returned there
again and again. I received my biggest thrill during the war when
I was reunited with four of my old Beaux Arts “Copains” a few
hours after I reached Paris.

I have not taken any active part in politics. I am a registered
Republican but have voted for Al Smith, for Franklin D. Roose-
velt twice, and for Harry Truman.

I have indulged in hobbies which sometimes have taken too

[179 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

much of my time and energies: among them, fox hunting and
rabbit hunting. I have hunted a pack of beagles for eighteen

ears. The breeding, raising, selecting, and training and hunt-
ing of hounds has kept my weight down and my spirits up.

My three children have been a great pleasure and satisfaction
to me. We are fast friends and they have stood by me whenever
I needed them. Mickey became a first lieutenant in the 11th Air-
borne Division in Japan. He went through Harvard in two and
one-half years and is now studying law at Columbia University.
My daughter, Anne, has humor and intelligence and is a gifted
artist. She too lives in New York with her husband. Ed,
“Nenny’s” son, keeps me young. He and my wife, Lil, are very
companionable. We three have recently moved back to West-
wood to the place where I spent all of my youth—so after a
grim year and a half I am now starting life anew with old friends
as neighbors and much to which to look forward.

+ WILMON BLACKMAR CHIPMAN |

BORN: July 9, 1902, Sandwich, Mass, Parents: Frank Warren Chipman,
Grace Elma Donovan.

PREPARED AT: High School of Commerce, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924, 1925-1926.

MarRieD: Catherine M. Blanchard, Oct. 18, 1930, Bradford, Mass. CHILD:
Wilmon Blackmar, Jr., July 6, 1932.

pieD: Dec. 26, 1943, at Winchester, Mass.

winow: Mrs. Wilmon B. Chipman, 81 Mineral St., Reading, Mass.

WILMON BLACKMAR CHIPMAN prepared at the High
School of Commerce before entering Harvard with the Class. He
remained in college for three years, and while still a student be-
came associated with the Herald-Traveler Company. He was
associated with the advertising department of the Herald-Traveler
for more than twenty years. In connection with these duties, he
was also display make up man, and was widely known through-
out the advertising field and the retail store trade. He was a
member of Flotilla 511, United States Coast Guard Reserve (tem-
porary).

He was survived by his wife and son.

[ 180 ]

‘25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES DANA CHRISMAN

HOME AND OFFICE AppRESS: Main Street, Nanuet, Rockland Co., N. Y.

BORN: July 24, 1903, Montclair, N. J. PARENTS: Francis Leon Chrisman,
Frances Reagan.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Garden City, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 1925; TH.B. (Princeton Theological
Seminary), 1929; TH.M. (Westminster Theological Seminary), 1947.
MmarriED: Dorothy E. Noyce, June 22, 1925, Boston, Mass. cHipren: Mrs,

Dorothy June (Chrisman) Miller, June 15, 1926 (m. June 22, 1944);
Charles Dana, May 16, 1928; David Noyce, Nov. 24, 1937. GRAND-
CHILDREN: Louis Chrisman Miller, April 1, 1945; Gerald Lee Miller,

Aug. 7, 1948.

occuPATION: Pastor, Trinity Presbyterian Church (unaffiliated), Nanuet,
N. Y.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned a chaplain, U. S. Naval Reserve
(lieutenant j.g.), Dec. 5, 1940; promoted lieutenant, 1942, lieutenant com-
mander, 1944, and commander, 1945; called to active duty, June 6, 1941;
served 2 years in South Pacific and 2% years at USNH, Oakland, Calif.;
released to inactive duty, Aug. 16, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor, Lincoln University, 1930-32; chaplain,

* Nanuet Fire Engine Company #1, since 1938, chaplain, Naurashank
Post #794, American Legion, since 1948.
MEMBER OF: American Society of Church History.

FOR the past twenty-five years the greatest blessing I have had
has been the unswerving loyalty and loving devotion of the most
wonderful person in the world to me, my wife. We have been
through many trying experiences together, but we have always
found His Grace sufficient for our every need.

Although I have had two full years of graduate study at the
Harvard Divinity School (1932-34), and although for the past
two years (1947-49) I have been a part-time student at Union
Theological Seminary, I still believe the Bible to be the Plenary-
Inspired, Infallible Word of the Triune God; I am still trusting
in the Christ of God.

During the war it was my privilege to serve as a chaplain of
the Naval Reserve on active duty. For almost two years I served
as chaplain aboard the U.S.S. Solace, the hospital ship which was
at Pearl Harbor on December seventh, 1941, and which subse-
quently saw quite a bit of service. Having been with many men
during their last moments in this world, it is my firm conviction
that the greatest thing in life is a living faith in the living God.

[ 181 ]

‘ HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

REYNOLDS GETTMAN CLARK

HOME appress: Doublet Hill Road, Weston, Mass. :

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sellco Corp., 801 Andrus Bldg., Minneapolis, Minn,

porn: March 25, 1903, Dedham, Mass. parents: John Taylor Clark, Zaidee
F. Haines.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

MarrieD: Eleanor Ridgely Brown, June 8, 1929, Springfield, Mass. (divorced
1948). CHILDREN: Reynolds Gettman, Jr., Feb. 14, 1931 (died March 3,
1939); John Phelps, Sept. 28, 1933; Anne Reynolds, Oct. 29, 1940.

occupation: Eastern division manager, Sellco Corporation.

OF LIFE since graduation there is little to record with enthusi-

asm; of the future, thanks to a “successful calamity,” there may

be much.

HAZARD McCLELLAN CLARKE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Uniontown Road, Westminster, Md.

BORN: April 26, 1903, Buffalo, N. Y. parents: Charles McClellan Clarke,
Sarah Mercer Hazard.

PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923. DEGREE: S.B. (Cornell Univ.), 1926.

MARRIED: Anne Carey Thomas, Oct. 27, 1928, Plainfield, N. J. CHILDREN:
Charles McClellan, Dec. 1, 1929 (m. Elizabeth Jane Harman, Dec. 31,
1949); Franchard Michael, April 19, 1932; Joseph Hazard, June 6, 1933.

OCCUPATION: Farmer.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles on horticulture in the Rural New Yorker.

AFTER I had been at Harvard for two years, I decided that I
wanted to be a farmer, so I transferred to the Agricultural Col-
lege at Cornell and specialized in fruit growing. After finishing at
Cornell, I went to work on a fruit farm in Westfield, New York.
There I met Anne on a blind date; it took right away and I
proposed within six months. However, she had to finish college,
so we were not married for two years. During that time I de-
cided not to grow fruit and started a nursery in East Aurora,
New York. We were married in 1928 and Charles was born in
December, 1929. I did pretty well with the nursery business the
first year. Then along came the depression and people bought
less and less nursery stock. I had a part-time teaching job and
made hooked rugs on the side. My other two boys were born
in 1932 and 1933.

{ 182 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

We hung on to the East Aurora business till the fall of 1934.
That winter we moved to Florida (three children, Anne’s mother,
Anne and I, and a dog and a cat, all in a station wagon). I had
a job in the parking lot of the Bok Tower. I certainly met a
large cross section of the people of the country there. I had to
answer all sorts of questions, personal and impersonal, and hold
their babies while they walked around the tower. I remember
being mildly shocked when some took off their shoes to rest
their feet on the cool grass. That spring I went up to. Virginia
to help a friend get started on a big farm. There I was intro-
_duced to the hard-drinking county set. In the fall I tried selling
heating and air conditioning plants around Buffalo, but with no
success, so we decided to buy a farm of our own.

After looking at a great many we picked out one near West-
minster in Maryland. Many of the farm people around there
belong to the Brethren Church. I have never met one I did not
like. I wish I could capture their calm and serene outlook on
life for myself. Carroll County is a very attractive place. No
spectacular views, but everywhere you look the gently rolling
hills and woods are charming. I can quite understand why
Whittier said “Up from the meadows rich with corn” and “Green
walled by the hills of Maryland.”

Our Episcopal Church in Westminster is a very small and
struggling parish, so I was persauded to teach Sunday School,
which I have done more or less ever since. I am also mixed up
with the Boy Scouts, having been a scoutmaster and now being a
neighborhood commissioner.

Life went along pretty smoothly here, at least we ate regularly
even though we didn’t make much money. Then along came
the war. Anne and I became Red Cross instructors and active in
civilian defense. That didn’t satisfy Anne, so she got a job as
radio tester in a plant near Baltimore. I felt that I should get a
job in a war plant too, so I made arrangements with a neighbor
to till my fields, and I took care of my own stock of beef cows
on the side, with the help of the boys, and went to Baltimore
every night to make piston rings. Anne worked on the four-to-
twelve shift and I on the twelve-to-eight. That left the children
alone for a minimum of time when their grandmother was not
around to take care of them. They were pretty well able to take

[ 183 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

care of themselves by then. I slept from twelve noon to eight
in the evening and the eldest boy cooked dinner for his brother
and me, which I ate when I got up. Their grandmother cooked
for us when she was here so we got along very well.

At this time I was in the thirty-eight-year-old class and my
draft number never came up so I didn’t have that to worry
about. At the piston ring plant I met an entirely different stratum
of society. My immediate boss was a man who had worked in
the plant for years, always at night. At first (he told me this
later) he thought I was a very queer sort of person because I
spoke English which was different from his and I didn’t use pro-
fanity as adjectives. 1 was a good, steady worker, however, and
he soon began to like me and we are still good friends. Later on
I became boss of another operation with an assistant of my own.
He was a delightful boy of sixteen from lower Baltimore. I heard
all about his first car which he bought with the high wages he
was getting, how he got his license and lost it in the first year
for numerous traffic violations. There were some strange people
in the plant. One boy from the hills of Carolina whipped out a
knife during a quarrel and went for his opponent. Another time
we were waiting in the bus which transported us to Westminster
when two women burst out of the plant and one gashed the
other across the face with a pair of scissors. I wish I could tell
you about the amours and liaisons that went on among some of
the men and women but the stories couldn’t be printed (unless
perhaps in some modern novel). |

Altogether I enjoyed myself very much during this time, al-
though I never got enough sleep, because there was always some-
thing around the farm that had to be done when I got home. I
felt quite complimented because I was not laid off the day the
war ended as so many were. Several months later, when J de-
cided I would go back to farming, the plant superintendent said
he was sorry as I had an excellent reputation for accuracy. Since
then I have been on the farm. Anne, however, chose to keep on
working. She now works for the State in the Unemployment
Compensation Board in Baltimore. She prefers that to house-
keeping, so we hire our ironing and cleaning done. That leaves
some of the cooking to me. Consequently, I have developed into
a competent cook who can toss off a meal without thinking. I

[ 184 ]

‘

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have found that a cook book and a little imagination can make
anyone a good cook. Also I have learned many tricks from
Anne’s mother.

My children have about grown up. The eldest was married on
the 31st of December. The second is a junior at a military school,
getting on the honor roll and all set to go to M.LT. to study elec-
trical engineering. The third boy is going to be a farmer, having
chosen to go to a local high school instead of military school
and buy cows with the tuition money saved. They are all three
very satisfactory boys. My life has been an inconsequential though
a happy one.

JOSEPH SHERWOOD CLARKE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: The Manor House, Bradninch, North Exeter,
England.

BORN: Jan. 4, 1903, Madras, India. parents: Charles William Arden Clarke,
Katherine Emma Honiss.

PREPARED AT: Rossall School, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MaRRiED: Mary Palmer, July 31, 1933, East Budleigh, Devon, England.
CHILDREN: Gillian Mary, June 27, 1937; Jeremy John Arden, April 1,
1941; George Sherwood Arden, July 20, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Schoolmaster.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active duty, Sept. 1, 1939, to May 23, 1940,
sist Anti-Aircraft Regiment, Royal Artillery, chiefly in France; re-
ceived medical discharge.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Lieutenant, Home Guard.

OFFICES HELD: Master, 1926-27, Bramcote Preparatory School; member, 1927-
28, Colonial Education Service, serving in West Africa and the West
Indies; schoolmaster, 1938-50, The Manor House.

EXCEPT for a brief and inglorious interlude of service in the
Army during the “phony” war, 1939-40, my life has been spent
trying to educate the young in various parts of the world. I
started in England at what we call here a preparatory school
(boys eight to fourteen). Wanting to see something of the world,
I joined the Colonial Service and was first an education officer
in Nigeria, then headmaster of a high school for boys in the West
Indies, where most, but not all, of the boys were colored. Un-
fortunately, frequent doses of quinine affected my hearing and
I decided to return home for good.

[ 185 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

My wife and I planned to run a home-school for children of
English parents abroad. There are many of these whose parents
live in parts of the world where it is not suitable to bring up
children. Our plan has, we like to think, been successful. Goer-
ing’s minions nearly put an end to it by burning down our first
home, an almost perfect example of Regency architecture. The
war took me away for a spell, first to the army and then for four
years to one of our English public schools, Blundell's, founded
in 1603 and made famous by John Ridd in Lorna Doone.

At the end of the war we were free to start again as we had
originally planned. We were lucky enough to secure on a long
Jease a gem of Elizabethan manor house. It has beautiful oak
panelling, and Charles I spent a night here during the Civil War.
On the grounds is a small lake mentioned in Domesday. It is an
ideal setting for young people to start life in, and here my wife
takes charge of children as young as you like and not older than
eight, while I coach a few boys who need that extra push to get
into schools like Eton and Rugby and Blundell’s. Here too we
hope to give our own three children a taste of traditional Eng-
land, which is the background of much that is best on both sides
of the Atlantic. I hope, too, that Harvard will provide part of
that background for one if not both, of my sons. But the pound
will have to be worth more than $2.80 before that can happen!

SAMUEL MONTAGUE CLARKE

HOME apprEss: 408 Roslyn Pl., Chicago 14, TIL.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 220 S. State St., Chicago q, Il.

BORN: Feb. 13, 1904, Worcester, Mass. paRENTs: John Gray Clarke, ’98,
Elizabeth Wood Booth.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREE: S.B. i CHEM. ENGIN. cum laude, 1926.

MARRIED: Pauline A. Nichols, June 4, 1927, Momence, IIl.

occupation: Consulting sanitary engineer, partner in firm of Greeley and
Hansen.

MEMBER OF: Chicago Yacht Club; Chicago Engineer’s Club; American
Society of Civil Engineers.

HUBERT KENNETH CLAY

LAST KNOWN AppRESS: % San Diego Trust & Savings Bank, San Diego, Calif.
BoRN: June 6, 1895, Colorado Springs, Colo, parents: Aaron Jay Clay,
Luvinna Margaret Anthony.

[ 186 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Colorado Springs High School, Colorado Springs, Colo.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

CLAY has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since May,
1939.

FRANCIS GROVER CLEVELAND

HOME ADpRESS: Tamworth, N. H.

BORN: July 18, 1903, Buzzards Bay, Mass. pareNTS: Grover Cleveland, Frances
Folsom.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. EI.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926, 1927-1929.

MaRRIED: Alice Erdman, June 20, 1925, Princeton, N. J. cuttp: Marion, March
24, 1926. |

occuPATION: Summer theatre producer; poultryman,

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Chairman Food and Fuel Panel, O.P.A.,
Ossipee, N. H.

MEMBER OF: Actors Equity Association; Players Club; Tamworth Fireman’s
Association; C.A.P. Tamworth Flight (commander).

FOR several years after college I taught at the Browne and
Nichols School in Cambridge. I left there in 1931 to go into the
theatre. In the same year, in association with E. P. Goodnow,
Harvard ’17, I started the summer theatre known as The Barn-
stormers, located in Tamworth, New Hampshire. During the
winter I moved to New York to go into the theatre, and played
in several shows, including Dead End and Our Town. However,
I never did very well, though I know a lot of people who have,
and who have gone to Hollywood with eminent success.

In 1940 I abandoned the theatre as a bad job, and came to
Tamworth to live. During the war I went into the poultry
business, and, much to my surprise, found it very good. During
the summers we still run the theatre, which numbers among the
oldest in the country. The fact that it continually loses money
is rather a “deplement,” as the fellow says up here, but we keep
it up as a sort of “succés d’estime.”

At the present sitting, I am back in the poultry business, which
those who read the papers will realize is in what we are pleased to
call a period of readjustment — which means simply that the bot-
tom has dropped out of it. I have some two thousand birds which
have been laying very heavily for the last two months, the cash

[ 187 ]

. .

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

returns from which are just about enough to pay the feed bills.
] have gone in for a lot of modern methods and wish to goodness
that I had not. I used to be a confirmed Democrat and New
Dealer, but am in the process of reaction.

Life in a small village has its ups and downs the same as any-
where I guess. We fight over the school board and the fire depart-
ment and the road agents and heaven knows what else. It becomes
very serious, and, for the life of me, I can’t see why it isn’t as
important as what goes on in New York or Boston. It’s all on a
smaller scale, and not quite so crooked —I hope. The difference
is that if you get arrested for anything up here, you know the
sheriff or the state trooper who does the job by his first name.

You also know the judge, ditto. I shall know a lot more about it
all in another twenty-five years.

FARRAR McMURRAY COBB

PERMANENT ADDRESS: % Mrs. J. R. Warren, R.D. 2, Framingham, Mass.

OFFice appREss: Hqs. USARPAC, A.P.O. 958, % Postmaster, San Francisco,
Calif. (until July, 1951).

BorN: March 11, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: Farrar Cobb, Frances
McMurray.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE! A.B, 1925.

marriep: Maryalice Secoy, June 27, 1925, Kew Gardens, N. Y. (divorced
1933); Helen Booth, December, 1933 (divorced 1941); Elizabeth H.
Vaux, April, 1941. CHILDREN: Carol Houston, Jan. 28, 1942; Farrar
McMurray, 2d, April 9, 1943; Susan E., June 10, 1944.

occupation: Major, U.S. Army. —

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain and major, Florida State Guard, 1941;
commissioned captain, April, 1942, major, January, 1944, A.U.S5
awarded Army Commendation Ribbon.

I HAVE been engaged in the retail business ever since graduation

and have held executive positions with such firms as Jordan Marsh

Company, The Shepard Stores, and B. Altman & Company.

Entering upon active duty with the Army in April, 1942, I have
been Exchange Officer at Camp Tyson, Tennessee, Fort Bragg,

North Carolina, and Headquarters 3rd Army, Atlanta, Georgia.

I have been in Hawaii for the past two years as Exchange Officer

for the Pacific Army — Air Force Exchange Service,

{ 188 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALFRED CODMAN, JR.

HOME ADpDRESS: 189 Gerry Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Thomas A. Edison, Inc., 156 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 26, 1902, Nahant, Mass. parents: Alfred Codman, ’96, Lydia
Eliot.

PREPARED AT: St. Marks School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

marrieD: Ann Clark, Aug. 22, 1942, Boston, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Eliot Codman, ’27; Daniel Sargent Codman, ’30; Samuel
Eliot Codman, ’31.

occupation: District sales, Ediphone Division, Thomas A, Edison, Inc.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted in 211st A. A. Massachusetts National
Guard, September, 1939; federalized 1940; transferred 160th Field
Arullery, 45th Infantry Division, June, 1942; attended Officer Candidate
School, Fort Sill, Okla.; commissioned, December, 1942; assigned 26th
Mule Pack; sent overseas to North Africa, 4goth Port Battalion; com-
manded zsoth Port Company; moved to C.B.I. theatre, November,
1943; convalesced home and attached to inactive reserves, October, 1944.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Rehabilitation Division, Training Facilities,
Veterans Administration.

REGRETFULLY, I resigned from college at the end of my soph-
omore year. The next four years were spent in travelling the
eastern states selling cotton textiles for Pacific Mills with head-
quarters in New York City. Not knowing when I was well off, I
went into the security business in 1927 with E. B. Smelk & Com-
pany, and after taking a good shellacking in ’29, I was glad to re-
turn to Pacific in ’30, this time travelling and selling the middle
western states. From then until ’39 I stayed in the textile business,
working and travelling also for the Pepperell Manufacturing Com-
pany and the Franklin Rayon Corporation.

Finally, in 1939, I came home to Boston, tired of my nomad
existence. But after a year in the insurance business my outfit was
called into federal service and off we went again. I first spent a
year in Texas, then back to Fort Devens in Massachusetts for a
breather at which time, at long last, I had the great good fortune
to get married — but have only a two-day honeymoon to look
back upon. I was off again: Watertown, New York; Fort Sill,
Oklahoma; Fort Lawton, Washington; Patrick Henry, Virginia;
then to North Africa, and finally the China-Burma-India Theatre,
and at last home via Australia.

After this trip around the world I vowed to my wife that no

[ 189 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

matter what I did after the war I would never travel again. So far
[have been able to keep my promise. For after over twenty years
of travelling I, more than most, appreciate my humble home.

EDWIN HORN CODMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 1743 Beacon St., Waban 68, Mass. °

OFFICE AppRESS: Raytheon Manufacturing Co, 148 California St., Newton,
Mass.

porn: Aug. 17, 1904, Boston, Mass, parents: Benjamin Howard Codman,
Lillian Florence Horn.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newtonville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Procurement agent for electronic materials.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered U.S. Army Air Corps, November, 1942;
trained at Camp Crowder, Mo., and Drew Field and Boca Field, Fla.;
overseas assignments in Anchorage, Alaska, and the Island of Shemya,
Aleutians; discharged June, 1945.

1 LOOK in retrospect at several occupations and contacts in many

fields and places in the years intervening since graduation In 1925

and the present. Although numerous classmates may point with

pride to what they have done to improve the world and their lot
in it, I am pleased at least that I have visited many parts of that
very world which they have helped to improve.

By now well established in a state of bachelorhood, I view with

a feeling of nostalgia long days of travel spent on the high seas.

Unfettered by ties of family and with companions of similar bent,

I have at times visited good “Ould Merrie England” and “Gay
Paree,” and then again when southward lured I have romped in
the tropical isles of Bermuda and the West Indies. Then when
long past the time for such ne’er-do-well, pleasure-bent excursions,
Uncle Sam intervened and furthered the cause of my travel ad-
ventures. As a pawn in the Air Force of the Army, I was pro-
vided with free transportation through most of the forty-eight
states which I had previously not seen, and later with opportunity
to view the natural beauties of Alaska and the drabness of the
Aleutians.
My business affiliations have been such as to keep me most of the
time near Boston. Although briefly engaged in the fields of real
estate and office equipment sales work, the greater part of my time

[ 190 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

has been spent in the mercantile field, some in the realm of chain
store merchandising but mostly in the jewelry business. My
longest affiliation was with the E. B. Horn Company, retail jewel-
ers of Boston, where I was manager of the store at the time the
war came to interrupt my career.

After nearly three years in the Army I came back to Boston and
since my return I have been associated with Raytheon Manufac-
turing Company where my principal work is devoted to the
procurement of electronic materials and the coOrdination of en-
gineering work.

Although it may be surprising to my classmates to find my long-
standing state of bachelorhood abandoned, I shall be personally
more greatly surprised if I am not married by June to Miss Mary
Josephine Harrison of Cambridge, Massachusetts. I can hardly
produce a grown family for the Reunion but at least I do not
expect to be present without a wife.

ROBERT BARROWS COE

HOME appress: P.O. Box 342, Norris, Tenn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Tennessee Valley Authority, Knoxville, Tenn.

BoRN: March 2, 1903, Boston, Mass. parents: Robert Thurston Coe, Louise
Baker Barrows.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; M.L.A. 1929.

marriED: Cara Costen, July 10, 1943, Norris, Tenn.

occupation: Landscape architect on the Regional Studies Staff of the
Tennessee Valley Authority.

TRAVEL: Mainly drives in the Smoky Mountains and the Cum-
berlands.
Hobbies: Gardening.
Social and Political Convictions: Democratic Socialism.
Religious Convictions: Humanism.

JULIAN HIRSHE COHN

HOME appress: 2500 Q St. N.W., Washington, D. C.

OFFICE AppREss: Young Men’s Shop, 1319 F St., N.W., Washington, D. C.

BORN: Dec. 2, 1903, East Chicago, Ind. parents: David Barak Cohn, Grace
Pitzele.

PREPARED AT: East Chicago High School, East Chicago, Ind.

[tor]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. cts laude, 1925.
marrigp: Gretchen Cole, Jan. 12, 1935, Washington, D. C. (divorced 1944);
Toni Raine Nack, May 18, 1946, Washington, D. C. cuizo: Julie, Sept. 30,

I *
occuPATION: Merchandise manager of ladies’ department.
MEMBER OF: Woodmont Country Club; Americans for Democratic Action.
AFTER leaving Cambridge following the Commencement exer-
cises, I travelled to New York. I thought that I had always loved
books, learning, the arts: but now I felt a great urge to get away
from anything academic, anything theoretical. I wanted, I thought,
to get into a field dealing with tangibles — business.

A bright young graduate of the Class of ’21, a friend of mine,
persuaded me that every young person ought to spend at least one
year in New York in order to know what America was all about.
Therefore, I decided to remain in the big city.

For several weeks I worked for the circulation department of
the Menorah Journal. Then I investigated various businesses from
book publishing to ribbons. Even in the lush days of the booming
20's, a starting job was difficult to get. Through the Harvard
Alumni Employment Bureau, however, I became a novitiate in the
field of retail distribution. My first job was with a New York
buying office — the American Retailers. This was a strange turn
of events, as I had always disliked helping in my father’s depart-
ment store while in high school.

After two years of the wear and tear of New York in business,
social, and cultural life, I accepted an offer in Washington, D. C.,
as a buyer of ladies’ apparel for a department store. This was to
be, I told myself, a temporary and short sojourn. I have lived
here, however, for twenty-two years. During these years I have
been buyer and merchandiser for local department and specialty
stores. At present I am a member of the firm of The Young Men’s
Shop, Inc., in charge of the ladies’ department. We are in the
process of planning two branch stores which will open during the
coming fall season in Washington suburbs,

During my two years in New York I engaged in boys’ club
work at Madison House on the lower East Side. I also acted with
the Lenox Hill Players, a little theatre group, In Washington my
community activity has consisted of doing yeoman’s work for

the Community Chest during a few campaigns, and for the United
Jewish Appeal.

[192]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My chief hobby has been music, both as a listener, and, to the
regret of my neighbors, as a player of the piano. For fifteen years
I have been a class D golfer.

At this stage of life I feel that those of us who have not had the
drive to public leadership and service, have a duty in being intel-
ligent supporters of those leaders who stand for the ideals that
make life richer, fuller, and freer for our entire community. For
that reason, my wife and I have given our modest support to the
Americans for Democratic Action.

I have always had a great interest in the problems of social rela-
tionships and in understanding the problems of social adjustment
for the individual. My reading has taken me into this field more
than any other. In my daily life I have always tried to apply such
understanding to the people around me— especially my em-
ployees. In this respect, I try to be a leader. Such leadership may
not affect the events or changes of our times. It can, however,
help to educate me and my associates in the ways of more civilized
behavior. It can, perhaps, partially justify my having received an
A.B. from Harvard College. |

EDWIN MUNCKS COLE

HOME ADDRESS: Beaver Pond Road, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 311 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 18, 1904, Cohasset, Mass. PARENTS: William Roswell Cole, Leonore
Schumann.

PREPARED AT: Berkeley High School, Berkeley, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 1925; M.D. 1930.

MaRRIED: Lucy Codman Fiske, April 6, 1935, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Abigail, June 6, 1937; Tymothy, Sept. 7, 1938; Jennifer, July 22, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Roswell Cole, Jr., ’23.

OccupaTion: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in neurology, Harvard Medical School; associate
neurologist, Massachusetts General Hospital; neurologist and psychia-
trist, Massachusetts Institute of Technology; national consultant in
aphasia, Veterans Administration,

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; New England Psychiatric So-
ciety; Boston Society of Psychiatry and Neurology; Association for
Research in Nervous and Mental Disease; American Psychiatric Asso-
ciation; American Academy of Neurology; American Association for
the Advancement of Science; Harvard Club.

PusLications: “The Neurological Aspects of Defects in Speech and
Reading,” New England Journal of Medicine; “Intellectual Impairment

[ 193 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

in Head Injury,” Association for Research in Nervous and Mental
Diseases; “Correction of Speech and Reading Difficulties,” Rhode Island
Medical Journal; “Learning as a Psychosomatic Problem,” Tbe Ameri-
can Journal of Orthopsychiatry; “Scattering,” Physiological Reviews;
“Language Problems in Children,” Hygeia; “Mental and Performance
Testing of Neurological Patients,” Archives of Neurology and
Psychiatry.
MY STRONGEST feeling in thinking back twenty-five years is
that the boy I was then, in my memory at least, has little to do with
the me who is writing this. I suppose this is true largely because
after graduating from college I turned right back to the Universi
and went to the Medical School. Inevitably that education had a
much stronger influence on my postgraduate life than what had
preceded it as an undergraduate.

After graduating from the Medical School in 1930, there were
four years devoted to various internships and residencies in Hart-
ford and Boston with a final brief seasoning in New York. Early
in the summer of 1934, already nine years out of college, I opened
an office in Boston as a doctor specializing in neurology and psy-
chiatry. The depression still lingered, and in some ways progress
was slow, though it was always very interesting. I have never for
a moment regretted the career I chose to follow.

This protracted education and training naturally postponed
living, both professionally and as a family man. So, it was 1935
when I got married, and things have improved steadily since. Iam
indeed fortunate to have a wife who is understanding and tolerant.
Together we have produced three children who have given their
parents every sort of satisfaction imaginable and a good many
besides. After starting out in Cambridge, we moved into the
country to Lincoln in 1940, building a house and developing a
chunk of pretty, untouched land. The growing of the home,
parents, and children have of course been absorbing projects.

In addition to these obvious satisfactions have been those of
work in my chosen field and the feeling of increasing competence —
in it.

So far as religious and political convictions are concerned, I find
I am still as much of a liberal as 1 was in college, At least if I have
moved to a more conservative position it is only as the heavy
father of three modern children. I have deplored the reactionary
movements of fascism at home and abroad and have done what I

[ 194]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

could to defend civil liberties. My share of World War II was
not overseas service but continues in the present and I suppose
indefinitely — trying to rehabilitate veterans of the war.

For hobbies I love New England in the summer when the sun
shines and the garden thrives. But in an effort not to become too
provincial there have been some wonderful trips, to Europe, the
West, and most recently to Mexico.

JOHN YOUNGLOVE COLE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 125 E, 74th St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. §, 1900, San Francisco, Calif. pareNts: John Younglove Cole,
Viola Odom.

PREPARED AT: Haileybury High School, Ont., Canada, Stone School, Boston,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: 5.B., 1925; LL.B. 1930.

MARRIED: Cicily Ainsworth, March 15, 1933, New York, N. Y. cup: John
Younglove, Jr. June 13, 1936.

occupaTion: Mining and law.

MEMBER OF: Bar of the State of New York; American Bar Association;
Association of the Bar of the City of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Pure Energy, 1939.

MY ACTIVITIES since leaving Harvard Law School have been
as follows: 1930-31, law clerkship with the firm of Chadbourne,
Stanchfield & Levy, New York City; 1931-40, head of own mining
and exploration business; 1941-46, own law offices, 20 Exchange
Place, New York City; since 1946, engaged in Jaw and mining.

Fortunately I have enjoyed seventeen years of married life and
happiness in the expanding life of our young son. To write about
my activities would be a travelogue. I have travelled considerably
to investigate natural resources in North and South America.

My opinions of life revolve about the freedom of the individual,
which in this day and age could hardly be covered in this informal
life sketch. J am an optimist and believe the world and its people
will ultimately find the way to a more peaceful form of existence.

JOSEPH KINNEY COLLINS

HOME ADDRESS: 23 Emmonsdale Rd., West Roxbury 32, Mass.
OFFICE ApprEss: Collins & Collins, 18 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

[195 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

BorN: Oct. 2, 1903, Boston, Mass. parents: William Edward Collins, ’97,
Dorothy Veronica Kinney.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B4 19253 LL.B. 1929.

marriep: Grace Mullowney, Oct. 17, 1931, Brookline, Mass, CHILDREN:
Grace, Nov. 10, 1933; Susan, April 24, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Edward Collins, Jr. '24.

occupation: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant attorney general, Massachusetts, October, 1941-
January, 1945; member, since October, 1947, chairman, October, 1947-
July, 1949, Boston Finance Commission; director, Boston Legal Aid
Society.

IN THE first year after graduation I taught English at the Berk-
shire School and enjoyed the country life for which I have always
had a predilection. However, I found classroom work too con-
fining and decided that my original ambition to become a lawyer
might not have sprung merely from the fact that I was a lawyer’s
son. I returned to Cambridge, entered Law School, and graduated
in due course in 1929. I immediately entered the Boston law office
of my father, William E. Collins, A.B. ’97, LL.B. ’99, and I have
been happily associated with him since.

My role has been that of a “general practitioner.” In an age of
increasingly complex relations between man and man, and particu-
larly between man and his government, the tendency has been to
specialize. Therefore, the general practitioner, if he takes pride in
his work, is under constant pressure. This is not a complaint, for
the compensations, not always monetary, are great. The variety of
persons and problems with which one has to deal stimulates the
imagination, adds spice to one’s professional life, and possibly makes
one a better lawyer because of a well-rounded experience.

From October, 1941, until January, 1945, I served as an Assistant
Attorney General of Massachusetts under the late Robert T. Bush-
nell. During that period I was in charge of litigation involving
interpretation of a statutory contract between the Commonwealth
and Boston Elevated Railway Company. I was also placed in
charge of the investigation and prosecutions resulting from the
Cocoanut Grove fire. Both assignments were unusual, interesting,
and at times exciting.

I have been an interested participant in the activitics of the

Boston Bar Association, and have served one term on its board of

[ 196 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

government, the Council. I have recently been nominated for
another term. |

In 1947 Governor Robert Bradford, ’23, appointed me a mem-
ber of the Boston Finance Commission. He designated me as its
chairman, and I held that post until last July. Since then I have
continued as an unpaid member of the Commission.

Since my college days I have continued my interest in poetry.
At one time I was president of the Catholic Poetry Society of
Boston. A few pieces of my verse have been published in maga-
zines — The Commonweal and Spirit. I enjoy’ particularly the
poetry of Gerard Manley Hopkins. Many renowned contem-
porary poets imitate Hopkins’ technique. On the whole I find
their verse annoyingly flaccid.

I have been happily married for almost nineteen years. Our
children, Grace and Susan, are presently at Girls’ Latin School in
Boston. They are surviving teen-age trials, tribulations, and ecsta-
cies with results so far not permanently harmful — we hope.

We spend at least part of each summer at Duxbury. I have pro-
gressed, or retrogressed if you will, from golf to fishing for striped
bass, to study of the beach plum (prunus maritima) and owner-
ship of a fifty-acre woodlot, where I try to emulate Paul Bunyan.

LORING CONANT

HOME apprEss: 17 Village Ave., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 216 Summer St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: May 28, 1903, Dedham, Mass. PARENTS: Henry Virgil Conant, Ruth
Baker Loring.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

MARRIED: Leonida Elizabeth Henick, Jan. 30, 1932, Wellesley Hills, Mass.
cHILpreN: Anne Kingsbury, Dec. 24, 1932; Loring, Jr. Aug. 15, 1939-

occupation: Wool broker.

YEARS unmarked with glittering milestones do not inspire my
pen to a lengthy dissertation on the past quarter of a century.
After twenty-odd years in the wool business I am still in search
of the golden fleece. My life is a happy one with my wife and two
children and the pleasure of living with them and for them makes
mine a pleasant world, far different from the grievous one in which
we all live. My daughter graduates from Milton Academy this

L197]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

June and is headed for college with a definite talent for medical
research. My ten-year-old son has inherited my peculiarities and
his outcome has yet to be determined. He enjoys fox-hunting with
me and has become quite proficient in handling a fly-rod in some
of the difficult waters of northern Maine. My wife’s love for music
is reflected by the children’s interest in the piano and the violin
and we all share an equal enthusiasm for the out-of-doors.

In closing I should like to express my sincerest thanks to Profes-
sor Bliss Perry. His lectures during my undergraduate days gave
me an appreciation of good reading and his anecdotes of fly-fishing
on the Miramichi aroused my interest in this fascinating sport —
one that gives me endless pleasure. I hope that the next quarter of
a century will see great progress towards peace in the world, a
return to free enterprise and personal liberty, and an end to deficit
financing and subsidies.

MILTON COOK

HOME ADDRESS: 168 Ruthven St, Roxbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 294 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 10, 1905, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Robert Krook, Rebecca
Edelstein.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 19253 LL.B., 1928.

MaRRIED: Florence E. Goldman, Feb. 21, 1934, Boston, Mass. cuitp: Ruth
Laurie, Nov. 8, 1944.

occupation: Attorney-at-law; City Councillor, City of Boston.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active Reservist since 1925; called to active
duty as captain in Field Artillery, April 23, 1941; assigned to 72nd Field
Artillery, Fort Bragg, 1941 to March, 1942; sent overseas, New Cale-
donia, April, 1942; Division Special Service Officer, American Division,
Guadalcanal, Dec. 7, 1942, to March, 1943; promoted major, February,
1943; Fiji Isles until December, 1943; Executive Officer of Battalion,
245th Field Artillery, Bougainville, December, 1943, to April, 1944; Fort
Devens, May, 1944, until June, 1945; released to inactive duty, June 3,
1945; awarded Bronze Star Medal for Bougainville; combat stars for
Guadalcanal and Bougainville.

OFFICES HELD: Representative to General Court, Massachusetts, 1941-42; meme
ber, Boston City Council, 1946-47, 1948-49, State Department Com-
mander, Jewish War Vetcrans, Massachusetts, 1948.

MEMBER OF: Shawmut Lodge A.F & F.M., Massachusetts Legislator's Asso-
ciation; Jewish War Veterans; American Legion; Veterans of Foreign
Wars; Temple Mishkan Tefila Brotherhood, Boston Y.MLELA,

[ 198 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IT IS evident from the preceding data that my life since gradua-
tion has been, with a war interlude, concerned mainly with law
and politics. And during the war years my wife, Florence, to
whom I publicly acknowledge my successes and happiness, suc-
ceeded me as Representative in the Massachusetts Legislature.
When I returned she withdrew, but is still the bulwark of my own
campaigns and best adviser.

My daughter, Ruth, is, of course, a constant joy and seems to be
developing wonderfully in spite of some of my fatherly theories.

The war service gave me a chance, at the request of the Army,
to see many places and provided me with much company. Some-

times we weren’t welcome but we managed to convince those
whom we visited that it was for their best interests.

The return home and the years since have convinced me that all
peoples like freedom and like to be friendly — when the truth is
known and acted upon. Even in our country I am convinced that
we Shall be stronger and happier if we live up to our professed
ideals. And so it follows that if we do what we can in making our
guarantees of freedom in the Constitution actual for all, without
regard to color of skin or denominational faith of religion, then
our heritage of being Harvard men shall not be wasted but used
fully in the noble manner.

Writing is difficult for me since most of my activities — politi-
cal, legal, charitable, and so on, are carried out by speaking. In
connection with this I often wonder whether the rat-tat-tat of a
machine gun isn’t less dangerous than the yat-tat-tat of a politician.
I shall close this narrative by saying that I am convinced that, since
we have survived a depression, a war, a Kinsey report, give-away
programs (radio and governmental), bebop, etc., “the best is yet
to be” for our Class.

CARLETON STEVENS COON

HOME ApprESS: Beaumont Lane, Devon, Pa.

OFFicE ApprEss: University Museum, Philadelphia 4, Pa.

BORN: June 23, 1904, Wakefield, Mass. PARENTS: John Lewis Coon, Bessie
Carleton.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES; A.B, magna cum laude, 1925; A-M-
1928; PH.D. 1928.

[ 199 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925 |

MarRIED: Mary Goodale, March 5, 1926, Wakefield, Mass. (divorced 1944);
Lisa Dougherty (Geddes), March 31, 1945. CHILDREN; Carleton Stevens,
Jr, April 27, 1927 (m. Janet J. Wulsin, June 14, 1949); Charles Adams,
“June 2, 1931.

HARVARD sons: Carleton Stevens Coon, Jr., ’48; Charles Adams Coon, "52.

HARVARD BROTHER: Maurice Putnam Coon, "40.

accuPATION: Professor of anthropology; curator of ethnology’ research
anthropologist.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served in Mediterranean theatre as major,
Infanery, A.U.S.; Legion of Merit.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Special assistant, State Department, Morocco,
1942.

OFFICES HELD: Progressed from instructor to professor, Harvard University,
1928-48; trustee, American International College, Beirut, since 1948. _

MEMBER OF: American Anthropological Association, American Association
of Physical Anthropologists; Society for Applied Anthropology; Har-
vard Travel Club.

pupLications: Tribes of the Rif; Flesh of the Wild Ox; The Riffian;
Measuring Ethiopia; The Races of Europe; Southern Arabia; Prin-
ciples of Anthropology (with E. D. Chapple); A Reader in General
Anthropology; Principles of Race Formation in Man; The Mountains
of Giants.

FROM graduation until 1948 I was, except for the war, continu-
ously associated with Harvard. I went through the usual mill
from assistant to full professor, and managed to work in seven
field trips. My research subjects covered the peoples of the Mus-
lim world, the classification of the white race, and the general
theory of human behavior from an anthropological point of view.
My field trips took me to North Africa, Albania, Ethiopia, and
Arabia. I actually worked in three disciplines: archaeology, physi-
cal anthropology, and cultural anthropology.

In 1948 I resigned from the Harvard faculty to become curator
of general ethnology in the University Museum at Philadelphia.
Since then I have spent most of my time in the field, particularly
in Iraq and in Iran, where 1 am writing this account. I am a firm
believer in the importance of the middle eastern countries to the
United States, and vice versa, and hope that Harvard University
will some day arrive at the same point of view.

QUENTIN LEROY COONS

Home appress: Stetson Road, Norwell, Mass.; 30 Holden St., Cambridge,
Mass.

[ 200 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dy-Dee Service, Inc., 1379 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass.

BORN: May 31, 1903, Pittsfield, Maine. parents: Leroy Wilson Coons, Loraine

_ Thomas.

PREPARED AT: Haverhill High School, Haverhill, Mass..

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; M.B.A., 1928.

MARRIED: Persis Wallace, Dec. 15, 1928, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Kenelm
Winslow, July 5, 1931; William Wilson, 2d, Dec. 1, 1943.

HARVARD SON: Kenelm Winslow Coons, ’53.

OccUPATION: Sales and Advertising Manager, Dy-Dee Service.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of governors, Rushlight Club, since 1938.

MEMBER OF: Bostonian Society; Rushlight Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on early American lighting in New York Sun and
The Rushlight.

PONDERING a quarter-century of living is like looking down a

long hall of mirrors and seeing the many varied reflections flash

back all at one time — twenty-five years within the space of a

minute. I can imagine that time has never passed at all. Yet m

elder boy is now living in that same Yard and sees himself being

followed, in his precise image, by his much younger brother. Such

tangible evidences of passing time justify a bit of reflection.

Life holds rewards of many sorts, differing in specific terms for
each of us. But an especially rich reward that many of us have in
common is to have so directed our course over the years that it is
possible to look back at a time like this with a reasonable amount
of satisfaction. I have never forgotten Plato’s admonition to weigh
each step as it confronts us in terms of its ultimate desirability, to
weigh carefully the long-time “good” as opposed to the short-
time good. If, for example, a man’s lasting satisfaction lies in
knowing that family ties are holding over the years, here is help
in realizing his long-range objective of a happy home life, a work-
ing basis for implementing religion in important decisions of daily
living.

Speaking of the rewards in life, some of us may find them in
ways that others would scarcely recognize. Happiness does lie in
achievement, yes, but perhaps uppermost among the things we set
ourselves to achieve should be the achievement of happiness itself,
for surely every man has within himself the power to be happy.

As a schoolboy I looked ahead to a career in architecture and
considered graduate studies in that field as late as 1925. But in-
stead I studied merchandising at the Business Schoo]. In order to
enter the smaller mid-year group I spent six months selling an

[ 201 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

educational book to Wellesley parents. The following summer I
undertook a study in Paris of the work done by foreign buying
associations for American department and specialty stores. After
graduation I worked two years with chain store organizations, and
was married during this time. Then advertising claimed me and
for twenty years I have had a chance to combine statistical under-
standing with creative skill in the fascinating field of sales promo-
tion. During many of those years I worked closely with top-flight
advertising agencies and can see today in radio techniques, maga-
zine campaigns, package design, and currently in direct mail
methods, my own handiwork in a form as personally satisfying to
me as though they were structures conceived by an architect.

I have greatly enjoyed whatever travelling I have been able to
do. This probably explains my feeling that travel deserves a
bigger place in our lives — intelligent travel, that is, as distin-
guished from the shallow, bad-mannered variety that some of our
countrymen exhibit abroad.

My contacts with Berber, Moor, Arab, Slav, and the peoples of
western Europe have been brief but genuinely broadening. And
beyond the unexpected pleasures of discovery and adventure that
go with travel off the beaten track there is the even richer experi-
ence, recalling our college studies in history and fine arts with
great force, of coming face to face with monuments and treasures
like the paintings in the Academy at Venice and the jeweled
facade and campanile of St. Mark’s, or reliving history in the
Roman ruins of Paris and medieval Sainte Chapelle.

My wife and I have both found absorbing interests in anti-
quarian affairs and in the country. While I throw myself headlong
into projects that abound in any old house, especially where the

grounds, too, call for development, she does gardening, pruning,
even tree cutting. We look forward to living permanently in the
country some day, knowing full well that the realization of a life
of detached peacefulness will probably prove less satisfying than
its anticipation. Meanwhile we have had the pleasure of making
two old houses “sing,” as one understanding author puts it, thereby
giving my persistent architectural instincts full expression.

I like to think that 1 incline towards optimism and that I am not
given to decrying social and political trends. But surely the bless-
ings of progress which this nation and the world have witnessed

{ 202 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in the past twenty-five years are not wholly unmixed blessings.
Our gains have been matched with losses and I believe that in the
midst of increased dissension, class and racial consciousness, it
becomes particularly important for us to think and act with a
keenly accurate breadth of vision.

JAMES LAWRENCE CORCORAN

HOME ADDRESS: 61 Toxteth St., Brookline, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Trade High School, Boston, Mass.
BORN: Sept. 21, 1899, Brookline, Mass. parents: Lawrence Corcoran, Cath-
erine Kelliher. ’
PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924.
marrigep: Mary Grace Cleory, Oct. 20, 1928, Boston, Mass. cHiLpren: Elaine
M., July 15, 1932; Mildred A., March 8, 1934.
OCCUPATION: Teacher. _
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Transport duty between New York and France,
U.S. Navy, 1917-19.
OFFICES HELD: Adjutant, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Post #864, 1931; treas-
urer, Boston Trade High School Teachers’ Association, 1944.
MEMBER OF: Joyce Kilmer Post, American Legion, Club 34F, Roxbury,
Mass.; Boston Schoolmen’s Association.
MY FAMILY is really my hobby. Mary Grace and I were mar-
ried in 1928. I was employed as a supervising engineer at the Hood
Rubber Company in Watertown. The depression eventually
caught up with me, however, and I found myself not only without
employment but with a list of worthless stocks. Mary Grace,
possessing a remarkable knowledge of the Boston school system,
must have anticipated a business slump because it was primarily
through her advice and counsel that I had previously fortified my-
self with sufficient courses in education to meet the strict City of
Boston teaching requirements.

This meant temporary teaching for a few years but I finally
topped the list and was permanently appointed in 1934 to the
faculty of the Boston Trade High School. I have been here ever
since as an instructor in mathematics and drawing.

Meanwhile the children have grown up. Elaine’s school record
far outshines mine. She honor-rolled throughout Girls’ Latin
School and won a full four-year tuition scholarship to Emmanuel
College in June, 1949. Mildred, a junior at Mission High School,

[ 203 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

is doing exceptionally well. She has made the first honor roll for

three consecutive years. Well — enough about the family.
Regarding my travels, it would be fair to say that the Cape and

New Hampshire have been my extreme limits. In the matter of

my religious convictions, I subscribe to the teaching of the Roman
Catholic Church.

ROBERT FORSYTH CORDINGLEY

HOME apprEss: 38 Lake Ave., Newton Center 59, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 26, 1903, Newton Center, Mass. parents: Joseph Sykes Cording-
ley, Ruth Gertrude Parkhurst.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

marriep: Lucile Whittemore, July 28, 1933. cHiLpREN: Ruth Sykes, March,
1938; Jane S.; Ellen T-.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Joseph Sykes Cordingley, Jr. ’21; Melville Parkhurst
Cordingley, "24.

OCCUPATION: Farming.

HERBERT THOMAS COURTNEY

appress: 12 Lexington Ave., Bradford, Mass.

BORN: April 2, 1921, Haverhill, Mass. PARENTS: ‘Thomas Courtney, Her-
mine Patnande.

PREPARED AT: Nolen’s, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1926.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary's files.
Courtney did not return a questionnaire.

GARDNER COWLES

HOME ADDRESS: 47 FE. 68th St., New York, N. Y.
OFFICE appress: Cowles Magazines, Inc., 488 Madison Ave., New York 22,
N. Y.; Register and Tribune Co., Des Moines 4, Iowa.

BORN: Jan. 31, 1903, Algona, Iowa. parents: Gardner Cowles, Florence M.
Call.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B,, 1925; LL.D. (Drake Univ.), 19423
tip. (Coe Coll.), 1948.

Maraiep: Lois Thornburg, May 17, 1933 (divorced 1946); Fleur Fenton,
Dec. 27, 1946. cuitpren: Lois, June 23, 1934; Gardner, 3d, March 6, 1936;
Kate, May 19, 1940.

[ 204 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: John Cowles, ’21.
occuPATION: Publisher, Look Magazine, Quick Magazine, Flair Magazine,

Des Moines Register and Tribune, chairman of board, Minneapolis
Star and Tribune.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Domestic director, Office of War Information,
Washington, D. C., 1942-43; director, United Air Lines, Bankers Life
Company, Des Moines, member, advisory board, Columbia School of
Journalism (Pulitzer Awards).

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Drake University; member, Board of Advertising
Council, research and policy committee of Committee for Economic
Development, advisory committee of the Foreign Service Institute of
Department of State, policy committee of the National Association of
Magazine Publishers; president, Gardner Cowles Foundation.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; University Club; Century Club;
River Club; Links Club; Des Moines Club; Wakonda Club of Des
Moines; Chicago Club.

AS I look back on the last twenty-four years, I recall them as
happy, exciting, and (on the whole) successful years.

During the first sixteen of those years I lived in Des Moines,
working in various capacities on the Des Moines Register and
Tribune and ultimately becoming president of those newspapers.
In 1935 my brother and I purchased one Minneapolis newspaper,
and subsequently we acquired two other Minneapolis newspapers,
giving us the largest morning, evening, and Sunday newspapers in
the Twin Cities, in addition to our Des Moines newspapers. My
brother heads the operation of the Minneapolis newspapers, but I
am chairman of the board.

In March, 1940, after dabbling on the fringes of Republican
politics for many years, I met Wendell Willkie. We became inti-
mate friends. I was one of the small group instrumental in persuad-
ing him actively to fight for delegates for the Republican nomina-
tion. His defeat in the election was a deep disappointment to me.

One month after Pearl Harbor, in January, 1942, President
Roosevelt asked me (or to be more accurate I should say “ordered
me’) to head the domestic branch of the Office of War Informa-
tion. This forced me to spend most of the war behind a desk in

Washington. It was useful war work but not the type I should
have preferred.

In the fall of 1942 Willkie asked me to accompany him on his

historic flight around the world to Russia and China. I believe
those two months were the most exciting of my life to date. After

[ 205 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

an all-day conference with President Roosevelt at Hyde Park, we
took off in an Army bomber for Africa. We spent a night in
Egypt in the tent of General Montgomery just before his victory
at El Alamein. We stopped in Turkey where Willkie encouraged
that government, then leaning towards Germany, to remain neu-
tral. We flew to Syria, Palestine, Iraq, Iran, and on into Russia.

Joe Barnes, Harvard ’26, was Willkie’s other travelling com-
panion. Joe had been in Russia before as a newspaper correspond-
ent and spoke Russian. Willkie kindly included us during most of
his talks with Stalin in the Kremlin. Those were tense days be-
tween the United States and our then Russian ally. Stalin was
bitter about the delay in the “second front.” He felt that America
and England were letting the Soviets down. I shall never forget
the feeling Stalin gave me as being a man of enormous force and
competency, but also a man of primitive cruelty.

We flew across southern Russia into China to visit Generalis-
simo Chiang Kai-shek, to be wined and dined interminably in
Chungking, to visit the fighting on the Yellow River Front, and
then to fly home through Siberia and Alaska.

I helped with some of the editing of Willkie’s famous book,
One World, and Willkie made me sole trustee of the royalties
from the book which go into a charitable trust.

After a divorce four years ago I moved to New York and mar-
ried again, and have since been devoting my time mainly to man-
agement of the magazines I have started: Look, the bi-weekly
picture magazine, now with 3,100,000 circulation; Quick, the
pocket-size news weekly, now with 600,000 circulation; and Flair,
a beautiful monthly “class” magazine which my wife (who is

associated with me in editing the magazines) and I are about to
launch.

I guess I should say that my principal hobby is travel. I have
been around the world twice by air, and I have flown to Europe
a dozen times. Shortly.after graduation I became an amateur pilot
with my own plane. But after a crack-up and a forced landing I
decided piloting was for the younger professional.

I read a good deal on politics and economics. I am disturbed by
our drift towards a larger and more dominant central government
with ever greater functions and power. We are travelling the
road to statism which leads to egalitarianism and a withering away

[ 206 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of free enterprise, a reduction in freedom, and a lower standard of
living. |

As a liberal Republican I believe the free peoples of the world
must draw closer together, even eventually unite in some form of
economic and political union, but I want to see us retain private
enterprise and the maximum of freedom for the individual. Our
abundant natural resources are not the real reason we have the
highest standard of living in the world. We have it because of our
way of life: our opportunity for the individual, our protection of
minorities, our system of free education, our government of lim-
ited powers. I hope we don’t chuck this way of life overboard
hoping some other will bring perfection and the millenium.

I am worried by the present agitation for federal aid to educa-
tion. With the purse strings will go control. Privately endowed
colleges and universities, free of domination by the state and not
dependent on government grants, seem to me essential if we are
to retain our traditional type of free society. Harvard is the
greatest of our free universities. She deserves our continuing
support. She represents what is best in America.

DANIEL MICHAUX COXE

HOME aAppRESS: Main Road, Drifton, Luzerne Co., Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Coxe Estates, Main Road, Drifton, Luzerne Co., Pa.

Born: March 1, 1904, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Edmund James Drifton
Coxe, Elizabeth Kean Michaux.

PREPARED AT: Haverford School, Haverford, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

MARRIED: Dorothy Weld, Aug. 9, 1927, Santa Barbara, Calif. cHILDREN:
Brinton, June 15, 1928; Weld, Nov. 9, 1929.

HARVARD sons: Brinton Coxe, ’49; Weld Coxe, ’51.

occupation: Anthracite Coal Land Agent.

oFFices HELD: Director, Mining and Mechanical Institute of Freeland, Pa.

MEMBER OF: Racquet Club, Philadelphia; Harvard Club of Philadelphia;
American Institute of Mining Engineers.

AFTER leaving Harvard in November, 1922, 1 worked for a year
as a Clerk in one of the larger steel mills in Pennsylvania. Then,
deciding that a man with an education had a better opportunity
than a man without one, I attended Haverford College as an
undergraduate from the fall of 1923 until November, 1924, when
illness forced me to leave.

[ 207 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

A year of travel in Europe and North Africa followed, after
which, thanks to George Pierce Baker, I became a student in the
newly founded Department of Drama in the Yale School of Fine
Arts, Three extremely happy years followed, during which I met
and married Dorothy Weld of Santa Barbara, California.

The six years from 1928 to 1934 had never a dull moment. I had
jobs ranging from Jane Cowl’s errand boy to directing and man-
aging my own small theatres. I even had the enormous thrill of
secing my own play opened (and closed ten days later) on Broad-
wa

in 1935, because of the death of my father, I temporarily put
aside my ambitions to be a Galsworthy-Belasco and returned to
the land of my ancestors in the anthracite coal fields of Pennsy]-
vania, in the hope of working with the other members of my
family to straighten out what at that time appeared to be a mess,
We have been trying to straighten out the mess ever since.

My life has been a good one. The uncertainties of the coal
business are no worse than those of the theatre, and our Pennsyl-
vania mountains have been a place far superior to the streets of
New York or Hollywood to raise two growing boys. In addition,
the relative isolation and long quiet evenings combined with meet-
ing daily, in microcosm, the economic and political realities that
concern the nation as a whole have afforded the opportunity to
develop the common sense conclusion that no one man, or group
of men, can solve the problems that face the country and the
world. The above conclusion united with an incontrovertible
belief that the United States is the best place in the world to live
in has resulted in a comfortable philosophy of pessimistic optimism.

Both my sons attended Harvard for a relatively short time,
Brinton for a term in 1945-46 and Weld for a year and a half
from 1947 until February, 1949. They both left because of poor
academic records. Brinton, after a term in the Army, is now at-
tending Western University, and Weld is a reporter on a: New
England newspaper.

While my Philadelphia Harvard friends state that, so far as they
know, the record of my sons and myself at Harvard is unique,
nevertheless all three of us consider ourselves alumni of Harvard
and try to keep up our duties thereto.

[ 208 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD FREEMAN CRAIG

HOME ADDRESS: 546 Wynnewood Rd., Pelham Manor, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Music Sound Track Service, 1600 Broadway, New York,
N. Y.

BORN: May 12, 1904, Springfield, Mass. PARENTS: Henry Freeman Craig,
Laura Gertrude Fuller,

PREPARED AT: Technical High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925, DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1925; A-M., 1926.

MARRIED: Theresa Mary Schoolcraft, Nov. 2, 1940, Springfield, Mass.
CHILDREN: Edward Freeman, Jr., Oct. 7, 1941; George Henry, Nov.
13, 1943; Jeffrey Milton, Oct. 4, 1946.

occupation: Music sound track business, supplying music and sound effects
backgrounds for commercial and educational films and those for tele-
Vision.

AFTER graduation, with most of the Class travelling abroad or

helping Wall Street, I remained in Cambridge for a few years —

getting an A.M. in 1926 and doing most of the work for a Ph.D.

in music without ever arriving at a subject for a thesis.

In 1929 I went back to Springfield, Massachusetts, and worked
with the Tastyeast Jesters on radio over Stations WBZ-WBZA.
Other programs I produced during a five-year period were “WBZ
Barn Dance,” “Dutch Band,” “Tip-Top Schoolhouse,” and “Flor-
ence Rangers.”

I came to New York in 1934 and entered motion pictures with
RKO-Van Beuren, scoring music and sound effects for cartoons
and short subjects. This particular job didn’t last very long be-
cause RKO signed Walt Disney and we Van Beurenites were
out. But the film bug had bitten me and in association with others
a library of music and sound effects to score commercial and
educational pictures was formed. Today, some fifteen years later,
I have outlasted everyone else and own and operate the firm.

In 1940 I married a girl from the old home town and we have
lived happily the ten years since. We started out in the Village
but our ever-increasing group of boys practically blew the apart-
ment apart and we bought our present home two years ago.

_ My life has not been a much-travelled one, but in scoring pic-
tures for people from Frank Buck to the U. S. Air Corps I have
seen all of this world and a few previews of the next. Similarly,
recording “Yesterday's Newsreel” and “Telenews” regularly
keeps me in touch with what has happened in the past and what

[ 209 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

is likely to happen in the future. I haven’t made a lot of money
but I have a fine family and a lot of friends, and I can only wish
all my classmates as much pleasure as I feel at our approaching
Twenty-fifth Reunion.

FRANCIS VALENTINE CRANE

HOME AppREss: Basquaerie, Golden Street, Holliston, Mass.

porN: Nov. 28, 1903, Westwood, Mass. parents: Walter Sanger Crane, ’go,
Sarah Follett Platt.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

marrigp: Mary Winslow Allen, Aug. 27, 1927, Norwood, Mass.

occuPaTiON: Retired.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member, Pickled Sheepskin Importing Dealers
Industry Advisory Committee, War Production Board; member,
Pickled Sheepskin Industry Advisory Committee, Office of Price Ad-
ministration; member, Pickled Sheepskin Importing Dealers Industry
Advisory Committee, Civilian Production Administration; substitute
member, Sheepskin Tanners Industry Advisory Committee, War Pro-
duction Board, Leather Tanning Industry Advisory Committee, Office
of Price Administration and U. S. Department of Commerce; buck
private, sergeant, and lieutenant in charge of half the town of nineteen
square miles, Holliston Auxiliary Police; instructor, New England
Police Revolver League, 1942-45.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Norwood Trust Company, 1943-45; director and
member executive committee, Norfolk County Trust Company, since
1945; incorporator, since 1943, trustee, 1949, Home Savings Bank of
Boston; director, since 1944, merchandise and production manager,
1933-49, Winslow Bros. & Smith Company; chairman membership
committee, member executive committee sheepskin group, and mem-
ber various subcommittees, Tanners Council of America; chairman
Greater Boston United War Fund and Greater Boston Community
Fund, Holliston, 1943-45; organizing Massachusetts State Chairman,
Dogs for Defense.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; The Leash, New York; Dedham
Country and Polo Club; Salem Country Club; Dedham Club, Trigger
Club (president, 1945); Eastern Dog Club (chairman Bench Show
Committee, 1943-45); Framingham District Kennel Club (president,

1940-47); North Shore Kennel Club; Great Pyrenees Club of America
(delegate, since 1935, director, since 1938); English Cocker Spaniel
Club of America (chairman of Trophy Committce, 1938-42); American
Guernsey Cattle Club of America (life member); Massachusetts Guern-
sey Breeder's Association, American Kennel Club (delegate, since 1935);
Tuesday Swamp Luncheon Club, New York (member nominating com-

{ 210 ]

 

E

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mittee, one year); Basquaerie Beer, Bass, and Bath Society for Men

(secretary, since 1941).
WRITING of any sort, including long-hand letters, has never
been my strong forte and when it comes to an autobiography, |
am completely lost! It is unfortunate for George Goodspeed, our
most worthy and hard-working Class Report Committee Chair-
man, that he could not have known for some months how earnest
my efforts in this matter of my life history since ’25 have been and
what pains I have taken to dig out some of the more pertinent
facts that have faded into the past and have been almost forgotten.

Fearing that my literary efforts might fall short of what is

desired of me for the Class Record, I have reported above at pos-
sibly too great length. However, the various committees on which
I have served and the clubs and organizations to which I have
belonged are indicative of my life at work and at play during the
last twenty-five years.

After graduation, believing in the advisability of associating my-
self with and learning all I could about one of our basic industries
founded on a raw material natural to this country, I secured em-
ployment with a cotton conversion company. Having given this
a fling for a year and not being satisfied with the future outlook,
I tried my hand at real estate with a small insurance agency on the
side, on which I worked nights. T'wo years after Commencement,
I returned to a basic raw stock industry and started learning the
leather business, remaining with the same company, Winslow
Bros. & Smith Company, until forced out of the game by illness in
1948 and 1949. I was fortunate to have been given the opportunity
to put on an apron and rubber boots and dig in at the very begin-
ning of things where the skins arrive, and work through all the
basic departments from one end of the “cellar” to the other, and
finally landed in the raw stock buying, production and merchan-
dising “upstairs.” The first years of punching the clock at seven
A.M. about eight miles from home —I lived in Needham at the
time — presented the only aspect of my early training not en-

tirely congenial to my nature! ‘The fact that I carried on my little
insurance business at night for a couple of years after getting into
leather didn’t make the early rising any easier. I finally sold my
agency and settled down to a single business career.

Hobbies for the first few years took me mainly to the outdoors

fair ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

prove to be a life of ever-increasing interest and value. If I could,
I would not want to change the past twenty-five years in any way,
but I now look forward with equal, if not greater, enthusiasm into
the future.

THOMPSON BAKER CRANE

HOME apprEss: Avery Road, Garrison, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Young America Magazines, 32 E. s7th St, New York 22,
N. Y.

BoRN: Oct. 14, 1904, Wildwood, N. J. PARENTS: Heber Crane, Margaret
Stuart Baker.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREE: A.B. 1925(26).

marrieD: Marguerite Moyer, Nov. 15, 1930, Paris, France.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Crane-Baker, "42s

OCCUPATION: Newspaperman and magazine editor.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active duty in U.S.N.R,, Dec. 7, 1941, to Sep-
tember, 1945; present rank: commander.

OFFICES HELD: Managing editor, since February, 1946, Young America
Magazine, telegraph editor and various other jobs, 1934-41, N. Y.
Journal American; assistant might editor, sports editor, 1930-34, Paris
Tribune; rewrite, 1930, Paris Times.

DURING the war, I saw service in various minor swivel chairs,
chiefly in New York and briefly in Normandy and Brittany in
1944.

THOMAS JOHNSTONE CRAWFORD

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 3726 Kipling Ave. Berkley, Mich.

BorN: April 6, 1904, Pittsburgh, Pa, parents: Joseph Smith Ronald Crawford,
Margaret Colvin Johnstone.

PREPARED AT: Rayen School, Youngstown, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926.

Maraiep: Edith Griffiths, July 22, 1932; Eloise Elizabeth Hewitt, Youngs-
town, Ohio. cHILDREN: Thomas Joseph, Oct. 25, 1934; Nancy Louise,
June 20, 1936; Jean Elizabeth, July 16, 1942; Peter Hewitt, July 18, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richards Henry Crawford, ’29.

OccuPATION: Consulting engineer (welding and allied work).

orrices Heo: Chairman, Detroit Section, American Welding Socicty,
1949-50.

MeMper oF: American Welding Society; American Society for Metals,
Engineering Society of Detroit.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous technical papers.

{216 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY . REPORT

AFTER leaving Cambridge in June, 1926, I spent about four years

in the steel producing and steel building products business in and

out of Youngstown, Ohio. In 1930 I went to North Carolina as a

junior partner to a consulting engineer in the textile field.

With the beginning of the dynasty of The Great Liar (1933-
1945 A.D.) the returns for individual initiative took a nose dive and
I returned to Youngstown and took a job as district research en-
gineer for the Republic Steel Corporation early in 1934. Shortly
before this I had married and, first thing I knew, what had been
intended as a stop-gap job ran over ten years. Here, though, I did
have a chance to keep abreast of the rapidly advancing art of
welding and I enjoy rather wide recognition in this field today.

Finally, late in 1944, the local ward heelers of the so-called War
Manpower Commission had the effrontery to tell me—a born
Republican — that they would not let me change jobs. Two hours
later I had some stationery printed and told them I was henceforth
a consulting engineer!! I had heard before of being kicked up-
stairs but this was my first experience with the phenomenon.

In 1946 I decided to move to the Detroit area as it is nearer the
center of high production metal fabrication. I have been very
happy here, and very comfortable in a modest way. At times I
feel a bit overwhelmed by my growing family and even suggest
that the calendar is right and I am rather more than flirting with
middle age. |

I have been fortunate in that my work has long been the kind I
might pick for a hobby and it has been varied enough to keep me
out of a rut. Even if it has not made me rich yet, I am still resent-
ful of the country’s infestation of political parasites who so blithely
grab and squander the fruits of better men’s productivity.

Our country appears to have irrevocably degenerated into a
democracy. I couldn’t stop it — but at least I can account for four
voters in the coming generation; and I can endeavor to make them
think a little about what they are voting for!

URIEL HASKELL CROCKER

HOME appress: 31 Brush Hill Lane, Milton 86, Mass.

OFFICE AppREsS: 24 Milk St., Boston 9, Mass.

BoRN: May 10, 1901, Brookline, Mass. parents: Edgar Crocker, Edith
Gannett.

[217]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924,

Maaraiep: Eleanor Batchelder, June 11, 1925, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Eleanor,
Aug. 25, 1928 (m. Edward A. Taft, Jr, Jan. 28, 1950); Edgar, May 23,
1930; Augusta, Dec. 12, 1935; Robert Gannett, March 20, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Trustee.

OFFICES HELD: General partner, 1924-35, special parmer, 1936-38, Burr, Gan-
nett & Company (Parkinson & Burr, before 1929); business manager,
Medical School Research Laboratories, 1942-43, assistant to the treasurer,
1944-48, assistant secretary to the Corporation, 1944-49, special assistant
to the Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, 1948, recording secretary, 1949,
Harvard University; director, Loomis Sayles Second Fund, Inc., since
1943, Loomis Sayles Mutual Fund, Inc. since 1943, Milton Visiting
Nurse and Social Service League, 1940-41, director, since 1928, treasurer,
since 1945, Northern Railroad; trustee, Franklin Savings Bank, 1941,
Milton Public Library, since 1946, Milton Hospital, since 1946; trustee,
since 1935, Vice-president, 1940, president, 1941-47, Boston Lying-In
Hospital, member executive committee, Milton Red Cross, 1941-42;
member, board of managers, Boston Provident Association, 1947-48.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New York; The
Country Club, Brookline; Union Club; Milton-Hoosic Club; Essex
County Club; Manchester Yacht Club; Massachusetts Charitable So-
ciety; Massachusetts Charitable Fire Society; A Republican Institution
in the Town of Boston, The Newcomen Society of England.

ON leaving college I entered the investment business in Boston
with Parkinson & Burr, which was succeeded by Burr, Gannett &
Company in 1929. It took the war to separate me from this line of
endeavor and I have recently concluded seven years of service
with Harvard University in various capacities. I seem to have had
a rather varied assortment of interests outside of business and
family so have never found time hanging heavily on my hands.

I have an active family with a wide variety of interests. We
make our home in Milton and have a summer home at Manchester-
by-the-Sea where sailing seems to be the principal interest of all
hands. Our able wife and mother continues to put up with our
demands in a cheerful manner and still finds time to carry on her
own outside interests. During most of the war she was chairman
of the Home Service Corps of the Boston Red Cross and I still
don’t understand how the family existed during that period.
Eleanor, Jr., was married early in 1950. Her husband is affiliated
with Tropical Radio and Telegraph Company, a subsidiary of the
United Fruit Company and at present they are living in Teguci-

[ 218 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

galpa, Honduras. Edgar is at Trinity College, Augusta at Concord
Academy, and Bob at Milton Academy.

My travels have been limited to occasional short vacation trips.
For relaxation I play golf, fuss around in my tool shop, and, when-
ever possible, indulge in sailing and cruising.

RICHARD PRESBURY CROMWELL

HOME AppRESs: 21 Summit Rd., Lexington, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cromwell & Co., Inc., 136 Federal St, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 12, 1903, Medford, Mass. parents: Harry Presbury Cromwell,
Edith Pearl Graves.

PREPARED AT: Reading High School, Reading, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921~1925. DEGREE: 8.B. cum laude, 1925.

MARRIED: Margaret E, Miller, Oct. 12, 1933, Arlington, Mass. CHILDREN:
Virginia, June 20, 1936; Robert, May 15, 1938; John, Jan. 31, 1945.

OCCUPATION: President and Director, Cromwell & Company, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New York.

BUSINESS:

1925: Waiter at Tower Hotel, Falmouth Heights, Massachu-
setts.

1925-30: Messenger boy, board boy, statistician, head of statis-
tical department, with Curtis & Sanger, brokers.

1930: With others, organized Fidelity Fund, an open end in-
vestment trust. This is now a $30,000,000 fund but unfortunately
I have not been associated with it for some years.

-1930: With Bill Anderson, organized the investment counsel
firm of Anderson & Cromwell, Inc., in Boston. Originally Bill did
the selling and I the investment work and (until we got an em-
ployee) the typing. This firm is now known as Cromwell & Com-
pany and has clients in various states including a number of in-
surance companies, pension funds, and other institutions.

Travel:
1927: Europe
1929: Bermuda
1931: Cuba
1933: Bermuda (honeymoon).

Family:
In 1933 I married Margaret Miller, a very nice girl with red hair,

[219 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

whom I had known for a long time, and we went on the above-
mentioned honeymoon. Despite the fact that she is exceedingly
neat, while I am not, things have worked out very well.

Margaret is a Girl Scout leader. Ginny, aged thirteen, is a Girl
Scout and likes music, dancing and school work. Bob, aged eleven,
is a Boy Scout, plays the trumpet, and likes to make airplane mod-
els. Johnny, aged four, is in kindergarten and likes toys.

Hobbies: |

I enjoy mechanical things and have a home workshop where |
spin pewter, do woodworking, and make electrical gadgets with

my son Bob. I like mathematics and mathematical problems. For
a while I studied Russian at home and have had some interest in
chess. In 1937 I took up golf. Four years later, after playing
40,000 strokes and getting an eighty-six, I gave it up and rejoined
my family. We all like to sail but I do not at present have a boat.
I like to play bridge and do things with my family. Last summer
we all went to an Appalachian Mountain Club Camp and tried
mountain climbing,

Other Activities:
At present I am chairman of the Lexington Planning Board and
on the investment committee of the Lexington Savings Bank.

JOHN ANTHONY CROOKS

HOME Appress: 25 Sherman Rd., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Clark E. White, Inc., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 2, 1903, Brookline, Mass. parENTS: John William Crooks, Dorothy
Swift.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926.

Marriep: Mary Elizabeth Cyr. cuttpren: John Anthony, Jr., Feb. 5, 1947;
William Kenneth, Oct. 26, 1949.

occupation: Automobile business, Lincoln and Mercury.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: In charge of gasoline rationing for New Eng-
land States.

MemMpeR OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Union Boat Club.

I SEE no real justification for boring the Class with my life and
vicissitudes since leaving college, but I shall make it brief.

I went immediately into the automobile business as a salesman
for the Lincoln division of the Ford Motor Company and finally

[ 220 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

*

became general manager of the Ford-owned retail branch in Bos-
ton.

At the start of the war, when the automobile business became
“frozen” I received the appointment in Washington of adminis-
trating the gasoline and automobile rationing in Massachusetts and
later for the New England States.

At the end of the war I became a partner in a General Electric
business, Crooks & Stiles Company, because of the unavailability —
of desirable automobile franchises in this area. The company is
still in existence, but I resigned from it a year ago because of the
declining profits and unforeseeable future of this business. IT am
now back in the Lincoln and Mercury automobile business in
Boston with the Clarke & White Company.

I recently married again and have two young, small, and very
healthy children, both boys. We live in Hancock Village in
Brookline and my present family life is my one source of pride
and leaves nothing to be desired.

-: [still enjoy rowing on the Charles River at the Union Boat Club
in the good weather and playing handball in the winter, which
keeps me from falling apart altogether.

CARL THOMAS CROSBY

HOME appress: 114 Chilton St., Belmont, Mass. ,

OFFICE apprEss: New England Panel Co., 7 Charlton St., Everett, Mass.

BORN: July 18, 1902, Allston, Mass. parents: George Edwin Crosby, Nellie
Maria Hayes. | |

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925(26).

MARRIED: Dorothy Barber, Aug. 30, 1930, North Adams, Mass. CHILDREN:

, Carl Thomas, Jr. Aug. 24, 19345 Margaret Barber, Nov. 25, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Maurice Hayes Crosby, ’19, George Reginald Crosby, ’22.

occuPATION: President and Treasurer, New England Panel Company.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Member advisory committee to the War Pro-
duction Board and the Office of Price Administration, plywood distribu-
tors industry.

OFFICES HELD: Director, 1944-49, Secretary, 1047, president, 1950, National
Plywood Distributors Association; secretary-treasurer, 1940-45, presi-
dent, 1946-47, Sliver Club; secretary-treasurer, Harry L. Folsom “Hoo
Hoo Club,” 1943-44; Town Meeting Member; president, National
Building Material Distributors Association, 1950; treasurer, International
“Hoo Hoo” Convention, 1950.

[221]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925 .

MEMBER OF: Oakley Country Club; Harvard Faculty Club; Sliver Club;
International Concatenated Order of “Hoo Hoo”; Delta Upsilon Fra-
ternity; Lumber Trade Golf Association; Belmont Police Gun Club.

AS AN undergraduate I had just one ambition in life — namely,
to teach physics. As yet I have never taught a day in my life. I
cannot recall at just what point the desire to make my living in
another field occurred. My two elder brothers were in the teach-
ing profession and perhaps it was their experience and influence
which directed my efforts in other fields.

In the fall of 1925 I decided to break away from all home asso-
ciations and see the world. I purchased a 1919 Ford roadster for
$50, overhauled it and, taking a few of my belongings, headed for
Florida. The trip south was a pleasant one and after looking over
the east and west coasts of Florida, I finally decided to settle in
Palm Beach where I obtained a position with the West Palm Beach
Bank and Trust Company. The work at the bank was most en-
joyable and a valuable experience for me as it eventually turned
out. Then, too, I enjoyed the southern climate and hospitality as
any single fellow would have back in those “hey days” of ’25
and 726.

I returned to my home in Boston late in the spring of 1926.
What was I going to do? Not teach, that was for sure. I con-
sidered this position and that one without coming to any definite
conclusion so decided to enjoy the summer months before settling
down to some full-time job. It was during the summer months
that I was invited to Center Lovell, Maine, by an old girl friend
to help entertain her Smith roommate. The name of that room-
mate was Dorothy Barber whom I married in 1930.

In the fall I went to work for the Brockway-Smith Corporation
of Charlestown, Massachusetts, distributors of sash, doors, and
millwork. I started in by unloading freight cars, advanced through

their various departments, and finally reached the status of full-
fledged salesman. My territory was Rhode Island and Connecti-
cut. For many months I travelled this territory, leaving home
every Monday and returning Friday evening. It seemed to me

_ that I was working very hard, losing all my friends, social activi-
ties, and not making any real headway, so in the fall of 1928 I
severed my eonnections with this corporation and founded my
own company.

[ 222 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I established an office and warehouse in Everett under the name
of the New England Panel Company and decided to specialize in
one particular product — plywood. The going for the first year
or so was rugged. Plywood was a new product and its uses rather
limited. It did not have general consumer acceptance with the
result that sales and profits were relatively small.

In 1930 my company was well established in spite of general
business conditions. Plywood was beginning to come into its own
and take its rightful place in the building material industry. It was
in August of this year that I married Dorothy Barber, the girl
whom I had met on a blind date four summers before.

As my company grew, so did my sales activities, distributing our
products over the New England states. The demand for plywood
by these New England states was an old story to me when the
second World War broke loose. As a result I was appointed a
member of the plywood distributors industry advisory committee
to the War Production Board and also to the Office of Price Ad-
ministration. In spite of the struggle for train and hotel reserva-
tions, the work as a member of both of these committees was most
interesting. I enjoyed meeting men in the same line of business
from all over the United States, and these contacts and friendships
are still being continued.

My wife and I bought a home in Belmont in 1933 and I soon
became interested in local affairs. [ was appointed by the town to
serve on a committee for the erection of an addition to one of our
primary schools. Church activities have taken many hours of my
time, serving as a trustee, treasurer, and member of the finance and
rebuilding committee when the structure was destroyed by fire in
1941. As my son grew up I went along with him in his Scouting
program, acting as cubmaster for three years and then scoutmaster
of his troop. During the war I became associated with the defense
police and have still remained interested in this local unit. Town
politics have had no strong appeal although one can never tell
what the future holds because last March I was elected a Town
Meeting member.

My work has been far afield from both physics and teaching.
However, I have thoroughly enjoyed the work which has been my
life profession and as the years roll by and I see my son getting
older and older, I cannot help but hope that he will come into

[ 223]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925 -

business with me and continue this corporation which has been in
existence now for twenty-one years.

KENDALL BATES CROSSFIELD

HOME ADDRESS: 30 Beaufort Rd., Boston 30, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 99 Bay State Rd., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: July 30, 1902, Worcester, Mass. PARENTS: Kendall Charles Crossfield,
Alice Bates.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: M.D. (Boston Univ.), 1929. oo

Marriep: Ruth Meredith Thompson, May 31, 1930, Portland, Maine.
CHILDREN: Priscilla Meredith, March 10, 1931; Lois Bates, April 26, 1932.

occuPATION: Physician.

WARIIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Medical examiner, Local Draft Board #35,
Boston; oto-laryngologist, Induction Board, Boston.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in oto-laryngology, Boston University School of
Medicine.

MEMBER OF: Norfolk District Medical Society; Massachusetts Medical So-
ciety; American Medical Association (fellow).

AFTER college I attended the Boston University School of Medi-
cine from which I graduated in 1929. I am in the private practice
of oto-laryngology.

We have one daughter who is a ‘freshman at Vassar this year and
our other daughter enters college next fall.

For a hobby we enjoy sailing best when time permits and in past
years have cruised the New England coast fairly extensively dur-
ing vacations.

++ JOHN EDWARD CROWLEY, JR.

BorN: Dec. 25, 1902, Dorchester, Mass. paRENTS: John Edward Crowley,
Teresa Ann O'Leary.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: 8.B., 1925.

marriep: Stella Montejo. cmp: Yolanda.

piep: Dec. 12, 1938, Boston, Mass,

BEFORE entering Harvard, John Edward Crowley, Jr.,. com-

pleted his preparatory work at Browne and Nichols School.

Though never a varsity team member, he was a versatile and en-

thusiastic athlete. In our sophomore year he played on the second

hockey team, junior year he was a member of the second football

[224]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

squad, and during senior year he was one of the varsity wrestling
squad. He was a member of the Hasty Pudding Club-Institute of
1770, the Speakers’ Club, and the Phoenix Club.

After graduation, Crowley was employed for a time by the real
estate office of Walter Channing in Newton. He then did con-
struction work in New York and in Andover, Massachusetts.
From 1928 to 1930 he was a member of Battery A, roist Field
Artillery, Massachusetts National Guard. In 1932 he undertook
to sail across the Atlantic in the Friendship sloop, Ochito, later
converted into a ketch. The trip was said to have been a honey-
moon journey, as he had recently married an Argentinian girl,
Stella Montejo. Stories of their later adventures appeared in
several sporting magazines. Crowley spent the following winter
in Bermuda engaged in helping construct a railroad. He then
sailed the same small boat as far as Greece, and returned to the
United States in her in 1934.

In 1937 he took a position as engineer at the Boston Navy Yard,
but left this several months later in order to go into business for
himself.

He was survived by his wife and daughter.

PAUL REVERE CROWLEY

HOME appREss: 5 Windsor Rd., West Somerville, Mass.

BORN: April 19, 1904, Somerville, Mass. parents: Dennis Andrew Crowley,
Catharine Augusta Gallagher.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

occuPaATION: Merchant.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted U. S. Army, January, 1942; separated
as major, Transportation Corps, August, 1946; duty in England, Africa,
France, Germany, Belgium, Italy, Holland, Alaska, Greenland, Los
Negros, Canal Zone, etc.

MOST of my time prior to the war was spent as a carefree coun-
try journalist, editing and publishing a small weekly newspaper
which moulded public opinion for a tremendous circulation which
(by a fast count) might have numbered 8500 souls.

By reason of considerable exposure to the somnolent life on the
Pacific Isles during the war, I decided that life out there was even
more carefree and lazy than the high calling previously pursued

[225 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

and, with a couple of kindred characters, established a small mer-
cantile business in the Marianas which supplies the cocoanuts and
poi necessary for survival. Most of my time now is spent state-side
(the tropics get a bit rough on old gaffers) and I am pursuing
studies leading to a doctorate in optics which will enable me to
perpetrate still additional outrages on the formerly happy and
unspoiled natives of the islands.

9

PARKE CUMMINGS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Westport, Conn.

BorN: Oct. 8, 1902, West Medford, Mass. parents: Henry Irving Cummings,
’g91, Adeline DeVoo Parke.

PREPARED AT: Mercersburg Academy, Mercersburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1922, 1923-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.

marrieD: Mary Virginia Obear, April 6, 1935, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
John Obear, Sept. 16, 1937; Patricia Ann, Aug. 23, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Writer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

puBLiIcATIONS: The Whimsey Report, 1948; The Dictionary of Sports, 1949;
articles in Saturday Evening Post, Colliers, The New Yorker, Esquire,
Atlantic Monthly, Harpers, Cosmopolitan, This Week, Coronet, Ameri-
can Pageant, Redbook, Mercury, etc.; verse and fiction in some of the
preceding and others.

A PROFESSIONAL writer should be able to sit down and chron-
icle a life of adventure, alarums and excursion, of moving accidents
by flood and field, of stimulating contacts and discourses with the
famous and the great. Many can. I cannot. The life I have led has
seemed to me, for the most part, a good one, but by and large it
has been, to coin a term, uneventful.

It embraces residence in a southern New England town (near,
but not too near, New York) and the devotion of considerable
time to the attempt to typewrite saleable articles for publications,
preferably those containing a large body of national advertising.
After two and a half decades of this I have the defensive reflexes
common to most of those in my particular field. (““Humorist, eh?
Well, let’s see you get humorous.”) Let us rather phrase it that I
concentrate on material of a “light” nature. An exception to this
was a recent technical book, The Dictionary of Sports, which is
not particularly light in subject matter, treatment, avoirdupois, oF
retail price.

[ 226 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

There is enough to occupy me around here when I am not ply-
ing my trade. Our place is not extensive, but keeping it up entails
some doing. And of course one fortunate (or unemployable)
enough to side-step the daily nine-to-five office stint is expected to
make up for this with certain proficiency at grounds-keeping,
house painting, minor electrical and plumbing repairs, and the like.
I derive, in fact, a good deal of pleasure from dabbling with the
soil although I seem to have outgrown former ambitions to raise
food for half a county and to put the local florists out of business,
My policy now is: half a dozen tomato plants, weed the perennial
bed once a summer, and never mow the lawn when Junior can be
browbeaten or bribed into doing i it.

I still find tennis (and some winter badminton) somewhat effica-
cious in counteracting prose writer's spread, and I continue to
hammer away with fair regularity. But now, two years into the
veterans’ division, I have reluctantly concluded that: a) my game
isn’t what it used to be; b) it never was. As further proof that I
am a pretty well exercized man, being a homebody, I’m frequently
called upon to “keep up with” (fine catch-all phrase) my two
vigorous young children. It has often been suggested to me that
I should get myself a soundproof studio remote from the happy
shrieks, oaths, and left hooks of innocent, carefree childhood. My
answer is that God knows our will-power grows weaker and
weaker as we get beyond the middle forties, and every fellow
should have at least one dependable means of testing it now and
then. Moreover, they are fun.

As for my helpmate, I can only report that after fifteen years of
seeing me almost uninterruptedly around the house, listening to
the clack of typewriter keys and to my surly snarls at the editorial
profession, she is still coming up regularly at the bell. Could there
be any higher tribute?

General sentiments? Well, I am in favor of religion, and believe
it should be adopted. I do not share as high an opinion as many
about the wisdom, moral stature, or cosmic importance of the
collective human race, but I am constantly finding that it contains
individuals whom I heartily like. In my more sceptical moods Iam
dubious of its ability to learn anything of real importance by
experience, but better thinkers than I assure us that, from time
immemorial, humanity has been headed for hell in a hack but has

[227]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

always managed, somehow or other, to pull up short. Ergo, the
brakes will still work. I hope so.

And, finally, what has Harvard meant to me? The institution
I knew was one where freedom of inquiry and thought and action
were esteemed above all else. The indications are that she con-
tinues to hold to these ideals — sometimes in the face of pressure
that borders on the hysterical — and will continue to do so in the
future. Am I glad I went to Harvard? Yes! Will my son attend
it? Well, he will be free to do so if he chooses, subject to his

ability to fulfill the requirements and his old man’s ability to pick
up the tab.

WILLIAM JOSEPH CUNNINGHAM, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 72 Lexington Ave., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE AppREsS: Cambridge School Department, Cambridge, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 27, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. parents: William Joseph Cunning-
ham, Elizabeth Agnes Breen.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 19253; ED.M., 1936.

margigD: Althea Foss, Dec. 26, 1943, Cambridge, Mass. curtp: Caroline, Dec.
27, 1946.

occupaTION: Principal, Russell Elementary School, Cambridge, Mass.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U. S, Naval Reserve,
September, 1942; served in Tennessee and Rhode Island, duty with
night fighter carrier borne squadron, Task Forces 38 and 58, South

Pacific, fifteen months, promoted lieutenant commander, October, 19443
sull serve in Reserve.

MEMBER OF: Cambridge Teachers’ Club; Massachusetts Teachers Federation;
National Education Association; Cambridge Post 27, American Legion.

NEVER do I remember a task which has appeared more formid-
able than the writing of this sketch. My only consolation lies in
the knowledge that life must have been just as uneventful for
others as it has been for me.

Upon graduation, I entered the teaching profession and there I
have remained even until now — “Constancy, thou art a jewel.”
I taught English and French at Cambridge Latin School, became
head of the Romance Language Department at that same school,

and in September, 1941, was appointed principal of the Russell
Elementary School.

During the course of these years I studied “on the side” and got

[ 228 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my Ed.M. degree in 1936—the Tercentennial year. I also took
courses at Boston University and Boston College.

The rather prosaic, yet delightful, course of my life was inter-
rupted by World War II and being young, unmarried, and full of
zeal, I rushed to get into the Navy. I must confess that although
I had many nervous and frightening moments, it was an experience
which I would not have missed.

Of interest to the romanticists, perhaps, might be my marriage
on December 26, 1943, and my flying out of Quonset for San
Francisco and points west on January 1, 1944 — just five days
later. I might add that the trip was not a result of the marriage,
but it furnished many a topic of conversation for “ “my” ” pilots.

With the end of the war, I returned to my position in the Cam-

bridge schools and settled down to sedate married life, as befits
one whose Twenty-fifth is in the offing. I have a charming little
girl, just three years old, who is waiting to go to her daddy’s
school.
_ During these years I suppose sports — any and all kinds — have
been my hobby. For a number of years I refereed school-boy and
intercollegiate ice hockey but of late years I have become strictly
a spectator. I am still willing to argue the respective merits of the
Red Sox and the Yanks or the Braves and the Cards but I suppose
my opinions are becoming tempered with the passing of time.

Over the years, life has been quite kind and considerate to me
and my enthusiasm seems to increase with age. I trust I shall be
able to say the same when comes the time for the Fiftieth Report.

HENRY GRATTAN CURRAN

HOME apprEss: roo1 Keith Ave., Berkeley, Calif.

OFFICE appress: Office of Special Representative, Economic Cooperation
Administration.

BORN: Feb. 17, 1904, Calais, Maine. parents: Benjamin Young Curran, Mary
Ellen Jones.

PREPARED AT: Tabor Academy, Marion, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: §.B. 1925; M.B.Ay 1927.

MarriED: Mildred Whiting Hill, June 11, 1927, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Henry Grattan, 3d, Nov. 17, 1931; Nicholas, Dec. 17, 1936.

OCCUPATION: Economic analyst, program division (covering France), E.C.A.,
and Mutual Defense Assistance Program,

[ 229 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcorD: Entered U. S. Naval Reserve as lieutenant, Aug,
28, 1943; headed reports and statistics unit, planning and control activity,
BuPers, Washington, D. C.; separated as lieutenant commander, Jan,
9, 1946, awarded secretary's Commendation Ribbon for contributions
to advanced base personnel planning.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts:Acting chief, distribution division, food branch,
OPA. June, 1942-August, 1943.

RICHARD JOSEPH CURRAN

HOME ADDRESS: 1411 Commonwealth Ave., Brighton, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Merchants Distributors, Inc., 1312 Boylston St., Boston,
Mass.

BorN: Feb. 25, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: Joseph Michael Curran, Ann
Isabel Shanley.

prepareD aT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.,; Public Latin School,
Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

marRiep: Ann Frances McPartland, 1944. cHitp: Richard, Aug. 27, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Salesman.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Private, Company D, 34th Infantry Training
Battalion, Nov. 7, 1942—Jan. 19, 1943.

OTHER than a trip South and another as far west as Chicago, my
travels have been limited to New England. In 1944 I was married.
Now my hobby is a fine little fellow of four years and six months.
I hope the opportunities we have enjoyed will continue to be
available in the future.

CLARK CUMMINGS CURTIS

HOME AppREss: 56 Queensberry St., Boston 15, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Bonding & Insurance Co., 10 Post Office Sq,
Boston, Mass.

BORN: March 13, 1902, Boston, Mass, parents: Albert Browne Curtis, Caro-
lyn Jennison.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

marRiED: Naomi Cutler, March 10, 1944, Baltimore, Md.

occupation: IBM operator and supervisor,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Field Artillery Reserve, since 1924; active duty,
April 2, 1941, to March 2, 1946, including 2% years with 46th Field
Artillery Brigade (colored) and 1 year with Chinese Combat and
Training Command near Kunming, China.

MEMBER OF: Boy Scouts of America; Appalachian Mountain Club,

[230 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HERBERT PELHAM CURTIS

HOME appress: Weld Street, New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE AppREsS: Telemark, Inc., 100 Greyrock Pl., Stamford, Conn.

BORN: June 13, 1903, Cambridge, Mass, PARENTS: Thomas Pelham Curtis,
Frances Kellogg Small.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1925.

MARRIED: Helen Kingsbury Curtis, May 3, 1929, New York, N. Y. cum-
DREN: Frederick Kingsbury, June 5, 1930; Frances Pelham, Aug. 5, 1932;
John Pelham, June 25, 1938; Ann McBride, April 27, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Curtis, ’23.

occuPATION: President, Telemark, Inc., manufacturers of electronic equip-
ment.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned in U. S. Air Force, June, 1942;
assigned to Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio, for renegotiation of war
profits; discharged with rank of lieutenant colonel, June, 1946; awarded
Legion of Merit.

OFFicEs HELD: Manager, Brown Brothers Harriman & Company, until 1942;
president, Telemark, Inc., since 1946, Windham Children’s Service,
since 1946; trustee, New Canaan Country School.

AFTER passing my requirements for a degree at midyears, and
with the assistance of a modest inheritance from an indulgent god-
mother, I took a brief run around Europe in the company of Alec
White and an old jalopy. Both of them were good company. I
returned to Cambridge for Commencement exercises and shipped
out shortly thereafter on what was virtually an old-fashioned
Grand Tour in a swanky Rolls Royce with a rather lush salary for
the technical responsibility of tutoring two boys. It was some
years before I again reached that high level of earning power. This
concluded what one might consider the playboy era.

Then came the hard decision as to how to earn a living. After
a private debate between law school and banking, the green pas-
tures of banking won out. This involved the munificent salary of
sixty dollars a month, which, of course, allowed for a very high
standard of living. After a year or so at Brown Brothers & Com-
pany in Boston, I moved down to their New York office and
eventually decided to cast my lot in with other transplanted Bos-
tonians in seeking fame and fortune in New York.

One might say that my experience has been one of few changes
but violent ones. I stayed with Brown Brothers & Company (later
Brown Brothers Harriman & Company) until World War IL.

[231]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

CHARLES VAN BRUNT CUSHMAN

HOME apprEss: Windsor Farm, Upperville, Va.
BorN: Mav 4, 1902, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Allerton Seward Cushman,
Sarah Dunn Hoppin.
PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925.
marrieD: Mary Addeman Elliott, June 26, 1923, Thompson, Conn. (divorced
1932); Elizabeth Hazard Powers, Oct. 5, 1932, Shrewsbury, N. J.
CHILDREN: Philip Hoppin, March 31, 1924; Charles Van Brunt, Jr., June
9, 1926; Hope Elliott, Nov. 2, 1929; Carolyn Powers, Oct. 5, 1934;
Robert Allerton, Jan. 22, 1940.
occupation: Agriculture (breeding beef cattle and sheep); agency for Ford
automobile and farm machinery.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Major, Army Air Force, attached to office of
assistant chief of Air Staff Intelligence.
OFFICES HELD: Commander, American Legion Post 295, 1947-48; chairman,
Loudoun County Chapter, American Red Cross.
MEMBER OF: Metropolitan Club, Washington, D. C.; Masons; Lions
International,
DURING the decade of 1925 to 1935 I lived in Pomfret, Con-
necticut, where I was engaged in every type of agriculture known
to man, but most of it connected with the equine species, a very
uncertain animal. At some time during the years of depression I
got the idea that I should move to New York and enter the
brokerage business. It was hardly an auspicious time for such a
daring step, so, in 1935, 1 continued my trek southward until I
reached the foot of the Blue Ridge in Loudoun County, Virginia.
Here I have remained ever since, living a most pleasant life, but
engaging in the difficult operation of making a farm produce all
the necessities of life and a few luxuries besides. If any of the Class
should be motoring through Virginia, they have a standing invita-
tion to come by and split a bottle of Bourbon.
During the war I was attached to General Arnold’s offices and
to the office of the assistant chief of Air Staff Intelligence as a
liaison officer, an interesting but not a martial job. However, I
have kept up my interest in Air Force affairs as a reserve officer.
I am now again a resident of Virginia and | have added to my
interests a Ford automobile dealership. I was very popular with
my friends during the era of shortage but now I have become a
bore pleading with them to purchase a nice new 1950 model.
This résumé of my life since leaving college has been written

[234]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with some jest. I have derived a good deal out of life, but when
my accomplishments have been written on the stone tablets of time
they are not very imposing. However, they say that as a man gets
older he becomes wiser, so I’m hoping.

And I certainly am happy that I was a member of the Class of
1925, and look forward to meeting you again at the Reunion.

JOHN GEDNEY CUSHMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 9 Coolidge Hill Rd., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Old Colony Trust Co., 1 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: April 15, 1904, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Charles Farrington Cush-
man, Sally Gedney Adams.

PREPARED AT: Montclair High School, Montclair, N. J.; Phillips Academy,
Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

MARRIED: Katharine M. Adams, Nov. 10, 1937, New Haven, Conn. CHILDREN:
Katharine E., April 5, 1940; Anne A., Oct. 9, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Adams Cushman, ’23.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Old Colony Trust Company, Investment Divi-
sion.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Lawrence Academy, Groton, Cambridge Savings
Bank; member standing committee and treasurer, Paine Fund, First
Parish in Cambridge; member board of managers, Boston Provident
Association.

MEMBER OF: Cambridge Boat Club; Harvard Faculty Club; Harvard Musical
Association.

WHEN we graduated twenty-five years ago the members of the
Class of 1900 at their Reunion looked pretty mature, to use an
understatement, and our own Twenty-fifth Reunion was too far
ahead to contemplate. As the years have sped by, the returning
classes have looked younger; for the last year or two, familiar and
contemporary faces have been seen in the Square. Now it is our
turn,

To go back to our graduation, I left Cambridge after Com-
mencement and sailed for Europe the next day with Bob Sumner
and Douglas Byers to spend the summer travelling in Europe. The
memories of those three months are still vivid. In the fall I started
to work in Wall Street. In the spring of 1926 I returned to Boston
where I have been in some form of investment work ever since.
After four years in the bond business I joined the Old Colony

[ 235 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Trust Company in the fall of 1929, first in the statistical depart-
ment and since 1934 in the investment division of the personal
trust department, where I am today.

For diversion there have been many books to read, many con-
certs to attend, a good many miles rowed on the Charles in my
single, weekends and vacations on the Cape, in Maine and New
Hampshire, and too few trips to Bermuda and abroad.

On New Year's Eve, 1936, I met Katharine Adams, the daughter
of a professor of English at Yale and on November 10, 1937, we
were married in New Haven, Connecticut. Our first daughter was
born in April, 1940. That fall we moved into the house just va-
cated by Mason Hammond where we still live. Our second daugh-
ter was born in October, 1944. Both the children are now at
Shady Hill School, a short walk from our house, freeing us from
that curse of the motor age, the car-pool. Our summers have
recently been divided between Hancock Point, Maine, overlook-
ing Frenchman’s Bay and Mt. Desert, and New London, New
Hampshire. Of marriage, I can say that it is not only “an honour-
able estate” but a happy one. And two young children help to
keep the youthful point of view.

. What are my social, political, and religious convictions? As to
politics, my first presidential vote was for Al Smith and I have
never voted for a successful presidential candidate since, but I live
in hope. The welfare state is not part of my political philosophy
and the Republican alternatives do not seem to me to offer the
satisfactory answer. In the long run I do believe that American
democracy works. Of religion, I believe it is one thing we need
a lot more of in its truest sense. I am a Unitarian by birth and
remain one by conviction; but I also believe that religion, not
which church, is the important thing. As for social convictions, I
can say from my work on the board of a family service agency
that regardless of government aid, which is important, there is still
a vital need for the private welfare agencies.

Does everyone writing his life for a Class Report think of the
latest Marquand novel? Possibly that is a compliment to the nov-
elist, proof that the mirror he holds up to life is clear. However
that may be, here is the “Class Life” of one member of 1925. Sur-
veys probably show the “average” college graduate twenty-five

years out has 1% wives, 214 children, 4 of a house and 1% auto-

[ 236]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mobiles. Fortunately, my life has worked out in round numbers,
though they may be below par. It is not a story of front-page
interest but it is a happy life and I hope it continues so for many
years to come.

BYRON RITTER CUTCHEON —

HOME appREss: 11 Francis Rd. Wellesley, Mass.
OFFicE apprEss: Boston Globe, 244 Washington St., Boston, Mass.
BORN: Dec. 17, 1903, St. Paul, Minn. parents: Frederick Richard Cutcheon,
Zoa Maude Ritter.
PREPARED AT: Bordentown Military Institute, Bordentown, N. J; Phillips
Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922~1925. DEGREES: S.B. 1925 (26); M.ARCH., 1934.
marRIED: Ora M. Dodd, Dec. 17, 1926, Cambridge, Mass. (divorced 1936);
Harriet Nye, March 7, 1940, Boston, Mass. cumtpreN: Geoffrey Franklin,
Feb. 16, 1941; Frederick Warner, Oct. 10, 1947.
OCCUPATION: Reporter and Rewrite Man, Night City Staff, Boston Globe.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned first lieutenant, Air Force, Sept.
8, 1942; sent overseas to Townsville, Australia, with 317th Troop
Carrier Group, Dec. 30, 1942; transferred to Fifth Bomber Command,
Port Moresby, New Guinea, March 4, 1943; S-2, 65th Squadron, 43rd
Bomb Group; served as chief of target data section, First Air Task
Force, 5th Air Force, Dobodura, New Guinea, June, 1943; 308th Bomb
Wing (HA), February, 1944, through duration; promoted captain, Decem-
ber, 1943, major, April, 1945; returned to U.S., November, 1945; sepa-
rated, January, 1946, awarded Asiatic-Pacific ribbon, seven battle stars,
Philippine Liberation ribbon, two stars, Presidential unit citation; partici-
pated in landings on Leyte (Tacloban), and Lingayen Gulf, Luzon.

I WORKED for more than a year after graduation as reporter
on the St. Joseph Gazette in St. Joseph, Missouri. I then decided
I wanted to be an architect (little did I know). I entered the
School of Architecture at Harvard in the fall of 1926. During the
last half of 1928 and the first of 1929 I studied architecture in
Paris at Atelier Godefroy, Lefevre et Ferran. Then I worked for
Harold Field Kellogg and Bigelow, Wadsworth, Hubbard, &
Smith in Boston until the end of 1930, when the bottom fell out
of architecture. I went back to the School of Architecture in
February, 1931, and finished out to get the M.Arch. degree. Sull
no architects were wanted so I worked as a free-lance feature
writer and as reporter and copy desk editor with the American
and Advertiser for a short while, landing on the Globe sports desk

[ 237 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

in January, 1934. I have been here ever since, except for the war
period, as copy editor, reporter, and rewrite man, work which |
have never failed to find interesting and enjoyable.

Since 1929 my travels have been principally at the expense of
the U. S. government during World War II (Australia, New
Guinea, Philippines, Okinawa, Southern Japan, and Korea). My

principal hobby is fishing for trout and striped bass, with varying
success,

EDWARD HUTCHINS CUTLER

HOME AppREss: 1818 Jennings St., Bethlehem, Pa.
orrice appress: Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pa.

Born: April 28, 1903, St. Paul, Minn. parents: William Washburn Cutler,
’94, Martha Carter.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1925; A.M.,
1926; PH.D., 1930.

marriep: Dorothy Winslow Randall, Aug. 5, 1938, Rockport, Mass.
CHILDREN: Mary Randall, June 3, 1940; William Henry, April 20, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Harrington Cutler, ’29.

occupPATION: Associate professor of mathematics.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Technical Aide, Division 14, N.D.R.C., 1944-45.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, assistant professor, and associate professor, Lehigh
University, since 1930.

MEMBER oF: American Mathematical Society; Mathematical Association of
America, Sigma Xi.

PUBLICATIONS: Two papers on Riemannian geometry in Transactions of the
American Mathematical Society, Vol. 33, 1931.

THE foregoing questions bring out the main facts in my case.
Since 1930 the only interruptions to my teaching at Lehigh were
a year spent at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton and
a year at Massachusetts Institute of Technology during the war.
I have found teaching a pleasant and satisfying trade and one
which I would gladly have my children follow, but, in retrospect,
my two decades of teaching are totally devoid of reportable high
spots.

in the summer of 1937 I took one of the regular tours of the
Soviet Union, from Leningrad to Erivan and back to Kiev and
then out through Poland and Germany. Everything was very
pleasant and peaceful as far as 1 was permitted to see.

[ 238 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The next year I was married and have now settled down to
hoeing the garden, watching the birds, and taking orders from my
children.

ALLEN WILLARD DAGGETT

HOME ADDRESS: 16 Pleasant St., Arlington, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: W, J. Connell Co., 121 Brookline Ave., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 25, 1902, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Frank Ayers Daggett, Char-
lotte May Allen.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Edith Christine Knight, Nov. 24, 1933, Cambridge, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lawrence Luce Daggett, ’26.

occuPATION: Electrical automotive distributor.

MY LIFE has been spent in Greater Boston since graduation, eight
years before my marriage in Somerville with my parents and the
years since then in Arlington. Edith and I have made some good
friends and have enjoyed living here. There have been many
changes since our marriage and we have seen the city spread out
and envelop what was once a small town. The whole atmosphere
of many of our suburbs, including Arlington, has changed and
one has to go farther and farther out to get really into God’s
country.

My chief avocation has always been music, as has been that of
my brother, Lawrence. While he has concentrated on instru-
mental music, I have been the vocalist of the family. I got my
start under “Doc” Davison in the Glee Club and have kept up the
singing ever since. I have sung at Advent Church, St. Paul’s
Cathedral, and the First Unitarian Church in Boston. It has been
a welcome diversion from the routine of business and in it I have
found an inspiration and lift that nothing else can give me.

My principal hobby has always been the study of birds, their
habits, plumage, migration, and so on. Every spring finds me in
the fields and woods observing our feathered friends. At the end
of the season I exchange bird lists with Lawrence who is in
Hawaii and has quite a different variety of birds to report.

We have done quite a bit of travelling through New England
but very little outside. We like Vermont best though Massachu-
setts has some beautiful out-of-the-way spots too.

[ 239 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Within the last ten years I have lost both parents, and Edith has
lost her mother. We have seen other relatives and dear friends go
so that life has had its sorrow as well as joy:

This Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report gives us the opportunity
to stop, look back, and take stock of our lives. Then, profiting by

the experiences of a quarter-century, let us go on in the spirit of
Fair Harvard to greater things.

FRANCIS RICHARD DALTON i ws

HOME ADDRESS: 51 Hinckley Rd., Waban 68, Mass.
orrice appress: Atlantic Coast Fisheries Co., 4 Fish Pier, Boston 10, Mass.

_ BoRN: July 20, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: Edward James Dalton, Ellen
Mary MacDonald.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924, 1925-1926. DEGREES: A.B. 1925 (27)5 LLB. (North-
eastern Univ.), 1931.
MarRiED: Margaret Eleanor Witham, Nov. 26, 1938, Brookline, Mass.

CHILDREN: Barbara Ellen, Dec. 29, 1939; Priscilla Margaret, Jan. 7, 1941;
Peter Francis, Nov. 10, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Joseph Dalton, Dental S. 1923-25.
OccUPATION: Sales manager, Atlantic Coast Fisheries Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active duty as major, US.A.A.F., September,
1942-February, 1946; served with zoth Air Force, Pacific areas.

ARTHUR WILLIAM DANA

HOME apprEss: 58 Young Ave., Pelham 65, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 342 Madison Ave, New York 17, N. Y.

BoRN: March 29, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: Mandel Dana, Annie Sonia
Slutzki.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925.

marrieD: Lydia Martha Segal, May 29, 1929, Brookline, Mass, CHILDREN:
Zelda Segal, May 31, 1933, Arthur William, Jr, May 14, 1935.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Henry Lester Dana, p.M.p. ’19; Leo Isadore Dana, PH.D. ’22.

OccuPATION: Restaurant consultant in problems of cost control, management
methods, and equipment layout.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Consultant, War Shipping Administration and
the Panama Canal.

OFFicEs HELD: Chairman, Troop Committee, Troop 7, Pelham, N. Y., 1949-503
restaurant consultant, American Hotel Association, since 1945; instruc-
tor, Hotel Administration Department, Cornell University, winter,
1949, and summer, 1946, 1948, 1949, and 1950,

[ 240 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Society for Advancement of Management, Harvard Club of
Boston.
PUBLICATIONS: Kitchen Planning for Quantity Food Service, Harper &
Brother, April, 1949; articles on kitchen planning in Restaurant Man-
, agement and Architectural Record.

I HAVE been most fortunate in my health, in my work, and in
my marriage, for all of which I thank fate. Someone once said
that “if a person is thoroughly happy in his work, he needs no
hobbies.” My work has been engrossing and satisfying. I have no
hobby, except a broad curiosity about the problems of human re-
lationships in industry and the search for parallels in the problems
of the restaurant industry with other types of manufacturing and
distribution. My interest in music (with nostalgic memories of the
Glee Club) extends to some choral singing, a liking for symphony
but not for opera, and enjoyment of modern ballet.

- What did my education do for me? It made me aware of the
existence of authoritative material on any subject; it taught me
how to find such information and, perhaps most important, it
helped me to appraise or evaluate these “authorities.” Iwo courses
have had a lasting influence: one in Elementary Accounting with
Professor T. H. Sanders; the other in Logic with Dr. Martin Shef-
fer. The dry wit used in the presentation of accounting principles
implemented the process of osmosis; and cogent examples of fal-
lacies and the practice in deduction and analysis remained with
me for years. : :

- These two professors illustrate a growing conviction held not
only by myself but by persons interested in management: namely
that the technical knowledge possessed by an individual is likely
to be of least value, unless his personality and his powers of com-
munication and persuasion cause other people to accept and use
this knowledge. Technical knowledge in industry is less impor-
tant for a top executive than his understanding of human relations.
The “useless” Greek, Latin, appreciation of the arts, etc., can pro-
vide a background that will make men of ability more useful in
the administration of business and of government.

In brief, my twenty-five years since school may be divided as
follows: almost three years shifting from one type of work to
another until the restaurant industry attracted my attention; nine
years of varied restaurant management and supervisory experi-

[241 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

ence; and now in my thirteenth year as an independent restaurant
consultant.

My work has taken me to Jamaica, B. W. I, to the Canal Zone,
and to many parts of this country. Hotel food operations and in-
dustrial (or office) cafeterias form the major part of my clientele,
along with hospitals, universities, and clubs. During the war, my
work with the War Shipping Administration dealt with the de-
velopment of a menu plan and a cook book for the Merchant
Marine; the Army Transportation Corps looked to us for develop-
ment of special menus for troop transports returning after V-E
Day. Their own menus, on Europe-bound trips, if repeated, might
have incurred the displeasure of Congress via irate letters from
GI’s or their relatives.

My work has also enabled me to disprove the allegation that
“chefs are a temperamental lot.” Most chefs, deserving that
appelation, are inherently gentlemen; they have respect for the
proper lines of command or authority. Because there is a “zero
hour” before every luncheon and dinner, because many managers
do not understand their problems sufficiently to provide remedies
and because, as one chef put it, “Black is black one day, while
black is white another day, I don’t know where I stand” — — some
chefs have to “blow their tops” on occasion.

The deepest satisfaction from my career stems from working
with all kinds of people, getting “under their skin” and helping
them to help themselves. Perhaps this sounds too idealistic, yet,
measured in a materialistic world, this approach has been economi-

cally justified.

+ DANIEL JOSEPH DANKER, JR.

BoRN: March 14, 1903, Boston, Mass. parents: Daniel Joseph Danker,
Mary Denning.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

MarrigD: Lorena Layson, Dec. 6, 1934. cup: Suzanne, Nov. 12, 1937-

pDiED: July 5, 1944, at Beverly Hills, Calif,

wiwow: Mrs. Daniel J. Danker, Jr., 1549 N. Vine St., Hollywood, Los
Angeles, Calif.

DANIEL JOSEPH DANKER, JR., after completing preparatory

work at Phillips Exeter Academy, entered Harvard with the Class.

[ 242 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Active in sports as an undergraduate, he was a member of the
Freshman Football Squad, Freshman Hockey Squad, Second
Football Squad during 1922 and 1923, and played on the Second
Baseball Squad and Second Hockey Squad in 1923. He was also a
member of the Styx Club.

After graduating with an A.B, degree in 1925, he joined the
advertising agency of J. Walter Thompson Company. He spent
several years in New York with this firm and was then transferred
to Los Angeles to open the firm’s branch office in 1930. He was
president of the firm’s Hollywood branch which he opened in
1937 for the exclusive handling of radio accounts. He managed
the advertising of some of the most popular shows on the air. At
the time of his death, he held the position of vice-president and
director of his firm.

His wife and daughter survived him.

FREDERICK REUBEN DARROW

HOME apgeEss: 66 Ball Rd., Mountain Lakes, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The First Boston Corp., 100 Broadway, New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: May 12, 1905, Youngstown, Ohio. parents: Charles Reuben Darrow,
Minnie MacGeary.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923, 1924-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1925(27); M.B.A. Cum
laude, 1930.

marriep: Helen Willard Ross, Aug. 20, 1932 (divorced 1948). CHILDREN:
Emily Hutchinson, March 9, 1939; Susan Ross, Nov. 2, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Ralph S. Cochran, '13; Michael Hermond Cochran, ’15
(deceased). .

OccUPATION: Analyst, industrial securities.

MEMBER OF: Association of Iron and Steel Engineers; Downtown Harvard
Lunch Club; New York Society of Security Analysts; Harvard Business
School Club of New York.

THERE’S really not much to tell, and what there is is apt to be
dull, but you asked for it and here it is. After I graduated in 1927
out of course and received a Business School degree in June, 1930,
just after the big blow and the first false recovery, a junior faculty
research assignment, obtaining problem material for the Business
School, looked like a good storm cellar until business recovered.

That accounts for the following year and the next five were spent
at the National City Company, Industrial Buying Department

[ 243 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Sill, Oklahoma, for three months’ training at the Field Artillery
School. I had a hunch that it would serve me in good stead, but I
must admit my amazement on finding that we would train with
horse-drawn field pieces, Model 1897 the pride of the best-
equipped artillery division in the United States Army.

One October evening in the year 1941, while I was home baby-
sitting, I was rather disquieted to receive a telephone call from the
local newspaper asking if I had any comment on my being ordered
to active duty. This alert came soon after I had listened to a
“fireside chat” to the effect that “our boys will never fight in a
foreign war.” After years of such I should have known better.

Upon reporting for duty, I found that the War Department
was interested in my civilian capabilities as an electrical engineer
rather than in my military qualifications as a battery officer. As a
result I found myself flight-testing, and later travelling to Wash-
ington, Massachusetts, Ohio, New Jersey, and Florida, establishing
signal laboratories to develop and prove airborne weapons which
would kill an enemy or, equally effectively, cook a hot dog in
thirty seconds. These weapons were those intricate electronic
devices popularly known as radar. Finally, after more than three
years of technical staff assignments, I was able to see what hap-
pened in radar’s ultimate and most decisive combat application:
the A-bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. 1 was on hand to
study the effects of gamma rays, heat, fire, and blast, and to ob-
serve the most effective Nippon counter-measure against occupa-
tional troops, known as the Geisha.

Today I have only to repeat the entire report made in 1940:
“I am working in the operating department of the Edison Com-

pany.” To my regret I find in this postwar period that the issue
of governmental subsidized and tax-free competition which con-
fronted us in the prewar era has intensified. The utilities that were
financed from the savings of a multitude of private citizens were
the first of our free enterprises to feel the impact of government
socialism during the 1930's. At that time these utilities tried their
best, without much success, to spread the alarm against this legal-
ized form of sabotage. Today we are still fighting for the free
enterprise system, this time with the support of those in other
businesses who have now felt the bite.
At the moment the cold war being waged on the domestic front

[ 246 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

is euphemistically called the “fair deal.” The best illustration I can
give for the reason this tragic condition can exist in America today
is a quotation taken from the 1924 Class Report of a distinguished
Republican Senator, whose report was included as a specimen (of
rhetoric, I trust) for all 1925 classmates to emulate: “It has never
seemed to me that political questions could be seen in terms of
black and white . . . Weare not on the horns of the dilemma of
‘left’ and ‘right.’ Could it be that this obviously well-educated
and patriotic public servant believes we can live half slave and
half free? Could it be that this complacent drift to the left, with its
attendant labor strife and wrecking of our industrial might, is
giving aid and comfort to the avowed enemies of our country? I
look to the wisdom of my classmates to provide the answers. Mean-
while I believe it quite prudent to keep plenty of mothballs in a
trunk that is full of khaki woolens. The countries in eastern and
western Europe are not being re-armed in order to play drop-the-
handkerchief with one another.

It should be apparent that, unlike many of my classmates, I have
no great record of accomplishments to which I can point with
pride. One exception: I confidently expect that my boy will be
the first Class Son to play in the Rose Bowl — with the Arroyo
Seco Elementary School football team.

ROBERT MAURICE DAVIDSON

HOME ADpDRESS: 117-01 Park Lane, S., Kew Gardens, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Maurice P. & Robert M. Davidson, 122 E. 42nd St., New
York, N. Y.

BORN: Feb, 1, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: Maurice Philip Davidson,
Blanche Reinheimer.

PREPARED AT: Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1925; LL.B. 1928.

MarRiED: Luise M. Scheiner, Sept. 29, 1931, Mamaroneck, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Bruce Robert, Sept. 1, 19373 Marcia Luise, Feb. 25, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Frederick Davidson, ’27; Alfred Edward Davidson,
33; Frank Paul Davidson, °39.

occupation: Lawyer and president of Sanib Corporation.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Long Island; Citizens Union; Countv Lawyers
Association; Phi Bera Kappa; Independent Order of B'nai B'rith.
PuBLications: Article, “Life Insurance Creditors” in Best's Insurance News,

August and September, 1933.

[ 247 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

AFTER finishing Harvard College, I entered the Harvard Law
School and graduated in 1928. Before taking the New York State
Bar Examination, I went to Europe with my father, my mother,
my four brothers, and my grandmother. Parts of England, France,
Switzerland, Germany, and Holland were invaded by the family.
In May, 1929, I was admitted to the Bar of the State of New York.

My first job was as a law clerk in the office of a well-known
New York trial attorney, David L. Podell, with whom I con-
tinued working until the end of 1930. As a member of the Legis-
lative Committee of the City Club of New York, at the time when
scandals were becoming apparent in the Magistrate’s courts, I
helped draft a bill which made possible the famous Seabury in-
vestigation. I became assistant counsel and had many interesting
experiences examining witnesses who ranged from paranoiacs
with imaginary complaints to policemen who could not explain
the contents of their tin boxes. Subsequently I became assistant
counsel of the legislative investigation of the affairs of the City of
New York which finally resulted in the resignation of Mayor
Walker and a general cleaning up of the conditions of corruption
which had existed under his administration.

After a flying trip to the Democratic Convention in Chicago
which nominated Franklin Roosevelt for President, I engaged in
the practice of the law, taking time out to campaign for the elec-
tion of Fiorello LaGuardia. In this campaign I worked with my
father who had founded the City Fusion Party which was suc-
cessful in electing LaGuardia for his first term.

A legal matter which our firm had in Mexico sent me to the
Berlitz School to learn Spanish. Then, in October, 1935, a Spanish-
speaking gentleman came to our office with a project for installing
a banana dehydration plant in Honduras, Fortunately, I was able
to converse with him. This was the genesis of Sanib Corporation,
which my law firm and a number of friends organized to de-
hydrate bananas into banana powder in the Republic of Honduras.
Our business began under great difficulties particularly inherent in

the introduction of a new product to the food industry. By the
time the war came along, we were selling our banana powder in
considerable quantities to the cake baking, pudding, confectionery,
and pharmaceutical industries, not only in the United States but
also abroad. During the war we produced another product called

[ 248 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

dried bananas in our Honduras plant and also arranged to have this
wartime substitute manufactured for us in Mexico and Brazil.
These activities took me to Honduras, Costa Rica, Guatemala, and
Mexico on many occasions. |

I have been a member of our law firm since 1936. In 1944 we
were engaged as counsel in connection with a project to erect a
laboratory utilizing ultra high-speed electrons for the sterilization
of various products. The use of this new electrical tool, called the
Capacitron, has been publicized in Fortune Magazine, Life Maga-
zine, Collier’s, and many other publications because of its potential
value in the food and pharmaceutical fields.

After the end of the war, when the problem of procuring trans-
portation for Jewish refugees to Palestine became critical, I was
asked to help procure a temporary registration of a vessel in Hon-
duras. That vessel was known at the time as the President War-
field. When it crossed to Europe after having received its sailing
permit, partially due to my efforts, it was renamed Exodus 1947,
a name that has now gone down in history. When this vessel was
turned back from Palestine by the British Navy and compelled to
bring its cargo of refugees back to Europe, the publicity which
came about because of this cruel decision was responsible, in the
opinion of many, for the success of the negotiations in the United
Nations which finally resulted in the recognition of the State of
Israel. 7

In Kew Gardens where I live, I have been active as chairman of
the Pack Committee of our Cub Scout organization, of which my
son Bruce is, of course, a member. I have also acted as a member
of the board of directors of the Men’s Club of our temple and as a
member of the B’nai B’rith Lodge in our community.

At the Twentieth Reunion of our Class, held at the Harvard
Club in New York, I was amazed to see how little most of the boys
had changed. I myself am not yet gray or bald and look forward
to looking over the rest of you at our Twenty-fifth Reunion,

« CHARLES HENRY DAVIS

BORN: July 25, 1903, Cincinnati, Ohio. Parents: Henry Clay Davis, Hattie
Marx.

PREPARED AT: Hughes High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924.

[ 249 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

MARRIED: Clara Senior, Sept. 21, 1929, Cincinnati, Ohio. cHtLo: Thomas
J., Feb. 7, 1934.
pep: Dec. 1, 1939, Cincinnati, Ohio.

CHARLES HENRY DAVIS entered Harvard after preparing at
Hughes High School in Cincinnati. He left college after three
years of study and returned to Cincinnati, where he later became
associated with the National Guarantee and Finance Company. In
August, 1934 he became divisional supervisor of this company.

JAMES LINCOLN DAWES
HOME ADDRESS: Ashaway, R. I.
BoRN: Jan. 24, 1902, Englewood, N. J. parents: Lewis Chesborough Dawes,
Abby Osgood Nichols.
PREPARED aT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MaRRIED: Ruth Wilcox, March, 1938, Englewood, N. J. (divorced); Kate
Virginia Cottrell, 1949, Ashaway, R. L

BERNARD POPE DAY

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Joanna Way, Short Hills, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Joseph P. Day, Inc., 7 Dey St., New York 7, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 9, 1902, New York, N. ¥. PareENts: Joseph Paul Day, Pauline
Martindale Pope.

PREPARED aT: Montclair Academy, Montclair, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925,

Magnizp: Lucinda Steers, June 23, 1925, Washington, D. C. cuitpren: Lu-
cinda Pauline, Dec. 28, 1926 (m. Charles Malcolm Brookfield Gilman, Jr.,
March 20, 1948); Joanne Steers, May 30, 1930, Thyrza Pope, Nov. 13,
1932. GRANDCHILD: Lucinda Day Gilman, Dec. 11, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Joseph Paul Day, Jr.,, 27; Charles Pope Day, ’27; Fair-
field Pope Day, ’36.

occuPATION: President and director, Joseph P. Day, Inc.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active Reservist, since 1938; went on active duty
as lieutenant, U.S. Naval Reserve, Selective Service Headquarters, New
York, N. Y., February, 1941; lieutenant commander, Office of the Secre-
tary of the Navy, Washington, D. C., 1942-44; commander, Office of
Military Government, in England, France, and Germany, 1944-453
awarded Army Commendation Medal.

oFFices HELD: Currently: president and director, Joseph P. Day, Inc.. New
York, Joseph P. Day, Inc. of Virginia, Tennessce Plateau Corporation,
Chattanooga, chairman of the board and director, Joseph P. Day Man-
agement Corporation, Joseph P. Day Building & Engincering Company,

[250]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Inc., Joseph P. Day Florida Realty Corporation, Sunnyfield Garden
Apartments, Linden, N. J., Day Brokerage Company, Inc.; vice-president
and director, Newman, Gooding, Inc.. New York Navy Chapter of
Reserve Officers Association; treasurer and trustee, Harvard Advocate
Trustees, Inc., Boston; member Mayor's Reception and United Nations
Committee of the City of New York; member Mayor’s Committee for
the Commemoration of the Golden Jubilee of the City of New York;
honorary fellow, The Valuers, Surveyors, and Estate Agents Association
of Great Britain, Ltd.; president, Real Estate Auctioneers Association of
New York City; governing councillor, Society of Industrial Realtors,
member National Panel of Arbitrators, American Arbitration Associa-
tion, Past: chairman, Navy Day for New Jersey, 1948, Third Mortgage
Bondholders’ Committee, Lincoln Building, New York, 1931-33; gover-

_ nor, Real Estate Board of New York, Inc., 1946-49; director, Estate of
Eugene A. Hoffman, Inc., New York, 1946-48, Young Men’s Board of
Trade, New York, 1935-37; co-trustee for Schulco in reorganization,
1936~41.

MEMBER OF: Military Order of Foreign Wars, Naval Order of the United
States; Navy League of the United States; Veterans of Foreign Wars;
American Legion; Sons of the Revolution; Society of Colonial Wars,
Mayflower Society; Pilgrim John Howland Society; Saint Nicholas
Society; Society of Friendly Sons of St. Patrick; New York Chamber
of Commerce; New York Board of Trade; New York Yacht Club;
River Club; University Club of New York; Harvard Club of New
York; The Lawyers Club; Economic Club; Touchdown Club; Army-
Navy Club, Washington, D. C.; University Club of Washington, D. C.;
Kenwood Country Club, Bethesda, Md.; Short Hills Club (governor);
Braidburn Country Club, Madison, N. J.; Bay Head Yacht Club, Bay
Head, N. J.

PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous newspaper articles in New York Times, New
York Herald Tribune, New York World-Telegram, New York Sun,
and New York Journal-American.

I GRADUATED with a degree in one hand and a marriage li-
cense in the other, and plans to prepare for a writing career, after
a year at Oxford. However, my father persuaded me to work
with him my first summer. It was during the Great Boom of 1925
when things were really popping, and I soon learned the Romance
of Real Estate, which was so well personified by my father. Since
then, my writing has been confined mostly to advertising and
business letters, which probably have brought better returns than
possible royalties on my unwritten books.

I started as an office boy, then pounded the pavements following
leads often dug up from the classified ads, and learning all phases
of a very complex and specialized organization. In brief, I was

[251]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

trained in all branches of real estate — industrial, appraisal, includ-
ing a couple of earlier years spent in learning the intricate details
of managing the world’s largest private recreational bathing
beaches — Manhattan, Oriental, and Brighton. Eventually, in
1932, I became office manager, later assistant general manager, and
in 1939, executive vice-president, general manager, and director of
Joseph P. Day, Inc.

In 1938 I joined the Naval Reserve as a lieutenant. During vaca-
tions I had done a lot of sailing, not only on the Eastern Seaboard,
but through the Bahamas and Cuba, mostly on the ketch of my
good friend, Hoffman Nickerson, Class of *11. Also, I was very
much aware of what was happening in international affairs and
felt war was imminent. If so, I had nothing to contribute as a real
estate broker.

I volunteered for active duty in February, 1941. After a year —
in New York City at Selective Service Headquarters, I was ordered
to Washington on industrial relations matters in the office of the
Secretary of the Navy. After three years there, I became a com-
mander, and was transferred to Military Government, going to
England, France, and ending up in Germany with General Mac-
Sherry, who was in charge of industrial manpower on General
Clay’s Staff. (The Military Government course at Badhamburg
was worse than any cramming at Widow Nolen’s.) My duties put
me in contact with all the allies, including the Russians. I found
some of these, individually, practical, friendly, and tired of war,
but, of course, all their actions were controlled by Moscow. What-
ever Joe says — they must do!

My three brothers, Joe, Jr., Class of ’27, Charlie, Class of °27,
and Fairfield, Class of ’36, volunteered for military service after
Pearl Harbor, as well as my brother-in-law, Art French, Class of
’29. My other brother-in-law, Red Barrett, Class of ’30, was al-
ready on active duty. During the war we all suffered a great per-
sonal loss — my father passed on.

On our return to civilian life, I was elected president of the com-
pany. Times had changed real estate-wise and on my return to
business I found a completely different real estate market from the
one I had left. Since hardly any construction had been done for
five years, the costs of labor and material were at an all-time new
high. All space, whether industrial, commercial, or residential,

[252]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

was at a premium, particularly as war-time industries were expand-
ing on peace-time projects with new industries entering the same
field.’ However, the real estate market is now about normal, in
line with the purchasing price of the dollar. The only thing miss-
ing is sufficient housing, particularly for those in the lower in-
come group—a most important problem we all must help to
solve. Lack of decent housing opens another door for communism
to enter.

. Although our company has always been a national concern, we
have greatly expanded this phase of it since the war. This has
given me an opportunity to travel and to see various classmates in
different parts of the coun

Our family life has been a happy one, spent mostly in Short
Hills and Bay Head, New Jersey. When my eldest daughter,
Linda, was married two years ago, our classmate, Rev. Fez Nich-
‘olls, performed the ceremony. And now we are grandparents.
Our second daughter, Jo, graduates from Centenary Junior Col-
lege this year, and next year our youngest daughter, Teddy, now
at Rosemary Hall, goes to Wellesley, which is about as near as I
could get her to Harvard! ©

I still play tennis, but expect to take up golf when I am a great-

grandpappy!

“HENRI pe CASTELLANE

BORN: Aug. 22, 1903, Paris, France. PARENTS: Stanislas de Castellane, Nathalie
Terry.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925.

MaRRIED: Silvia Rodriquez de Rivas, June 18, 1931, Seville, Spain. CHILDREN:
- Cordelia, April 24, 1932; Antoine, October, 1934.

pieD: March 7, 1937, Paris, France.

HENRI pe CASTELLANE came to Harvard in the fall of 1922
to learn English and American ways. He had rather thoroughly
mastered both when he had to leave after the midyear examina-
tions of his senior year.

While he was at Harvard Henri was popular and light-hearted
and his studies presented no great problems. He played a litde
football, some squash, and some indifferent tennis. He was a mem-
ber of the Fly Club.

[253]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

When he returned to France, he went to work for an American
oil company, and during his later years he worked in the Paris
office of Rhoades & Company, members of the New York Stock
Exchange.

He was survived by his wife and two children.

. + JOE pe GANAHL

BorN: Dec. 30, 1902, Tampico, Mexico. parents: Charles Francis de Ganahl,
Florence Wrotnobski.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Josephine Coombs, June 30, 1926, Scarsdale, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Charles, Aug. 30, 1927; Virginia, April 2, 1931.

pieD: July 21, 1943, near Sitka, Alaska.

wipow: Mrs. Joe de Ganahl, McLean, Va.

JOE pe GANAHL prepared at Hackley School, Tarrytown,

New York, before entering Harvard with the Class. In college he

was sub-chairman of the Photographic Committee, member of the

Red Book staff, the Junior Dance Committee, Senior Dormitory

Committee and the Senior Fndowment Committee. He served as

chairman of the Senior Album Committee, secretary of the Crizm-

son im 1922, and assistant managing editor in 1923. During his

junior year he was co-author of the Hasty Pudding Show, while

in his last year, he served as president of the Hackley School Club.

He held memberships in the Hasty Pudding Club-Institute of

1770, Speakers’ Club, Signet Society, and D.U. Club.

During the summer after receiving his A.B. degree with the
Class in June, 1925, he attended the Naval Reserve Aviation
School. The following winter he took Professor G. P. Baker’s
course in playwriting at Yale University, and at the same time he
worked on the New Haven Register. He left New Haven in the
spring of 1926 to go with the Byrd Arctic Expedition, On his re-
turn, and after short periods with the New Haven Register and the
White Plains Reporter in White Plains, New York, he joined Ad-
miral Byrd on his second expedition in August, 1928. He re-
turned to the White Plains Reporter in June, 1930, but left the
staff in March, 1934, to accept the position of code supervisor
with the Federal Alcohol Control Administration. In the Quin-
decennial Report he stated that he was principal enforcement

[254]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

supervisor of the Federal Alcohol Administration, while at the
same time he was attending George Washington University Law
School. He was admitted to the District of Columbia Bar in the
spring of 1939.

Serving as lieutenant commander, United States Naval Reserve,
he lost his life when the plane he was piloting crashed near Sitka,
Alaska. His wife and two children survived him.

HUBERT DENKER

ApprEss: 15 Ann Vinal Rd., Egypt, Mass.

BoRN: March 30, 1903, Dorchester, Mass. parents: William Denker,
Eleanora Teresa Di Fatta.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS AT COLLEGE: 1921-1924.

MARRIED: Olive L. Whitehead, Aug. 7, 1926, Boston, Mass. camp: James
Melvin, April 21, 1937.

OCCUPATION: Insurance.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Denker did not return a questionnaire.

WILLIAM De RHAM

HOME ADDRESS: 960 Park Ave., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: William De Rham Dancing Classes, 767 Lexington Ave,
New York, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 27, 1901, Newport, R. I. parents: Henry Casimir De Rham,
’04, Georgianna Berryman.

PREPARED at: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

MmarrieD: Ruth Ledyard, Nov. 8, 1928 (divorced 1930). cup: William,
Jr., Oct. 26, 1929.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Casimir De Rham, ’18; Stephen Whitney De Rham, ’27.

Occupation: Dancing school instructor (small children).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Squadron A, 1925-29; attending Plattsburg
Officers Training.

MEMBER OF: Racquet & Tennis Club; Everglades Club; Tuxedo Club.

I WORKED for six years with the Chrysler Corporation and prior
to that was in the insurance field. During the war I was at Con-
solidated Vultee Airplane Corporation at Allentown, Pennsylvania,
and also was an orderly in a hospital.

[255]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

JOHN HUNTINGTON DEVEREUX

HOME ADDRESS: 335 Hillside Ave. Douglaston, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE appress: J. Henry Schroder Banking Corp., 57 Broadway, New York,
N. ¥.

BoRN: Dec. 8, 1899, Seaford, N. Y. PARENTS: John Devereux, Sara Laughlin.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1926, DEGREE: S.B. 1925 (26).

MARRIED: Yes. CHILD: Son.

occuPaTIoN: Finance.

BETWEEN periods of illness I act as the economist for the
J. Henry Schroder Banking Corporation and its subsidiary, the
Schroder Trust Company, both of New York. At present I am
recovering from heart trouble, coronary thrombosis, and am un-
der the care of Dr. Steinberg, Class of 1924, who is a very able
heart specialist. Some of us are not impressed by obvious truths
until very late. At last, however, I realize that working under
nervous tension should be avoided and that emotional equilibrium
should be maintained if one is to stay in good physical condition,
It is taking me a long time to get well but I hope to be in good
health by the time of the Reunion.

I still vote Republican, yet long ago I gave up hope that any
party which may be in federal office will reverse the existing trend
towards some form of socialism. Little prospect appears that we
shall have relief from the evils of big government, heavy taxes, and
irredeemable currency. In some quarters it is thought that the
“welfare state” is losing support. I shall believe this when it be-
comes possible for our gold supply to pass into the hands of its
rightful owners through exchange for paper money.

My son, John, will graduate from Yale in June, 1950. Yale was
his own choice; I disclaim responsibility. He has, however, proved
himself to be a student. Since entering college at sixteen he has
consistently stood well within the first ten per cent of his class.
Probably this is due to the Harvard blood in his veins.

RUSSELL DEWART

HOME AND OFFICE AppRess: 156 Springficld St., Chicopee, Mass. .

BorN: Nov. 28, 1901, Boston, Mass. parents: William Herbert Dewart, Eliza-
beth Haven Russell.

prepare aT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass,

[256]



—_ _

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

which were becoming more and more strenuous. Ordination in
1946 somewhat relieved the pressure allowing more time for build-
ing up a suburban church, and for ministering to the needs of a
united and tolerant parish.

From there in the story is pretty much the same, except that
there is a change of location, and a change in suit as far as the
offspring are concerned. We have been settled for two years in
Grace Church, Chicopee, a large industrial community between
Springfield and Holyoke, Massachusetts. The Anglo-Saxon stock
and the Episcopal Church are far outnumbered by other races and
denominations. But there are valuable opportunities to codperate
with other churches in the several fields that we have in common,
and to work together for the benefit of the community, and the
wider extension of the Christian influence.

Home life continues to be pretty rugged as the boys approach
adolescence. Most of my classmates have seen the last of those
years still ahead of us, which, we are told, try the patience of the
most heroic parents. Our last baby, born a year ago, is a girl. We
believe she was sent to act as a kind of leaven — to tone down the
atmosphere with her tempering element, which she is already
doing with good effect.

In addition to parish duties I serve on several departments of the
diocese with headquarters in nearby Springfield. As chaplain for
the Greater Springfield Council of Churches I have set up a pro- |
gram designed to further the codperation between doctors and
clergymen, and to develop a more effective ministry to the sick.
This included a Seminar at the Springfield Hospital where Otis
Rice was one of the outstanding speakers.

It is not always possible for a clergyman’s family to put down
roots. I believe that this is desirable in the uncertain era in which
we live, especially where children are concerned. We hope some
day to settle in a community not too far from Boston where we
began our married life, and where so many of our friends now live.
Until that time comes we are gaining valuable experience in a
mission parish which calls for plenty of hard work.

We make the most of a summer home in the French-Canadian
village of Tadoussac where the Saguenay River runs into the St.
Lawrence. Each summer we go there for a few weeks, and the
boys already call it home.

[258 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

My family is a source of pride to me and my two elder boys
will be seeking to matriculate at some college in the all too near
future. Their interests run to mechanics with time out for football
(do I dare mention the word in a Harvard Report?). Engineering
catalogues are beginning to arrive at the house. My only daughter
is very happy with piano and dancing lessons and my youngest
son is still in the Roy Rogers cap pistol age.

Vacations have been taken in August and spent in the Montana
Rockies and Canadian Rockies, with lots of hiking and trout fish-
ing and boating and swimming with those clear, bright days and
cool nights to add joy to living. Won't some of you classmates
look me up? But don’t expect to find me home in August.

WILLIAM PALMER DIXON

HOME ADDRESS: 550 Park Ave. New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE appress: Carl M{. Loeb, Rhoades & Co., 61 Broadway, New York 6,
N. Y.

BorN: March 19, 1902, New York, N, Y. parents: William H. Dixon,
Josephine Theodora Wuilhams.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.; Eton College, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Theodora Thorpe, April 9, 1926, New York, N. Y. (divorced
1938); Joan Deery Wetmore, Feb. 21, 1941. CHILDREN: Palmer, July 1,
1928; Peter Thorpe, March 3, 1930, Jonathan, Dec. 18, 1945, William
T. Wetmore, Nov. 29, 1930 (stepson).

Harvard sons: Palmer Dixon, ’51; Peter Thorpe Dixon, °52; William T.
Wetmore, ’53.

OCCUPATION: Investment banker.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Colonel, U. S. Army Air Force; director of
Intelligence, gth Air Force; Legion of Merit with Oak Leaf Cluster,
Belgium Croix de Guerre with Palm.

MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club, Harvard Club of New York; The
Recess, Madison Square Garden Club; White’s Club, London, England.

NORMAN LEWIS DODGE

Home avpress: 55 Hills View Rd., Milton 86, Mass.

orice aporess: Goodspeed’s Book Shop, 18 Beacon St., Boston 8, Mass.

Born: Sept. 13, 1901, Sumerville, Mass. PARENTS: Hermon Leighton Dodge,
Annie Lydia Pauly.

purpanio at: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEAKS IN OULLEGE: 192171925. DEGKER: 8.8. magna cum laude, tgrs.

[ 260 J

en gesscsommeinienit

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Louise Gallaher, March 17, 1933, Wollaston, Mass. cup: Philip
L., Feb. 17, 1935.
occuPATION: Bookseller.

JAMES JOSEPH DOHERTY

HOME appREss: 14 Pearl St., Franklin, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 20, 1901, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Daniel Francis Doherty,
Augusta B. Williams.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922, 1923-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MarRiED: Anna F. Lynch, April 18, 1927, Cambridge, Mass. cut-pren: Nancy,
June 19, 1928; James Joseph, Jr., Aug. 21, 1929; John Charles, May 12,
1932.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Andrew Doherty, ’16 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Principal, Franklin High School.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: 1st lieutenant, Air Corps.

ROBERT DOUGLAS DONALDSON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 540 Woodlawn Ave., Glencoe, Il.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Montgomery Ward & Co., Inc., 319 W. Chicago Ave.
. Chicago, Ill.

BORN: Oct. 18, 1902, Lincoln, Mass. parents: Robert Douglas Donaldson,
Charlotte H. Alcock.

PREPARED AT: Concord High School, Concord, Mass.; Phillips Academy,
Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH. ENGIN. AND BUS. ADMIN.
cum laude, 1926.

MARRIED: Dorothy Elizabeth Lloyd, July 12, 1929, Pontiac, Mich. cHtLpREN:
Priscilla, Nov. 27, 1932; Elizabeth Ann, June 2, 1935.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Malcolm Lincoln Donaldson, ’26; Donald Price Donald-
son, ’28; Gordon Alcock Donaldson, ’31.

OccuPATION: Manager, office machine control, Montgomery Ward, Inc.

I STAYED on a year after the Class was graduated and completed
the combined course in the engineering and business schools. I
then went to work for General Motors at Pontiac, Michigan,
where I spent three interesting years on the proving grounds and
in the experimental department of what is now the Pontiac Divi-
sion.

It was in Pontiac that I met Dorothy and in the summer of 1929
we became the principals in her father’s five-hundredth wedding
ceremony,

[ 261 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

I had decided I would be happier in the selling field and in the
fall of 1929 we moved to Massachusetts and settled in Lincoln for
what tured out to be the longest stay in one place in the last
twenty years. We lived in Lincoln eight years and Sally and Betsy
were both born there. I dabbled a little in politics, serving as town
moderator for two years and as selectman for five.

During the latter part of this period I was a salesman in the -
tabulating machines division of Remington Rand, Inc. In 1938 I
became a manager for Remington at New Haven and in 1942 I
held a similar position in Philadelphia. In 1945 1 went to Chicago
on a two-week assignment which developed into two years. When
the time came to move again we were faced with the problem of
returning to New York and continuing our nomadic life or Jeav-
ing Remington and staying in Chicago. The family had taken the
moves in stride—in fact they enjoyed them — but school was
becoming more and more important and so we decided to settle
here. 1 admit we were influenced by the excellent school facilities
of the North Shore. In 1947 we bought a home in Glencoe and
I joined Montgomery Ward & Company.

We have quite an active household — in fact, there are times
when it resembles the Vanderhofs in You Can’t Take It With You.
The condition, I find, is normal wherever there are teen-agers.
Next year Sally will be away at college and Betsy will be a fresh-
man in New Trier High School.

I have two hobbies. One is electronic calculating equipment
which, I believe, will someday play a very important role in busi-
ness and industry. The other is the Great Books. Dorothy and I

joined a first-year group last fall and I have become a co-leader.
It is a lot of fun. As the children grow up and develop their own
interests or go off to college, the Great Books offer an activity
which husband and wife can share. They present a stimulating
and enriching experience and I can heartily recommend them to
any members of the Class who haven’t yet discovered them.

+ ARTHUR PATRICK DONOVAN

BorN: Oct. 11, 1886, Lynn, Mass. parents: Daniel Joseph Donovan, Mary
Elizabeth Cain.

TRANSFERRED WROM: Dartmouth College, Hanover, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1927. DEGRYE: 8B. 1925(27).

{ 262 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

UNMARRIED,
Diep: Jan. 31, 1938, Peabody, Mass.
BROTHER: J. Edward Donovan, 110 Kensington Lane, Swampscott, Mass.

ARTHUR PATRICK DONOVAN was a member of the Class
of 1911 at Dartmouth where he became known for his tenor voice.
For several years prior to the first World War he was engaged as
a designer of women’s shoes in his home town.

When the United States entered the war, he joined the service
and spent some time in France doing military intelligence and
liaison work, for which his linguistic ability stood him in good
stead. In 1918 he was forced to become inactive because of in-
juries sustained when a shell burst. For many months his nervous
system seemed hopelessly impaired. He was returned to this coun-
try for treatment.

After several years he was able to leave the hospital as his
physical condition showed substantial improvement, but his mem-
ory was still very much clouded. It was decided to send him back
to college as a therapeutic and rehabilitative measure in the hope
that the activity and surroundings would help to restore lost asso-
ciations and bring his memory up to date, as well as give him a
profession. Accordingly he entered Harvard in our Class with
the intention of eventually studying architecture.

A good deal of his memory was restored. Always gregarious,
cheerful, and friendly, he had an ever-widening circle of cordial
acquaintances around the Yard. But his physical frailties and his
nervous instability caused him to abandon plans for graduate work
in architecture. Older by many years than the average of his
classmates, he took small part in most undergraduate activities.
After receiving his S.B. degree as a member of our Class, he never
communicated with the Class Secretary. His friends learned from
time to time that he was engaged in writing for magazines and that
he had travelled a good deal. In 1932 he suffered a recurrence of
trouble from the injuries he had received in the first World War.
He was for three years under a doctor’s care in a hospital. In 1935
he was able to take employment as a field engineer with the Fed-
eral Emergency Relief Administration in Boston. Two years later
he was associated with the Veterans Administration in Washing-
ton. Still later he found a position as auditor attached to the fi-
nance division of the United States Navy Department, stationed

[ 263 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

at the Charlestown Navy Yard. Here he was able to resume

choral singing once more — an activity in which he had partici-

pated with the Harvard Glee Club and at Dartmouth — and
became a member of the Harvard Alumni Chorus.

On January 31, 1938, the car in which he was returning with
friends from the Salem Country Club skidded in the snow and
crashed into a tree in the town of Peabody. He died as a result of
injuries sustained in the crash.

GERALD DALE DORMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 14 FE. goth St., New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE appress: New York Life Insurance Co., 51 Madison Ave., New
York 10, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 12, 1903, Beirut, Lebanon. parents: Harry Gaylord Dorman,
’96, Mary Bliss Dale.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B, 1925; M.D. (Coll. of Physicians
and Surgeons, Columbia), 1929.

marriep: Georgia Foster White, June 29, 1929, Brookline, Mass. cHtLpREN:
Gerald Huntington, Apnil 18, 1931; Dale Foster, Feb. 23, 1934.

HaRvaRD soN: Gerald Huntington Dorman, ’52.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Harry Gaylord Dorman, '26, Daniel Bliss Dorman, 732;
John Dorman, 36; David Dorman, ’46.

occupation; Medical director, Employees’ Welfare Department, New York
Life Insurance Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Private, to corporal, to sergeant, New York
Nauonal Guard, 1926-29; captain, Officers Reserve Corps, 1941; de-
tachment commander, surgeon, executive officer, and intelligence ofh-
cer, 2nd Evacuation Hospital (St. Luke’s Hospital, New York), Jan.
22, 5942-Nov, 2, 1945; promoted major, April 15, 1943; promoted
lieutenant colonel, March 15, 1944; served in North Ireland, England,
Scotland, Wales, France, Belgium, and Germany with First U. S. Army;
landed Omaha Beach D416, supported attack on St. Lo, the counter
attack at Vire, a rough month outside Paris, supported attack on
Aachen, Hurtgen Forest, north shoulder of the Bulge (Ardennes),
crossed Rhine at Remagen Bridge, ended mecting the Russians near
Leipzig; currently commanding officer, 808 Station Hospital, Army of
U. S., Officers’ Reserve Corps.

orrices 141D: Permanent class president, Class of 1919, College of Physicians
and Surgeons, Columbia University; vice-chairman, Committee of

Medical Economics, New York County Medical Society.
memnem of: New York County Medical Society; American Medical Asso-
ciation, Association of Industrial Physicians and Surgeons; Association

[ 264 ]

 

SNORE, of gteuk GF

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of Military Surgeons; Harvard Club of New York; Riverdale Yacht
Club; St. Luke’s Hospital Alumni Association.
PUBLICATIONS: Chapter on “Industrial Medicine,” Collier's Encyclopedia.

ON GRADUATION from Harvard, I moved to the College of
Physicians and Surgeons (Columbia) in New York City — room-
ing in the Hell’s Kitchen district — and betwixt the gay lights of
Broadway and the Hudson River waterfront, added more than
medical science to my lore. In the summer of 1927, I joined the
P. & S. unit of the Grenfell Mission, spending the summer on the
Labrador at Spotted Islands and vicinity, caring for the sick and
helping with building, teaching, and administration problems,
with an occasional side trip of hunting and fishing. During my
final year in Medical School, we moved up to the large New
Presbyterian Medical Center at 168th Street, New York City,
where, as president and marshal, I led the senior class at the grad-
uation exercises.

My hardest problem during these years was to keep Georgia
White of Brookline convinced that I’d be back, but on June 2oth,
1929, I married her in Central Church, Boston, and then took her
on a six months’ trip to the Mediterranean, visiting Lisbon, Naples,
Sicily, Athens, Istanbul, and then a trip through Syria, Lebanon,
and Palestine. We saw the prehistoric caves, the temples of Baal,
the biblical scenes and the crusader castles. When we arrived at
my father’s summer home in the Lebanon Mountains, the Arabs
put on a week’s wedding festival with delegations in Arab dress
coming in fifty to one hundred strong from neighboring villages,
shooting off their guns, and then engaging in sword dances, min-
stre] singing, and folk dances, culminating in the ceremonial intro-
duction of bride and groom. Few girls would have carried off the
Boston church wedding, followed by the mediaeval pageantry of
an Arab wedding feast in a foreign tongue with Georgia’s aplomb.
The first breakfast she got me was cooked with melting snow on
the summit of Mt. Hermon, ten thousand feet high in the ruins of
an old temple of Baal.

In December, 1929, we returned to New York City for my
surgical internship at St. Luke’s Hospital. At that time married
interns were frowned on and Georgia almost felt like a kept
woman in our small apartment nearby. After the birth of our son
on April 18, 1931, we had to move to larger quarters and with the

[ 265 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

mountain air, then we pulled back near Bad Neuheim and in July,
I was ordered home via Rheims and Paris, completing the trip by
air. Fortunately V-J Day saved me the trip to the Pacific.

In the three years I was away, my son, Gerry, had grown to
61” and my daughter, Dale, was entering junior high at Spence
School. Much of their adolescence I missed, and Georgia deserves
great credit for the difficult job she carried out at home and the
training she gave them. They moved back into the City when
lack of suburban help and wartime rationing made it advisable.

On my return, I was offered the job of Medical Director in
charge of Employees’ Welfare at the New York Life Insurance
Company, and after weighing the pros and cons of rebuilding a
surgical practice that had lapsed for four years, I accepted the
position. Gone are the night calls, the emergencies, the suddenly
cancelled picnics, football games, interrupted theatres, and with
regular hours from nine to five, five days a week, I have more time
for my family and outside activities. I am active in the County
Medical Society and in the Officers Reserve Corps. I get to two
or three medical conventions each year and I find that “industrial
medicine” still keeps my hand in as a physician, although I do
little surgery.

Dale is vice-president of her junior class at the Spence School in
New York City and is active in the dramatic club and the science
club. Gerry graduated with high honors from Trinity School in
New York City, where he was a member of the football and track
teams, as well as the Glee Club, the Dramatic Club, the school
paper, the student council, and was the Year Book editor. He
passed the Naval R.O.T.C. exams and entered Harvard as a reserve
midshipman. He was on the freshman athletic committee. He is
now in his sophomore year and played against Yale on the Win-
throp House football team. During the summer of 1949 he was on
the second Missouri midshipman cruise which included a week in
Cherbourg with a five-day trip to Paris and a day at Mt. Saint
Michel, checking over some of the places we'd fought over.

Georgia talks of resuming her oil painting when Dale is off at
college but where she can fit it in with everything else she does —
seeing our friends, helping out at the hospitals, church activities,
and running our home — I’m sure I can’t see. Living in New York
City, we keep running into friends coming through or on for a

[ 268 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

visit. United Nations has made this city the capital of the world
and we find it ever fascinating and stimulating to live here.

EDWARD MILLS DOUGLAS

HOME ADDRESS: 120 East End Ave., New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: International Business Machines Corp. 590 Madison Ave.,
New York 22, N. Y.

BoRN: Dec. 21, 1903, New Rochelle, N. Y. parents: Charles Malcolm Doug-
las, Maude Hunt Mills.

PREPARED AT: Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

MARRIED: Katherine Whiting Willauer, July 7, 1934, Vineyard Haven,
Mass. CHILDREN: Katherine Whiting, May 3, 1935; Elizabeth Mills, Dec.
22, 1938; Malcolm Edward, Oct. 30, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and director, International Business Machines
Corporation.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Industry and/or division chairman, 3rd, qth,
and 5th war bond drives; industry chairman, Natignal War Fund, New
York, N. Y.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Grand Jury Association of New York County,
Greater New York Safety Council; president, 1948-49, director, Office
Equipment Manufacturers Institute, member board of managers,
William Sloane House, Y.M.C.A.; vice-president, Cerebral Palsy Society
of New York City; board member, Y.M.C.A.; chairman board of
trustees, Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.; treasurer, Harvard Club
of New York.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of New Jersey;
Harvard Club of Martha’s Vineyard; Ex-members Association, Squad-
ron A; China Institute of America; Sales Executives Club; Advertising
Club; Metropolitan Club; Visiting Committee, Department of Anthro-
pology and Peabody Museum, Harvard University; National Association
of Cost Accountants; Economic Club; National Air Council; English
Speaking Union; Pilgrims of United States; Newcomen Society;
France-America Society; U. S. Savings Bond Division, Treasury De-
partment; New York State Industry Committee.

THE summer of 1925 offered far more chances for employment
to the college graduate than the current year, 1950. My own per-
sonal case was no exception to the rule, as at graduation I found
myself exposed to many interesting opportunities: the investment
business, the insurance field, textiles, manufacturing, and so on.
During my four years at Harvard I was frequently reminded
by my father, an Episcopalian clergyman who for thirty-six years
guided with considerable acumen the destinies of a growing parish

[ 269 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

at Short Hills, New Jersey, that there was a splendid divinity
school right around the corner at Cambridge. Somehow I never
saw eye to eye with him in following the ecclesiastical profession
nor, for that matter, could I quite subscribe to joining the well-
trodden trail of the middle twenties which headed towards Wall
Street. -

It had happened at the end of my junior year that I enjoyed the
splendid opportunity of travelling in Europe and England for
three months. Before embarking on that trip, however, I had had
a chance to visit the offices of a company not too well known at
that time but which since has grown to considerable size and in-
tegrity and now stands shoulder to shoulder with the leaders in
American industry. I refer to the International Business Machines
Corporation, more commonly known world-wide today as IBM.
Later, during the summer of 1925, while considering upon what
career to embark, I decided that I would like very much to work
for the IBM company. This conclusion was reached after I had
seen some of the extraordinary products of that company which
were in operation in the offices of another firm with which I was
considering employment.

So in the fall of 1925 I joined IBM as a trainee in the New York
Sales Office. About ten months later I was transferred to Newark,
New Jersey, where I remained until the winter of 1933, working
first as a senior sales representative and later, in 1927, as manager
of our accounting machine division at that office. During this
period at Newark I suppose that two of my greatest avocational
interests were playing metropolitan squash tennis and the Harvard
Club of New Jersey, a great traditional institution which I served
for a number of years as treasurer, later becoming a vice-president
and then president. I still retain my keen interest in this august
body, although now that I am living out of the state it is difficult
for me to attend meetings regularly.

In 1933 A.C. (After the Crash) I was assigned to New York
City, IBM’s largest sales office, in a similar management capacity
but with its attendant responsibilities. Here I served nearly three
‘years until the fall of 1935 when, because of the expanding activi-

ties of the company, the management decided to create eight sales
districts in the United States. 1 was given charge of what was then

[ 270 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

known as District #1, an area which comprised all the New Eng-
land states.

I might say, and this is not in passing either, that while I partici-
pated in the closing of many important sales during my assignment
with the company in New York City, I am quite willing to admit
that the most significant sale of all was consummated in the winter
of 1934. In that year I was finally successful in selling a bill of
matrimony to a young lady by the name of Katherine Whiting
Willauer who led me a merry chase for four or five months before
she condescended to sign the contract. I say “merry chase” ad-
visedly because during the latter part of 1933 she moved her base
of operations temporarily to the West Coast and in order to keep
my stock at a continuing high level it was necessary quite fre-
quently to incur some telephone bills of substantial proportions,
Well, to make a long story short, we had a colorful garden wed-
ding on July 7, 1934. I say colorful because the garden was replete
with all kinds of flowers and the bridesmaids wore dresses of
different pastel shades.

Early in the following May, 1935, Miss Kate Douglas presented
herself at Doctor’s Hospital, New York. Obviously she must have
been born under the star of the Kentucky Derby because she has
developed into quite an equestrienne, a somewhat odd fact as her
father has never been on a horse in his life. She also has acquired
a passion for dogs which appears odd in view of the fact that her
father’s animal affection is largely for cats. And lastly, she has
shown some excellent imaginative ability in art work which is still
more odd since her father was never able to draw anything beyond
a check.

My stay in New England as district manager for the IBM com-
pany was a most interesting tour of duty. It gave me a broader
insight into our business, enlarged my area of varied management
responsibility, and gave me a wealth of excellent experience, op-
erating under real Yankee traditions. I found, too, that selling was
not as easy in New England as in other sections of the country
where I had been, but I found that once a down-east Yankee is
sold he stays sold, and there is still no greater advertisement than
a satisfied customer.

During this period, while I headquartered in Boston, the Doug-
las family lived in Dedham, a community for which we shall

[271]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

always have a soft spot in our hearts because we made so many fine
friends and acquaintances and had a chance to participate very
considerably in the life of the community. I might add that we
enjoy returning to Dedham periodically in order to keep alive
those old friendships which continue to mean so much to us,
While we were there Betty Douglas, our second daughter, pre-
sented herself, virtually on the eve of the 1938 Yuletide season. I
suppose her first public claim to fame lay in the fact that we
designed her arrival notice to look like a Christmas card that year,
conveniently killing two birds with one stone.

In 1939 the IBM marketing areas were revised again, and I re-
turned to Newark as manager of our office there at my own re-
quest, for family reasons. First we lived in Short Hills which I
have always looked upon as the old family seat, and Jater in Mor-
ristown, a community which in my humble opinion more nearly
approaches the spirit of the New England township than any that
I know of in New Jersey. Here again my wife and 1 made many
acquaintances as did the children, who were then growing up, and
we like to revisit this part of the country often to look up our old

friends.

In the fall of 1942 I was called to the IBM world headquarters
in New York City. At this office I served as sales promotion di-
rector and later as executive assistant until May, 1946, when our
board of directors elected me to the position of vice-president

Later that same year I was accorded a further honor when I was

elected to the IBM board of directors.

Not to overlook the Douglas family life, I must retrace my
steps to the spring of 1943 when my wife and I decided that she
had had enough country life and I had had enough commuting so
‘we moved into a New York City apartment where we have been
ardent and devoted cliff dwellers ever since. That fall the Hal-
loween stork arrived carrying the son and heir, an eight-and-a-

half-pound package who was nicknamed Teddy. Here endeth

the roll-call of the Douglas children.

My interest and enthusiasm for Harvard remains keen and I
have enjoyed my long associations, as mentioned above, with the
Harvard Club of New Jersey as well as the Harvard Club of New
York, of which I am now treasurer. During the past four years

[272]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I have participated in the activities and regularly attended the
meetings of the Associated Harvard Clubs.

In the matter of political adherence I would say that with occa-
sional exceptions I have been voting a fairly regular Democratic
ticket right along and from where I sit, in spite of some differences
of opinion, the country seems to be making progress.

In my long association with IBM I have had the rare opportunity
to travel in virtually every‘state in the union and obtain a broad
perspective of our people and resources. Also, as president (1948-
49) of the Office Equipment Manufacturers Institute, our trade
association, I have been brought face to face with the tremendous
scope of our industry and the part it is playing in the economy of
the world of today and will play in the world of tomorrow.

Since I am associated with an international company and live in
New York City, proximate to Lake Success, I have been exposed
in recent years to the great works of the United Nations. In fact,
in the summer of 1949, I accepted a liaison post on the citizens
committee set up to sponsor a variety of field trips for foreign
delegates attending the meeting of the United Nations Conference
on the conservation and utilization of resources, the first tangible
evidence of action taken since the President’s announced Four
Point Program. Although this activity was in a new area for me,
I must say the results were gratifying both to us and to the Depart-
ment of the Interior.

In conclusion the Class Secretary has inquired into our hobbies.
This is a large order. Aside from family and business I have fre-
quent bursts of enthusiasm for photography, both still and moving,
and pride myself on never having used an exposure meter. A li-
brary is also a great hobby and I must say I enjoy mine. Violent
athletics such as hockey, touch football, squash tennis, etc., have
gradually gone by the board in recent years, but summering
regularly at Martha’s Vineyard Island permits all sports attendant
to the salt water. Fishing, I suppose, heads the list in my case.
I claim an interest in sailing but only as a member of the crew, as
my wife is the perennial skipper.

STERLING DOW

HOME ApprEss: 36 Holden St., Cambridge 38, Mass.
OFFICE ApprEss: Widener Library 690, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

[273 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

BORN: Nov. 19, 1903, Portland, Maine. parents: Sterling Tucker Dow, Alice
Gertrude Verrill.

PREPARED aT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. cut laude, 1925; A.M., 1928;
PHD., 1936.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Sanderson Flagg, June 5, 1931, Andover, Mass. cHILpRen:
Elizabeth, July 14, 1932; Sterling, 3d, Jan. 25, 1934.

occupation: Teacher and student of Greek and Greek history; John EF.
Hudson Professor of Archaeology, Harvard University.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Civilian member, Office of Strategic Services,
Washington, Cairo, and Alexandria, 1942-44.

oFFicks HELD: Fiske Scholar, Trinity College, Cambridge, England, 1925-26;
Guggenheim Fellow and recipient of various Harvard scholarships (for
study and excavation in Greece), 1931-36; instructor and tutor, 1936-41,
associate professor, 1941-46, professor of history and of Greek, 1946-49,
Harvard; war achivist, Harvard, Dec. 1, 1944-July 1, 1945; president,
1946-48, honorary president, since 1949, Archaeological Institute of
America; chairman, Council of the Alumni Association of the American
School of Classical Studies in Athens, 1946; trustee, American Schools
of Oriental Research, 1946-48, School of American Research, Santa
Fe, 1946-48; delegate, 1947-48, vice-president, since 1949, American
Classical League; editor, Bulletin of the Archaeological Institute of
America, 1946-48, advisory editor, American Journal of Archaeology,
since 1946; co-founder, 1948, associate editor, since 1948, Archaeology.

MEMBER OF: Archaeological Institute of America (sustaining); American
Philological Association (life member); American Classical League,
American Historical Association; Society for the Promotion of Hellenic
Studies (London: honorary member); Phi Beta Kappa (honorary mem-
ber); Tavern Club, Boston.

PusLications: About sixty articles and reviews in various archaeological,
philological, and historical journals in America and abroad, Prytaneis:
Decrees Honoring the Athenian Councillors.

PERHAPS I am not the only one who remembers that one morn-
ing in September, 1921, at nine o’clock, a lot of us listened to our
first college lecture. The subject was the Historical Geography of
Europe, the course was History 1, and the lecturer was Charles
Homer Haskins. It was the first contact with a powerful scholarly
mind, and it was impressive. In a dim sort of way, I think we all
began to realize that we had chosen a good college.

It takes a long time to appreciate at all fully the things that mean
most to us, such as parents or college. It has taken me, at least, a
long time to realize that in the 1920’s Harvard’s greatest generation
of scholar-teachers was at its peak. As undergraduates always do,
we saw the men as men, especially the odd “characters,” and over-

L274]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

rated some of them. We missed many of the scholars, minds of

the first calibre, who were quietly teaching smaller numbers, and

who have since shown that they had more to give than some of
the spectacular figures.

But there was ability and achievement in nearly every depart-
ment at Harvard. People, including undergraduates, had time to
read and to think. They had the opportunity to do as Whitehead
has advised us all to do, “to live habitually in the presence of great-
ness.” If they felt like it, they could start right out to try and
learn the essence of truth, of beauty, and of goodness. Of course
the effort might not get very far. In my own gropings, philosophy
provided a cure for some delusions, a few solid beliefs, and an
inclusive sort of method — but too little substantial human con-
tent. At our parent University, Cambridge, in 1926, I therefore
turned back to history. Cambridge is a university where one and
the same spirit of hard patient research and trained imagination are
found throughout, in philosophy, science, history, classical studies,
and economics. Cambridge has a definite unity of tradition—a
common sense agreed upon and elevated to a high plane — which
Harvard with its individualistic American diversity lacks.

- Yet it was not Harvard nor Cambridge but living for a time in
classical Rome itself which turned me to the study of the classical
world. I had come to feel that deep and interesting human truths
were bound up in the thousand-year histories of Greece and
Rome, histories that have a beginning, a middle, and an end, so
that you can see them in perspective. Back at Harvard in 1927, I
sought out William Scott Ferguson, whose students I had seen
lingering after every lecture in order to listen to him longer. “It is
a severe discipline,” were his first words to me, and he proved to
be correct. It is one thing to bask in the presence of greatness and
- quite another thing to work towards it. Yet all of us who worked
with Ferguson — certainly the most penetrating and massive in-
tellect in humane studies at Harvard, and the most finished
scholar — found that the inspiration more than balanced the ele-
ment of discipline.

One simple test of the quality of a university is what its under-
graduates publish. In 1927 a sophomore founded the Hound and
Horn, a Harvard Miscellany. Samuel Eliot Morison has called this
easily the greatest of Harvard undergraduate publications; in fact

[275 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

gauge the queer electrical weather of the ionosphere. When the
chips were down and a grim war was on, it turned out that only a
very few centers could offer the brains that were needed. That is
why these projects were at Harvard; projects attempted elsewhere
often had to be salvaged by being brought to Cambridge. As in
the twenties, again it was the young men who came forward —
young men of various ages (because age has no necessary connec-
tion with chronology). A second-year graduate student in physics
spent over a million dollars, and spent it well; every time you ride
on a plane, the chances are that you benefit by his work. Howard
Aiken’s Automatic Sequence Controlled Calculators began writing
books, of which our Press has printed several. These books con-
tain the results of thousands of calculations each too intricate for
the human brain to make in any reasonable time. Aiken and his
Calculator’s books symbolize Harvard’s period of Science, just as
Kirstein and his Hound and Horn symbolize the Humane 1920's.
It was my job as War Archivist to try to collect historical records
of all this, with help from U. H. Crocker, ’25, in the Treasurer’s
Office. .

The present period at Harvard has many aspects, but the most
prominent is the one pointed towards National Leadership. ‘There
is no need to elaborate here on all that our President has done per-
sonally in this direction. Whatever we may think of “General
Education” (different in the Sciences, doubtless, from what it is
in the so-called “Social Sciences” and in the Humanities), the
phrase at least, and doubtless many needed reforms, are spread
across the country. In many specific activities, several of them
initiated by the Provost, Harvard is providing national leadership;
and the list of college presidents trained here is impressive. Since
the war, more than ever, national organizations of scholars have
looked to Harvard for leadership: at the present writing those of
Archaeology, Classics, History, and Science have Harvard presi-
dents. These jobs are somewhat too challenging and only about
half enjoyable. The one I happened to have involved trying to
stop an uninterrupted seventeen-year decline, and it was a tribute
to Harvard’s powers in national leadership, rather than to any one

person, that the Archaeological Institute of America looked to
Cambridge for constructive help.

In this age of loose thinking and mistaken policies, leadership is

[278 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

needed. Nevertheless, I hope that this phase of Harvard’s history,
however exciting and pleasant, will be restricted. When more and
more scholars are turning (or being turned) to administration, or
into “popularizing,” it is scholarly research which needs to be
kept alive. Scholarly research — disinterested, imaginative, funda-
mental, hard, and lonely — is the source of all else. About Pericles,
and still more about Homer, much of our knowledge is still grop-
ing, and we are only now in the midst of learning, through excava-
tions, a little more about the most thorough democracy in history,
that of classical Athens.

LEONARD DRURY DRAPER

HOME ADDRESS: 302 W, 12th St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDREss: Manufacturers Trust Co., 55 Broad St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 3, 1902, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Leonard Drury Draper, Ida
Davis McKay.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925 (26); M.B.A., 1928.

MarRiED: Evelyn Kaylor Mallett, Nov. 25, 1933, New York, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Jackson Draper, '27.

OCCUPATION: Assistant in management of bank and fiduciary investments.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Private, 81st Division, October, 1942—May, 1943.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant vice-president, Manufacturers Trust Company.

FOLLOWING graduation from Business School in 1928 I went
into the securities business with Paine Webber & Company in
Boston, subsequently transferring to the New York office in 1932.
I spent the years 1935-38 with a New York investment counsel
firm and in 1938 went with the Manufacturers Trust Company in
the securities department where I have since remained.

My travels have been limited to a visit to the West Coast in 1928,
Europe in 1930, and Mexico in 1931.

In October, 1942, I went into the Army as a trainee and spent
six months in the 81st Division Infantry at Camp Rucker, Alabama.
I was discharged along with the other forty-year-olds for reasons
of age.

Politically I have been on the losing side for many years.

Most of my leisure time is spent at a small place we acquired
before the war in Belle Terre, New York, on Long Island Sound,
where I manage to keep busy gardening, boating, and swimming.

[279]

HARVARD CLASS OF 192 5

BOYD HIGGINS DUNBAR

HOME AppRrEss: 1 Harvard St. Wellesley 81, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Telephone & Telegraph Co., 185 Franklin
St., Boston 7, Mass,

Born: May 10, 1903, East Orland, Maine. parents: Arthur Greenleaf
Dunbar, Ettie Maud Higgins.

PREPARED AT: East Maine Conference Seminary, Bucksport, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: $.B. cu laude, 1925.

ararrieD: Elizabeth D. Chase, March 4, 1934, Brooklyn, N. Y. CHILDREN;
Ronald C., Oct. 26, 1935; Meredith F., Sept. 12, 1938.

occupation: Assistant Treasurer, New England Telephone & Telegraph
Company.

SOME twenty-five years ago, while weeping over prohibition

beers in the Georgian Restaurant, several members of the Class of

1925 decided to predict each other’s destinies for the next quarter-

century. These prophecies were carefully, if not maliciously, de-

vised, typed very neatly and tied very prettily with bright ribbons.

Unfortunately my copy has since disappeared and my memory is

a little dimmed. .

The parts I remember about myself were that I would eventu-
ally have some sort of government job, possibly in the Department
of Agriculture or of the Interior, that I would marry a “buxom
country lass,” and that I would have various progeny. There were
numerous prognostications regarding dearth of teeth and hair
which I have conveniently forgotten.

Actually the prophecy regarding my occupation, clothed as it
was in ambiguity, was devilishly accurate. True, I am one of the
few living Americans not on a government payroll, and yet the
interesting part of my income is swallowed by it. While I can
proclaim my freedom from direct and unopposed bureaucratic
servitude, I am, nevertheless, enmeshed in a bewildering maze of
alphabetical agencies which sap my strength and devour my ener-
gies. Who, therefore, can say that the Delphic Oracles of Dunster
Street were not omniscient? Even so, there are those who would
querulously deny the validity of the other prognoses, but are not
all beliefs and conceptions subject to interpretation based upon
individual human experience?

And so, twenty-five years following graduation, I find myself
faithfully following the exact ordained course which was patent

[ 280 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to the eyes of my fellow-students, Fortunately their propl
extended only during the first twenty-five years, and I am

mitted to pursue an unpredictable course for my remaining
of life.

CHARLES FRANKLIN DUNBAR

HOME ADDRESS: Bellport, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Associated Universities, Inc., Brookhaven, N. Y.; Nat
Laboratory, Upton, N. Y.

BorN: Aug. 23, 1904, Beverly, Mass. parents: William Harrison Dur.
; Katherine Copeland.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1925; LL.B., I¢

MaRRiED: Katharine Barbey, June 3, 1933, New York, N. Y. cuitp: Cha
- Franklin, Jr., April 1, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Harrison Dunbar, 735.
occuPATION: Lawyer, secretary and resident legal counsel, Brookhav
National Laboratory, Associated Universities, Inc
WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Regional rent attorney, hearing commission
and chief hearing commissioner, O.P.A., New England Region.

OFFICES HELD: Director, 1932-47, president, 1945-47, Buckingham Schoc
Cambridge, Mass,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

AFTER graduation I moved almost automatically into Law Schoo

and got a degree in 1928. I started practice that fall with the firr
of Nutter, McClennen & Fish in Boston and remained with them
until 1936. Thus I had a glimpse of the “New Era” at its delirious
height and a good deal more than a glimpse of what came after,
if not out of, it. In 1936, prompted by distaste for work in a large
firm as well as by unsuitability for it, I opened an office of my
own, which I maintained through a series of vicissitudes and with
several different associates (of whom the most enduring was
Richard D. Gerould, ’24) until 1947. My experience from 1936
to 1942 leads to a firm belief that running one’s own business is
the ideal way to work, if one can continue to eat.

‘The approach and outbreak of war led me into the usual quasi-
public activities, and in February, 1942, into government service
where I stayed until April, 1947. This experience was the most
illuminating one I have ever had and left me with a number of
convictions. The first is that the art or business of government in

[ 281 ]

er meacnieaaatiei AAR. Atllahabahalonitadaiiniah. dh
a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

a democracy is the most difficult and most important art or busi-
ness confronting us today and the one to which care and thought
must be given by every educated person. The second is that of the
possible evils in the way of government which are open to us,
democracy is incomparably the least. The third is that although
character is not a substitute for intelligence, it is a necessary ad-
junct. The fourth is that hard thought and hard work will solve
most problems. The fifth is that trying to operate a planned
economy is the shortest way to the insane asylum. The last belief
is shared without reservation by every ex-bureaucrat of my
acquaintance, and they are numerous. |

After leaving the dying Office of Price Administration, I took

another, for me, radical step. My slender practice in Boston had
evaporated, and I had developed a taste for administrative law.
Both facts pointed to the need for a salary, and so I became a
“kept” lawyer, as resident legal counsel to Associated Universities,
Inc., which operates the Brookhaven National Laboratory in east-
ern Long Island. This involved uprooting myself from Cambridge
and moving to my present address. It also introduced me to the
“atomic age.” ‘lo reassure my New York classmates, I hasten to
say that we make neither weapons nor anything else and that some
time the Laboratory may do humanity some good.

There is very little to add to the foregoing. My family and I
do not collect stamps, shoot big game, or do anything else of
interest to anyone but ourselves. During the war, we expanded
rapidly by adding three to four English children. The experience
was as felicitous as it was interesting. In the summer, we try to

go to the Maine coast and generally succeed. I suspect that one’s

family life is like one’s digestion, in that one never thinks of it
unless there’s something wrong with it.

+ JOHN PATERSON DUNCAN

BORN: June 23, 1903, Tuxedo Park, N. Y. parents: Stuart Duncan, Jermain
Stoddard.

PrEepaRED at: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B, 1925(26),

marriep: Elizabeth Thorndike, 1925 (divorced); Mrs, Susan (Coppell)
Twining, Aug. 29, 1934. CHILDREN: Stuart, 2d, Oct. 19, 1927; Thorn-

dike, Aug. 11, 1930; Susan C. Twining (stepchild), Nancy S. Twining
(stepchild).

[ 282 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

piep: Feb. 10, 1948, New York, N. Y.
wivoow: Mrs. John P. Duncan, Limestone Road, Ridgefield, Conn.

JOHN PATERSON DUNCAN entered Harvard after complet-
ing preparatory studies at Groton School. In Cambridge he was
a member of the Freshman Cross Country Squad, and the Second
Tennis Team in 1923. His clubs included cercle Frangais, Spee
Club, Iroquois Club and the Hasty Pudding Club-Institute of 1770.

Shortly after graduation, he became associated with one of the
predecessor companies of Lea and Perrins, and he had been the
latter’s treasurer since its incorporation in 1930.

On December 8, 1941, he enlisted in the United States Naval
Reserve. He progressed through the ranks to lieutenant, senior
grade, and served in the Mediterranean theatre of operations at-
tached to the amphibious forces. Relieved from active duty, he
resumed his position as treasurer of Lea and Perrins where he
remained until the time of his death.

+ JAMES LAWRENCE DUNHAM

BoRN: March 27, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: Lawrence Dunham,
Athelais Cranford.

PREPARED AT: Scarsdale High School, Scarsdale, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1925; A.M. 19273
PH.D. 1929.

UNMARRIED.

piep: May 2, 1933, Cambridge, Mass.

JAMES LAWRENCE DUNHAM was, at the time of his sudden
death, an instructor in physics at Harvard, where he had spent the
major part of his academic life. He attended the Scarsdale public
schools from 1910 to 1921. He then entered Harvard, where, with
a gap of two years, he spent the remaining twelve years of his life,
receiving an A.B. degree with the Class in 1925, an A.M. in 1927,
and a Ph.D. in 1929. During this period he held at different times
Harvard College Fellowships and Whiting Fellowships.

As an undergraduate, as well as later, Dunham showed a great
interest in the theatre and in public affairs. He was a member of
the Dramatic Club and of the Liberal Club, being president of the
latter in his sophomore year. After graduation he did four years
of research at Harvard, then two more at Chicago on a National

[ 283 ]

— 2 ORAM ha tal,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Research Fellowship, whence he returned to his instructorship in
1931.

He was primarily a theoretical physicist — though he began his
period of research as an experimentalist, and was returning once
more to active experimental work during the last two years of his
life. He made substantial contributions in the field of wave me-
chanics. He was able to exploit his great love of the outdoors and
of new countries in his other great interest in physics — cosmic
rays. Here he was predominantly the experimentalist, and in the
summer of of 1932 had enjoyed himself to the full on a successful
expedition to Alaska with Professor Bennett of the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, studying latitude effects in cosmic ray
intensities. And this was to be but the beginning, for he had al-
ready received a grant from the Carnegie Institute for an expedi-
tion of his own to Peru, which was to have taken place in the
summer of 1933. .

Dunham had three outstanding qualities — his thoroughness, his
modesty, and his enthusiasm. His thoroughness was characteristic
not only of his scientific work, but of everything he did. His
modesty must have struck all who met him. Even at home he
would never speak of his own contributions or of any praise they
had received. He was a man free from desire for self-gain. Fi-
nally, his enthusiasm and optimistic, constructive outlook, un-

touched by any hint of cynicism or defeatism, made him one of
the most lovable and refreshing of men.

His interests were manifold — skating, music, politics, archi-
tecture, camping, physics. With his enthusiasm went an active
social conscience, a profound belief in the essence of democracy,
and an underlying optimism in his whole social philosophy, which

could never be shaken by temporary setbacks either in his own
work or in the world at large.

HENRY TRAUGOTT DUNKER

HOME aporEss: 20 Orchard Ave., Waban 68, Mass.
OFFIcE appress: Loomis, Sayles & Co., Inc., 140 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: June 23, 1903, Davenport, lowa. Parents: Henry Dunker, Louise
Richter.

preparep at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B, summa cum laude, 1925.

[ 284 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marRiED: Elizabeth Dennison, June 23, 1926, Framingham Center, Mass.
(divorced); Elizabeth Moynihan, Aug. 26, 1948, West Newton, Mass.
CHILDREN: Elizabeth, May 16, 1927 (m. Francis X. Becker, June 25, 1949);
Henry Traugott, Jr., Jan. 28, 1929; Mary Louise, Oct. 12, 1934; Marilyn,
June 23, 1949.

HARVARD SON: Henry Traugott Dunker, Jr., ’51

OCCUPATION: Investment Counsel.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

_ EXCEPT for about two years when I was employed by a manu-
facturing company, I have been engaged in some kind of financial
or investment work. Since September, 1947, I have been asso-
ciated with Loomis, Sayles & Company, Inc.

_ Like most of us,I have had great joy in growing up with my
children. To help me keep this family circle, my wife presented
me with another daughter forty-eight hours before I gave away
my eldest in marriage. My boy has been on the Harvard football
squad during the past two years and has won his letter.

In 1942, while skiing down the Taft trail on Cannon Mountain,
I cracked up with a badly broken leg, so that my major outdoor
activities have been restricted to fishing and hunting trips to
Maine. I have kept in close touch with Harvard affairs and have
taken part in various community services.

FINLEY PETER DUNNE, JR.

HOME ADpRESS: 143 W. Pierson St., Phoenix, Ariz.

OFFICE ADpREss: American Institute for Foreign Trade, Thunderbird Field,
Phoenix, Ariz.

BORN: Sept. 2, 1903, Cornish, N. H. parents: Finley Peter Dunne, Margaret
Ives. Abbott.

PREPARED aT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MarRIED: Evelyn Johnson, Feb. 27, 1930, New York. N. Y. cHr~pren: Patri-
cia, July 24, 1931; Peter Benjamin, Oct. 16, 1933.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Philip Ives Dunne, ’29; David Leonard Dunne, *33.

" OCCUPATION: Educational administrator, American Institute for Foreign

' Trade.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned first lieutenant, Air Corps, AUS,
April, 1942; public relations officer, Randolph and Kelly Fields, Texas;
personnel officer, San Antonio Aviation Cadet Center; personnel staff
officer, headquarters, A.A.F. Training Command, Fort Worth, Texas,
in charge of personnel aspects of air crew and ground crew training,

[ 285 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

two years; discharged as lieutenant colonel, February, 1946; awarded
Legion of Merit and Commendation Ribbon (six times).

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer and member board of directors, American
Institute for Foreign Trade.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Racquet and Tennis Club, New
York; National Education Association.
PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles and short stories.
THESE have been twenty-five good, interesting years for me, rich
in everything except, of course, money; most rewarding in such
things as experience, travel, friends and, not least, my family.
Now, at this reckoning-point, it is satisfying to look back over
the old unspoiled newspaper days in New York when anything
that happened in the big city was NEWS, and the subsequent
period of gilded servitude as a movie writer in California; then the
five pre-war years back in Boston in advertising and public rela-
tions, learning to know and love the mellow New England coun-
tryside again; and the stretch in the Army Air Forces, fighting the
gruelling Battle of Texas. For these last four years since the war,
I have been privileged to play a part in creating an institution
which means much to me, both because it was originally for the
most part my own brain child, and because I believe it is perform-
ing and can perform a useful service on behalf of the United States
and the cause of peace.

It is called, somewhat grandiloquently, The American Institute
for Foreign Trade. Its location is Thunderbird Field, a very pretty
oasis on the desert not far from Phoenix, Arizona, where, during
the war, several thousand aviation cadets learned their flying tech-
niques. Their barracks, mess hall, operation tower, supply rooms,
machine shop (and swimming pools) make excellent dormitories,
dining hall, faculty offices, classrooms, library (and swimming
pools) for a peacetime educational institution at advanced college
and postgraduate level, designed to meet the peacetime need for
men and women capable of representing private business effec-
tively in its relations with other countries. The idea first came to

us in Fort Worth, Texas, in the autumn of 1945. At that time I
was on the staff of Lieutenant General Barton K. Yount. After the
plans had been developed to a certain extent on paper, and a survey
of exporters and world-minded financial houses had indicated that
there would be a place for the graduates of such a school as we
had in mind, General Yount joined as president, an office he held

[ 286 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

until his death last summer. During the winter, spring and summer
of 1946, by working day and night, we established a non-profit
corporation, persuaded the government to give it Thunderbird
Field as a campus, worked out a curriculum (featuring languages,
area work and international business administration), signed up a
faculty of 24 people, culled nearly 300 students out of more than
3000 applicants, and succeeded in borrowing $175,000 without the
slightest vestige of collateral. Classes met, on schedule, on October
I, 1946.

At this writing, AIF'T has 201 graduates who are actually living
and working outside the United States, in some thirty different
foreign countries. That is after only three years. Just about two
hundred more are in foreign trade in the United States, or are on
the verge of being sent abroad. The school’s present enrollment is
265, and in three years we have reached the same state that Har-
vard has in 300 — we need money.

So most of my thinking and scheming and travelling today is
concerned with raising an endowment for the school. We think
it is doing a sound job educationally; its graduates far and wide are
contributing daily to a better understanding among nations — of
that we are sure. But only an adequate endowment can give any
certainty that it can endure. I hope my mention of this problem
will be forgiven: it is so much on my mind that any report of my
activities which left it out would be incomplete.

DANA BENNETT DURAND

HOME ADDRESS: 3613 Norton Pl., N.W., Washington, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: P. O. Box 1925, Washington 13, D. C.

BORN: Aug. 22, 1904, Washington, D. C. parents: Edward Dana Durand,
Mary Elizabeth Bennett.

PREPARED AT: La Villa, Lausanne; Le Collége, Geneva, Switzerland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: S.B. Summa cum laude, 1925; PH.D.
1935.

MARRIED: Katherine Russell Hayes, Sept. 8, 1926, Romansville, Pa, cHILDREN:
Patience Woolman, Oct. 7, 1928; Dana, Aug. 17, 1932; Rachel Russell,
Feb. 10, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: Eric Durand, 733.

occupation: U.S. Government Officer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served in Office of Strategic Services, August,
1942—October, 1945; commissioned captain, A.U.S., March, 1943; at-
tached to Fifth Army, Italy, 1943, First Army and Twelfth Army

[ 287 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Group, France and Germany, 1944-45; separated as lieutenant colonel,

Berlin, Germany, September, 1946; awarded Bronze Star Medal and
six Battle Stars.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, tutor, and assistant professor of history and

literature, Harvard College, 1926-40; associate professor of history, Mt.
Holyoke College, 1941-42.

MEMBER OF: History of Science Society; Harvard Mountaineering Club;
Phi Beta Kappa.

puBLications: Ibe Vienna-Klosterneuburg Map Corpus of the Fifteenth
Century, 2 vols. E. J. Brill, Leiden, Holland; numerous articles on
medieval and Renaissance history of science and thought in Journal
of the History of Ideas, ISIS, etc.
FROM 1926 to 1940 I taught history and tutored in history and
literature at Harvard and Radcliffe, and gave courses in the history
of the Renaissance and the history of science. I made several trips
to Europe on fellowships and grants from the University and col-
lected material for my Ph.D. thesis which I later expanded to a
book on the origins of modern European cartography in the
fifteenth century. This magnum opus on a small subject was
completed in 1938 and set in type in Holland before the war. One
minor consequence of the German invasion was the disappearance
of the plates of the second volume, with the result that publication
had to be deferred until it could be set again. In 1945 when, as a
major in the Army, I visited my publisher, he assured me that the
book would be published as soon as electric current was restored.
This assurance, with variants, has been repeated yearly. In view
of the fact that this firm was founded in the sixteenth century and
the book itself is not of especial timeliness, I can accept this an-
nual postponement without undue dismay. In the meantime, I had
begun a new scholarly project, an edition of the Latin works of a
curious and imaginative ecclesiastic named Nicole Oresme, who
has been described as the “Roger Bacon of the 14th century.” This
would undoubtedly have provided me with a program sufficient
for the rest of an academic lifetime.

World War II put an end to my academic interest. In 1942,
after a year of teaching history at Mt. Holyoke College, I joined
the Office of Strategic Services and served as one of “Bill Dono-
van’s boys” in England, Italy, France, Belgium, and Germany. At
the end of the war, after a farewell reconnaissance of the academic
world, I committed myself, with no regrets, to a career of govern-
ment service. From January, 1946, until October, 1949, I was

{ 288 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

associated with military government in Berlin. My family joined
me there on Armistice Day, 1946, and remained through nearly
three years of tense and fascinating cold war and blockade. After
they returned to the States in June, 1949, I stayed for a few months
postlude with the Office of the High Commissioner in Frankfurt.
My Twenty-fifth Reunion will provide a convenient occasion for
ending my seventh year of service abroad and moving to a slot in
Washington bureaucracy.

EDGAR DURBIN

HOME ADDRESS: 4501 E. Sixth Ave., Denver 7, Colo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1809 E. 18th Ave., Denver 6, Colo.

BORN: May 14, 1903, Denver, Colo. parents: Charles Kinlin Durbin, Jessie
Edgar.

PREPARED AT: East Side High School, Denver, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 1925(26)3; M.D., 1929.

marrieD: Ann Pate, June 22, 1929, Denver, Colo. cHiLpREN: Peter, April
9, 1931; Mary, Jan. 6, 1935; Edgar, Jr., Oct. 25, 1940.

HARVARD SON: Peter Durbin, ’53. °

occuPATION: Physician (cardiology). -

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: ORC, 1929-30; Colorado National Guard, 1930-
39, AUS. Aug. 24, 1942-June 3, 1946, unit director, 31st General
Hospital (Denver General Hospital); assistant C.M.S., Dibble General
Hospital; C.M.S., Madigan General Hospital, Tacoma, Wash. June
15, 1944-March 1, 1946; colonel M.C,, July 19, 1945.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Medical Advisory Board #1, Denver.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor of medicine, 1941, associate clinical pro-
fessor of medicine, 1949, Department of Medicine, University of Colo-
rado; consultant in cardiology department of the Army, Fitzsimons
General Hospital, Denver, since 1946; branch section chief in cardiology,
Area 13 V.A., 1946-49; consultant in cardiology, Fort Logan, Colorado
V. A. Hospital, 1948-50, Cheyenne, Wyoming V. A. Hospital, 1948-59,
St. Louis Area V. A., 1949; president-elect, Medical Society of the City
and County of Denver, 1950; president, Colorado Heart Association,
1949-50, medical staff, Denver General Hospital, 1941 and 1942; secre-
tary, Medical Society of the City and County of Denver, 1941-423
secretary, medical staff, Denver General Hospital, 1939 and 1940, Chil-
dren’s Hospital, 1948-49; chairman various committees of Colorado State
Medical Society, 1935-48.

MEMBER OF: Denver County Medical Society; Colorado State Medical
Society; American Medical Association, American Heart Association;
F.A.C.P.; American Board of Internal Medicine (diplomate, 1937);
Denver Heart Club; Denver Society of Internal Medicine; Denver
Medical Club; Osler Society; Denver Country Club; Cactus Club.

[ 289 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

puBLications: Articles on heart disease in American Heart Journal, Colorado

Medicine, and American Journal of the Diseases of Children; a pictorial

study of heart disease, A. M. A. Convention, Atlantic City, June, 1942.
LIFE begins in fifty! Attendance at the New York Reunion party
March 17 has given me a theme for autobiography. Visiting my
freshman son, sleeping in the Yard, eating at the Union and at
Lowell House, revisiing my former rooms, and seeing the new
buildings of the University have emphasized Harvard's greatness.
It is more than ever preparing boys to be men, helping them to
make decisions that affect themselves and others.

The difficulties of the last twenty-five years, the depression, the
prolonged Democratic administration with its New Deal, Fair
Deal, increasing federal control and bureaucracy, World War II
and upheaval, period of postwar readjustment, have tested us and
proved our training and ability. From our problems we have dis-
covered our worth and that of others. We have found talents in
people all over the world, and in all walks of life. Most amazing is
the revelation that no matter how able a man is he can be replaced.
No one is indispensable. In a short time his job can be filled by
somebody else. Ordinarily, things do not “go to hell” over night.

Health is important in the maintenance of happiness as well as
of productiveness. Freedom from anxiety is essential to this end.
The attitude of doing today’s job and meeting today’s problems
without worrying about tomorrow’s possible diffifficulties does
much to develop and keep a relaxed mental state more conducive
to the fullest enjoyment of life. Each day is shorter, fuller of
responsibilities, but we should try to get some enjoyable relaxation
in every twenty-four hours.

1 am happy in having a wonderful wife and three wonderful
children, many fine friends, an interesting profession, the desire
for more knowledge, the ability to travel occasionally, and the
determination to relax more often.

A more enjoyable life begins in fifty!

RICIIARD ALEY DURHAM

HOME abpuEss: 2325 Cherokee Parkway, Louisville 4, Ky.

bows: March 9, 1903, New Albany, Ind, parents: Joseph Hartwell Dur-
ham, Ruby Tiller Aley.

puevauen at: Louisville Male High School, Louisville, Ky.

[ 290}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; M.B.A., 1927.

marrieD: Ann Tyndall, 1932, Indianapolis, Ind. (divorced 1937); Sarah
Slack, 1940, Huntington, W, Va. (divorced 1947).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War I: Reserve Officers Training Corps.
World War II: Commissioned lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve, May 8,
1942; duty in Navy Department OP-20M under VCNO, Washington,
shore duty, Armed Guard Center, New Orleans, and Naval Station,
New Orleans; promoted lieutenant commander, 1944; attached to Office
of Naval Attaché, American Legation, Cairo, Egypt, duty in Middle
East (Algiers to Chung King to Capetown); returned for duty with
BuShips, January, 1945; placed on inactive duty, March, 1945.

MEMBER OF: Pendennis Club, Louisville Country Club; Filson Club; Juniper
Club.

THE two years after graduation were spent in the Business School
in an attempt to off-set the effects of a liberal education. A couple
of years at Fort Worth, Texas, in the mortgage loan business were
a liberal education in themselves.

I returned to Louisville as an officer of the Franklin Title & Trust
Company just in time to go through the bank closings of 1930. In
spite of the 1937 flood, I was vice-president of my company when
I volunteered and went off for the best tour of Navy duty that I
have ever heard described.

From the halls of the Pentagon Building I went to the coal mines
of West Virginia, representing a casualty company handling min-
ers’ casualty insurance almost exclusively. That was really some-
thing. .

Two years ago I returned to Louisville and entered the frozen
food business. By the middle of 1949, convinced that frozen foods
were too cold for me, I sold out and went hunting in Florida.

I am writing this before my tan fades out and as I again look at
this great, wide, wonderful world for something more useful at
which to try my hand than writing this Report.

JOHN KEENAN DURKIN

HOME AND OFFICE appRESS: 34 W. Montgomery Ave., Ardmore, Pa.

BORN: Sept. 7, 1901, Augusta, Ga. PARENTS: Timothy Aloysius Durkin,
Katharine Keenan.

PREPARED AT: Wyoming Seminary, Kingston, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: S.B, 1925(26); Mp. (Univ. of Penn-
sylvania), 1932.

UNMARRIED.

[291 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

HARVARD BROTHERS: Timothy Aloysius Durkin, Jr. ’24; Edward Charles
Durkin, 29.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served at U. S. Naval Base Hospital No. 3,
Samoa, February, 1942-January, 1943; duty aboard U.SS. Wyoming,
Atlantic Fleet, Januarv, 1943-January, 1944; stationed at U. S. Naval
Hospital, St. Albans, N. Y., January, 1944-January, 1945; duty aboard
U. S. Naval Hospital Ship, Haven, AHi2, Fifth Fleet, Pacific Area,

January-December, 1945; entered service as lieutenant commander,
promoted commander and captain.

OFFICES HELD: Physician, Bryn Mawr Hospital, Bryn Mawr, Pa.; chief of
metabolic service, Bryn Mawr Hospital; associate physician, Penn-
sylvania Hospital, Philadelphia.

MEMBER OF: Merion Cricket Club, Haverford; American Medical Associa-
tion; American College of Physicians, American Diabetes Association,
College of Physicians, Philadelphia, American Board of Internal Medi-
cine (diplomate); Philadelphia County Medical Society; Pennsylvania
Medical Society; Main Line Branch of the Montgomery County Medi-
cal Society.

puBLications: Articles in medical journals on internal medicine and diabetes
mellitus.

AFTER three years’ delay, consisting of a year in business, a year
of illness, and another in postgraduate study, I finally began my
quest for a medical degree at the School of Medicine, University
of Pennsylvania, in 1928. I obtained my degree in 1932. Then I
interned at the Bryn Mawr Hospital in Bryn Mawr. Because of the
pressure of finances I decided to plunge immediately into private
practice. Originally my intention was to take a two- or three-year
_ residency in internal medicine. AsI recall those very dark days of
the early 1930's, we were right in the middle of the depression,
bank holidays, and Franklin’s fireside chats. Most of the people
whom I would have had as patients were on the dole or their in-
comes were so low that they could afford nothing but the smallest
fee. Consequently neither was I very busy in my office nor was
my bank account much to talk about.

As I had a lot of time on my hands and a great desire to do
something to make up for lack of formal residency training, I took
myself into nearby Philadelphia and volunteered for work in the
free out-patient medical clinic at the Pennsylvania Hospital. As
time passed the chief of the Medical Service gave me an oppor-
tunity to work on the wards of the hospital. This was what I had
hoped for ever since I began in the O.P.D., because I was then on

[292 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my way to real training in internal medicine. Before long I was

made an assistant ward chief, then ward chief, and also given an

active place on the staff of the diabetic clinic. Several years later

I was eligible to take the examinations requisite to certification by

the American Board of Internal Medicine as a specialist in internal

medicine. These required several years and after some delay, be-

cause of the war and other things, I passed successfully, in May,

I .

a 1936 I established the Diabetic Clinic at Bryn Mawr Hospital,
and have directed it since then with the exception of the war years.

Hardly had the excitement of Pearl Harbor subsided when I

found myself in a naval hospital outfit bound for an undisclosed
spot in the South Pacific. After a rather hectic twenty-seven-day
run without a glimpse of land, we reached an exotic island of the
Samoan group (Tutuila). Nor far from the famed port of Pango
Pango we set up a large Quonset hut hospital and were ready for
business long before the Guadalcanal campaign was opened in
August, 1942. This proved to be very interesting and exciting
duty.

It terminated after the Navy flew me to a tiny flat crescent-
shaped island called Funafuti where Eddie Rickenbacker and his
party had been rescued by a group of Marines. These survivors
of the long ordeal on rubber rafts without food or water were in
bad physical condition and I brought them back with me to our
base hospital in Pango Pango. They improved rapidly with treat-
ment afforded by our modern, up-to-date “jungle” hospital.
Luckily I was assigned to accompany them back to the States, so
they were packed into a big bomber and in no time the five-
thousand-mile trans-Pacific hop to San Francisco was safely com-
pleted. Here five patients were left in local service hospitals to
complete their recovery. In the same plane I took Eddie Ricken-
backer and Colonel Hans Adamson on tg Washington and the
Walter Reed Hospital. Then I went on to Philadelphia to spend
a very joyous and unexpected Christmas holiday with my family.

My next assignment was a year’s duty on a battleship in the At-
lantic Fleet as senior medical officer. Here there was not too
much medicine but it was a year packed full of excitement. In
January, 1944, I was very pleased to be ordered to the large naval
hospital for the port of New York at St. Albans, Here I had the

[ 293 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

very good fortune to be assistant to Captain Howard B. Sprague,
a Harvard man, who was chief of medicine. The close association
with Howard Sprague during this very pleasant tour of duty was
the outstanding feature of my naval career.

Towards the end of the year 1944 I began to feel the call of the
Pacific again and was very happy when my orders came in for
duty aboard the brand new, ultra-modern hospital ship, Haven, as
chief of medicine. Farly i in 1945 We were on our way to Pearl
Harbor to get our assignment with the big Fifth Fleet. While it
was not exactly a Cook’s tour, before I finished this expedition I
had seen Saipan, Tinian, Guam, Okinawa, and finally Japan.

The last job was an assignment to go into the harbor of Naga-
saki, accompanied by a task force, several days before that island
had surrendered. The purpose of this mission was to make certain
of the early rescue and safe transport of some 12,000 prisoners of
war held by the Japanese on the island of Kyushu. This was some-
what hazardous because of vast uncharted mine fields blocking the
entrance to Nagasaki harbor and then to top that off we were not
at all sure just how we would be received by the Japs. All turned
out well and after completing what seemed like a never-ending job
of getting the prisoners of war sorted out, treated for their many
ailments, and transported to Okinawa, we made our way to San
Francisco, and the nearest separation center. It was good to get
back home without a scratch after four years of service.

To say that it was difficult to settle down to peacetime pursuits
is putting it mildly. After several months of much confusion, I
settled in Ardmore, Pennsylvania, and have resumed my practice
on the Main Line. I divide my time about equally between my
office work and rounds at the Bryn Mawr Hospital.

In closing I would like to say that I hope that some semblance
of order and lasting peace will come out of the present world-wide
chaotic conditions, and that all the suffering, hardships, and su-

preme sacrifices of the flower of our great country will not have
been in vain.

JAMES SCUTT DWIGHT *

HOME ADpRESs: 2824 Shakespeare Drive, San Marino 9, Calif,
oFFice appress: 650 S. Spring St., Los Angeles 14, Calif,

[ 294 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BorRN: March 9, 1903, Weston, Mass. parents: George Edmund Dwight,
Rachel Emma Holmes.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

MARRIED: Natalie Ora Phelps, Jan. 4, 1930, Los Angeles, Calif. cuitpren:
James Scutt, Jr.. March 9, 1934; Mary Phelps, Aug. 8, 1938; Jonathan,
Feb. 2, 1943 (died Jan. 14, 1949).

HARVARD BROTHER: George Dwight, ’24.

OCCUPATION: Insurance broker and agent.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California; University Club of Los
Angeles; Town Hall, Los Angeles, Lions Club, Los Angeles.

WHEN my residence at 59 Plympton Street terminated, not by
choice, early in 1923, I had visions of travel. Perhaps this was
natural as my namesake and great-uncle, almost a century earlier,
was murdered in a mutiny off the California coast, and buried in
the Pacific, while plying between New Bedford and the Orient.
So my horizon was extended to New York and, in 1925, to Europe.

In November, 1925, events directed me to Hartford and the
Travellers’ Insurance Company, who were kind enough to pay my
fare to Los Angeles early in 1927 for what has proved to be a per-
manent stay. For this I think I should thank especially Ed Bates
and Jim Davenport, both of whom had preceded me.

I was the first of the three to be married. Perhaps I felt that by
so doing I was acquiring the college degree which seven years be-
fore had been so elusive. You see, my wife, Natalie, had not only
graduated from the University of California in 1925 but had also
become a lawyer, via Boalt Hall.

In 1931, when salaries were slim and looked slimmer, I decided
to try my luck as an insurance broker, and I still am.

‘T'wenty years ago | was an ardent weekend golfer but in 1940
we built our own house in San Marino, adjoining Pasadena. Since
then my mashie shots have been in the garden rather than on the
golf course. J may say that we view the San Gabriel Mountains
about five miles away from our front door and directly in front
of us is a slightly obscured Mount Wilson Observatory, now
spotted with red lights nightly, because all the television towers of
all the local stations are located there, about three or four thousand
feet up.

Politically, I still vote as a Republican, but I seem to be much in
the minority. I am not as anxious to try to change the minds of

[295 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

others. It seems rather useless. The last twenty-five years have
been good to me and I am indeed appreciative.

RICHARD WARREN DWIGHT

HOME ADDRESS: 40 Hawes St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE aAppREsS: Cushing Veterans Administration Hospital, Framingham,
Mass.

BorN: April 30, 1903, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: James Dwight, 74, Elizabeth
Tasigi.
PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 19253 M.D., 1928,
UNMARRIED.

occupaTion: Assistant Chief of Surgery, Cushing Veterans Administration
Hospital.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant commander, MC, U. S.
Naval Reserve, January, 1942; served at U. S. Naval Hospital, Ports-
mouth, N. H.; senior medical officer, U.S.S. Dobbin, AD-3, Southwest
Pacific; promoted commander, 1944; chief of surgery, Dispensary,
USN C.T.C, Davisville, R.L; senior medical officer, U.S.S. President
Monroe, AP-104; promoted captain, 1945; released to inactive duty, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Clinical associate in surgery, Massachusetts General Hospital,
consulting surgeon, Free Hospital for Women, Brookline, Mass.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons (fellow); Massachusetts Medi-
cal Society; Boston Surgical Society; Harvard Musical Association;

Harvard Club of Boston; Longwood Cricket Club; American Board
of Surgery.

PuBLicaTions: A few medical papers.

AFTER college came the busier and more interesting years in the
Medical School, and then a period as surgical intern at the Massa-
chusetts General Hospital. There, in a setting replete with medi-
cal history and tradition, and alive with the drama that is always a
part of hospital life, I began to apply the knowledge which I had
spent so long in acquiring. I learned to wield the knife and the
needle, and, under the guidance of a wise and kindly staff, pro-
gressed from the wen to the hernia to the gall bladder and so on.
This rapid introduction to the art of surgery and the stimulating
companionship of my contemporaries who were following the
same path, make these two years stand out more vividly than much
that has followed. There was an equally happy year as resident at
the Free Hospital for Women. Scattered among these various pe-
riods were four trips to Europe, where I photographed enthusiasti-

[ 296 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

cally and learned something about food and wine. Finally I spent
a winter in that wonderful city, Vienna, where my pursuit of
music nudged medicine temporarily into a corner.

The following years were spent in practice in Boston, with
clinic work at the above hospitals. The press of business wore no
noticeable grooves in the granite steps of my Beacon Street office.
I devoted much time to music, studying, listening, and playing the
flute in a small orchestra. Also there was tennis the year ’round
and usually a cruise “down East” in summer.

The war interrupted this routine. I was commissioned a heu-
tenant commander in the Medical Corps of the Naval Reserve and
after an indoctrination at Portsmouth, New Hampshire, into the
peculiarities of military methods I proceeded to Sydney, Australia,
where I joined the U.S.S. Dobbin, a destroyer tender, as senior
medical officer. It was an unadventurous but most useful ship,
with facilities for repairing any part of a destroyer, or its contents,
and whose function it was to spend most of the time in port with
destroyers alongside. The medical department was less busy than
the rest of the ship but we had a large crew to look after as well as
patients from the destroyers. After some months in Australian
ports, where life was very pleasant, we were stationed in various
harbors along the beautiful but malignant New Guinea coast. I
eventually flew back, spent nine busy months as chief of surgery
at Davisville, Rhode Island, and then went to sea again, this time
on a transport which had much in common with Mr. Roberts’
“bucket.”

We made three round trips across the Pacific, went through
some minor air raids in the last days of the Okinawa campaign,
were tossed about by two typhoons, and had a brief stay in Japan.
I had little work and felt about as necessary and as little used as a
fire-extinguisher. BuPers decreed that I should fight the war on
an inner-spring mattress; to my surprise I emerged a captain and
my glittering cuffs nearly tempted me to stay in the Navy. I
didn’t, but I am grateful to the Navy for showing me a large part
of the world, including that not inconsiderable part of our own
country which lies, surprisingly, west of the Berkshires, for teach-
ing me quite a lot about my fellow-countrymen and incidentally
about myself, and, above all, for several lasting friendships.

I have returned to most of my prewar activities, except that I am

[ 297 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

working full-time in the Cushing Veterans Administration Hos-

pital where our residency training program offers an opportunity
for teaching which is the most satisfying part of the job and gives

me a chance to repay in part the debt I owe to all those who taught
me.

HAMILTON EAMES

HOME ADDRESS: 225-05 135th Ave., Laurelton, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Economic Foundation, 295 Madison Ave., New
York, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 27, 1902, Pittsburgh, Pa. pareNts: Hayden Eames, Clare Hamilton.

PREPARED AT: Taft School, Watertown, Conn. ~-

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 1925; M.LITr. (Univ. of Cam-
bridge), 1933.

MarrieD: Marian Bull, Oct. 17, 1927, Buffalo, N. ¥Y. (divorced 1949); Eliza-
beth Thomason Muhlert, August, 1949, East Norwalk, Conn. CHILDREN:
Jenness Wilcox, March 21, 1929; Clare Hamilton, Dec. 2, 1931.

OCCUPATION: Educational director.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II: Services to the armed forces
with the American Red Cross; field director, 11th armored division;
assistant administrator of services to the armed forces for the eight
southeastern states, stationed at Atlanta, Ga.

PuBLications: Articles of many kinds plus book reviews in publications
here and in England.

—

oes

THERE isn’t much to say. Since graduation I’ve led a fairly com-
monplace existence although not perhaps in an always common-
place way. The routine story of job activities throws little light
on the Harvard graduate. But, for the record, I did spend some
years abroad. I did have a profound interest in Spanish (com-
municated to me by a Harvard assistant prof whose name I forget)
and I went to Spain for some time. That lit the fuse which exploded
my interest in classical Arabic and 1 went to England to study that
complicated and mostly irrelevant subject for a few years. My
kids were born in England but they are, of course, Americans.
After that linguistic episode (which was brought to a close by
the bank failures and the beginning of the new economic romanti-
cism) I shifted to teaching in an excellent and better than excellent
secondary school where there existed a fine balance between the
recognition of high standards and the recognition of the unpre-
dictable. The war ploughed that under (not the school but my

[ 298 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

association with it). I joined the Red Cross in 1942, first with the
11th Armored Division and then, through unsought transfers, to
administrative work in Atlanta, Georgia, a beautiful, hospitable,
and civilized city. Three years of that and then came the common-
place business of finding a job again after the interruption.

I had spent much of my adult life (even when my socially
articulate pals were advocating an always increasing attention to
the red end of the political spectrum) in condemning and harassing
the reds who always struck me as emotionally infantile and intel-
lectually antiquated. Of course, what they recommended, with
their thoughtful brutality, was nonsense to any person who ever
stuck his head out of a window on May Day. I found a chance to
get back into the fight — on a non-political, non-partisan basis.
Probably most of the supporters of the left wing are men of good
will; it is my opinion that this majority is simply misinformed. I
am therefore trying through my present job to present to as many
people as possible (in school and industrial groups) the economics
of our private property system in the simplest possible language.
I do a great deal of public speaking on this subject, from the Gulf
of Mexico to Maine, from the Mississippi to the Atlantic. The
results are not strictly measureable. But I think there is something
worth saving which can be saved sooner and with less turbulence
when it is understood and expressed in language understandable —
not by the unsullied intellectuals — but by people like you and me.

OSBORNE EARLE

HOME ADDRESS: 17 Bates St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Brandeis University, Waltham, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 10, 1904, Worcester, Mass. PARENTS: Daniel Osborne Earle, ’93,
Grace Howard King.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921~I925. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1925; A-M., 1935;
PH.D., 1938.

MARRIED: Eleanor Mary Clark, Oct. 20, 1928, Hartford, Conn. CHILDREN:
Nancy Clark, April 6, 1941; Eleanor King, Nov. 23, 1943; Timothy
Keese, Aug. 10, 1946.

OccUPATION: Assistant professor of English, Brandeis University.

OFFICES HELD: College representative in New England and New York, Edu-
cational Department, Houghton Mifflin Company, Boston, 1925-343

[ 299 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

instructor, assistant professor, associate professor of English, Wheaton

College, 1938-48; assistant professor of English, Brandeis University,
since 1948. -

MY TWENTY-FIVE years do not lend themselves very well to
a narrative account since they have been marked by few outward
events. The record given above contains all except two trips to
Europe, much valued in memory, one in 1925 to England and
France, and the other in 1930, with my wife, to Italy and France.
Life just now, however, has a number of circumstances which
afford me profound joy and these I may gratefully mention. The
teaching of literature is a continual satisfaction and the place
where I now practice, Brandeis University, opened in 1948, has all
the attraction of youth and promise. Many books have for me a
far more than professional importance, but I turn with special
frequency to White’s Selborne, Walden and the journals of Tho-
reau, the poetry of Wordsworth, the journals of the old Quakers,
George Fox and John Woolman, and the New Testament. Re-
ligion means more in a positive way than in earlier years and I
belong now, as did many of my forebears, to the Society of
Friends. Watching birds is the same sharp delight today that it
was in 1915 when | began it. I have just come in from a trip to
Newton to see the rare Shoveller duck that is wintering on a pond
there. Cape Cod is the earthly paradise. I have two footholds in
it at South Orleans, the old Kenrick house of 1792 on Route 28
and a more modern year-round-house that looks east to the At-
lantic over Pleasant Bay. I am blessed most of all in my family —
my three children, my wife, and my father (Harvard ’93) who, at
eighty, lives on the Cape, alone in the winter, and in the summer
teaches us all the art of sailing and many other more intangible
things.
Thoughts of the future are often attended by anxiety. I wonder
how my wife and I will ever be able, in a world that seems in-
creasingly confused and careless of standards, to help our children

to become wise and good people. Yet eventually the specific

doubts and fears are always overcome by a perennial and insistent
faith.

How very Victorian this all sounds!

[ 300 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT PAUL ECKERT, JR.

HOME AppRESsS: Windover, Highland Drive, Freeport, Il.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Eckert & Eckert, 115 W. Stephenson St., Freeport, Ill.

BORN: June 1, 1903, Freeport, Ill. parents: Robert Paul Eckert, Elisabeth A.
Ryan.

PREPARED AT: Freeport High School, Freeport, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 19253 LL.B. 1928.

MarRRIED; Olga M. Frothingham, Aug. 15, 1928. CHILDREN: Robert Paul, 3d,
June 26, 1929; Olga Elisabeth, July 18, 1931; Richard Frothingham,
Jan. 10, 1933.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: United States commissioner, Northern District of Illinois,
1934-41; judge, 1941-46, chief justice, 1946-49, Illinois Court of Claims;
first vice-president, Young Republicans of Illinois, 1942-44; president,
Stephenson County Bar Association, since 1949; past president, Free-
port Council of Civic and Social Agencies, Freeport Rotary Club, and
Winneshiek Players.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Chicago, University Club of Washington,
Country Club, Freeport, American Bar Association; Illinois State Bar
Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Edward Thomas, A Biography and Bibliography, 1937; These
Things the Poets Said, 1935 (compiler); contributor to The Colophon,
The Catholic World, and State Government.

ABE EHRE

appress: P, O. Box 1557, Beverly Hills, Calif.

BORN: Feb. 7, 1903, Passaic, N. J. PARENTS: Moses Ehre, Mollie Newman.
PREPARED AT: Passaic High School, Passaic, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.

occupation: Lawyer.

THE information printed above is taken from the Secretary’s
files. Ehre did not return a questionnaire.

MELVILLE EHRLICH

HOME ADDRESS: 3971 Harrison St., N.W., Washington, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bell and Ehrlich, Commonwealth Bldg., Washington 6, D.C.

BORN: Oct. 16, 1904, Springfield, Mass. parents: Abraham Ehrlich, Ida
Robinson.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: S.B., 1925; LL.B., 1928.

MarRIED: Beatrice Dorothy Solow, May 28, 1929, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Richard Solow, Aug. 13, 1933; Lynn Ellen, March 29, 1937.

[ 301 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Robinson Ehrlich, ’29.

occupation: Attorney.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member, Selective Service Advisory Board,
1942; chief, fresh and processed fruits and vegetables section, Food
Price Division, 1942-43, chief counsel, poultry, eggs and dairy products
branch, Food Price Legal Division, 1943-44, consultant, Food Price
Division, 1944-45, Office of Price Administration, —

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, Port Chester Jewish Center,
Asbestos Distributors, Inc., Bridgeport, Conn.; president, Center Men’s
Club, Port Chester Zionist District; Democratic campaign manager,
Town of Tye, 1937, 1939; member executive committee, Louis D.

Brandeis Zionist District, Washington, D. C.; Washington counsel,
Dried Fruit Association of California.

MEMBER OF: Westchester County Bar Association, Port Chester Bar Asso-
ciation; Woodmont Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Trade journal articles, Western Canner & Packer.

AFTER graduation I attended Harvard Law School and was then
admitted to practice in the New York State Courts, various fed-
eral courts, and the Supreme Court of the United States. I en-
gaged in the general practice of law until early 1942, mainly in
Westchester County, New York, first as an employee of a firm,
then as a member of the firm, and later I opened my own offices.

During that period I took an active part in community, civic,
and political affairs, managed local political campaigns, and served
as an officer and on the boards of various civic organizations.

The advent of World War II brought a drastic change from the
previous quiet, enjoyable, though comparatively unexciting life.
When I was offered an opportunity, early in 1942, to undertake
some work directly connected with the war effort, I made the
drastic move of giving up the practice I had spent so many years
developing, moved my family to Washington, and joined the
Washington legal staff of O.P.A. which was then in its infancy.

After about six months in the legal division I transferred to the
price division to head the largest section in the food division of
O.P.A. Being head of that section required a substantial amount
of travel for the purpose of holding industry meetings and con-
ferences in all parts of the country and particularly in California
where the industry I was handling is heavily concentrated. For

example, in 1943, in addition to many other trips, I made nine trips
to California. An interesting sidelight of my work at O.P.A. is
that I worked on many matters in conjunction with Henry Hart,

[ 302 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Jr., Richard Field, and David Cavers, who are now on the faculty
of Harvard Law School.

In the spring of 1944, after two years of government service, I
returned to the practice of law in Washington, D. C., but con-
tinued for another year to serve as a consultant to the food division
of O.P.A.

My present firm, Bell and Ehrlich, was organized on September
1, 1947. We are engaged in a somewhat specialized practice, repre-
senting various industries and individual out-of-town companies
in all of their federal matters and in their problems with depart-
ments and agencies of the federal government. Because a large
proportion of our clients are located in California, I am still more
or less of a commuter to the West Coast, for I have made four
extended trips there within the past year and am preparing for
another as this is being written. So much for occupational and
professional background.

From a personal standpoint, I consider my life to be a full one.
I have already celebrated my twentieth wedding anniversary and
am blessed with a wonderful, understanding wife and (being com-
pletely unbiased) two fine children. Richard, now sixteen, has
already had a taste of school life away from home at Andover
Academy and I hope he will enter Harvard in another year. In
case the Committee on Admissions ever happens to read this let
me express the hope that, in view of the ever-increasing number of
applicants, it will be the policy of Harvard to give preference to
the sons of its graduates. My daughter, Lynn, almost thirteen at
the time of this writing, now attends junior high and therefore the
problem of her further schooling is not yet pressing. All of us look
forward to attending the Twenty-fifth Reunion.

WILLIAM EHRLICH

HOME aApprEss: 417 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Touraine Stores, Inc., 120 Kingston St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 15, 1903, Boston, Mass. PaRENTS: Adolph Ehrlich, Marion
Ratshesky.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1921-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.

MarRiED: Evelyn R. Seltzer, Nov. 18, 1929, Philadelphia, Pa. cu1tpren: Ellen,
Dec. 4, 1930; Thomas, March 4, 1934.

[ 303 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

HARVARD BRoTHERS: Richard Adolph Ehrlich, ’22; Henry Ehrlich, °34.

occuPATION: Vice-president, Touraine Stores, Boston; president, D. P,
Ehrlich Company, Boston.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Office of Price Administration, Washington.
OFFICES HELD: Member governing council, Retail Trade Board of Boston;
member of corporation, Massachusetts General Hospital; trustee, Asso-

ciated Jewish Philanthropies, Boston; member board, South End House;
member Town Meeting, Brookline, 1946-49.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New York; F aculty
Club, Cambridge.

IN GIVING an account of my life during the last twenty-five
years, it is difficult to present the relationship of the things I have
done and their impact upon me. A chronological listing of my
business and personal activities in itself sounds average and perhaps
not too interesting, but the satisfactions I have received have meant
a great deal to me and have turned my interests and enthusiasm
into a few very gratifying channels.

My business activities since graduation have been in the retail
field, except for a brief interlude with O.P.A. during the war. I
entered the retail training course of Jordan Marsh Company in
Boston in the fall of ’25 after a summer holiday in Europe. The
following year I began working for C. F. Hovey Company, which
was then associated with Jordan’s. In 1929 both stores became
units of Allied Department Stores, a national chain. During the
fifteen years I remained with Hovey’s, a complete business cycle
took place, resulting in a rugged experience for all who were in
the retail business. After a few balmy years of prosperity when
almost nothing could turn out wrong, came the depression when
apparently very few things seemed to turn out right. Finally
there was a period of recovery which allowed an opportunity to
apply some of the lessons learned in the previous two periods with
some chance of success. I suspect, however, that the things I had
learned were not necessarily the rules which were discussed in the

textbooks we used in Ec. A.

In spite of the economic upheaval which began in 1929, I man-
aged to lead a relatively secure and a reasonably placid life. I was
married during this period and my wife and I settled down in
Cambridge where both of our children were born. We spent the
first eleven summers in Marblehead and there developed an en-
thusiasm for sailing. In the winters of the early thirties we caught

[ 304 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the ski bug and began making weekend treks to the snow fields of

New England and Canada. As soon as they were old enough to

ski and to sail, our children joined us in these activities. Both of

these sports have provided our family with a great deal of pleasure.

We managed to get to Bermuda three times during this period and

enjoyed it so much that we look forward to the time when we
shall be able to go back again for some really long vacations.

One Friday in March, 1942, I received a call from Washington
asking me to come down for the weekend to help with a regulation
which O.P.A. was about to issue. I was told that retail advice was
needed by the lawyers and professors who had written it and that
I was the person who could give the advice. On arriving, J found
that the regulation was the general maximum price regulation
which was to freeze all prices for the duration. I had rushed to
Washington for a weekend and stayed for a year and a half. The
advice offered that first weekend was almost the only advice which
was listened to during the time I was with O.P.A. In spite of this
and in spite of the usual frustrations which seem to be inherent in
government work, | suppose that I accomplished a few things for
O.P.A. and am sure that I learned much that will always be of
value to me.

We were among the lucky ones who succeeded in finding a
suitable house in Washington and so my wife and family moved
there to be with me. The glamour of Washington life which we
had heard so much about never materialized for us as our children
picked that year to succumb to all of the contagious diseases
known to children. Most of our visitors turned out to be Wash-
ington doctors who rushed through their professional visits but
provided such excellent medical care that the children always
managed to recover from one disease just in time to catch another.
Although we seemed to have missed out on the glamour side, I
don’t regret having gone to Washington. The work I did there
gave me a chance to make a contribution, however slight, to the
war effort, in a capacity for which I was trained.

The particular job for which I had been brought down to
Washington was completed in the summer of 1943 so we returned
to Boston bag and baggage. Although J realized that working for
someone else has certain advantages, I decided that it was high time
to begin to be my own boss. I therefore went into business with

[ 305 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

my brother and became vice-president of Touraine Stores, which
operates nine women’s specialty shops in and around Boston. Like
every other business, we have our problems, but I find them inter-
esting and stimulating. It is also very satisfying to watch some-
thing of your own develop and grow. In addition to being one
of the partners of the Touraine Stores, I am also president of D. P.
Ehrlich Company, a Boston pipe and tobacco store. This business
had been owned by my uncle for many years. After his death in
1943 my brother and I took over its management.

When we returned to Boston from Washington, we moved into
my parents’ house in Brookline, where we remained until last fall
when we moved into a duplex and very modern apartment on
Beacon Street. Having our daughter away at Smith and our son
at Exeter created an urge for smaller quarters. I can recommend
a modern apartment to anyone. It is simple, easy living, and there
is no fuel bill.

We still ski a lot during the winters when there is snow. How-
ever, now it is my son who waits for me at the end of the trail, as
I am beginning to find it hard to keep up with him. Last summer
we bought a thirty-five-foot sloop, aptly named Folly. We have
just begun to appreciate the pleasures (and expenses) of cruising
in our own boat. Undoubtedly I shall continue to slow down on
skiis, but I am looking forward to being able to handle a tiller for
a good many more years.

I do my share of civic and charitable work, when the oppor-
tunity arises, and have found satisfactions in them, as I have found
them in my business and my family life. If I had the chance of
living the last twenty-five years over again, I would certainly wish
to do a great many things differently. I suspect, however, that I

might end up doing them pretty much the same. I realize I have
been very fortunate. ,

PHILIP EISEMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 142 Brattle St., Cambridge 38, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Baystate Corp., 45 Milk St., Boston 9, Mass.

BoRN: March 11, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Ludwig Eiseman, Selma Weil.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: 8.B., 1925; M.B.A., 1927,

[ 306 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Marion Becker, June 14, 1930, Swampscott, Mass. cHILp: ‘Anne,
Aug. 19, 1933-

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Weil Eiseman, ’30.

OccuPATION: Commercial banking; president of Baystate Corporation (a
bank holding company with an interest in nine banks located in Massa-
chusetts).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned captain, Signal Corps, A.US.,
January, 1943; stationed in Office of Chief Signal Officer, Pentagon,
Washington, D. C., 1943-45; served in Signal Corps AFWESPAC
(Armed Forces Western Pacific), Philippine Islands, 1945-46; separated
with final rank as lieutenant colonel, June, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: President and director, Baystate Corporation (associated as
assistant treasurer or other capacity since 1931 with company or
predecessor company); director, Elizabeth Peabody House Association,
Settlement House, Boston, since 1930, Free Hospital for Women,
Brookline, since 1948, Housing Association of Metropolitan Boston,
since 1942; chairman board of retirement, City of Cambridge, since
1950; trustee, Associated Jewish Philanthropies, since 1945; special
assistant to chairman, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 1934-35.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Belmont Country Club; Down Town
Club, Boston.

THEODORE LYMAN ELIOT

HOME appress: 4or Golden Gate Ave., Belvedere, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 311 California St., San Francisco, Calif.

BorRN: April 4, 1903, Cambridge, Mass. PaRENTs: Samuel Atkins Eliot, ’84,
Frances Hopkinson.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

marriep: Martha Williams Bigelow, Sept. 19, 1925, Brookline, Mass.
CHILDREN: Joan, Aug. 3, 1926 (m. John W. Washington, Dec. 28, 1946);
Theodore Lyman, Jr. Jan. 24, 1928, Gladys, Feb. 4, 1933; Mary
Williams, Oct. 29, 1934. GRANDCHILD: Christina Washington, May 15,
1948.

HARVARD SON: Theodore Lyman Eliot, Jr. °48.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Samuel Atkins Eliot, Jr., 13; Charles William Eliot, 2d,
20; Thomas Hopkinson Eliot, ’28.

occupation: General passenger manager, American President lines.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: In charge troop and transport movements, Naval
Transportation Service, Office of the Chief of Naval Operations,
Washington, D. C.; commissioned lieutenant (senior grade), U. S. Naval
Reserve; commissioned captain, U. S. Naval Reserve, Dec. 27, 19453
awarded Army and Navy commendation ribbons.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of San Francisco (secretary); University Club
of San Francisco; Harvard Club of New York.

[ 307 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

HAVING completed divisional examinations at mid-years, 1925,
and desiring to experiment with life away from the Hub, I took
the Merchants Limited to New York and embarked on my chosen
career — the steamship business. For the next three years I worked
in the passenger department of International Mercantile Marine,
the parent company in those days of the White Star, Red Star, and
other lines. But life was not all work. Remember those Volstead
days? — entertaining friends with alcohol mixed with juniper,
glycerine and orange juice, a combination | have left strictly alone
since repeal of the 18th Amendment.

Believing the widespread reports that each of my brother class-
mates was pulling down at least one hundred grand in the stock
market, I transferred to the seemingly green pastures of Wall
Street in 1928 where I played happily with paper profits until they
miraculously vanished in the autumn of 1929. Twenty floors from
office to sidewalk looked like a long way down so I decided not to
jump and went to Montreal instead.

By this time I was a “specialist” in chain store securities. There-
fore, what could be more natural than to conclude that I was
qualified as an industrial engineer! I went to work with fervor but
after ten months of helping to manage a chain of meat markets in
Montreal, I lost my appetite for briskets and tripe and returned to
the land of cod. One more try at investments convinced me that
my first love was my true love. It was back to shipping for me.

Reservations and tickets for customers from Boston to London,
Paris, Oslo, Rome, Bali, Shanghai, Whitehorse, Lima, Miami, kept
me jumping for a decade. Then for four years I had the choice of

dressing in blue, white or khaki, while working for five different
admirals, After deploying transports globally, I felt that to do
any less in peace time would seem picayune. I found the answer
in my present job in San Francisco with the American President

Lines which operate ships around the world as well as trans-
pacific.

Too many words have already been written on my business
career which after all is but a means to an end—to provide as
much as possible the good things in life for my family. Martha has
contributed more than her share to the task of providing and
bringing up the family. Joan, who I claim to be the Class daughter,
is married and living nearby. Her daughter, Christina, will be two

[ 308 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

years old in May, 1950. Ted, Jr., is in the foreign service and
Gladys and Mary are at home. We're all boosters for life in
California!

NATHANIEL ELLIS

ADDRESS: 1470 Beacon St, Brookline 46, Mass.

BORN: July 12, 1906, Salem, Mass. parents: Morris Sushelsky, Flora Rubin.
PREPARED AT: Manning High School, Ipswich, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924, 1926-1927.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Ellis did not return a questionnaire.

HUGH LANGDON ELSBREE

HOME ADDRESS: 2406 44th St., N.W., Washington 7, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Legislative Reference Service, Library of Congress, Wash-
ington, D. C.

BORN: Feb. 24, 1904, Preston Hollow, N. Y. parents: Bayard Langdon
Elsbree, Lyra Hubbard.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1925; A.M,
19293 PH.D. 1930.

marrieD: Esther Harby, Sept. 14, 1928 (divorced); Eugenia Glebow, May
7, 1943. CHILDREN: David, Feb. 27, 1930; John, Dec. 18, 1931; Susan, Jan.
21, 1936; Hugh Langdon, Jr., March 7, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Willard Hubbard Elsbree, 741.

occuPaATION: Senior specialist, American Government and Public Adminis-
tration, Legislative Reference Service (research and staff work for
Congress).

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Head, Review and Analysis Section, Service
Trades Price Branch, Office of Price Administration, 1943-45; admin-
istrative analyst, U. S. Bureau of the Budget, February-December, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Department of Political Science, Dartmouth
College, 1937-41, Committee on Program, American Political Science
Association, 1947; president, Washington Chapter, American Political
Science Association, 1947-48; book review editor, American Political
Science Review, currently.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Phi Delta Theta; American Political Science
Association; American Society for Public Administration.

PUBLICATIONS: Interstate Transmission of Electric Power, Harvard Uni-
versity Press, 1931; editorial supervision and contributor, Communism

' in Action, Government Printing Office, 1946; contributor, Fascison in
Action, Government Printing Office, 1947.

[ 309 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

AFTER graduation, I did graduate work in Government, went to
France and Italv on a Sheldon Travelling Fellowship, then came
back for more Harvard graduate work and teaching. I resigned
from the Harvard faculty in 1933 to go to Dartmouth. Four years
later I became a full professor and chairman of the Political Sci-
ence Department. I served on various faculty and administrative
committees. One year I took a brief leave of absence to do a spe-
cial job for the Federal Power Commission, and discovered that I
enjoyed working in Washington. The war brought me here
again, and this time I stayed. Tackling problems of government
reorganization, at the Bureau of the Budget, at the Legislative
Reference Service of the Library of Congress, and on special
assignment with the Hoover Commission, has been by far the most
interesting work I’ve ever done.

Probably my zeal for my work here is also due to the fact that
I cancelled a very bad marriage and then made a perfect one just
before I came here. Anyway, my wife, Eugenia, and my son,
Hugh Langdon, Jr., have given me untold pleasures and blessings.
We are a united family. For relaxation, we swim, golf, take color
movies, and watch television. I am suddenly astounded at some of
my later abilities with erector sets, jig saws, and electric trains
(complete with elevated highway). Living in a very wooded sec-
tion, we can even hunt Indians, rustlers, and outlaws. At forty-five
I feel younger, more vigorous, and more significant than I have
ever felt before. Buoyed by the love of a vital, sparkling woman
and a proud, affectionate son, my life is indeed rich and full. In
various subtle ways my years at Harvard have helped mould me
and make me as sensitive as I am to the pleasures, the joys, and the

perceptions I feel today, and I am grateful, too, for what she gave
me.

HERBERT EDGAR EMERSON

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 839 E. roth St., Brooklyn, N. Y.

BORN: June 24, 1904, Chicago, Ill. parents: Herbert Arthur Emerson, Emma
Jane Marlow.

PREPARED AT: Brooklyn Polytechnical Preparatory School, Brooklyn, N, Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925, DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

HERBERT EDGAR EMERSON has been carried as a “lost”,

man on our records since June, 1926,

[ 310 ]

|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT EMERSON

HOME ADDRESS: 806 W. Main St., Urbana, IIl.

OFFICE ADDRESS: University of Illinois, Urbana, Il.

BORN: Nov. 4, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: Haven Emerson, Grace
Parrish.

PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1925; DR.PHIL. (Univ.
of Berlin), 1927.

MARRIED: Claire Garrison, Feb. 9, 1929, West Newton, Mass. cHILpREN:
Kenneth, Nov. 9, 1931; Stephen, May 31, 1933; David, Sept. 9, 1934;
Ruth, March 16, 1938.

HARVARD SON: Kenneth Emerson, ’53.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ralph Emerson, ’33.

OCCUPATION: Teaching and Research.

MEMBER OF: Chaos Club; American Society of Plant Physiologists; Ameri-
can Botanical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Various scientific papers.

IN JUNE, 1925, I left Harvard with Edward Castle, ’25, to spend
the summer at the Harvard Tropical Laboratory, Soledad, Cuba.
For a biologist, an opportunity to spend some time in the tropics
is a piece of good fortune. In September I returned to New York
and packed up my belongings for my first trip to Europe. I landed
at Hamburg, went over to Cologne, up the Rhine, over to Munich,
where I visited Richard Willstatter, then Germany’s leading
organic chemist, famous for his work on chlorophyll. I had an
idea he might let me study with him but he put me off with excuses,
among which he mentioned the active anti-semitic demonstrations
in Munich. He referred me to Otto Warburg in Berlin. I went
on to Berlin and was favorably received by Warburg who had not
yet become so sought-after by American biochemists as he was
destined to be. He admitted me to his laboratory and I enrolled
for a few courses at the University.

In Warburg’s laboratory I learned the techniques which I have
continued to use up to the present, and which I have taught to
those few students who have been so misguided as to subject
themselves to my instruction. J also learned respect for German
standards of university education, especially in chemistry. After
one and a half years my work with Professor Warburg had led to
the discovery of a few minor facts which fitted in with his
current ideas and it was decided I might submit the work for a

[31]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

preparation. I feel that this should not be the purpose of training
young men and young women in the discipline of science.

WILLARD EMERY

HOME appress: g Charles River Sq., Boston 14, Mass.
OFFICE appREss: Emery-Wait-Smith Asssociates, Architects, 92 State St,,
Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 9, 1902, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Willard Emery, Annita Lyman
Paine.

PREPARED AT: Fessenden School, West Newton, Mass.; Phillips Academy,
Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924.

marriep: Elizabeth Marvin, March 27, 1933, Portsmouth, N. H. cHILpREN:
Willard, Jr, Aug. 17, 1936; Marvin, Aug. 9, 1938.

oocuPpaTION: Architect.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Students Army Training Corps, 1917-18; active
duty, U. S. Navy, 1941-46; Eastern Sea Frontier, 1942, Atlantic Fleet,
1943, Fifth fleet, Pacific, 1943-February, 1944, Motor Torpedo Boat
Squadrons, Seventh Fleet, Southwest Pacific, 1944-45; inactive duty, 1946-
50; lieutenant, 1941-43, lieutenant commander, 1943-45; commander, 1945-
50; awarded Bronze Star Medal, Commendation, six Combat Stars.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, 1940-41, vice-president, 1941-46, Inter-
national 110 Yacht Racing Association; corporator, Franklin Savings
Bank, Boston, trustee, several small organizations.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects (corporate member); Massa-
chusetts State Association of Architects, North American Yacht Racing
Union, Peter Tares (military); Eastern Yacht Club, Marblehead, Mass.;

The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.

IN 1926 I entered the Harvard Graduate School of Architecture.
There, for three years, and during several summers spent in Eu-
rope, I attempted to prepare myself for the profession which I
have pursued ever since. After a period in the Boston University .
School of Business Administration and gaining what little experi-
ence I could in several offices, each engaged in a different type of
architectural work, I determined to specialize in residential design,
and opened my own office in Boston. I chose a time for this ven-
ture when angels should have feared to tread: October, in the fall
of 1929. Although I was fortunate in the number of commissions
executed in the first few years, the depression finally caught up
with me and by 1936 the inactivity in my office prompted me to
visit it only as a matter of occasional routine. At this time I re-
entered the Architectural School for a fourth year of design, under

[314]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the newly arrived Professor Gropius, and also to take the one
course necessary for the degree I had stopped just short of in 1929.
Subsequently I became a member of the architectural firm of
Emery, Smith & Walker and as building construction increased
through the latter thirties our practice prospered until the advent
of war stopped all private work. Since returning from the service
I have been associated with several other Harvard graduates in our
present Boston office,

In 1933 Elizabeth Marvin, the daughter of a staunch Harvard
family, and I were married. To the fact that I did not meet her
sooner must go the blame for my not being able, as yet, to list any
Harvard sons. But Willard Emery, Jr., and Marvin Emery will
both, I hope, be Harvard undergraduates a few years hence.

Since our marriage we have lived in Boston and have spent our
summers at Marblehead. Most of my spare time has been spent
on the water, racing off Marblehead, ocean racing, and cruising
the New England coast. For two years I have served on the race
committee of the Eastern Yacht Club. Many winter weekends
have found me on the milder ski slopes of the White Mountains.

In December, 1941, I received a reserve commission in the Navy.
_ I served on active duty until February, 1946, and am still attached
to this service. In 1943 I left anti-submarine duty in the North
_ Atlantic and proceeded to the Pacific where I remained till after
the war’s end. In the capacity of gunnery officer of the attack
transport Bolivar I took part in the invasions of the Tarawa and
Kwajalein atolls. On our return to Pearl Harbor in February, 1944,
I found orders transferring me to duty as executive officer of the
USS. Willoughby, a motor torpedo boat tender, which carried
me by way of the Solomons and Admiralties into MacArthur’s
“hop-skip” operations along the New Guinea coast. After the
invasion of Morotai and Palau in September, we proceeded to
escort our Seventh Fleet PT squadrons to the initial landing on
Leyte Gulf. There we engaged in the now famous night action
known as the Battle of Surigao Straits, and there too, in those very
grim November days, we experienced, not on the receiving end,
thank heavens, the initiation of the kamikaze tactics by the Japa-
nese. In one afternoon air attack we witnessed the taking of a toll
of seven of the ships operating near us off the Tacloban air strip.

From there, as commanding officer of the Willoughby and later

[315 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

of the Pontus, | moved with our PT’s through the various advances
in the Philippines, Mindora, Corregidor, Subic Bay, Lingayen. In
the spring of 1945 I was made commander of a small task unit
which helped push re-occupation into the southern Philippines and
on to the oil fields of Borneo, at Tarakan and at Balik-papan in the
Macassar Straits. V-J Day found our small task unit operating
from the Tawi-tawi lagoon at the southern tip of the Sulu Archi-
pelago.

This review of my four war years may seem disproportionately
long to that of the other twenty-one to be accounted for here. I
imagine this is true because my experiences with the PT’s made a
very deep impression on me and because I have found that, con-
trary to my smug expectations, readjustment to a more placid
civilian life has not been easy. But the years pass and I find that
those memories are gradually fading and that I am becoming more
and more engrossed in my family and in two sons, now of prep-
school age and soon to enter that phase of life we all commenced
together twenty-nine happy years ago.

DAVID WENDELL EVANS

HOME apprEss: 4840 California St., San Francisco 18, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Ken Royce, Inc. 185 Bayshore Blvd. San Francisco, Calif.

BorN: Dec. 12, 1904, Buffalo, N. Y. parents: Owen David Evans, Annie
Leora Jackson.

PREPARED AT: Brighton High School, Brighton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: $.B. IN MECH. ENGIN, cum laude, 1925.

MARRIED: Jean Edith Wilkinson, Aug. 13, 1931, Milwaukee, Wis. CHILDREN:
Allan David, Aug. 8, 1933; Michael Jackson, July 4, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alan Somers Evans, 739.

occuPaTION: Equipment supervisor, handling heavy construction equipment.

IT SEEMS to me that travel, principally the corollary of my oc-
cupation, has had the most profound effect on my life during these
past twenty-five years. My father celebrated his twenty-fifth
reunion at Harvard coincident with my graduation, and a class-
mate of his, George Morison, accepted me as an apprentice with
Bucyrus-Erie Company. This apprenticeship took me to Mil-
waukee, Wisconsin, Evansville, Indiana, and Frie, Pennsylvania,
where company plants were located; also, from the dead cold of a
Milwaukee winter to the fairyland of Florida, near Miami, for

[316]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

experience in delivering new machines. Entering the sales depart-
ment, I spent a couple of years mostly in Pennsylvania before be-
ing transferred to San Francisco. Here, through my sister, I met
my wife, and we were married in Milwaukee following my trans-
fer there to help organize a new department. The depression can-
celed the department and my job. Since nothing seemed available
elsewhere then, we spent a happy summer at my family’s summer
cottage on the coast of Maine, where my elder son was born.
When he was two, we decided to try our fortunes in San Fran-
cisco. There our second boy arrived.

Wartime priorities caused my next change, in 1943, from an-
other manufacturer of construction equipment to my present asso-
ciation. There followed seven months on the Alcan Highway,
riding herd on a fleet of bulldozers, graders, etc., the accomplish-
ments of which seemed miraculous, but pale to insignificance be-
side the tremendous achievements of the Navy Seabees and Army
_ Engineers then taking place in the far reaches of the Pacific. While
I was occupied supervising equipment on the myriad of construc-
tion projects in California, I little imagined that I would ever see
what had been accomplished by the equipment I had had a hand
in furnishing to the Armed Services.

Then in 1947 we found out that vast quantities of surplus ma-
terial, including heavy construction equipment, located on scores
of islands in the Pacific, had been turned over to the National
Government of China as payment for wartime obligations of our
government, and that the heavy construction equipment, the use
of which was beyond the abilities of the Chinese, was for sale by
them to the highest bidder. ‘here was a desperate shortage then
here. During the next two years I went from island to island,
appraising, negotiating, and supervising shipment of this material
back to the United States. Via Hawaii, Midway and Wake to
Guam. To Saipan and Tinian. To Okinawa. To Shanghai, where
the Chinese had their main office for disposal. Even to Japan, for
equipment that our own Army there found surplus. Back and
forth to the States. To Iwo Jima, that volcanic rock taken at such
terrific cost in American lives. Everywhere neat cemeteries with
green grass and ordered rows of crosses showing the price we paid
for victory. Everywhere fine airports, highways, utilities created
practically overnight during the relentless progress towards Ja-

[317]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

an. A brief visit to Manila, where the destruction *pproaci
that done by our bombers in Japan.

Finally the job was done. Back home I came, hoping to ¢
reacquainted with my swell family. But not for long: there cov
be surplus in Europe, in the United States occupied zone of Ge

many. So over I had to go, finding out, to my relief, that the
was nothing of interest. 1 wanted to settle down, and maybe

shall be able to, to enjoy my two fine boys and the real pleasu.
of being home every night, which must surely be more appr
ciated by one who has been flung around the world far more tha
others.

EARL EVANS

HOME ADDRESS: 1668 Great Highway, San Francisco, Calif

porn: April 14, 1900, Lucas, lowa. parents: John R. Evans Saral Burch.
PREPARED AT: Albia High School, Albia, lowa

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREES: SB. 1925; M.B.A., 1932(33)-

MARRIED: Margaret Villalon, June 29, 1935, San Francisco, Calif. cxmp
Daryl] Buckley, Aug. 30, 1940

OCCUPATION: Safety Engineer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Safety Engineer, Division of Industrial Safety,
State of California.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of San Francisco

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous safety articles in California Safety News.

MY FIRST five years after graduating were spent in the engineer-
ing profession and playing professional football with the Chicago
Bears of the National League. While attending Harvard Business
School from 1930 to 1932, I helped coach, and coached the 150-
pound football team and class baseball teams at Harvard Uni-
versity.

From 1932 until 1933, I was assistant to the president of John R.
Thompson Chain Restaurants in Chicago. I went west to San
Francisco in 1933, and have lived here since that time. I helped
build the San Francisco-Oakland bridge, and went on a fishing
expedition to Alaska.

In 1938 I entered state government service with the California
State Motor Vehicle Department, and in 1941 transferred to the
California Division of Industrial Safety. During the war period I
was in charge of safety supervision of many large war construc-

{318}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion facilities such as Mare Island, Hamilton Field Air Base, Fair-
field Air Base, Army Port of Embarkation, Oakland, Oakland
Navy Supply Depot, Benicia Arsenal, Moffatt Field Air Base, San
Francisco Airport, Pan-American Pacific Base, Belair Shipyards,
and San Bruno Naval Base.

I have one boy who is just nine and weighs 116 pounds. He is
my hobby. My other hobby is working around my home. In
June, 1949, I was converted to the Catholic Church. Thus my
wife, boy and I are of the same religion which brings about a
happier married life.

JAMES EDWARD EVANS

HOME ADDRESS: 196 Burlington St., Lexington 73, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 436 Riverside Ave., Medford 55, Mass.

BoRN: May 20, 1904, New Rochelle, N. Y. parents: Hannibal Ballot
Kenney, Nancy Hamilton Evans.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922.

MARRIED: Elsie Payne, March 16, 1935, Cambridge, Mass. cuitp: Richard
P., Feb. 6, 1936.

OCCUPATION: Retail lumber dealer.

OFFICES HELD: Past treasurer, F. C. Friend, Inc., past president, Cambridge
Community Center, Cambridge Red Feather Agency; president, Evans
& Rossi Lumber Company, Inc.; member board of directors, Cambridge

~ Community Center; member Bishop’s Council, Protestant Episcopal

Church, Diocese of Massachusetts, two terms; clerk of parish and ves-
try, Church of Our Saviour (Episcopal), Arlington, Mass.

ON LEAVING college I assumed the care of aged foster parents
living in another locality, quite a distance from my own home. In
fact this was the principal reason for not continuing at college,
plus, of course, insufficient funds.

At this time I went to work for Friend Lumber Company in
Somerville, moving to Medford with the company a few years
later and remaining to work both for this concern and an affiliated
company, F, C, Friend, Inc., for twenty-five years. Through the
years I was able to gain a knowledge of the lumber merchandising
business, both at wholesale and retail, which stands me in good
stead in running my own business which I was able to start three
years ago with the aid of borrowed capital.

I have not had much time or money for travel although I have

[319 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

managed several trips to Canada and numerous jaunts to New
York, besides of course the short holiday and vacation trips that
everyone takes. |

Until a few months ago my only hobby was fishing, but now I

have a real one to play with. I have acquired, rather built, our
“dream house” and, although I have not had experiences to parallel
Mr. Blandings’, I do expect I am going to be kept rather busy with
afterthoughts and the usual chores that one does not have when
occupying someone else’s house or apartment. So far it’s great fun.
But who can tell how soon there will be too much lawn to mow or
too many screens and storm windows to put away or put on?

Being a Negro I do have very strong social convictions. I have
not had, I think, the usual number of rebuffs that the average
member of my race meets, perhaps because my life has been shel-
tered to some extent. Perhaps we may see another Republican
administration, or, at least, another kind of “deal” in Washington
that will believe the taxpayers’ hard-earned dollar deserves better
treatment than it has been getting for some years past.

During the past ten years I have become deeply involved in the
worship and work of the Episcopal Church in my parish in
Arlington. I am almost as firmly intrenched in the clerkship of
the parish and vestry as the Democrats are in national politics.
Each year I am nominated and elected to the office before I have
a chance to refuse the nomination. I believe wholeheartedly in the
program and aims of the church, feeling with many others that if
the program can be made to work it will solve many of our tough-
est problems.

As 1 look back over the years I do regret that I did not complete
my college work, but I am grateful for the short time I spent at
Harvard and for the influence it has had on my life and work. So
far we, my wife and I, have not amassed any amount of worldly
goods beyond the necessities of life and a very few of its luxuries,
nor do we expect to live more than comfortably in the future.
We are most thankful for a married life which has been good,
considering that its sorrows have been more than balanced
by its pleasures and happiness; and for a healthy and athletic

son who hopes to get into college some half dozen years from
now.

[ 320]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOSEPH PATRICK EVANS

HOME apprEss: Fisher House, Turpin Lane, Newtown, Ohio.

OFFICE appress: Cincinnati General Hospital, Cincinnati, Ohio.

BORN: Nov. 29, 1904, LaCrosse, Wis. parents: Edward Evans, Sarah
Thompson.

PREPARED AT: LaCrosse High School, LaCrosse, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923~1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; M.D. cum laude, 1929; M.S.C.
(McGill Univ.), 1930; PH.D. (ibid), 1937.

MARRIED: Hermene Eisenman, June 24, 1929, Brookline, Mass, CHILDREN:
Mary Frances, March 17, 1930; Edward and Frederick Nicholas
(twins), Oct. 17, 1931; Caroline, July 28, 1936; Anne Willien, Dec. 12,
1938; Hermene Willien, March 21, 1943; John Fisher, March 16, 1945;
Thomas More, Jan. 14, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHERS: James Ambrose Evans, M.D. ’20,; Edward Thompson
Evans, M.D. ’22; Arthur Robert Evans, Bus. School 1927-28.

occupaTion: Associate professor of surgery, College of Medicine, Uni-
versity of Cincinnati, director of Division of Neurosurgery.

OFFICES HELD: President, American Academy of Neurological Surgery,
1940-41; member, American Board of Neurological Surgery, 1944~-
50, World Health Organization, Unitarian Service Committee, Medical
Mission to Austria, 1948.

MEMBER OF: Various neurosurgical clubs; University Club of Cincinnati.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in various medical journals, monograph: Acute
Head Injury, 1950.

NO DOUBT the real reason that I find it difficult to write a Class
Life is that I have never really felt myself a full-fledged member
of the Class. This, I presume, may be the fate of most who trans-
fer college affiliations at the half-way point, as did I in transferring
from Notre Dame to Harvard. Deeper friendships and the more
lasting impressions are in most instances born in the first year or
two of college life. And entering two weeks late in that junior
year made it all the more necessary to keep busy with books with
little opportunity for extra-curricular contacts. I still recall many
a lonely meal during my first weeks at Harvard, and I often reflect
in passing cafeterias on the loneliness they contain. But that stage
did not last long and certainly my senior year was a happy one
even though Chemistry 5, taken as a half-course without the sus-
taining laboratory work, threatened to trip me and I sometimes
wondered whether the Medical School would have me.

Frankly, my happiest Harvard recollections are those associated
with the Medical School, for here I was ‘“‘on the in” from the start.

[321]

Hat,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

This period represented a blossoming of medical tradition in which
I had been saturated at home, in the midst of a very medical fam-
ily. Immediately after graduation from Medical School, the
W ellesley portion of my education in turn blossomed, and to-
gether we set out on my long postgraduate training as a neu-
rological surgeon. Stimulated to an indefinable extent r by student
exposure to the late Harvey Cushing and by his Life of Sir Wil-
liam Osler, and wisely counselled by “Harold Weatherford, a quiet
and wise anatomist, I was set for the goal of the study and treat-
ment of disease of the nervous system which, to my mind, is the
most interesting field in medicine. We followed, in irregular and

recrossing fashion, paths which led to McGill, University of Chi-

cago, Univ ersity of Minnesota, Cambridge University, the “Queen

Square” hospital i in London, the London | Hospital, and the Wenzel

Hancke Krankenhaus in the late Breslau. A generous Rockefeller

Fellowship provided in addition to nearly two years abroad (Oc-

tober, 1934, to June, 1936), travel funds with which to visit other

continental and Scandinavian clinics. The training period ended

with a return to Montreal for a final year at the Neurological

Institute under my chief, Wilder Penfield.

Then, through him, came the opportunity to come to Cincin-
nati in 1937 to take charge of neurological surgery here in the
University hospitals. Gradually over the past twelve years, with
the help of my colleagues, there has been built up a neurosurgical
unit which I earnestly hope fills an important place in this area for
those suffering from neurological disease amenable to surgical
interference. We have sought to achieve this with constant atten-
tion to the accompanying University responsibility for teaching
and investigation. At times, progress has seemed very slow, in-
deed. Occasionally there has been a real and obvious gain, but it
has all been a very happy period.

Naturally, since I am in medicine, I tend to date my own think-
ing from Medical School graduation, and there is another pro-
founder reason for doing so, since that year, 1929, marked the start
of our family group, which has been blessed with robust health
and reasonable mental capacity. To many, ours will seem a family
of large size, to ourselves it is not a person too many. We consider
that we have been fortunate, indced, to have them. The color and
zest they have added to our lives is inestimable and it seems to us

[ 322]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

that too few parents of today have a genuine understanding of the
significance of the full and whole-hearted family life.

Corresponding to professional growth and the growth of our
family, there has been, I hope, an appreciable philosophical and
spiritual maturation. As a member of the Medical Mission to
Austria, sponsored by the Unitarian Service Committee and the
World Health Organization, I had an opportunity in 1947 to
re-visit Europe, in its postwar state. The ravages of war as seen
in Austria made a deep impression. Then in the spring term of
1948, a sabbatical leave at New Haven, working in John Fulton’s
laboratory at Yale, gave additional time to reflect on the significant

achievements of science in the physical sphere, and its failure to
provide the answer to questions that are, in the last analysis, meta-
physical and not in the physical sphere at all. I was so deeply in-
grained with the suppositions of physical science that it has taken
years for me to recognize the fuzziness and unscientific nature of
much of the thinking of some of our scientists.

But in twenty-five years I have come, I think, pretty much full
circle in my own thinking so that now without gainsaying the
tremendous value of science and the importance of the scientific
method, I am eager that my children first be educated in the clas-
sical sense, that after a thorough training in the classics and in
philosophy, history, language, and music, they then approach
specialized training in their field of choice.

Coupled with this completion of the circle is an even greater
willingness to accept the theology and the discipline of the formal
religion of my youth because, among other reasons, I am intel-
lectually convinced that her teaching, lived up to by clergy and
laity alike (alas, so often not the case) offers the only really logi-
cal hope for the end of the intellectual dissociation and anarchy
that have permitted us to accomplish the harnessing of the power
of the atom while losing the meaning of our existence.

ROBERT MARK EVANS

HOME Appress: 112 Marlborough St., Boston 16, Mass.

OFFICE appress: English High School, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 23, 1903, Lawrence, Mass, PARENTS: Joseph Nicholas Evans,
Caroline May Geldard.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

[ 323 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREES: A.B, Ctl lade, 1925; A.Mu 1927.
UNM ARRIED.

occuPaTiON: Master, Department of Modern Languages.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Rationing and registration (military service,
gasoline, fuel, sugar, food), Red Cross courses, bond drives, etc.

OFFICFS HELD: Instructor, Department of Modern Languages, University of
Pittsburgh, 1925-26, French Department, New York University, 1927-
30; head of Department of Modern Foreign Languages, The Ports-
mouth Priory School, Portsmouth, R. I., 1930-32; master, Department
of Modern Languages, English High School, Boston, since 1932.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Essex Institute, Salem, Mass.; Chari-

table Irish Society of Boston; New England Modern Language As-
sociation.

puBLicaTions: Book reviews in Afodern Language Journal, occasional news-
paper articles, etc.

PERHAPS the thought has occurred to others that the theme-
song of our “Afid-Century” Class should be the march played at
Cornwallis’ surrender at Yorktown — “The World Turned Up-
side Down”! Certainly few classes in Harvard’s long history can
have seen a more complete reversal of the whole picture of things
in the first twenty-five years after its graduation.

Winston Churchill once said that the blessed ones of this world
are those who get paid for doing what they would be doing any-
way for the fun of it. If that is so, I should be very happy (and
I guess I am, at that!). I have never thought of any career other
than teaching for one moment, since 1925. To be sure, I am now
getting the joy and satisfaction out of teaching in the hardest of
all ways — as master in a big, crowded, noisy public high school,
the oldest “high school” in the world, in fact. (Latin School —
men, please note: “Latin” is not ever a high school, but a “Latin
School,” which is by definition and in fact, something very differ-
ent!) To be sure, I am up against what a despairing old professor
once called “the infinite ability of the human mind to withstand
the introduction of knowledge.” The era of the movies, the radio,
television, the “comic books,” and the picture magazines has its
own special difficulties for teachers of academic subjects in boys’

schools. It is perhaps too easy to fall into the réle of laudator
temporis acti under the circumstances but certainly the pressure,
the tension, the strain of controlling, guiding, and teaching the
adolescent youth of today can hardly be exagecrated.

Sunt pueri puert pueri puerilia tractant is true now more than

[324]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ever but if you have been bitten by the cacoethes docendi, there’s
not much you can do about it. Twenty-five hours of teaching and
ten hours of supervision and administrative assignments per week,
piles of papers in a never-ending avalanche to correct, grade, and
check, don’t leave much time for boredom or worry about the
H-bomb. However, it is really very simple: if you don’t like
young people and don’t enjoy working with them, teaching is
Hell on earth, but if you do like them and working with them,
they soon find it out and you’re bound to be at least moderately
successful. ‘This all must sound like a very corny “Mr. Chips” but
I think most teachers feel the same way about it.

As for the rest, although my salary has been increased only 23
per cent since 1939 (!!!), I have, since graduation, spent eleven
summers in Europe, have managed to visit twenty-five countries,
and have been able to indulge my vocation-avocation to my heart’s
content.

Now facing the second half-century for our Class, and of the
nineteen hundreds for the world, I really am beginning to think
that Julia Ward Howe was right when she said, “Life is like a cup
of tea, the sweetest part of it comes at the bottom of the cup!”

PERCIVAL HOWARD EVELETH

HOME ADDRESS: 134 Elm St., Andover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lowell Lingerie Co., Lowell, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 25, 1904, Amesbury, Mass. PARENTS: Fred Shailer Eveleth, Alice
Towne.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1925.

MarRiED: Ruth Larter, Sept. 6, 1930, Suncook, N. H. cuipren: Peter, Oct.
14, 1931; Patricia, June 3, 1935.

OCCUPATION: Accountant,

WILLIAM FRANCIS FAIR, JR.

HOME appreEss: 704 Springfield Ave., Cranford, N. J.

OFFICE AppREss: Mellon Institute of Industrial Research, Pittsburgh, Pa.;
Koppers Co., Inc., Westfield, N. J.

BORN: Nov. 11, 1903, South Natick, Mass. parents: William Francis Fair,
Mary Loretta Ring.

PREPARED AT: Wellesley High School, Wellesley, Mass,

[325 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B 1925; A.M. (Columbia Univ.),
1927; PH.D. (ibid.), 1930.

makrrieD: Katherine A. Herron, Feb. 12, 1928, Brooklyn, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Joan Catherine, April 7, 1929, Patricia Mary, Sept. 5, 1932.

occupation: Research chemist.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S. Coast Guard Reserve (temporary), 1943-45.

oFFices HELD: Council member, New York section, American Chemical
Society, 1936-37 member Board of Governors, Faculty Club, Uni-
versity of Pittsburgh, 1938-40, American Institute of Physics, since
1945; Vice-president, 1941-45, president, 1945-49, Society of Rheology;
chairman, Committee on Viscosity and Consistency, American Society
for Testing Materials, since 1944.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of Western Pennsyl-
vania; Association of Harvard Chemists; American Chemical Society;
American Institute of Chemists; Society of Rheology; American So-
ciety for Testing Materials, Faculty Club, University of Pittsburgh,
Chemist's Club, New York, Chemist’s Club, Pittsburgh; National Asso-
ciation of Corrosion Engineers; Sigma Xi; Phi Lamba Upsilon.

puBLIcaTions: Several patents and technical papers on bituminous composi-
tions and properties, particularly in the field of corrosion prevention.

UPON completion of graduate work I spent a few years in in-
dustrial chemical research and then returned to academic life as
professor of chemistry at Manhattanville College of the Sacred
Heart. In this position I had the freedom associated with a mini-
mum teaching load and enjoyed stimulating contacts outside of
technical fields through frequent opportunities to meet intimately
scholars of renown in religion and philosophy.

In 1937 I went to the Mellon Institute of Industrial Research in
Pittsburgh to start fundamental research work on the rheological
properties of bituminous materials. With the outbreak of the war
our major efforts were directed towards improvement of bitumi-
nous building materials and development of satisfactory or better
substitutes, chiefly in the field of bituminous compositions.

Most of us in industrial research had rather expected that we
could work at a much slower pace when the war was over but:
continued expansion and replacement of industrial construction of
all kinds have kept industrial technologists as busy as ever during
the past four years.

Eventual retirement several years hence will give us a chance to

review our activities of this decade and evaluate the results, pos-
sibly with considerable loss of self-esteem.

[ 326]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM MACDONALD FAIRLEIGH

HOME appREss: 2676 Fairleigh Terr. St. Joseph 21, Mo. -

OFFICE ADDRESS: 517 Corby Bldg., St. Joseph 9, Mo. .

BORN: July 12, 1902, St. Joseph, Mo. parents: James O'Neill Fairleigh,
Forrestine Cavelier McDonald.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MaRRIED: Mable Emily Parkinson, March 21, 1936, St. Joseph. Mo. cHILpREN:
James Parkinson, Aug. 24, 1938; Catherine Forrestine, April 9, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Management of investments.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New York; St
Joseph Country Club.

AFTER my graduation twenty-five years ago, I returned to Har-
vard in the fall of 1925 to take the two-year Business School course.
At the end of the first year, however, I became so fed up with
“book Jarnin” that I quit school and took a job here in a bank in
St. Joseph. I soon discovered that the Business School had taught
me how to be a top executive; but unfortunately for me, the
president of the bank was not ready to retire. I spent fifteen years
learning and doing the more menial tasks in the banking business,
most of which were not touched upon by the various courses I
had taken at the Business School. When my father passed on in
1941, it seemed advisable for me to resign my position at the bank
in order to devote my full time to the management of family af-
fairs, which consists chiefly of the administration of a small trust
fund. This latter occupation still fills my time, and I find it
extremely interesting.

For eleven years after 1925 I Jed a pretty harum-scarum life,
having a big and rather wild time, and playing hard-to-get with
the women. But my time came in 1936, and I married a girl whom
I had known for some time. This young lady, in addition to quiet-
ing me down, has made me extremely happy, so much so that I
often wonder why I waited so long to venture out upon what has
turned out to be the calm seas of matrimony. Then came the off-
spring: James in 1938 and Catherine in 1941. James inherits his
father’s musical ability. My wife objects to this last statement, so
just let me say modestly that James possesses musical talents un-
usual for a child his age. Catherine keeps us all on our toes and
seems to be happiest when pestering her older brother. It is hard

[ 327]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

for me to understand why the likes of me should be blessed with
such a wonderful family, but I have learned to accept the good
things of life without too many questions.

I suppose T might say that my family and my home are my
hobbies. Most of my good times are with my family, and I eagerly
anticipate the hours in which I can don the most disreputable
clothes available and work in the yard or do odd jobs around the
house.

With the exception of a mistake in 1932 when I voted for the
Democratic presidential nominee, I am and always have been a
Republican. However, it is an ill wind that blows no one good.
That mistake in 1932 has converted my wife, who is a grand-
daughter of the late Democratic United States Senator William
Joel Stone, and all of her family from rabid Democrats to equally
rabid Republicans.

My religion meant very little to me prior to my marriage. My
wife is an earnest student of Christian Science, a religion in which
I had little faith in my younger years. Since my marriage I have
seen the efficacy of this religion; and, although I have not yet
joined a Christian Science Church, I gratefully acknowledge the
good it has done for me and mine, and I am gradually accepting
its teachings.

Although my hair is gray and my chest has fallen, there 1s still
some life eft i in the old boy. As I look back over the years, my
life seems quite uneventful. I have not amassed a fortune of
worldly goods. However, I have always considered happiness an
excellent measure of success, and I can honestly say that I have
amassed a wealth of happiness. How happiness is attained is each
individual’s problem.

If my case is typical, our classmates who have compiled this
publication have had a difficult time extracting these reports from
the various members of the Class. I feel that we all owe these boys
our undying respect and gratitude for their patient labors.

ARTHUR CARGILL FARIS
HOME ApprEss: 155 Prospect St., Cambridge 39, Mass.

orrice apparss: Morgan Bros. Creameries, 377 Warren Str, Roxbury 19,
Mass.

[ 328 ]

La

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Feb. 2, 1902, Boston, Mass. pARENTs: Simon Peter Faris, Annie Laura
Morton.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924, 1925-1926, DEGREE: A.B., 1925(26).

occuPATION: Store manager.

THOMAS DOUGLAS FRANCIS FARMER

ADDRESS: 1583 Graham Blvd., Mount Royal, Montreal, P. Q., Canada.
BORN: Nov. 29, 1903, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Wiliam Bartholomew
Farmer, Genevieve Theresa Kerrigan.

PREPARED AT: Bristol High School, Bristol, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREES: A.B., 1925(26); M.p. (McGill Univ.),
1931.

marrieD: Nina Alexieuna Shpakowskaya, Nov. 25, 1935, Montreal, P. Q.,
Canada.

occuPATION: Medicine.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Farmer did not return a questionnaire.

ARCHIBALD ISRAEL FEINBERG

HOME ADpREsS: 215 Franklin St. Newton 58, Mass.

OFFICE ApDpREss: Union Wool Co., Inc., 222 Summer St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: March 29, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parents: Israel Feinberg, Goldie
Kapstein.

PREPARED aT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

MarRiED: Cissie Greenspan, Oct. 11, 1942, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Paul,
July, 1944; John, October, 1947.

occuPATION: Mercantile business.

IN A cottage at Gloucester, Massachusetts, | am writing my report
on a beautiful day in late August —a day which gives one the
feeling of a “bright blue October day.” For the last four summers
we have leased this cottage which 1s situated high on a hill over-
looking the ocean and the water is a mass of even blueness and
sunlight now.

My son Paul, five years old, and I spent this morning on the
Annisquam River on a float to which a large part of the tuna
fishing ficet returns, and we saw about twenty fish. It was quite
thrilling as this is considered a large catch. For a long, long time

[ 329 ]

\

ine al ly,

7.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

I have looked forward to chartering a tuna boat, and it is there-
fore with much delight that I can report mission accomplished.
Earlier in the week, which happens to be one of vacation for me,
I spent some time on a large sloop going from Boston to Woods
Hole. We have another son, John, two years old. Last but not
least is Cis, my wife. We have been married seven years this
October. As you read this it would seem that I’ve waited a long
time for these great and good events.

It would be more interesting to write about Cis’s activities than
mine; her interests and activities stand out by comparison with
those of one in the stodgy wool business in which I have been
engaged since college. It is a speculative business affected by for-
eign currency changes, political tugs of war, and the sneezes of
royalty, quite contrary to Harvard caution and conservatism.
However, we are paying our bills and thankful for everything
we have.

I read in an anonymous poem, “Approaching forty-five is when
the baseball umpires seem so young.” Don’t they look too young
to you, too? Forty-five is such a surprise with so many things to
do and see and so little time to do them.

Referring to the suggestion concerning religious feeling, I feel
that I am much more traditionally religious now than IT was in
college. With regard to politics, 1 am much more liberal by con-
trast with earlier years. Now it is being liberal in actual voting,
then, it was liberalism in discussions. I hope fervently for cour-
ageous leadership in Washington.

My other relationships are the Newton Improvement Associa-
tion, Brier Neck Beach Association, Rockport Golf Club, Metro-
politan Yacht Club, Boston Wool Trade Association, Temple
Israel, and the Combined Jewish Charities of which I was co-
chairman in Newton for 1949. Through the height of the last-
named campaign I was out of the country on a business trip to

Europe. I left Boston on October fifth and returned on October
twenty-sixth, going and returning by air.

PAUL MICHAEL FEKULA

HOME ADDRESS: 42~16 80th St., Elmhurst, Long Island, N. Y.
OFFICE apprEss: 60 E, 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y,

[ 330 ]

251TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BorN: Sept. 16, 1905, Winnipeg, Man., Canada. parents: Michael Gregory
Fekula, Anastasia Syrotiuk.

PREPARED AT: Allegheny High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 72agna cum laude, 1925.

UNMARRIED,

occuPATION: Financial Analyst and Economist.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant commander, U.S. Navy, 1942-45.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Price Renegotiation Board.

OFFICES HELD: Previously: director and officer of many companies in the
Associated Gas & Electric System; currently: secretary, St. Vladimir’s
Orthodox Theological Seminary; treasurer, Caracas Petroleum Cor-
poration, New York.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club; Downtown Athletic Club, Uptown Club;
Church Club, New York; Federated Russian Orthodox Clubs; New
York Society of Security Analysts, American Management Association,
Metropolitan Russian Male Chorus.

PUBLICATIONS: Icon Mosaics of Kabrie-Djami.

I AM concerned about the problem of integrity in American pub-
lic life and the possibility of another world war. It is becoming
increasingly evident that the United States will probably graduate
into world leadership not only politically but in many major
aspects of cultural and scientific life.

I have collected a substantial library of Russian books and art,
printed before and after the Bolshevik revolution.

CHARLES WINCHESTER FELT

HOME ADpRESS: 6 Terrace Rd., Natick, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Liberty Mutual Insurance Co., 175 Berkeley St., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: July 9, 1902, Northborough, Mass. parents: George Herbert Felt,
Ella Winchester Norcross.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921~1924. DEGREE: A.B. (Clark Univ.), 1928.

MaRRIED: Charlotte Newton, Nov. 8, 1947, Grafton, Mass. cup: Barbara
Anne, May 22, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Research analyst.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted in Seabees, July 17, 1942; sailed for
South Pacific, Dec. 17, 1942; saw duty at New Hebrides, Russell Islands,
and Admiralty Islands, returned to United States in November, 1944;
discharged with final rank as carpenter's mate, 2d class, July 6, 1945.

MEMBER OF: Boston Camera Club,

THE feelings experienced as I undertake this brief on my activi-
ties during the past twenty-five years, demonstrate the extent to

[331]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

which vanity is a tremendous factor in one’s life. This is said
because the feeling experienced is one of shame that I have so few
accomplishments to relate. And my story is to repose between
covers housing some very brilliant stories.

The choice of a goal in life is a difficult one. The goal which
had the greatest appeal to me was that of bettering the lot of man-
kind by eliminating some great evil from the world such as war
among nations, political corruption, or any of the countless con-
ditions producing inequalities and misery. That had more appeal
than trying to get rich. But after twenty-five years, all I can say
is that my goal has not lost its appeal. Indeed the world would be
better off had I been the man I aspired to be.

In the meantime, still remembering my goal yet needing to eat,
I somehow wound up as a research analyst in the Liberty Mutual
Insurance Company in Boston. As I recall it, I sacrificed my first
week’s pay to some agency. Last week’s pay, I believe, went to
some bank here in Natick which claims equity in my cute new
little home.

The type of girl, or shall we say woman in view of the lapse of
twenty-five years, with the greatest appeal to me was the brown-
haired type with blue eyes. This was demonstrated repeatedly
through the years. That being the case, several years ago I suc-
cumbed to a blond woman and now have an even more blond
daughter. Was hoping for a boy.

In 1942 the Army presented me with greetings and official wel-
come to participate in what I figured, at my age, would amount to
boring service within the country. The Seabees provided the
answer in overseas duty along lines more suited to my age and
philosophy. In eleven weeks I was on my way. Hoping for Eu-

rope or Africa, it was the Pacific where I found the glories of
South Sea Island life to be grossly exaggerated. There were times
when I earnestly wished to be elsewhere. While damning war, I
can thank it for some interesting experiences and a concrete con-
ception of life on the Equator, a more intimate knowledge of the
cocoanut, and a month in New Zealand. Were wars more friendly,

I should recommend them. Yet friendly wars might produce more

veterans and heroes, so I’ll hold for peace.

Rather late, at the age of thirty, I suddenly discovered the value
of hobbies. For some years I had dabbled with the trumpet. In

[ 332 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

college days I was in the college band. In 1932 I was induced to
study with a Boston Symphony player and for a period of years
played in orchestras around Boston, including the MacDowell
Club under Arthur Fiedler. During this period I had an obsession
for golf with the mild distinction of playing the game left-handed.

At the age of thirty-six I bought my first camera. This I kept
for two weeks, then got a better one, only to replace it with a still
better one after two more wecks. I finally discovered that the
camera is only one item in a long series of events which produce a
picture. I have a dark room and some gadgets, many of which I
don’t really need. But photography is a hobby with some thrills
and one’s vanity gets a boost when a fine picture is duly admired.
It isn’t a dangerous hobby and can be practised in old age.

In politics and religion I have continued along the lines which
were my heritage. Not that I am a pure conformist for I complain
as loudly as the next, yet I just can’t seem to make order in this
sadly chaotic world.

I look forward to the coming Class Reunion and the opportunity
of again meeting college friends, all of whom will be vastly dif-
ferent from what they were in college days.

CARL SIMEON FERGUSON

HOME ADDRESS: 237 Park St., Newton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 527 State House, Boston, Mass.

BorN: April 3, 1898, Jonesburg, Mo. parents: Robert Lee Ferguson, Lena
Alice Roberts.

PREPARED AT: Central Wesleyan Academy, Warrenton, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. cu72 laude, 1925.

MarrieD: Helen Ada Noyce, June 29, 1929, Newton Center, Mass. CHILDREN:
Sylvia Lee, April 19, 1931; David Carl, Dec. 2, 1932.

occupation: Director, Food and Drug Division, Massachusetts Department
of Public Health.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War I: enlisted Aug. 7, 1918; served as
sergeant, Co. C., 606th Engineers, Camp Humphreys, Va.; discharged
Jan. 9, 1919.

MEMBER oF: American Chemical Society; Institute of Food Technologists.

PUBLICATIONS: Scientific articles dealing with food law enforcement.

I HAVE been with the Massachusetts Department of Public
Health since 1929, holding successively positions as assistant chem-
ist, senior chemist, chief of laboratory, and since 1946, director of

[ 333 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

the Food and Drug Division. My job is to protect the citizen in
his purchases of foods and medicines. The work is varied and
interesting but not as remunerative as many other professions. We
have been able to eat regularly, however, and are blessed with
good educational prospects for our children. Sylvia is now a fresh-

man at Wheaton College, Wheaton, Illinois, and David hopes to
enter Harvard next September.

We've had nothing extensive in the way of travel but have
enjoyed our normal share of vacation trips as a family. We adhere
to the fundamental teachings of the Bible and find satisfaction in
the security promised through Christ. During my spare time I do

a little experimental research, a little farming, and occasionally
take the old banjo out of its case.

FRANCIS pe LIESSELINE FERGUSSON

HOME ADDRESS: 76 College Rd., Princeton, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Princeton University, Princeton, N. J.

BoRN: Feb. 21, 1904, Albuquerque, N. Mex. parents: Harvey Butler Fer-
gusson, Clara Mary Huning.

PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923. DEGREE: B.A. (Univ. of Oxford), 1926.

MaRRiED: Marion Crowne, Jan. 16, 1931. CHILDREN: Harvey, Oct. 22, 19315
Honora, Jan. §, 1936.

HARVARD SON: Harvey Fergusson, °53.

occupation: Director, Princeton seminars in literary criticism, associate
professor, Department of Modern Languages.

OFFICES HELD: Associate director, Laboratory Theatre, 1928-30; dramatic
critic, The Bookman, 1930-32; executive secretary, New School for
Social Research, 1932-34; at Bennington College, 1934-37; member,
Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, N. J. 1948-49.

PuBLICATIONS: Sophocles’ Electra (a translation), New Directions; The

Idea of the Theatre, Princeton University Press; essays and poems in
various literary magazines.

AFTER two years at Harvard, where I studied biology chiefly, I
went to Queen’s College, Oxford, on a Rhodes Scholarship. At
Oxford I studied philosophy mostly and graduated in 1926. Back
in this country in the fall of ’26 1 entered the American Laboratory
Theatre, where I spent four years, acting a little, directing, and
above all studying the technique of the Moscow Art Theatre
under the Jate Richard Boleslavsky and Maria Ouspenskaya. It
was here that 1 met my wife, who was Madame Ouspenskaya’s

[ 334]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

assistant, and shortly after the theatre succumbed to the depression
we were married.

From 1930 to 1934 I survived with some difficulty in New York.
This was a bad time for the theatre and for letters. I had various
jobs not mentioned in this record, and started to raise a family.

From 1934 to 1947 I taught at Bennington, an experience which
proved very valuable in many ways. We used to remark that
Bennington provided an excellent education for its faculty, what-
ever it did, or did not do, for its students. In no other college I
know would I have been able to work at philosophy and the
theatre both. My wife and I ran the college theatre there for about
eleven years. During part of this period Bennington was attempt-
ing a reform of the curriculum very similar in principle to Har-
vard’s efforts in this direction under President Conant.

In January, 1948, we pulled up stakes and moved to Princeton,
where I was lucky enough to be made a member of the Institute
for Advanced Study. I spent a year and a half at the Institute, ©
completing my book, The Idea of the Theatre, which the Prince-
ton Press has just published. The Princeton seminars in literary
criticism, of which I am now director, were initiated in the autumn
of 1949 to continue over a three-year period. An outgrowth of the
humanities programs and creative arts programs of the university,
the project is designed to afford opportunities for the interpreta-
tion and evaluation of literature to small groups consisting of
faculty members and advanced students. Critics, writers, or
scholars are invited to contribute to the seminars.

In spite of the great age which I have reached I offer you this
account as a.record of work in progress rather than as an obituary,
and therefore I do not attempt to make either comments or predic-
tions. I do not know what the moral of the tale may be.

JOSEPH BLAKE FIELD

HOME AND OFFICE apprEss: Judson School for Boys, Phoenix, Ariz.

BORN: Sept. 8, 1902, Weston, Mass. PARENTS: Edward Blake Field, Grace R.
Olsen.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 1925; A.M., 1929.

MARRIED: Marlow Bonner, June 29, 1927, Camden, Ala. cnmmpren: Edward
Blake, Jan. 2, 1933; Bonner Miller, May 25, 1936,

[335]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Hanvarp BrotHERS: Erlund Field, '28,; Edward Olsen Field, ’30.
occupation: Director and owner, Judson School for Boys.
MenBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of Phoenix,

Phoenix Country Club, Cohasset Golf Club.
AFTER having spent four pleasant years along the banks of the
Charles, I decided in the fall of 1925 to return for another year of
post-graduate work. Due to the inability of a certain history pro-
fessor to distinguish between a C+ and a B—, I did not complete
the requirements for my Master’s degree until the summer of 1928.
In the meanume considerable water had passed under the bridge,
although I was not present to see it.

In the spring of 1926, for some unaccountable reason, I was
offered a job teaching in a small school in Arizona. While this
seemed a little far from the banks of the said Charles, I decided to
follow the advice of Horace Greeley and accept the offer. So in
September, 1926, I arrived in Mesa, Arizona, to teach history at
the Mfesa Ranch School. For the next thirteen years I continued
to teach here, becoming associate headmaster in 1927, taking a
wife from the deep South, also in 1927, and producing two sons,
one in 1933, another in 1936. What is the use of having a boys’
school if you can’t help fill it?

Finally, in the fall of 1939, I became associated with the Judson
School for Boys of Phoenix, Arizona, the school of which I am
now co-owner. During the war years of 1941 until 1944, I was
director of the Jokake School for Girls. Then in 1945, wishing to
retain the few remaining black hairs, I returned to teaching boys
at Judson. Early in 1946 I became director and co-owner of the
Judson School, my associate being a former Eli. Except for a
certain Saturday each fall, everything is comparatively peaceful
between us. Since taking over, we have added quite a bit here
and there till now we are the largest private school for boys in

Arizona, and the possessors of the finest school polo team in the
West.

I shall be back on the banks of the Charles in the spring of 1950

to greet my fellow-classmates.

JOHN HUSTON FINLEY, JR.

HOME AND oFvVice appress: Master’s Lodgings, Eliot House, Harvard Uni-
versity, Cambridge, Mass.

[ 336 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BoRN: Feb. 11, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: John Huston Finley, Martha
Ford Boyden.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B, magna cum laude, 1925; PHD.

1933.

MARRIED: Magdalena Greenslet, June 10, 1933, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: John
Huston, 3d, March 25, 1936; Corinna, March 3, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Lawrence Finley, ’21.

occuPaTiIon: Eliot Professor of Greek Literature and Master of Eliot House,
Harvard University.

PUBLICATIONS: Thalia, 1929, Thucydides, 1942; co-author, General Education
in a Free Society, 1945.

A PROFESSOR'’S life is generally thought to consist of reflection
and quiet scholarship, and I am doubtless at fault not to have made
mine sufficiently such. But as I look back on the twenty years since
my return to Cambridge in 1929 they appear anything but quiet.
In the first place, there are students, each unique, each to be known
for himself alone, yet, in the nature of things, capable of being
known only partially and temporarily. The commonly praised
rewards of teaching are in fact great but they are subject to all the
shades of astonishment, shock, pain, amusement, and joy which
involvement with the young ordinarily entails.

Then there are books and ideas. In college the past seemed a
panorama of fixed happenings which it was one’s task, on the whole
pleasant, to identify. But presently a disquieting change took
place; the past began to lose its fixity. Second looks, argument,
and consulting of learned opinion only accelerated the change
until soon even those parts of the past that had seemed clearest
became problematical. Then the search really began and since
judgment of anything important, whether past or present, obvi-
ously demands every quality of mind and imagination that can be
mustered, the search became, in essence, for standards of judg-
ment, something neither quiet nor soon over.

Finally there are the routines of the University, notably com-
mittees. Why these have multiplied as they have in recent years
is an interesting question; probably both because of the rate of
change in society and because of the growing isolation of teachers
in their own disciplines. In any case, policies originate in com-
mittees which bear rather critically on one’s hopes for the Uni-
versity. All this Icads to the obvious conclusion that academic life
has been no more exempt from the times than has anything else.

[ 337 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

I went to the archacological school in Athens after college, in
order to see Greece but without intention of becoming a Greek
scholar. Nevertheless, in retrospect, my life was decided then.
Greek studies are justified on various more or less plausible
grounds, but the essential ground seems simply the inherent fasci-
nation of antiquity, both in itself and in what Toynbee calls its
apparented relationship to later civilization in the West. The rea-
sons are obvious why Greek is less pursued now than formerly.
Yet the civilization remains and will remain for any foreseeable
future that is closest to us and from which we have most to learn,
in both its similarities and its differences, and chiefly in its extraor-
dinary power of posing the questions with which we remain
involved.

After two more years in Europe, partly of study, partly of writ-
ing verse, I returned to this country and presently to Harvard,
where I have been ever since. I was married in 1933 to Magdalena
Greenslet, and it seems a mysterious and slightly comic dispensa-
tion of fate that we should end by living on the site of the old
_ power house twenty yards from the room in Standish, where I
lived when we first met. No doubt husbands commonly brood on
the unforeseen course of events in which they involve their wives,
in our case the toils of a Master’s wife and a certain monotony of
annual migration from Cambridge to New Hampshire and back
again. Hence, in part, one’s graticude. We have two children,
John, thirteen, and Corinna, ten, who add a good deal to their
father’s education.

Harvard is both a college and a university. Its glories and its
problems lie in the tension between these poles. The term college
implies concern for all students, whatever their future occupations,
the term university implies interest in students as future practi-
tioners of some special branch of knowledge. This obvious dis-
tinction seems worth making both because of the part which it has
played in my life and for the problem which it raises for any
teacher. The Houses which were begun four years after we
graduated gave new strength to the college, making possible a

community between student and teacher, and student and student,
beyond anything that we had known. But when I succeeded
Roger Merriman in Eliot House, the war was on the way, and the
first creative and idealistic period of the Hlouses soon ended. I

[ 338]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

_ offered my resignation after Pearl Harbor, but finally stayed on,
first, until Eliot House was given over to the V-12, and then to
work on the report on general education.

The shape of the new Harvard is only slowly emerging since
the war. The Houses, overcrowded and lacking, temporarily one
hopes, much relationship between students and staff, have not yet
fulfilled their early promise. The problem in which the Houses
and Harvard as a whole are involved can be put in several ways:
numbers versus quality, or education largely by lectures versus
education partly by personal influence, or (from the teacher’s
point of view) demands of his specialty versus the more imponder-
able and diffused demands of undergraduate instruction, or (from
the point of view of the Houses) their possible future as com-
munities of some influence on students versus their future as little
but not much more than dormitories. ‘These questions obviously
go back to main dilemmas of the times. There is need for technical
knowledge, need to make opportunity for greater numbers of
people, need to recognize ability. But there is need also for integ-
rity, the quiet spirit, and something profounder than competition.
What is the middle way for Harvard between competition and
individualistic striving, on the one hand, and sheltered, uncritical
warmth, on the other? It is not easy to find. Perhaps, like most
good things, it involves reconciling what in theory is irreconcil-
able, such as belief and scepticism, dedication and independence of
judgment. It is certain at least that Harvard must look both to the
citizen and to the scholar, both to the man of character and to the
man of mind. Its greatness, together with the future of the Houses
and the best usefulness of teaching, lies somewhere in this balance.

FREDERICK FISH

HOME appress: Manhattan Towers, Broadway at 76th St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 70 Pine St., New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: July 14, 1903, Brookline, Mass. parenrs: Fred Ober Fish, Frances
Florida Curtis.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1925; LL.B. cum laude,
1927.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Maxwell Fish, '23.

[ 339]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

occvparion: Attorney (admiralty law); member, Dow & Symmers.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned licutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve,
March, 1942; detailed to duty with War Shipping Administration,
April, 1942; served as legal representative for Europe for War Shipping

Administration, December, 1942-November, 1946; inactive duty status
as commander, April, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Winchester Boat Club, 1939-42.
MEMBER OF: Maritime Law Association; Harvard Club of New York; Uni-

versity Club of Washington; City Island Yacht Club; Royal Ocean
Racing Club.

FOR fifteen years after leaving law school my life was without
special incident. 1 became a partner in the firm of Putnam, Bell,
Durch & Santry in Boston, coming to specialize pretty much in
admiralty law. This in turn led, on the outbreak of war, to my
entry into the Navy, and then to an assignment to duty with the
War Shipping Administration. A summer in Washington was
followed by orders to London where I spent the next four years
as European legal adviser to the WSA, fortunately with an ever-
broadening field of endeavor. If I never became too much of a
militarist and saw the whites of no enemy eyes, at least there was
intimate contact with the hellish new inventions of the late un-
pleasantness to an extent that I felt that I truly was a part of a war
effort. And in addition I had the not too common feeling that
such talents as I had were being put to a useful work. For me
those war years were a period of golden opportunity and training
quite apart from those matters which were better forgotten, if this
is ever possible.

But the dislocations of war hit my personal work badly, and
much as I would like to have returned to Boston, it seemed better
that I come to New York where I was offered a partnership in a
young firm active in my special field. For a year I was very active
in the transfer of our war-built merchant vessels to private owner-
ship and operation. Since then the more usual problems of mari-
time law have kept me more than fully occupied, together with
the difficulties of establishing a new home.

Hobbies? Photography, sailing, a period of activity with the
trail work of the Appalachian Mountain Club, and skiing when
that way of life was truly such rather than a fashionable topic of
conversation. But the boards have been laid away and for the

moment my spare time scems taken up with the mystery of trying

[ 340 ]

to

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to find out how to make a very highly refined type of racing sail-
boat perform as I think it should.

As to the future, there is still so much to be learned, so much to
be done. And with ample opportunity for all this, life still remains
a challenge.

DUDLEY FITTS

HOME AppREsS: Lowell House, Andover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

Born: April 28, 1903, Boston, Mass. parents: Dudley Thomas Fitts, Edith
Kimball Eaton.

PREPARED AT: Haverhill High School, Haverhill, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

mMarRIED: Cornelia Butler Hewitt, Sept. 2, 1939, New Haven, Conn,
CHILDREN: Daniel Hewitt, Aug. 7, 1943; Deborah Whittier, July 6, 1945.

occupPaATION: Education and writing.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of Andover, Ateneo
Americano de Washington, Casa de Cultura Ecuatoriana (Quito,
Ecuador); Modern Language Association; Secondary Education Board.

PUBLICATIONS: Poems, 1932; Poems, 1929-1936, 1937; 100 Poems from the
Palatine Anthology, 1938; More Poems from the Palatine Anthology,
1941; Antologia de la Poesia Americana, 1942; Greek Plays in Modern
Translation, 1947; The Antigoné of Sophocles, the Alcestis of Eu-
ripides, and the Oedipus Rex of Sophocles (in collaboration with
Robert Fitzgerald, °33).

SO FAR, an utterly ordinary life. I have travelled, married, be-
gotten children, and written books. I have “taught” —I am in-
creasingly uncertain as to the meaning of the word — some fifteen
hundred boys, many of whom have brilliantly survived the experi-
ence, My chief interests when I left college were music and the
writing of poetry. These remain, but they are subordinate to my
present hobbies, translation of Greek and Latin and the investiga-
tion of contemporary Latin American poetry. I am an Episcopalian
and a Democrat. Non est cur amplius dicam.

DONALD BOSSON FLEMING

HOME AppreEss: 110 Hundreds Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: 50 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 3, 1903, West Newton, Mass. parents: Samuel Norton Fleming,
Marion Crockett Bosson.

(341 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

parpanry aT: Newton Classical High School, Newtonville, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. Cram laude, 1925.

Manaigp: Shirley Elizabeth Flather, April 14, 1928, Nashua, N. H. cuitpren:
Donald Bosson, Jr, April 10, 1930; Robert Heath, April 23, 1933;
Edward 5S, Jan. 30, 1938, Shirley E., July 2, roqr.

occupation: Investment banking.

orricks HELD: Vice-president, Lee Higginson Corporation.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

IN 1925 I became associated with the A. C. Lawrence Leather
Company with offices in Boston. The training course which the
company gave its newest members took me to the tannery in
Peabody, Massachusetts, for several months. I soon found that the
study of leather was not to my liking and resigned to take a trip to
the West Coast, stopping at a ranch of my uncle’s for a couple of
months en route.

After returning to New England, I decided to enter the invest-
ment banking business and joined the office of Lee, Higginson &
Company in 1926. The years 1928 and 1929 were fun, but 1930-32
were another matter. When Lee, Higginson & Company decided
to liquidate, I was invited to join the sales organization of Lee
Higginson Corporation, with which I have been associated ever
since. The problems created by government regulation and com-
petitive bidding have been considerable but I believe our business
today can still be enjoyable and stimulating.

Our married life has been extremely happy and, except for two
years in Cambridge, has been spent entirely in Wellesley. Our
family of four children involves numberless obligations to scholas-
tic organizations, not to mention Sunday school and scouting.
Whatever spare time I do have I like to spend with family or
neighbors playing a few sets on our tennis court.

+ JEFFERSON FLETCHER

poan: Oct. 26, 1902, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Jefferson Butler Fletcher,
87, Agnes Peabody Herrick.
puEPaReD at: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925(26),
UN MARRIED.

bien: July 19, 1929, Portsmouth, N. H.

JEFFERSON FLETCHER’S early years were spent largely in
New York City. There he attended St. Michael’s School during

{ 342 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the year 1909 to 1910, and St. Bernard’s School from 1911 to 1916.
He entered Harvard from St. Paul’s School, from which he was
graduated cum laude in 1921.

During his four years in college Fletcher concentrated in Eng-
lish literature and history. Despite the handicap of severe illness
in the spring of 1925, he received his A.B. degree. He was a
member of the Signet Society, the D.U., Speakers’, and Varsity
Clubs, and of the Hasty Pudding Club-Institute of 1770. He won
both his freshman numerals and his varsity letter in track. His first
year after graduation was spent at Corpus Christi College, Cam-
bridge University, where he studied English history. He broke
the university record in the low hurdles and was the only Ameri-
can member of the Athenaeum Club. He was also elected to the
Hawks and Achilles Clubs.

In September, 1926, Fletcher returned to St. Paul’s School as a
member of the faculty. He remained there until his death. He
taught English literature and history and was active as a coach in
various sports. He was a clean living, clear thinking man, possess-
ing an intellectual curiosity which developed into a keen intel-
ligence always capable of effective concentration upon the
problem at hand.

ARTHUR McGEOCH FLINT

HOME AppREss: 1725 Orrington Ave., Evanston, IIL

OFFICE ADDREsS: Marshal] Field & Co., Evanston, Ill.

BoRN: Sept. 16, 1901, Bellows Falls, Vt. parents: John Wyman Flint,
' Katherine Ellen McGeoch.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

MARRIED: Loraine Albright, Oct. 23, 1923, Oconomowoc, Wis.; Nova Lloyd,
April 13, 1931, Chicago, Ill. cuipren: Charles Albright, Feb. 27, 1925.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Wyman Flint, Jr. 18 (deceased).

occupation: Mercantile business.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted as private, July 3, 1942; released
as captain, May 19, 1946; Air Corps.

I AM one of the most fortunate members of the Class of 1925,
although I’ve had more than my share of misfortune — domesti-
cally and financially. I have tasted the heights and the depths —
top and bottom — but the skies finally did clear and I am indeed

[ 343 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

content. ] have a wonderful wife, a son of Whom Iam most proud,
and a job T enjoy with Marshall Field & Company in Evanston,
Illinois, where I live in a home that spells heaven.

EDWARD WHITNEY FLINT

HOME AND OFFICE apprrss: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 23, 1902, Lincoln, Mass. parents: Ephraim Bemis Flint, Edith
Fiske Whitney.

preparrD At: Concord High School, Concord, Mass.; Phillips Academy,
Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924. DEGREES: A.B, Cum laude, 1925; A.M. 1934.

marrirp: Charlotte Eugenia Norris, May 13, 1944, Utica, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Charlotte Eugenia, March 8, 1946; Judith King, Nov. 9, 1947.

occupation: Schoolmaster; organist; instructor in mathematics.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned captain, A.U.S.,; served as in-

structor in mathematics, West Point, 1942-46; released to inactive duty
as lieutenant colonel, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Methuen Music Hall.
pusLicatioxs: A Study in the History of American Organ Building, Yale
University Press; articles on organ building and music.
FOR five years, after leaving college, I worked at organ building,
an eccentric but fascinating occupation. In 1930, as a by-product
of this work, I published through the Yale Press a study on the his-
tory of American organ building. The depression put an end to
that activity and I returned to Harvard to do graduate work in
music, subsequently becoming an assistant in the Music Depart-
ment, assistant organist at Appleton Chapel, and consultant to Dr.
Davison in connection with the building of the new organ for
the chapel. In 1936 I went to the Brooks School as organist and
director of music. To this work was presently added some teach-
ing in the field of mathematics. An ultimate consequence of this
was that in 1942 I was commissioned to teach mathematics at
West Point, an assignment that lasted for four strenuous but ex-
citing years. Since 1946 I have divided my time between music
and mathematics at the Brooks School.

In general, I am persuaded that without independent schools and
universities the country would be the poorer. In particular, 1
would add my tribute to Dr. Davison, the significance and sound-
ness of whose work at Harvard has been consistently borne out

by my own experience. It is of such men and such achievements
that Harvard’s greatness consists.

[344]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DAVID EDWARD FORD

apprEss: Washington Street, Hanover, Mass.
BORN: June 6, 1902, Fitchburg, Mass. parents: Chauncy Dunster Fore
Abby Mary Parsonage.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923, 1924-1925.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Fore
did not return a questionnaire.

THOMAS MATHEW FORISTALL

HOME ApprEss: 11-A Bolton Pl. Radburn, N. J.

OFFICE AppREss: 70 Pine St., New York 5, N. Y.

Born: Aug. 3, 1902, West Newton, Mass. parents: John Joseph Foristall
Rose Anna Lynn.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925, DEGREE: S.By 1925.

marrigeD: Helen Marie McGoldrick, June 8, 1931, New York, N. Y.

CHILDREN: Lynn Edward, Nov. 18, 1932; Mary Teresa, Aug. 13, 1936;
John Joseph, Dec. 8, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Public relations consultant.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

LUCIEN HUMPHREY FOWLER

HOME AppRESs: 2506 Cincinnati Ave., San Antonio 1 A, Texas.

BORN: Feb. 11, 1895, Dubuque, Iowa. parents: John Willis Fowler, Elizabeth
Merriam.

PREPARED AT: Dubuque High School, Dubuque, Jowa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.
MarRIED: Dorothy Converse, Sept. 4, 1926, Cleveland, Ohio.

ALEXANDER FRAZER

HOME appress: Box 10, R.D. 1, Clairton, Pa.
OFFICE ApDpREss: West Penn Power Co. 14 Wood St. Pittsburgh, Pa.

BORN: June 24, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: Alexander Frazer, Ida St.
Moritz.

PREPARED AT: Hackensack High School, Hackensack, N, J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921~1926.
MARRIED: Doris Evangeline Rounds, May 1, 1926, Attleboro, Mass. CHILDREN:

Lynne Lou, Sept. 9, 1940; Alexander, Jr, Dee. 31, 1044.
occupation: Accountant.

[ 345 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

orricks HELD: Director, Monmouth Memorial Hospital, 1932-35; treasurer,
Central Vermont Public Service Company, 1935-37; comptroller,

Harvard Club of New York, 1937-38; general auditor, West Penn
Power Company. since 1938.

MeMBER OF: Harvard Club of Western Pennsylvania; Masons.

PRIOR to the stock market crash in 1929 I spent four years in
Wall Street as a trader, anticipating retirement on my thirtieth
birthday. In December, 1929, I began looking for a job which
might provide food, clothing, and shelter until retirement on my
ninetieth birthday.

Forced to go to work as a travelling auditor, I saw most of this
country and Central and South America at my firm’s expense.
When these expenses exceeded the firm’s net profit I left by mu-
tual consent and became business manager of a hospital. After three
years of uncollectible accounts and patients’ complaints, I went
into the public utility field where I have remained, probably the
only bookkeeper in the industry who can neither add nor subtract.

For some years my hobby was golf, possibly because of the
fascination of the nineteenth hole. I gave up the game and turned
to saddle horses on the theory that it would be more pleasant to
associate with the entire horse. Now I have a pony for my son’s
amazement, a registered saddle-bred mare that takes the blues with
my daughter up, and a plug, about my age, that I ride with com-
parative safety. On my farm I raise apples costing $15 a bushel,
cabbages worth §2 a head, and chickens whose eggs cost $3.00 a
dozen.

As the Republican mayor of the Democratic community in
which I live, I can testify that the two-party system is still alive at
the local level, a heartening fact when the moribund condition of
the Republican party nationally is observed.

I have had a pleasant and comparatively easy life, and while

sometimes I wish I could foresee the future it’s probably better not
to have that gift.

BURRILL MORSE FREEDMAN

LAST KNOWN ApprEss: 310 West End Ave. Apt. 9C, New York, N, Y,

BORN: July 30, 1906, Chelsea, Mass, parents: Eleazer Freedman, '03, Kath-
ryn Eyges.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922, 1923-1926, DEGREE: A.B., 1925(26),

occupation: Science.

[ 346 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BURRILL FREEDMAN has been carried as a “Jost” man on our
records since December, 1945.

ISAAC CHARLES FREEDMAN

LAST KNOWN Appress: 319 Webster Ave., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: June 15, 1901, Hanly, Staffordshire, England. parents: Mark Freed-
man, Eva Kremeloky.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1928.

ISAAC FREEDMAN has been carried as a “Jost” man on our
records since April, 1940.

PERCY NATHAN FREEMAN

. HOME ADDRESS: 190 Forest Park Ave., Springfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 63 Myrtle St., Worcester, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 19, 1906, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Harry Freeman, Kate
Nissenbaum.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925}; LL.B. (Northwestern Univ.),
1936; a.m. (Springfield Coll.), 1940.

MarRigD: Ruth Carlson, Jan. 3, 1933, Boston, Mass. (died April 20, 1934);
Marion Idlis, May 9, 1948, Springfield, Mass. camtprEN: Ruth, April 8,
1934; Judith Maiman; Marc Benjamin, Feb. 8, 1949.

OccuPATION: Journalism (commercial and reporting work in trade news-

aper).

Menor or: Hampden County Bar Association; Springfield Chess Club;
Springfield Tennis Club; American Newspaper Guild.

I AM baffled to know how to review a life in a few sketchy para-

graphs. Obviously, I must take the bull by the horns, touch on

only a few of the high spots, skip many of the rough edges, and
dwell only on what for me bears an enduring and significant
quality.

After I left college, I could not decide upon what career to pur-
sue. This was due to my dilettante nature which was torn by a
conflict of vying kinds of endeavor. For a time I attended the
Harvard Law School. After two years I left to study music and
become a violin virtuoso. I gave several concerts, making my
debut at Steinway Hall and also gave another concert at Carnegie
Hall Chambers. Some years later I decided I could not reach the
heights I wanted to attain and, under the crushing weight of a

[ 347 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

surge of hard materialism, I came to understand that both figura-
tively and realistically I could fiddle more effectively and tellingly
in other fields. I tried my hand at a great many things going from
one job to another, bouncing from one pillar only to find another
post. Among other things, I taught high school for a couple of
years. Finally I went back to law school, passed the Massachu-
setts Bar in 1937 and practised law for a number of years in Spring-
field, Massachusetts. About eight years ago I entered the field of
journalism and this at last afforded me both satisfaction in my
work and leisure to pursue my various avocations. In appraising
all that has happened, I have at least the one compensation, how-
ever dubious, of having dabbled in a great many things and become
embroiled in innumerable divers situations.

And the same pattern of diversity and complexity has made its
imprint on my marital life. My first marriage came to a sudden
tragic end when my wife died in childbirth in 1934, a year and a
half after we were married. After a long interval of time | have
married again — this time very happily and I am now the proud
father of two girls and one boy. —

One of my chief hobbies has been chess. The game appealed to
me because it afforded an impersonal analytic pre-occupation in a
relaxed atmosphere through which I might forget that everything
else existed. I have often wondered whether time spent in this
fashion was altogether pleasurable or a means of escape from living.
It is the nearest approach to an opiate I have ever experienced and
L have had to curb my zeal and enthusiasm on many an occasion.

1 also enjoy tennis though | find now that after a set or two, ]
am puffing and seeking vainly to find my second wind which never
seems to come.

My travels have been pretty closely confined to New England
together with a few conventional trips to Miami, Canada, and
other points of interest along the Eastern Scaboard. However,
about two years ago, Dr. Aaron Levy, ’25, and I did take one long
Icisurely jaunt to the West Coast by car, stopping wherever we
pleased en route with scarcely any limitations of time and place.
In driving every inch of the way in our own good time and wher-
ever our Caprice led us and visiting all these wondrous places
which drew people from all over the world, I realized more graph-

[ 348 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ically than any book or text could describe what a vast and glorious
country this is.

My social, political, and even religious attitudes have changed
drastically since the halcyon days at school. I firmly believe that
one’s views are largely molded by the forces which are exerted
and are operative in the course of living. And who would dare to
say that we are living in anything like the brave new world which
we went out to challenge and conquer in the middle twenties?
That world remains a pleasant and fantastic fiction in my mind
which fades into complete obscurity i in the light of the dynamic
changes of the last generation. And I dare say that few if any
members of the Class would espouse with any sincerity the nos-
trums and “immutable truths” which were our touch-stone when
we learned all that we thought it was necessary to know some
twenty-five years ago.

Undoubtedly the greatest and most pleasure I’ve ever known has
been my family —a stimulating wife, two lovely daughters, and
my son, Marc, a putative chip of the old block, who I’m vain
enough to hope will realize many of the ambitions and dreams
which have slipped away from me through the years. What more
could I want?

STANLEY GOODWIN FRENCH

HOME ADDRESS: 136 Ridgeway Rd. Weston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Houghton Mifflin Co., The Riverside Press, Cambridge,
Mass,

BORN: June 21, 1902, Annisquam, Mass, parents: Hollis French, Helen

_ Goodwin.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Mary Greene Hubbard, June 3, 1926, Weston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Katherine Lyon, March 4, 1927; Anne Elizabeth, Dec. 14, 1928; Stanley
Goodwin, Jr., May 17, 1935-

HARVARD BROTHERS: Alden French, ’21; Hollis Stratton French, ’26.

occupaTioN: Book publishing and-book manufacturing.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve,
January, 1943; indoctrination at Naval Air Station, Quonset Point,
Bureau of Aeronautics, Washington, and Naval Air Station, Norfolk;
attached staff commander, Air Force, Pacific Fleet, with duty in the
Hawaiian, Marshall, Marianas, and Philippine Islands; commissioned
lieutenant commander, 1945; released from active duty, October, 1045.

[ 349 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

oFFices HELD: President, board of trustees, Meadowbrook School, 1935~42;
member corporation, Boston Five Cents Savings Bank, 1947; trustee,
boys’ and girls’ camps; member finance committee, Town of Weston,
since 1946, director, Book Manufacturers Institute, 1949.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club; Tavern Club.

TWENTY-FIVE years sounds like a lot when you say it but it
hasn’t seemed like that to have lived them. I take hope from this
that the next twenty-five won't be too bad.

As a young hopeful I started out with the idea of being a pub-
lisher and arbiter of literary taste. What happened was quite dif-
ferent. There was no room in the editorial end of the business
when I applied for a job but there was an opening for a printer’s
devil in the manufacturing end. That’s where I went to work and
over the years, in a mechanical way, I have assisted a good many

ople’s brain children into the world.

When I married I also moved to the country and then became
introduced to such pleasures as wood chopping and brush clear-
ing. There is nothing quite so satisfactory as a little planned
mayhem on useless trees for working off pent-up frustrations in-
duced by a week of office work. At one point a horse came into
my life. Then I considered that at last I had arrived and belonged
to the landed gentry. That feeling didn’t last long. The war came
along and spoiled it all.

Because | had been in the publishing business, the Navy assumed
that I must know all about the dissemination of technical informa-
tion on the flying and maintenance of planes to all units concerned
with naval aircraft. From a sticky start, things worked out pretty
well. As I was a specialist, it was often hard for the older trade
school boys to understand what I was supposed to be doing. Once
I was accused by one of them of working my way through the
Navy selling magazines. Even so, I got around and was sent to a

lot of strange places in the Pacific, and ended up with a jeep of
my own to run around in — with my name on it too. I’ve often
wondered what ever happened to it after I had to leave it out
there.

One of the things I wish we had been able to do more of is
travel. We did get a trip to the Caribbean and another to Mexico,
and I was a good sport about my wife’s being a better sailor than
I was. Recently we have got quite a kick out of fixing over a forge

[350]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and a loft right next to us, which solved our need for more living
space.

P When it comes to political convictions, I would like to sound
off on the apathy of people about the use of the vote. Too often
we wake up in the morning to find what the crackpots and special
pressure groups have put over on us. And chiefly put over be-
cause the public at large, which could have exercised control of
the situation, had not, in large enough numbers, bothered to go to
the polls.

If the pile I thought I was going to have made by this time had
not kept disappearing from one side as fast as I shovelled it on
from the other, there is no telling what might have happened.
Certainly there would have been more trips, that horse would
have come back again, the family yacht would be a little bigger
than our sixteen-foot catboat, more time would have been spent
on the island in Maine where we go, and the old man would have
gone duck shooting and fishing more often.

CLARENCE MILTON JOSEPH FRIERY

HOME ADDRESS: 145 Vine St., Hartford 5. Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 110 Greenfield St., Hartford 5, Conn.

BORN: April 5, 1902, Pascoag, R. I. parents: William Friery, Anna Maria
Ritchie.

PREPARED AT: La Salle Academy, Providence, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1023-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 1925; M.D. (Boston Univ.), 1929.

MARRIED: Consuelo Forbes Drago, Sept. 19, 1930, West Hartford, Conn.
CHILDREN: Clarence Milton Joseph, Jr., Jan. 21, 1932; William Francis,
Jan. 14, 1933; Frances Elizabeth, April 25, 1934; Peter Joseph, March
31, 1936; John Edwin, Sept. 22, 1938; Georgeanna, Sept. 19, 1945.

OccUPATION: Physician and surgeon, general practice.

MEMBER OF: St. Francis Hospital Staff; courtesy staff, Hartford Hospital;
Hartford Medical Society; Hartford County Medical Association;
American Medical Society; American Academy of General Practice;
Knights of Columbus; Wampanoag Country Club, Harvard Club of
Connecticut; Brown Club of Connecticut; West Hartford Badminton
Club.

IN 1925, when I graduated from Harvard College, I felt quite
proud of myself. Deflation of ego followed very rapidly, how-
ever. Harvard Medical School refused to accept me but Boston
University School of Medicine did and in 1929 I achieved my sec-

[351]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

ond objective — became an M.D. During 1929 and 1930 I interned
at St. Francis Hospital in Hartford.

In 1930 I married while still an intern and with an income of
ten dollars a month. So in 1930 and 1931 I was a married man, a
doctor who took over a Harvard Medical School graduate’s prac-
tice, and I was on my way to having the long-planned-for dozen
children. It could be said that I had six theories about raising chil-

dren but soon I had six children and the theories did not work
very well.

When I was about fifteen years old, in addition to deciding
medicine would be my career, I also decided that by the age of
thirty-five I would have one-quarter of a million dollars. ‘This
objective I achieved only theoretically. One of my patients who
had a half-million dollars and one child told me that each child I
had, and especially a son, was worth a million dollars. No one
I have known has agreed with him.

Tennis was my favorite sport until most of my friends discon-
tinued the game because of “old age.” In August, 1948, I took up
golf and I have found it a very fascinating game. The low eighties
by August, 1950, is my objective in this sport. Bowling, badmin-
ton, and dancing are my other hobbies.

Politically, I have been a Democrat although I have frequently
voted as an independent. It does seem that the Republican Party
is heading for extinction. Its leaders appear to be forty years be-
hind the times. In a representative democracy it is the votes of the
majority that rule, not those of the vast interlocking directorates
of big corporations.

Twenty years of general practice have taught me a great deal
about human nature which you do not read about in textbooks.

I still believe in the same principles of good conduct, obedience
and respect for civil laws and religious teachings as I did twenty-
five years ago, only much more so.

In looking back over the past twenty-five years, I regret that my
social life was extremely limited because of my having to work all
the way through school, and also that I was not able to own a
farm where my children could have lived a much more normal life
than is possible in urban surroundings.

All in all the past twenty-five years have been full and enjoyable
[352]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and I can think of no career I would rather have followed than
medicine.

I do hope that in the near future some means may be devised for
having a popular vote by all citizens of all countries as to whether
or not they shall be forced into armed combat because some few
fanatical leaders decide on war. In my opinion any citizen old
enough to bear arms is certainly old enough to vote on such a vital
issue. I also believe that the billions of dollars now being spent on
armaments should be spent on education, low cost housing, and
slum clearance in this and foreign countries. Foreign languages
should, I believe, be taught in primary grades and those showing
the most proficiency should at the secondary school level be given
scholarships for one or two years in various foreign countries.
Such exchange of students would do much to lead to better under-
standing among the peoples of the world and promote Christian
precepts and practices.

I look forward to living another twenty-five years with my
wife and children and grandchildren, and if they are as interesting
and challenging as the past twenty-five — I can ask no more.

JOHN PRESTON FROST

HOME aADpREss: 54 Tradd St., Charleston, S. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 21 Broad St., Charleston, S. C.

BORN: Dec. 9, 1903, Charleston, S. C. parents: Frank Ravenel Frost, Celes-
tine Huger Preston.

PREPARED AT: Gilman Country School, Baltimore, Md.

“YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MaRRIED: Laura Moore Green, Sept. 30, 1933, Biltmore, N. C. CHILDREN:
Celestine Preston, July 27, 1935; Frances Horry, July 28, 1939; Laura
Green, July 9, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Elias Horry Frost, ’22 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Securities dealer.

OFFICES HELD: President, Charleston County Tuberculosis Association, 1938.

MY LIFE since college has, I am afraid, been undistinguished and

unspectacular. I can thank God for a happy marriage and for

three children. They are my great achievement.

My social, political, and religious convictions are profound and
intensely interesting, and some sunny day I’ll write a book about
them.

Meanwhile, here’s looking forward to the Reunion.

[ 353]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

RAYMOND MATTHEW FUOSS

HOME ADDRESS: 57 Mill Rock Rd., New Haven 11, Conn.

OFFICE AppREss: Sterling Chemistry Laboratory, Yale University, New
Haven, Conn.

BORN: Sept. 28, 1905, Bellwood, Pa. PARENTS: Jacob Zachariah Fuoss, Bertha
May Zimmermann.

PREPARED AT: Altoona High School, Altoona, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925, DEGREES: S.B. summa cum laude, 1925; PHD.
(Brown Univ.), 1932; AM. hon. (Yale Univ.), 1945.

MARRIED: Rose Elizabeth Harrington, July 26, 1926, Boston, Mass. (di-
vorced); Ann Margaret Stein, March 1, 1947, New York, N. Y.

CHILDREN: Raymond Matthew, Jr., Feb. 26, 1928 (died Feb. 28, 1928),
Patricia Rose, May 14, 1935.

occupaTIoN: Research chemist, Sterling Professor of Chemistry, Yale.
MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Sigma Xi; Phi Beta Kappa.

PUBLICATIONS: About 100 papers on electrolytes, dielectrics, and polymers
in various journals.

AS FAR as I know, I am the only member of the Class who has
managed to get to Yale. We expatriates have a smal] but active
Harvard Club here, and now that the football furies seem less im-
portant than in undergraduate days, we find New Haven a quite
civilized community. My transfer from Harvard required only
twenty years. A compressed report follows.

A Sheldon Fellowship on graduation sent me to Munich in
September, 1925, where my college German took on a Bavarian
accent and my palate acquired a taste for good beer. I had been
the shining light of Chemistry 5 my senior year, and had an exag-
gerated opinion of my abilities as an organic chemist, this was
rapidly deflated when Wieland set me hunting the location of a
double bond in one of the bile acids. Lectures by Fajans on ther-
modynamics, plus an interest in mathematics instilled by Coolidge
and Birkhoff, plus the previous summer’s experience with Forbes
in Boylston (then the chemistry laboratory), combined to shift
me to physical chemistry. The resulting hybrid training has turned
out to be very useful: I can pose as an organic chemist among the
physickers and umgekehrt.

On my return, I spent one semester at Harvard as Austin Teach-
ing Fellow in Chemistry B. The next three years were spent as
consulting chemist with Skinner, Sherman & Esselen in Boston.
Evenings and weekends were devoted to tutoring flunking fresh-

[354]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

men in a variety of subjects, which included even naval science.
The bankroll slowly grew, and by September, 1930, I was ready
to reénter Graduate School. During the late twenties the journals
were full of applications of Debye’s (1923) theoretical treatment
of aqueous solutions of electrolytes; I had a hunch that a more
general problem could be handled, and in the fall of 1930 went to
work with Kraus at Brown, who was about the only physical
chemist in existence who did not limit his researches to slightly
polluted water. We were rather lucky in our program and man-
aged to cook up a notion of electrolytes which covered everything
from benzene to water. During the very pleasant days at Brown,
I also learned to play Skat (strict requirement for Ph.D. under
Kraus). and to like Irish whiskey (preferably Bushmill’s). Kraus
kept me at Brown for a while, shipping me to Michigan one sum-
mer to listen to Sommerfield and Pauli, and to Europe on an Inter-
national Research Fellowship. I spent a year with Debye at Leip-
zig, with a short interlude at Jena, where I tried to learn some of
Max Wien’s tricks. I also had a summer with Fowler at Cam-
bridge, where my statistical mechanics were beaten into shape by
actual use. In 1935 the American Society voted me their award for
promising young chemists, on the basis of the work I had done
with my various teachers on electrolytes.

During the spring of 1935, Marshall of the General Electric Re-
search Laboratory visited Brown, and invited me to visit Sche-
nectady. I spent a wonderful summer in Building 37 and a year
later moved there for full-time research. The traditional pig in
clover is on a starvation diet compared to a scientist in Schenec-
tady. About this time synthetic polymeric materials were just
beginning their transition from industrial art or laboratory nui-
sances (depending on one’s point of view) to subjects for academic
research. Their unusual electricdl properties presented an in-
triguing puzzle and served to increase General Electric’s overhead
on my account until the demands of urgent war problems shifted
- me to other fields of research activity.

Shortly after Germany’s collapse (i.e.. when one could again
begin to think of abstract problems with a clear conscience), I
was invited to join the staff of the Chemistry Department of Yale.
One thing I had missed at Schenectady was contacts with students;
besides, I was weary from the pressure of war work, and the

[355]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

leisurely life of the ivory tower scholar seemed luringly attractive,
I came to Yale in July, 1945, and very soon found myself busier
than I had ever been. As bosses, a bunch of graduate students can
be the goddamndest slave drivers in existence. Working with
students is a combination of pleasure and exasperation; it’s easy to
teach how to make an experiment (physical chemists are, in the
last analysis, glorified plumbers), the catch comes in trying to find
and encourage the student who has the imagination to see what
experiments to make. So this summer finds me madly trying to
get the results of last winter's research written up for the Journals.
Well, so much for factual biography. Now for personal details.
Politics: hardboiled Republican, and completely opposed to the
“something for nothing” philosophy. Hobbies: one minor, one
major. The minor one consists in seeking flowers inedible by the
Japanese beetle, and a soil which will support something besides
crab grass. The major one is what my beloved chuckles at as a
pathological interest in languages. I had a linguistic genius named
Grimminger as a high school language teacher, who started me in
German, French, Spanish, and Italian. The collecting bug bit deep,
and I can now sputter (and that’s precisely what I mean) in a
variety of languages and dialects. Yale has given me so far a chance
at Greek, Chinese, and Russian (F.B.I., please note), and the cata-
log lists Thibetan, Thai, and Tagalog, which are still to be ex-
plored. On retirement, I plan to translate the Hing-Léu Méng
and run a greenhouse on the proceeds. University work is a lot of
fun, along with its headaches. ]’m being paid to live the sort of
life I like, and the driving motive of my existence — satisfaction of
curiosity — is being supported.

HAROLD PARKER FURBER

HOME ADDRESS: 66 Lincoln St., New Rochelle, N. Y. -

BORN: Jan. 13, 1903, Waltham, Mass, parents: George Pope Furber, Laura
Mabel Parker.

prepared AT: Mill Brook School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1924.

marriep: Irene Reynolds, Nov. 15, 1934, South Portland, Maine (died Jan.
12, 1950).

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Parker Furber, 719.

occupaTION: Marine engineer.

[ 356 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve,
Aug. 8, 1941; ordered to active duty Aug. 28, 1941, duty as assistant
supervisor of shipbuilding, U. S. Navy, New York; promoted lieutenant
commander, May, 1943, commander, July, 1945; ordered to inactive
duty, February, 1946.

MEMBER OF: New York Power Squadron.

AFTER I left college, five years ina New Hampshire woolen mill

convinced me that the New England textile business was not my

field. I went to sea for a couple of years, then back to New

Hampshire for a venture in the automobile business. I abandoned

that and took a position as instructor in Diesel engineering in

New York City.

When the war came along, the Navy put me to work supervis-
ing the construction, repairs, and trials of Diesel-powered vessels
in the New York area. After the war I went back to teaching
Diesel for a while and then went to sea again. AsI write this I am
in New Orleans where my ship is loading E.R.P. grain for Trieste.

The sea supplies my hobby as well as my living. My brother
and I have done quite a bit of cruising up and down the New
England coast and made one deep sea hop to Bermuda and back
in a fifty-foot schooner.

Religion and politics are no fit subjects to concern a seaman
who never sees the inside of a church and sees a newspaper but
once or twice every couple of months.

LEO NORBERT GALLARY

Appress: U.S. Embassy, Lisbon, Portugal.

BORN: July 22, 1902, Buffalo, N. ¥. PARENTS: Thomas Francis Gallary,
Lucy Collins.

PREPARED AT: Canisius Preparatory School, Buffalo, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 1925; A.M., 1937; PH.D. 1940.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Gal-
lary did not return a questionnaire.

+ ADRIEN GAMBET

BoRN: Dec. 13, 1902, Winthrop, Mass. parents: Frank Gambet, Caroline
Louise Carney.
PREPARED AT: Berkeley Preparatory School.

[ 357]

ehh:

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B, 1925,

MARRIED: Elizabeth Frances Fogarty, Oct. 1, 1928, Arlington, Mass,
piep: Nov. 29, 1948, Long Island City, New York, N. Y.

ADRIEN GAMBET prepared for college at the Berkeley

paratory School. As an undergraduate he was a member o.
chess team for four years and an officer of the Chess Club dt

the last three years. He also participated in the Modern Lang
Conference and the Liberal Club. After receiving his A.B. -

the Class, he attended the Harvard Theological School for a y

In 1926 he became a cataloger in a Boston book shop and ay
and a half later, in collaboration with Gordon C. Cairnie, org

ized his own business, the Grolier Book Shop, specializing in 1
and fine books. During a brief period he engaged in the insura:
business but returned temporarily to handling rare books.

spent some time doing historical research for book and autogra
dealers and private clients. In the summer of 1936 he started

D. Appleton-Century Company where he had charge of advert

ing their medical texts. He next joined Ayerst, McKenna & He
rison, Ltd., manufacturers of biologicals, and at the time of I

death was affiliated with Doherty, Clifford & Shenfield, Inc., a.
vertisers.

MERRILL GARCELON

HOME ADDRESS: 4221 Poplar Ave., Memphis, Tenn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 639 Stexick Bldg. Memphis, Tenn.

BORN: July 9, 1902, Newton, Mass. parents: William Frye Garcelon, Grace
Merrill.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

Marnizp; Sara Buckley, June 5, 1937, New York, N. Y. cenmp: Ann Merill,
Feb. 23, 1943.

occupation: District agent, Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company

of Milwaukee.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant, U.S. Naval Reserve, 1942~44; lieuten-
ant commander, 1944-45; served as insurance officer, five months,
enlisted personnel officer, three years, Naval Training Station, New-
port, R. L

orrices HELD: Currently: secretary-treasurer, Harvard Club of Memphis;
regional director, Northwestern Mutual District Agénrs Association;
director, Memphis Life Managers Association and Memphis Chapter,

C353]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Chartered Life Underwriters; director and program chairman, Mem-

phis Association of Life Underwriters.
MEMBER OF: University Club of Memphis; Reserve Officers Association,
AFTER a trip abroad in 1925 I spent seven comparatively carefree
years learning shoe manufacturing in a firm of which my grand-
father had been treasurer. This included two years in the factory
and five years “on the road.” Both phases taught me not only the
shoe business, but many other things in life which are not included
in the academic course at Harvard, or any other college for that
matter.

This career was rudely terminated by one of our banker clags-
mates who, acting under the orders of his bank, no doubt, sug-
gested that the company repay a loan of several hundred thousand
dollars “or else.” The “or else” meant liquidation, and liquidated
me into the life insurance business in 1933 as an agent in Boston for
the National Life of Vermont.

Three years later I acquired the weighty title of superintendent
of agents in the Boston office and for five years performed as a
sales manager. This meant supervising about thirty agents and
recruiting and training new men. In five years this work almost
ruined my disposition and started my hair turning grey.

In 1940 I woke up to the fact that the man who sells makes the
money. Also in selling there is much more freedom and less wor
as compared with telling others how to sell. Shortly after that I
became an agent for the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance
Company in Boston and was riding the top wave when the bugles
started blowing in 1942. The Navy desperately needed an insur-
ance officer at Newport, Rhode Island, and I was rushed down
there so fast, all rigged out in blue and gold, that all I knew about
the Navy was what I learned from a hurried scanning of a Guide
to Navy Wives somebody ‘lent me. For five months I lectured
about six hundred recruits a day on the virtues of national service
life insurance. Even now I dream about those hundreds of recruits
with their shaved heads and sore arms, swollen from their “shots.”

In 1943 I was ordered to take on the duties of Enlisted Person-
nel Officer, which is another name for King-Size Headache. Dur-
ing the three years my hair really turned grey, as I had a lot of
responsibility far about 25,000 sailors. This included the details
of arrival and -parture of about three thousand a week, the

[359]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

granting of leaves and liberty, discipline, promotion, and transfers
and a dozen other troublesome matters. An office of about one
hundred thirty assorted Waves, Yeomen, and Officers constituted
my “staff,” but even some of them got into trouble. As Personnel
Officer I learned one great truth about the Navy: no one was satis-
fied and everyone wanted to be somewhere else.

In July, 1945, I managed to get my discharge and my southern
wife suggested that, as the continuity of my Boston business had
been broken by three years in the Navy, she would be very happy
if we moved south as near her home as possible. So I became
district agent for the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Com-
pany in Memphis, which means that I have the franchise for west-
ern Tennessee. My time is spent selling life insurance, or trying
to, and there are four agents associated with me here. Most of my
time is spent on the life insurance part of estate analysis although
I do a certain amount of work on pension plans and the garden
variety of life insurance policies.

Memphis is a great place to live and social life, at least, is more
informal and moves at a slower pace. The weather is not ideal,
but it never gets really cold, and one thing I do not miss is zero
weather. After the bustling and busy East, I expected a leisurely
business life, working a few hours a day and making plenty of
money. I anticipated spending the rest of the time sniffing mag-
nolias and working on mint juleps. It was a shock to discover that
business moves at a fast pace in Memphis and people work about
as hard here as in the North. But a small city takes less toll in wear
and tear, the temperature could usually be described as balmy, and
the people are very friendly from the gas station attendant to the
bank president.

During my last fifteen years in New England, my vacations were
spent salmon fishing, a sport this country does not offer. My sec-
ondary ambition is to build up a business here, which will furnish
enough extra money and about a month or six weeks a year to
spend in New Brunswick “whipping” its beautiful rivers.

A charming and precocious daughter of seven and an attractive
wife complete the story and are a constant joy and make life very
pleasant. Business is building up fast and the surroundings are

very satisfactory so I guess at last, after too many changes, I have
settled into my proper niche, and Russia and Stalin willing, shall

[ 360 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

live out my days in the life insurance business in Memphis, Ten-
nessee.

FRANCIS HARDING GAVIN

HOME ADDREsSs: 200 Furnace St., Sharon, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 195 Furnace St., Sharon, Mass.

BORN: May 4, 1902, Boston, Mass. Parents: Patrick Freebern Gavin, Mary
Josephine Harding.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREE: A.B. 1925(26).

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Accounting.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II: Air Corps, Army.

AFTER graduation I spent two years at Harvard Business School,
ten years in the retail lumber business, and the balance in account-
ing. My principal avocation is studying the wildlife in the woods
around my home.

JOSEPH CARY GAYL

HOME AppREss: 7454 York Rd., Philadelphia 26, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 3136 N. Broad St., Philadelphia 32, Pa.

BORN: Sept. 8, 1901, Odessa, Russia. parents: Abraham Gayl, Anna Och-
roch.

PREPARED AT: West Philadelphia High School and Central High School,
Philadelphia, Pa.; El Paso High School, El Paso, Texas; New Bruns-
wick High School, New Brunswick, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1925; M.D. 1929.

MaRRIED: Jeannette Orleans, June 15, 1930, Philadelphia, Pa. cumpren: Con-
stance Orleans, Dec. 3, 1931; Deborah Susan, Sept. 19, 1939; Jonathan
Felix, July 10, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Draft board physician; physician for appeal
board in civilian draft (post-war).

MEMBER OF: Philadelphia County Medical Society; Pennsylvania State Med-
ical Society.

I RETURNED in the fall of 25 to Medical School and had a very
wonderful four years acquiring the rudiments of medicine. I
worked at various jobs during the summers in order to help meet
some of my expenses,

In 1929 I interned at St. Joseph’s Hospital in Philadelphia. It was
interesting to hear the medical and surgical chiefs confer with each

[ 361 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

other on the relative merits of A. T. & T. as opposed to Anaconda
and U. S. Steel. In October the roof fell in and I was just as happy
that I was only an impoverished intern.

Prior to that event I had wangled a long Labor Day weekend
and had gone to visit an old friend of mine, Richard Gilbert, ’23,
who ran a camp near Peekskill, New York. I met my wife-to-be
at that camp on that fateful weekend and sure enough we were
married the following June.

In 1930 I returned to Boston for a twenty-month residency in
surgery at the Beth Israel Hospital and renewed some old acquaint-
anceships and learned a little about the art of surgery. Our eldest
child, Constance, was born in Boston during my residency at the
Beth Israel Hospital. |

In September, 1932, I returned to Philadelphia and began to
practise medicine and some surgery and developed calluses on both
Glutei Maxima et Minima waiting for ye patients to show up.
Eventually I began to build up a practice of sorts and could honestly
affirm that I was making a living (according to depression stand-
ards). In 1939 our second child Deborah was born.

In 1940, at the time of our Fifteenth Reunion, things in our
world looked very black and desolate. Leaving the Reunion, one
felt as if our world was ending and we were entering on a period
of savagery and bestiality. Fortunately for humanity, our world
survived.

In ’43 the medical Procurement and Assignment people called
me for service and then turned me down because of asthma. My
war work consisted mainly of serving as medical adviser to a local
draft board.

In ’46 our last child, Jonathan Felix, was born and that more or
less brings me up to date.

I'm keenly interested in my work and enjoy it immensely. My
only vice is golf and I indulge myself, weather permitting, several
times a week. Mrs. Gayl says that several times a week is sheer

Churchillean understatement. At any rate, my golf scores do not
parallel the effort.

I hope to be able to write something for our Fiftieth Reunion —
to be able to say, among other things, that H-Bomb or no H-Bomb,
we as human beings have finally evolved a social apparatus which
will have caught up to, and be able to control, our technical skills.

[ 362 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ERNEST GEORGE GEBELEIN

HOME ADDRESS: 93 Longmeadow Rd., Taunton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Eureka Manufacturing Co., Inc., Taunton, Mass.

BoRN: April 20, 1904, Somerville, Mass. parENTs: George Christian Gebelein,
Eva Mary Pelren.

PREPARED AT: Wellesley High School, Wellesley, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Roberta Seaver, Sept. 17, 1931, Provincetown, Mass. CHILDREN:
Robert Seaver, May 7, 1934; Margaret, July 29, 1935; June, June 13,
1940,

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Herbert Gebelein, ’26; Arthur David Gebelein, ’33;
George Christian Gebelein, ’43.

OCCUPATION: President, Eureka Manufacturing Company, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: President, Taunton Community Chest, Taunton Rotary Club,
president and treasurer, Brick House School, Taunton; member board
of trustees, Bristol County Savings Bank, member board of directors,
Taunton Association of Commerce.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New York; Har-
vard Club of Taunton (past president); Segregansett Country Club
(past president); Provincetown Yacht Club; Beachcombers Club of
Provincetown; U. S. Power Squadron A. P.; Bay State Beagle Club;
Taunton Rotary Club.

IN APRIL, 1926, after working for Pacific Mills, I helped to start
a small business venture which was called Eureka Manufacturing
Company, Inc., for no particular reason since we made bags, etc.,
for the packaging of silver. Fortunately or unfortunately I have
never worked for any other company and no doubt have missed a
lot in the way of variety and the excitement of new jobs and new
surroundings.

With the help of John Toulmin and his bank the business sur-
vived the depression and I eventually became president and ma-
jority stockholder in 1935. At this time another plant was opened
for the production of wood chests and cabinets and I brought in
my brother, Arthur Gebelein, ’33, to manage this branch.

In 1942 we converted our plants for production of many war
items and received a commendation for our work with the Radia-
tion Laboratory at M.LT. In 1945 my father died and I spent
some little time in helping to continue the family business, the
Gebelein Silver Shop in Boston, until the return from overseas of
my brothers, J. Herbert, ’26, and George C., Jr.,’43. Since the war
Eureka Manufacturing Company has progressed without the bene-

[ 363 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

fit of a union and we now have three small plants here in Taunton
with approximately 350 employees.

So much for business. Turning back to extra-curricular activi-
ties, I was married in 1931 at Provincetown, Massachusetts, to
Roberta Seaver (Smith ’28). Together we are happily engaged in
raising a very satisfactory little family which consists of Bob,
fifteen, who is at Milton Academy, Peggy, fourteen, at Cambridge
School (where her mother once taught), and June, nine, at Public
School here in Taunton. Perhaps I should include a fat and lovable
beagle, Scamper, and a series of cats, too many to mention.

I have had one sortie into the field of education for in 1939 a
small group including my wife and me, also classmate Arthur
Sharp and wife, started Brick House School with classes ranging
from nursery through second grade. The total enrollment now is
about sixty children. After serving as first treasurer and third
president I must say that my respect and sympathy has increased
many fold for school administrators and the difficult problems
which they must face and try to solve so tactfully.

My one slight claim to fame came as a result of assuming in 1943
the chairmanship of an organization called the Citizens Committee
for the Improvement of the Taunton River, which had become
very polluted and odiferous. My associates and I found that such
projects take years to consummate: organizing, fund raising,
lawyers, engineers, court action, new legislation, State House
conferences, etc. But the final direct result is a clean river for
Taunton; and indirectly, better legislative means and possibly an

example for working out similar pollution problems elsewhere in
the state.

Every year as the days begin to lengthen I start looking for-
ward to my favorite sport of trout fishing, preferably in a few
favorite streams and ponds in various parts of Maine from Rapid
River to the Allagash. My wife almost always accompanies me on

these trips to the black fly country and does much of the guiding
for me, paddling the canoe, taking fish off the hook, and every

once in a while saving my life when I have been clumsy on the
trail or stream.

We have a house in Provincetown to which we move in the
summer. There I try my hand at salt water fishing and small boat
(Lightning) racing. Although I have had three courses in the

[364]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

U. S. Power Squadron, I am by no means a good seafaring man
and my children are far better helmsmen than I, which of course
I don’t admit to them. I try to find a little time for other sports
which I still enjoy, such as golf, tennis, beagling, and vegetable
gardening. I stopped pitching baseball one Sunday afternoon in
1938 when, after walking the first two batters and hitting the third,
I saw the fourth proceed to wallop a home run out of the park.
As I left the mound there was a chant coming from the stands
which sounded very much like “Throw the bum out.”

I have been active in community affairs. I helped start the Asso-
ciation of Commerce and serve as director; also the Community
Chest, serving in many capacities, then as chairman of the 1948
campaign and now as president. |

My politics, like those of most of my colleagues in the National
Association of Manufacturers and Associated Industries of Massa-
chusetts, are quite conservative although [ cannot help but feel
that some of the so-called liberal legislation of the past twenty
years has been good. However, I am concerned that the country
is unheedingly consuming the fat accumulated during former
years of thrift, a condition which may be extremely troublesome
if not retarded before our Fiftieth rolls around.

As for my philosophy or comment on world affairs plus the
atom problem, it appears to me that our hope and salvation must
be through renewed vigor in fostering international application
and practice of the Golden Rule. There must be more that could
and should be done by educated people to encourage and support
world organizations such as United Nations, in order to impress
upon our ever closer neighbors in other countries that we wish
neither to fear them nor be feared by them.

CLARENCE REXFORD GEDDIS

HOME aAppREss: 1504 Grace Ave., Lakewood 7, Ohio.

OFFICE apprEss: Morrison Printing Ink Co., 1051 Power Ave., Cleveland 14,
Ohio.

BORN: Jan. 24, 1903, East Pepperell, Mass. parents: William Robert Geddis,
Mary Elizabeth Attridge.

PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: S.B, IN IND, CHEM,, 1925.

[ 365 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

married: Dorothy Jane Bates, June 29, 1933, Derry, N. H. cuitpren: Robert
Bates, May 16, 1937; Donald Attridge, Feb. 27, 1940; Bruce Dix, Sept.
30) 1941.

occupation: Chemist in the manufacture of printing and lithographic inks;
vice-president, Morrison Printing Ink Company.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Air Raid Warden and Gas Officer.

MEMBER OF; American Chemical Society; American Institute of Chemists,
Association of Harvard Chemists; American Institute of Physics; (So-
ciety of Rheology); Harvard Club of Cleveland; Litho Club of Cleve-

land; Cleveland Paint and Varnish Production Club; Society of Phila-
telic Americans; Boy Scouts of America.

IN 1925 I started learning about printing and lithographic inks at
the Forbes Manufacturing Company in Chelsea, Massachusetts.
After nine and one-half years there, I changed to the Boston Print-
ing Ink Company, Harbor Building, Boston. In March, 1937, I
helped start a new company, the Morrison Printing Ink Company
in Cleveland. My eldest boy came to Ohio when he was nine
weeks old. The other boys were born in Cleveland. I have lived
in Lakewood since my family arrived, and the family is active in
community affairs. The eldest boy is in the Scouts, the two
younger in the Cubs; my wife is treasurer of the Garfield P.T.A.,
while I am treasurer of the Cub Pack.

During the war I was an Air-Raid Warden and Gas Officer
which fortunately was just a lot of fun out here.

About a year ago my wife became interested in philately and
began collecting first-day covers. This served to revive my in-
terest which had been dormant since high-school days, and now I
am collecting first-day covers, new issues, plate-blocks and some
sheets of U. S. postal issues. 1 have been interested also in photog-
raphy, but not too active outside of taking pictures of the children
as they were growing. .

T have led a rather unexciting life to date and, being conservative
by nature, I have always weighed my responsibilities since my
father’s death in 1926. Probably this characteristic will prevent me
from being venturesome in the future. The boys are talking about
going to Harvard now, which naturally is agreeable to me, but

there is a strong Yale sentiment in this community which has to be

combated, However, they are still young and we can hope they
will still exercise good judgment as they mature.

[ 366 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EMANUEL GERSTEIN

HOME AppRESS: 822 Mechan Ave., Far Rockaway, Long Island, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 14, 1903, Hartford, Conn. parents: Isaac Gerstein, Sarah Stein.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: S.B, IN BE. ENGIN. cum laude, 1925.

MARRIED: Lucy Warres, Jan. 1, 1928, New York, N. Y. cupren: Alan
Kibbe, Sept. 4, 1931; Robert Lawrence, Jan. 4, 1937.

occupaTion: Public housing construction (electrical installation) for Depart-
ment of Public Works, City of New York.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Graduated Citizens Military Training Camp,
1923; received officers’ reserve training, Harvard, 1921.

LEWIS MILLS GIBB

ApprEss: Old Westbury, Long Island, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 30, 1902, Brooklyn, N. Y. Parents: Lewis Mills Gibb, Anna
Pinkerton.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MaRRiED: Martha C. Pease, April 21, 1927, New York, N. Y. cHipren:
Martha C., July 15, 1928; Lewis Mills, Jr., June 11, 1930.

OCCUPATION: Mercantile business.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Gibb did not return a questionnaire.

HERBERT GIBSON

HOME ADDRESS: 1102 Albany Ave., Hartford 5, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 647 Main St., Hartford 3, Conn.

BorN: March 15, 1901, Kiev, Russia. PARENTS: Simon Gibson, Sarah Cohen.

PREPARED AT: Hartford Public High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1925; M.ARCH., 1930.

occupation: Architect; construction examiner, Federal Housing Adminis-
tration. .

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Basic training, U. S. Army, Camp Davis, Wil-
mington, N. C., 1942; assigned to Engineer Corps O.C.S., Fort Belvoir,
Va, 1943.

OFFICES HELD: President, City Plan Commission of Hartford; director, Hart-
ford Slum Clearance Survey; consultant, Mayor's Housing Committee,
Housing Authority of the City of Hartford; assistant architect, Public
Works Department of the State of Connecticut; associate architect,
U. S. Government Housing Projects in Glastonbury and Manchester;
supervisor of City Plan Commission; architectural examiner, Federal
Housing Administration.

[ 367 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925
MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; Harvard Club of Con-
necticut.

puBLications: Hartford Slum Clearance Report, 1934; Economic Analysis of
Substandard Areas in Hartford, 1935; thirty articles titled “New Deal
Housing,” Hartford Courant; “Replanning Hartford’s Historic State
House Square,” Pencil Points, August, 1940.

A QUARTER of a century has slipped by since I tucked away
the coveted sheepskin proclaiming me in words I can now hardly
translate: “Baccalaureus in Artibus — cum laude.” The rest does
not matter. Then aided and abetted by the persuasive salesman-
ship of former Dean Edgell of the Graduate School of Architec-
ture, I enlisted for a second hitch of four years at Harvard, to
emerge at length with another sheepskin engraved with the im-
posing title: “Magister in Architectura.”

And thus fortified, I stepped out into a troubled world dazed
by the crushing impact of a phenomenon which contemporary
economists called a depression. Banks and businesses were busting
out all over, bread lines were common sights in our industrial
cities, and almost every corner in Manhattan was decorated with
a box of apples. To a young man fired with ambition and imbued
with a vaulting desire to do big things, this was hardly the time
and New York City hardly the place. Nevertheless, I was for-
tunate enough to obtain a job, and before the tentacles of depres-
sion could reach out to my piece of territory I had left New York
with four years of good practical architectural experience under
my belt.

Back home in Hartford the Democrats were riding the crest of
a national victory, and the era of the New Deal was in full swing.
Alphabetical classifications became the vogue and plenty of fancy

titles, more attractive than college degrees, were handed out by
the generous Democratic party. Anything that had the promise
or semblance of creating jobs for the millions of unemployed was
popular; and so, with nothing else to do, I became an expert in
public housing and city planning. I received my share of titles
and performed many public services over a period of ten years,
but with very little remuneration. In the meantime my private
practice in architecture convinced me that there must be other

and more lucrative ways of earning a living, satisfaction and hap-
piness being incidental.

[ 368 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In 1942 I received the President’s Greetings and answered the
call by way of Selective Service. I had volunteered for service in
the United States Air Corps immediately after Pearl Harbor, but
in the mad race which ensued between the local draft board and
the Air Corps, the streamlined efficiency of the former triumphed.
Instead of entering the Army as a captain behind a desk, sur-
rounded by pretty WACs, I suddenly found myself at Camp
Davis in the ill-fitting clothes of a rookie private. It was O.K. with
me, if that was what the Army wanted, but we both learned soon
enough that I was never cut out to be a field general. And so I
parted with the Army, as friends, at Fort Belvoir, on the stipulation
that I do an additional bit of more important service, building
submarines for the Navy. This contract was fulfilled in 1943.

Then came a period of two years’ intensive travel throughout
the United States. My work as chief engineer for the company
brought me in contact with all institutions of the Catholic Church.
This in itself was a liberal education, as I saw servants of God
fostering good will and patiently trying to solve the riddle of wars
brought on by man’s thirst for material power and “man’s in-
humanity to man.” Religion has its own justification for existence
and protection: it extends hope for youth and comfort for the
aged.

OAS a by-product of my travels I learned a great deal about this
wonderful country of ours, and its people. I have been in the
smallest hamlets and the largest cities. People are essentially the
same; joy and sorrow come to rich and poor alike. In a country
like ours, success and happiness are relative, outward appearances
notwithstanding. Poor is the millionaire whose health is broken
and who cannot enjoy the free air and natural beauty of our
country! This is obvious to anyone who travels from New York
to San Francisco and from Chicago to New Orleans.

During the past twenty-five years I have worked hard and
played hard. Harvard has given me a wealth of intangibles which
enable me to enjoy life and which no money can buy. The num-
ber of bachelors in our Class must be very small now, and though
much can be said for the fuller married life, I still hang on to that
wisp of freedom which, as the years go by, becomes a greater chal-
lenge. I have yet to be convinced that, in our search for happiness,
success can be achieved in a possible bad marriage. But then, per-

[ 369 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

haps every woman deserves to be made happy; and if patience
ceases to be a virtue, our next Reunion may find me engaged!
Besides the usual hobbies of the average bachelor, I find some
time to listen to good music, read detective stories, and putter
around my small estate in the country. I have had the pleasant
duty to act as judge in beauty contests, and even tried my hand at
writing poetry. From time to time I visit Cambridge to observe
any physical changes in Harvard and relive some of the happy

days of my bright college years. I still like Harvard, whether or
not we have a good football season. .

+ BERNARD BARRETT GILMAN

BORN: Jan. 18, 1904, Boston, Mass. paRENTs: David Gilman, Jennie Gordon.
PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: s.B. cum laude, 1925; M.D., 1929;
M.P.H. magna cum laude, 1938.

MARRIED: Margaret Codding, April 30, 1935, North Attleboro, Mass.
wow: Mrs. Bernard B. Gilman, 19 Joy St., Boston, Mass.
BERNARD BARRETT GILMAN came to Harvard from the
English High School in Boston. As an undergraduate he held the
Buckley Scholarship during 1923-24, and was a member of the
Boylston Chemistry Club. After receiving his A.B. degree, cum
laude, with the Class, he entered the Harvard Medical School and
in 1929 was awarded an M.D. degree. An interest in epidemiology
led him to return to Harvard in 1937, and he received a Master of
Public Health degree, magna cum laude, in 1938. Although it
meant forfeiting an assistantship in pediatrics at the Harvard
Medical School and a staff appointment at the Massachusetts Gen- "
eral Hospital, he decided to accept the position as epidemiologist
for the Massachusetts State Department of Health. At the time of
his death, he was assistant director of the division of communi-
cable diseases of the State Department of Public Health.

He was survived by his wife.

RALPH LAWRENCE GILMAN

HOME appress: 3 Willowbrook Rd., Storrs, Conn.

BORN: Jan. 16, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: Harry Augustus Gilman, Mabel
Celeste Langville. ,

[ 370]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1925; M.D. 1929.

MARRIED: Ruby Gertrude Weaver, Dec. 20, 1930, Torrington, Conn.
CHILDREN: Donald Lawrence, Oct. 15, 1931; James Irving, Jan. 31, 1934;
Priscilla Ann, Aug. 31, 1936, Peter Augustus, May 28, 1941.

HARVARD SON: Donald Lawrence Gilman, 752.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Augustus Gilman, °31.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Chief of medical service, Windham Community Memorial
Hospital (Willimantic); secretary, Windham County Medical Associa-
tion, 1938-44; vice-president, Connecticut State Medical Society, 1941.

MEMBER OF: Hartford Medical Society; Windham County Medical Asso-
ciation; Connecticut State Medical Society; American Medical Associa-
tion; American College of Physicians (fellow).

PUBLICATIONS: “The Early Doctors of Windham County,” The Heritage of
Connecticut Medicine, 1942.

PRACTISING general medicine in an essentially rural, though
rapidly growing, community in eastern Connecticut allows little
in the way of dull moments, day or night. Some nineteen years
ago, December 31, 1930, to be exact, after four years of “grind” at
the Harvard Medical School and a year and a half at the Hartford
Hospital interning, my wife and I, with a five-day honeymoon
behind us, arrived in Storrs where I had been appointed the first
resident physician of the Connecticut Agricultural College. In
those “good old days” this was a small institution of some 550
students with a faculty of perhaps one hundred, each of whom
knew everyone else and nearly all of whom I got to know quite
well professionally since I was also doing private practice in the
community.

But time marches on even in eastern Connecticut. A steady
growth during the late *30’s and up to 1942 has been followed
since 1945 by a tremendous expansion of building and an ava-
lanche of students. Now the University of Connecticut has 5000
students enrolled here at Storrs and the faculty, commensurately
increased in numbers, live all over the rolling wooded hills of the
surrounding countryside. And as I write this in October these
hills are a riot of autumn colors as only a New England landscape
can be.

During these latter years I had two physicians as full-time
assistants on the University Health Service, but the demands for
medical service from the community reached such proportions

[370]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

that in August, 1949, I resigned as director of the University
Health Service to devote my full time to private practice. This,
Iam sure, will yield a much fuller and more satisfyi ing life pro-
fessionally than ‘the more limited field of full-time student health
work, to say nothing of financially — and who doesn’t think of
this these days? — since state employecs hereabouts are hardly
paid what could be called munificent salaries.

A family of four children can either keep one youthful or
bring on premature gray hairs. Since, in my case, there are
hardly enough hairs to turn gray, I guess it has helped to keep
me youthful. At least I think I can still keep up with them.
Donald, aged eighteen, is a sophomore at Harvard College.
James and Priscilla, sixteen and thirteen respectively, are in
high school, and Peter, eight years old, is trying to catch up
with them. The two younger boys refuse to think about going
to any college other than Harvard and the girl will be very
disappointed if Harvard is not advanced enough in its thinking
to admit girls as regular students by the time she is ready for
college.

So here we are, twenty-five years out of college. Do you re-
member, fellow classmates, what the twenty-five-year reunion
class looked like to us when we were in college? Just a bunch of
graybeards with one foot practically in the grave! Quite a shock
to the ego, isn’t it, to realize that we undoubtedly look the same
to those now in college, even though we believe we are just in
our prime.

What else do we remember of those days? Specific knowl-
edge from definite courses? Bosh! I doubt that one in a hundred
could now pass the course exams we took then. The profs and
instructors? Maybe a few of the giants on the faculty, or those
who, by their personality, left an indelible imprint upon our
characters. The friends we made? Yes, though decimated in
numbers because of time, distances, and the lost art of letter
writing in this fast moving world. But through all the years we
have not forgotten we are Elarvard men and that will be the
foundation upon which we shall become reacquainted and shall
renew many old friendships. So — on to the Reunion!

[372]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANCIS NICHOLAS JEAN GINDORFF

OFFICE ADDRESS: 27 William St. New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 16, 1900, Dubuque, Iowa. parents: Francois Nicolas Gindorff,
Josephine Snuyder.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: AB., 1925.

MARRIED: Hallett Morse, Feb. 26, 1926, Brooklyn, N. Y. (divorced 1944);
Evelyn Gray Grant, Dec. 5, 1945. cuitp: Ghislaine, Sept. 1, 1928 (m. B.
Lowndes Jackson, 3d, Dec. 31, 1949).

OccUPATION: Consultant on railroad investments, finance, and operations.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served in ro1st Cavalry (Squadron A), New
York National Guard, 1925-38.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors and executive committee, Honest
Ballot Association, member board of directors, Goddard Neighbor-
hood Center; member board of governors, Squadron A Ex-members
Association, honorary corresponding secretary, Newcomen Society of
England.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles on financial and economic aspects of trans-
portation; study of National Defense Transportation Problems for
National Resources Planning Board, 1941.

UPON graduation I became associated with J. P. Morgan &
Company where I remained until 1940. In that year I joined
Harriman Ripley & Company, Inc. In September, 1947, I became
an independent consultant on transportation problems, and in
this capacity have served as expert witness for various committees
and others in federal court and before the Interstate Commerce
Commission. Having devoted the last twenty-five years to in-
tensive research and study, an occupation which is without end
and leaves little opportunity for hobbies, I can only report that
my outside-of-office time has been largely consumed by the civic
and charitable activities outlined above under memberships.

MYRON GLASER

HOME ADDRESS: 414 Cummings Lane, Chevy Chase, Md.

OFFICE ADpREss: Washington Times-Herald, 1317 H St. N.W., Washing-
ton, D.C.

BoRN: April 24, 1902, Washington, D, C. parents: Samuel Jerome Glaser,
Henrietta Herzog.

PREPARED AT: East High School, Rochester, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1923.

[ 373 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

manatep: Carolyn Cook Buckwell, Dec. 15, 1931, Philadelphia, Pa, cumoren;
Susan Buckwell, June 5, 1934; Barbara Cook, March 14, 1937.

occupation: Afanager, resort and travel department, Washington Times.
Herald.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Travel Officials; Potomac Appalachian

Trail Club.

TWENTY-FIVE years seem to have flitrred by with great °
rapidity. In retrospect, however, enough has happened to war-
rant the dignity (7) which comes to those I used to note attend-
ing their twenty-fifth reunions, when I was an undergraduate.

I started my business career with the Washington Times and
Herald (now the Washington Times-Herald) some twenty-five
years ago. With the exception of one three-month period when
I covered California, Arizona, and New Mexico for the Mande-
ville & King Seed Company, I have been here ever since.

My gamut of jobs has been varied and interesting and has
ranged from counter clerk to classified advertising manager. At
present I am manager of the resort and travel department, which
means the responsibility for the advertising and editorial material
of the resort and travel classifications and includes steamships,
airlines, busses, railroads, hotels, and resorts. As the title would
suggest, I do considerable travelling and have during the past
year visited Florida, Canada, Mexico, Bermuda, and other resort
places. This work sometimes keeps me away from my family too
much, but it certainly keeps life at an interesting tempo and
allows little time for monotony.

I have two very interesting daughters, aged fifteen and twelve,

and my main hobbies, when I find time to indulge, are gardening
and walking.

ELI ALEXANDER GLASSER

HOME appress; 58 Bicknell St., Dorchester 21, Mass.
OFFICE aborFss: 916 16th St., N.W., Washington 6, D, C.

Born: March 1, 1904, Evie, Russia. parents: Hyman Glasser, Sarah
Davidson.

purpaneD at: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1925; LL.B. 1928.
UNMARRIED.

occupaTioN; Lawyer.

[374]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Head of Southern Section, Court Review Rent
Branch, Office of Price Administration; chief defense counsel, Yoko-
hama War Crimes Trials, Yokohama, Japan.

MEMBER OF: Bostonian Society; Massachusetts Law Society, Harvard Law
School Association; Harvard Club of Japan; Masonic Order.

PUBLICATIONS: Associate editor, Perry on Trusts (7th edition); contributor
to Professor Albert Bushnell Hart’s Comrmonwealth History of Massa-
chusetts series (Vol. IV, Chapter 1, dealing with the constitutional
growth and development of Massachusetts in the roth century); con-
tributor to Massachusetts Law Society Journal, presently preparing
work to be entitled Source-book of Yokohama War Crimes Trials
Materials.

FRESHLY returned from Japan and the Yokohama War Crimes
Trials, I find myself suddenly confronted with a demand for an
autobiographical sketch. The impact is so great and the request
so formidable that my inevitable reaction is to ignore the entire
matter in the belief that such inaction will effect an automatic
solution. By now, it is evident, however, that I failed to take
into account and make proper allowance for the diligence of the
editors of 1925’s “Who’s Who.” My accumulated mail bears
eloquent testimony in this regard, demonstrating fully their
ingenuity and resourcefulness together with their fixed de-
termination to compel me to abandon my original decision.
That I have capitulated is due entirely to their latest manoeuvre
“GOAD NO. 1,” which arrived this morning. The vision of a
whole series of “Goads,” presumably to be followed by an even
greater number of “Prods,” proved too much. Hence it is that
I write even though, as a bachelor and, therefore, without spouse,
children, grandchildren, Harvard sons, Vassar daughters, etc., I
necessarily have little, if anything, to write about.

My graduation from college was followed, three years later, by
graduation from the Law School, and from then up to the out-
break of the war, my existence was that of a run-of-the-mill
general legal practitioner in “provincial” Boston, bogged down
in the realm of contracts, and torts, equity suits and law actions,
divorce and separate maintenance. To be sure, then, as now,
there was interest in the theatre and music (opera, in particular)
and considerable addiction to sports. Also, there was a moderate
amount of dabbling in academic matters, particularly in the years
immediately following Law School graduation when the late

[375]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Professor Albert Bushnell Hart sponsored me for membership in
the University’s faculty as a member of the Government Depart-
ment. All in all, though, viewed in the light of retrospect, those
pre-war ycars were pretty humdrum, the simple life of a Boston
lawver, with an occasional trip to New York or a New England
summer resort the sole travel. °

Well, the war altered my mode of existence pretty sharply.
After bringing initial disappointment consisting of rejection for
the service due to a chronic middle ear infection, it ousted me
from Boston and took me to Washington to serve both as a
lawyer and in a quasi-judicial capacity (primarily the latter) on
rent control. Thereafter, it took me from Washington across the
continent to Seattle and thence to Yokohama, Japan, to spend
almost two years defending Japanese war criminal suspects. The
work in both places was extremely arduous and taxing. It gave
as basic reward, however, fulfillment of much of every lawyer’s
dream — while in Washington, participation in the “New York
City rent case,” a matter involving over $100,000,000, and while
in Japan, defending men on trial for their lives. In addition, there
were other compensations such as frequent air travel while in
Washington, and in Japan, being received by the Chief Justice of
the Japanese Supreme Court, dining with royalty as well as with
the Attorney General, visiting the famous cities of Nikko, Nara
and Kyoto and viewing their fascinating temples and shrines,
attending Japanese performances of Madame Butterfly and The
Mikado in Tokyo, etc. Incidentally, since my return from Japan,
I have been considerably amused at the reaction of many lay-
folk on hearing that I had defended the Japanese in the War
Crimes Trials. The answer I make is based on two fundamental
convictions: first, that neither victory nor defeat can establish
a moratorium of justice and law, and second, the fundamental
principle of every lawyer’s code that “Even the blackest rogue
is entitled to the right of defense and a fair trial.”

While the foregoing tells the story, I might add that in Japan
I was treated quite hospitably by a Japanese Yalensian whom I
came to know and who was particularly intrigued by the clash
between my Harvard background and my first name. Again, one
of my War Crimes cases presented the following somewhat
reminiscent Hlarvard-Princcton situation: on the one hand, a

[ 376 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Japanese Princetonian whom the former POW’s described as a
crue] barbarian responsible for many atrocities and, on the other,
a Japanese Harvardian whom they acclaimed for fair-dealing and
kindliness. Finally, I should like to make special mention of the
Harvard Club of Japan. Now in its 52nd year, the Club has a
normal membership of about two hundred Japanese, most of
whom attended one of the University’s graduate schools. At the
present time, however, it is dominated entirely by Occupation
Personnel, many of whom are Harvard Ph.D.’s and noted educa-
tors, and it definitely is making a real contribution towards the
democratization of Japan, particularly in the educational field.
For example, a series of lectures on democracy, including its
various phases (government, education, etc.) sponsored by the
Club and delivered by its newly acquired Occupation members
at Keio University regularly draws attendance of 400-500 Jap-
anese students. And this is but one phase of its work. Definitely,
the regular monthly meetings of the Club were one of the high-
lights of my stay in Japan, and will ever remain among my
memory’s most valued treasures.

JOHN JACOB GLESSNER

HOME appress: Argilla Farm, Ipswich, Mass.

BorN: April 27, 1902, Chicago, Ill. PaRENTs: John George Macbeth Glessner,
’94, Alice Mary Hamlin.

- PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1025. DEGREES: A.B 19253 A.M., 19303 PH.D. 1936.

MARRIED: Martha Greenfield Sluder, Dec. 27, 1930, St. Louis, Mo. CHILDREN:
John Jacob, 3d, Oct. 28, 1931; Ellen Cochran, Dec. 11, 1933; Virginia
Sluder, May 29, 1939.

HARVARD SON: John Jacob Glessner, 3d, ’53.

OCCUPATION: Farmer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve,
March 14, 1942; active duty, assistant to O-in-C Airframe Section,
Maintenance Division, Bureau of Aeronautics, Washington, May 1,
1942~June 1, 1943; O-in-C Airframe Division, Aviation Supply Office,
Philadelphia, June 1, 1943-Sept. 11, 1944; promoted lieutenant com-
mander, March 1, 1944; in training at Oceanside and Coronado, Cali-
fornia, Sept. 11, 1944~Jan. 29, 1945; beachmaster on staff of commander,
Transport Division 65, Jan. 29, 1945-Nov. 5, 1933; promoted com-
mander, Nov. 5, 1945; assistant to Personnel Officer, Materiel Division,

[377 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925
Office of Assistant Secretary of the Navy, Navy Department, Wash-
ington, D. C
OFFICES HELD: Instructor in English and tutor in Division of Modern Lan-
guages, Harvard University, 1926-34; instructor and assistant professor
of English, State University of Iowa, 1936-40.
MEMBFR OF: American Guernsey Cattle Club; Myopia Hunt Club.
AFTER graduation I spent a year at Corpus Christi College,
Cambridge, England, studying Latin and playing tennis (as I re-
member, more tennis than Latin). This was the second of many
trips to England in subsequent years, most of the time spent
bicycling in the country with the Old George at Salisbury as a
sort of headquarters.

The winters of these years, both before and after marriage,
were occupied with graduate work in English and tutoring at
Harvard, and it was during these years that I came fully to appre-
ciate the qualities of such men as Kittredge, Lowes, and Green-
ough in the English Department, Rand in classics, and MclIlwain
in history.

After taking a Ph.D. in English under Mr. Greenough in the
spring of 1936, I taught for four years at the University of lowa.
Looking back on them now, I find it hard to decide whether
these years were much of a success or not, or whether they could
fairly be called rewarding. Being far from older friends and
family for a considerable part of the year was not agreeable.
New acquaintances, a new scene, and new work did not seem to
me entirely to compensate. But it was a good proving ground
and gave me a pretty fair idea of my abilities as a teacher. Aside
from a few personal friendships the most rewarding part of this
experience was working with individual students in a tutorial re-
lationship, then an untried method of teaching at Iowa.

In the spring of i940 I came east on a year’s leave of absence
for additional study at Harvard, revived a fading knowledge of
Greek during the summer, and worked on Greek and Latin
during the winter. By then it was pretty evident which way the
wind was blowing and I therefore put in papers for a commission
in the Naval Reserve and waited. The Navy, in March, 1941,
was not encouraging to applicants with little experience of the
sea and no other recommendation than an uncertain knowledge
of French and German. Accordingly, when the opportunity
came in June, 1941, I joined the British Air Commission in Wash-

[ 378]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ington and worked there on aircraft maintenance and supply for

about a year. Then, in the spring of 1942, a naval commission

came through for similar work in the Bureau of Aeronautics and
the Aviation Supply Office in Philadelphia.

The task of selecting and supplying the fleet with airframe
spare parts necessary for maintenance was new to us and I
found, at first to my surprise, that those who did the job best
were those who had had little or no previous experience of the
methods of supply commonly practised by commercial com-
panies. Men accustomed to such methods were, I think, actually
handicapped until they had appreciated the fact, as most did,
that, in the logistic aspects of war at any rate, everyone has to go
to school all over again. Many mistakes were made and the
patience of some of the manufacturers sorely tried at times (not
that they did not try our patience too), but before too long
junior officers, most of whom started from scratch, were working
harmoniously with the manufacturers and were able to see to it
that what was required for the maintenance of operating squad-
rons was delivered fully and on time.

Late in the summer of 1944 I was transferred to the west coast
for training as a beachmaster, first at Oceanside and then at
Coronado. In February, 1945, I went to sea as a division beach-
master and spent a number of months assisting in the transporta-
tion of beer and other assorted commodities from ports in the
south Pacific to ports in the Philippines. This was not exactly
what we had spent several months being trained for. Luckily,
however, my own commanding officer was a pleasure to serve
under with the result that the cruise was less tiresome than it
would otherwise have been. Our division finally landed occupa-

tion troops in Tokyo Bay on the day the capitulation was signed
and, what was better still, touched at Shanghai for forty-eight
hours before sailing home. What it may be like now I have no
idea but for the crew of an APA, Shanghai was Elysium in Sep-
tember, 1945.

After getting home I served for six months as assistant per-
sonnel officer in the materiel division of the Office of the Assist-
ant Secretary and was demobilized to inactive duty in July, 1946.

Even before quitting the Navy I had decided, for a number of
reasons, not to continue with the profession of teaching. The

[379]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

being out of touch with the profession for six years helped to
settle and crystallize what had before been feeling rather than
ideas — chief among them, a lack of sympathy with an academic
system which, even in the field of English and American litera-
ture, appears to me to place less emphasis upon teaching than
upon the production of learned articles and books about books.

In the summer of 1946 I returned to our family place in New
Hampshire and, for a time, tried to see what could be done to
make it a little less of a financial burden to all concerned. Before
long my sisters and I were reluctantly forced to the conclusion
that nothing much could be done and we therefore decided to
dispose of the property.

In the meantime I had been looking for a productive farm, first
in New Hampshire and later in Essex County, Massachusetts,
where my wife and I had spent many summers. As luck would
have it the Argilla Farm in Ipswich was then for sale and in the
autumn of 1947 I bought it.

Since then I have been farming here, with no regrets for the
past and with every good hope for the future. Hobbies have
always included music and reading and I often wish there were
more time for both. As it is there is time for a good deal and the
work of farming is endlessly gratifying.

MILTON GLODT

HOME ADDRESS: 29 Ober St., Beverly, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 22, 1902, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Myer Glodt, Ida Sisson.
PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; M.D. (Univ. of Basel,
Switzerland), 1936.

MARRIED: Eleanore Galumbuk, Feb. 22, 1946, Worcester, Mass. CHILDREN:
Susan Lou, April 16, 1947; Mischelle Deborah, July 20, 1948.

occupation: Physician.

BASED on a slightly slanted philosophy of life, after a period of
enslavement to the white-collared business world, I fled to Central
Europe and set myself up as a gentleman of pleasure in a fine home
on the banks of the Isar in Munich. But the academic mind and
microbe hunter interests led to the University and the study of
medicine. After a period at Munich, on a holiday in Lugano, I
met M. Metaxas, later dictator of Greece, then in exile, who sug-

[ 380 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

gested that on my way north, I visit Freiburg in the Black Forest
where he had studied. My sojourn in Freiburg lasted over two
years. I studied pathology under the famous Aschoff and spent
weekends skiing on the Feldberg. With the gradual rise of Hitler,
I found it desirable to move west to Vienna. There, for several
semesters, I continued my studies and drank coffee at my favorite
coffee house on the Alster Strasse. The winds of Nazism were
assuming gust proportions even in that far corner of Europe and
so in a spirit of exile I moved to the relatively safe city of Basel in
Switzerland where I finished my medical course and took my
degree in 1936.

On my return to the States I found my compatriots moving in
serene composure unmoved by the storm that was reaching hur-
ricane proportions across the Atlantic. I drew some comfort from
the voice in the White House and went on to study dermatology
at the Skin and Cancer Unit of Columbia University. In 1938 I
returned to Boston, pleasantly aware that it was one of the few
spots in the country still touched with old world charm of a
century gone by, and here I began the practice of medicine.

To broaden my interests I bought a place on the North Shore
with two acres overlooking Beverly Cove. I tore down piazzas
and built terraces; planted fruit trees, and I laid out gardens. It
was great fun but it became apparent that I needed someone to
share my way of life and so I married Eleanore Galumbuk of
Worcester and in a short period of four years we have two
daughters who are at the moment engaged in tearing to pieces my
collection of books, marking my fine wallpapers with crayons,
and gleefully breaking my marble Italian bookends and lovely
mosaic balance from St. Mary’s, England. The Bisque figurines
are safe above the fireplace for the moment but I do not prophesy
their long life.

SAMUEL GLUECK

HOME apprEss: 511 E. Vermilion St., Lafayette, La.

OFFICE ADDRESS: LeBlanc Corporation, Lafayette, La.

BORN: March 9, 1902, Cincinnati, Ohio. parents: Morris Glueck, Anna
Rubin.

PREPARED AT: Woodward High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925,

[ 381 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Mararrp: Afarilynn Milgram, Sept. 12, 1942, Kansas City, Mo. cao:
Carolynn Revel, Dec. 15, 1045.

occupation: Advertising, merchandising, and sales promotion.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcoap: World War I: Private first class, sth U. S.
Cavalry, Fort Bliss, Texas. World War II: commissioned first lieu-
tenant, Signal Corps; served September, 1942-February, 1946; dis-
charged as captain.

YESTERDAY'S graduation in the Class of 1925 — well, it seems

as recent as yesterday — marked the achievement of a long-

cherished ambition: to become a Harvard man. Ever since I was
old enough to know the meaning of the word “college” I felt that
to Harvard I would go! My running away from home at the age
of fourteen, while a freshman in high school, to join the Army
in World War I, as well as my subsequent return to that same
high school, dimmed my Harvard-bent inclination not one whit.

In fact, when the local Yale Club offered me a Yale scholarship,

I remember saying, “Thanks a million, but I’m going to Har-

vard.” Two years at the University of Cincinnati intervened

before, at long last, 1 reached Cambridge.

On graduating, I secured a job with a small advertising agency.
Six months later I was the head of my own small advertising and
merchandising organization, the Key Advertising Company.
The name “Key” had its basis in my belief that “keyed” and
“controlled” advertising and merchandising are essential and
never-varying determinants in any economically productive,
sales-building program. Adherence to this principle enabled me
to build and to maintain an agency that held clients as long as
fourteen years.

The advent of World War II saw me still single but busy and
reasonably content. My hobbies ranged from charming com-
panions to private flying and most outdoor sports. When the
local draft board asked me to have tea with them I felt that I
had already had my basic training. Quick contacts and vigorous
showmanship soon produced not one but two commissions, one
as first lieutenant in the Signal Corps and the other, some weeks
later, as lieutenant senior grade, aviation aide, in the Navy. Since
the Signal Corps commission came through first I sold the agency
to my associates and was on my way.

The real highlight of this continuation of my Army carcer was
in my meeting, registering complete and whole-hearted approval,

[ 382 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and proposing to Marilynn Milgram of Kansas City, on our third
date. Our four-and-a-half-year-old cow girl is convinced that
Westerns, as presented on television, are a noble and most inter-
esting development.

For some time now I have served as sales promotion director
for a group of companies whose substantial success has added
lustre to the word “showmanship.” These companies are: Fred-
eric W. Ziv Company (transcribed radio programs), World
Broadcasting System, Inc. (music libraries for radio stations);
Ziv Television Programs, Inc.; and Cisco Kid Products, Inc.

In March, 1950, I resigned my position as sales-promotion di-
rector with the above-indicated organizations to become general
sales manager for the LeBlanc Corporation of Lafayette, Louisiana.
We have moved to Lafayette and my friends can write me in care
of this new warm-clime association.

The dreams and aspirations that colored my sojourn at Har-
vard serve as a continuing compulsion today. It’s great to be a
Harvard man — it is with pride that I count myself a friend and
classmate of the men whose reports appear in this presentation.

GEORGE WILLIAM GODDARD

HOME ADpREsS: 12 Manchester St. Attleboro, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Reenforced Paper Co., Starkey Ave., Attleboro,
Mass,

BORN: Aug. 11, 1902, Westwood, Mass. parents: George Augustus Goddard,
Alice Cutler Holmes.

PREPARED AT: Santa Barbara School, Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-19265.

MARRIED: Lucy Locke Bartlett, Aug. 17, 1931, Webster, Mass. CHILDREN:
Georgia Slater, June 23, 1933; Nathaniel, Oct. 12, 1934; Asa Bardett,
April 12, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Amory Goddard, '23.

OCCUPATION: Research department, American Reenforced Paper Company.

OFFicES HELD: Director, Y.M.C.A., since 1946, Rotary Club, 1944-49; member
board of public welfare, 1943-49; co-chairman, Attleboro Community
Chest, 1947.

MEMBER OF: Highland Country Club, since 1936 (director, since 1941, Vice=
president, since 1947).

UPON looking back over the years that have whizzed by since
the spring of 1925, I feel a little bewildered, as though it were
somewhat of a puzzle, but here goes a valiant effort.

( 383 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

I first went to work for the George W. Wheelwright Paper
Company located in Wheelwright, Massachusetts. There I was
a millwright’s aid for the first year and finally was put on tower
work as a beaterman. I stayed until blood poisoning overtook
me and I had to quit for a few months. After recuperation I went
back to the laboratory of their Leominster mill where they man-
ufactured bristol boards. I remained there for four years, then
I quit and returned to my home in Boston.

For the next year I tried selling oil burners as a tangible, scale
buoys as another ultra interesting tangible, and finally worked on
the collection of overdue receivables as a definite intangible. At
all of these attempts I was a howling failure. Still not knowing
what I wanted to do for a living, I took a course of sprouts with
a self-styled psychiatrist who claimed that after completion of
his course he could tell one for what line of business one was best
suited. I decided to take this course, informing the individual
that if he told me selling was my bent I would practically slay

him. This was exactly what he told me at the completion of the
course and as I was screaming and tearing my hair he had the
nerve to ask me if I wouldn’t like to sell his course. This was
too much.

After a short lapse of time I went to work for the national
Shawmut Bank as a savings teller, interesting work for a gre-
garious being like me who knows that the customer is bound to
be right. After two years of running the large savings depart-
ment of the Kenmore branch (I was the only one in it), I came
down to the main office as a junior credit investigator. It was
while engaged in this occupation that I married, and my wife and
1 went to England, Scotland, and France on our wedding trip

(1931). Some time after our return, the bank informed me that
they were cutting down on their staff and no longer needed my

valuable services. I like to think that it was from an economical

angle that I was let go, for I had had several raises as a teller and
was then receiving half again as much salary as any of the other
junior investigators.

After quite a period of unemployment and the birth of my two
elder children we hauled stakes and came to Attleboro from Otis
Place, Boston, and I went to work in the mill of American Re-
enforced Paper Company. This was on May 5, 1935, to be exact,

[ 384 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and we have been here ever since. My spare time is taken up by
golf in the summer, skiing in the winter, and hunting in the fall.
Such activities, outside of my civic duties like serving for four
years on the City Welfare Board, being a director of the local
Y.M.C.A., a past director of the Rotary Club, factory warden in
civilian defense during World War II, a committeeman for a
time for a Boy Scout troop, and a director and vice-president of
the Highland Country Club, serving on Red Cross, Y.M.C.A.,
and other drives, seem to keep me fairly well occupied and pre-
vent my becoming too much of a burden to my family and a
nuisance around the house.

Seriously, my family and I look forward with great anticipa-
tion to this June and hearing about what you other fellows have
been doing. |

MILTON JACOB GOELL

HOME ADDRESS: 1249 Carroll St., Brooklyn, N. Y.

OFFICE ADpRESS: 26 Court St., Brooklyn 2, N. Y.

BoRN: May 5, 1904, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Jacob Goell, Mary Samowitz.

PREPARED AT: Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1925; A.M. (Colum-
bia Univ.), 1926; tus. (St. John’s Univ.), 1934.

MarRIED: Amy E, Jacob, Sept. 5, 1934, New York, N. Y. cumpren: James
Emanuel, Oct. 13, 1939; Martha, May 12, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Rent attorney, Office of Price Administration;
Local Draft Board #191.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Brooklyn Committee for Better Housing, 1939-50,
Brooklyn Jewish Center, 1935-40, International Student Service Com-
mittee, 1930, 1931; chairman Brownsville Neighborhood Council, 1939-
50; steward, U.F.W.A. Rent Shop, Brooklyn, 1945; president, East
New York Dispensary, 1944-46.

MEMBER OF: National Public Housing Conference; Brooklyn Jewish Center;
Citizens Housing and Planning Council; Brooklyn Bar Association;
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People; American
Arbitration Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Tramping Through Palestine; To All You Ladies; Whence
Come the Winds; America-~Fourth Decade; The Wall That is my
Skin; Brownsville Health, Housing, and Post-war Plan Brochures.

THIS is a sweet assignment, but if I didn’t do it, rhe blank space
would speak more loudly than words. I am told that the Class

[ 385 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Religious convictions: I'm Jewish from way back. If there is
no God, we should create one. For without a God, this universe
is such a big lonely place in which to be blown into dust by the
hydrogen bomb. I think all men who believe in God — never
mind which creed — are brothers. Or they can be.

Lastly, 1 hope my children will study at Harvard. But Amy
and I won't dictate. We had too much of that ourselves.

LESTER GOLDBERG

HOME ADpRESS: 134 N. Sweetzer St. Los Angeles, Calif.
OFFICE appRESS: 1025 N. Highland St. Los Angeles, Calif.

BoRN: Jan. 3, 1902, Danville, Ill. parents: Samuel Goldberg, Rose Epstein.
prepareD AT: Danville High School, Danville, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.
marriep: Lucia Russell Rudolph, 1942 (divorced 1946).
HARVARD BROTHER: Max Frederick Goldberg, ’22.
occupation: Broker in liquor industry.

AFTER leaving college, I resided in Chicago for some years. As
was almost tradition in the twenties, a college graduate usually
drifted into the securities business and I was no exception. At a
later date I settled in the hosiery field, representing several manu-
facturers in Pennsylvania.

In the fall of 1931 the Far West had its calling and I settled in
Los Angeles. Let’s face it. The main reason was that the depres-
sion was on and the hosiery field was shot. Out in Los Angeles,
I again resumed activities in the securities business and was active
for a time on Spring Street which is the Wall Street of this com-
munity. —

On a trip back to Chicago in 1933 to see the Fair, the hum of
repeal was in the air, so I decided to stay east and go into the
liquor industry which was bound to be a new great field. I
started my own wholesale company and later joined Schenley
Distilleries.

In 1936 on a visit to see my father who was residing on the
Coast, I succumbed to the Los Angeles climate, and was trans-
ferred to the Western Division of Schenley, with whom I re-
mained until 1945 when I again ventured in business for myself.

In 1937 I had the misfortune of having an embolism while driv-
ing my car, necessitating the removal of one of my limbs. How-

[ 388 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ever, after many months of hospitalization I was able to resume
my business activities and now with the aid of crutches I find I
am able to travel and go wherever I so may desire.

MEYER GOLDBERG

HOME ADDRESS: 3842 Legation St., N.W., Washington, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Chesapeake Plate & Window Glass Co. 1355 New York
Ave., N.E., Washington, D. C.

BoRN: April 28, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: Jacob Goldberg, Rebecca
Miller.

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925.

MARRIED: Frances Hollis, May 30, 1926, Brookline, Mass. cum: Stanley
Mason, May 28, 1928.

occuPATION: Glass and glazing contractor; owner of Chesapeake Plate &
Window Glass Company.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Southern Builders, Inc., 1947-48; vice-president,
Magnolia Gardens, Inc., 1947-50, president, Sixteenth Road, Inc.,
1947—49.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington; Sixteen Club, Inc.; Washington
Building Congress.

GEORGE TALBOT GOODSPEED

HOME aAppreEss: Lowell Road, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Goodspeed’s Book Shop, Inc., 18 Beacon St., Boston 8, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 10, 1903, Wollaston, Mass. parents: Charles Eliot Goodspeed,
Leila May Pinkham.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1025. DEGREE: A.B. 1925,

MARRIED: Ivis J. Jenney, Nov. 28, 1935, Cambridge, Mass, cuttp: Carol, Sept.
9, 1938.

occupation: Bookseller.

OFFICES HELD: ‘Treasurer, Goodspeed’s Book Shop, Inc.; vice-president,
Antiquarian Booksellers Association of America; member, School
Committee, Library Committee, Town of Concord; member standing
committee, First Parish in Concord.

MEMBER OF: St. Botolph Club; Club of Odd Volumes; Colonial Society of
Massachusetts; Harvard Club of New York; Grolier Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional contributions to trade and bibliographical peri-
Odicals,

MY CONNECTION with Goodspeed’s Book Shop, Inc., a firm
established by my father in 1898, and engaged in the buying and

[ 389 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 192 5

selling of old and rare books, prints, and autographs, began on
the afternoon of Commencement Day, 1925. The next ten years,
devoted primarily to my apprenticeship in the business, produced
nothing of special note.

In 1935 I was married. My wife, who is the real businessman
of the family, had been with the company almost as long as I.
We rented in Boston, then in Needham, and in 1937 built the
house in Concord where we now live. The acre of land seemed
pitifully small at the time, but we found before long it was ample
for two to take care of. Our daughter, Carol, was born on Sep-
tember ninth, 1938, and the best part of life began.

I have developed few hobbies aside from my family and my
garden, partly, I suppose, because the business in which I am
lucky enough to find myself is so varied, so full of excitement,
that I find almost all of my extra-curricular activities to be centered
in it and allied fields. The antiquarian book trade is almost more
by way of being a profession than a trade, or so at least those
engaged in it like to believe. It involves a smattering of bibli-
ography, an occasional bit of detective work, and a good deal
of horse-trading. Like some other professions, it is not very lucra-
tive, but there are compensations. Perhaps under the heading of
recreation I ought to include a daily hour of commuters’ contract
bridge.

I have taken a good deal of interest in the local public schools,
and last fall I was appointed to fill a vacancy in the school com-
mittee of the town. At present, like school committees the coun-
try over, we are engaged in a struggle to get our housing facilities
expanded to accommodate the rapidly growing school population.
It appears to me that an improvement in the quality of instruction
in the public schools is of the utmost importance if we expect our
democracy to survive.

If my life has been without any great distinction, it has never-

theless been a lot of fun, and I enter the age of bifocals and
umbrellas content.

-CECIL ROBERT GORDON

HOME Abpress; 340 Chestnut St., West Newton 65, Mass.
orice apress; Wan’s Hosiery Stores, Inc, 97 Bickford St., Jamaica Plain,

Mass.

[390]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BoRN: July 3, 1904, Russia. parents: Abraham Oscar Gordon, Anne Lewis.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: 8.B. cum laude, 1925; LL.B. 1928.

MARRIED: Bernice Gerstein, Jan. 4, 1930, Brookline, Mass. cuttpren: Ann
Louise, April 18, 1933, Roberta Joan, June 27, 1936; Anthony Oliver,
July 9, 1939.

OccUPATION: Chain store merchant in women’s wear (president, treasurer,
and general manager).

OFFICES HELD: Member national executive board, three years, vice-president
of New England region, three years, president of Brookline-Brighton
unit, three years, Zionist Organization of America.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club; New Century Club of Boston, Masons; Temple
Israel.

WHERE one is called upon to write an autobiography which is
going to be scrutinized by one’s own classmates, many a class-
mate would find it difficult to be both modest and sufficiently
narrative. In my case, I find it no trouble at all because there is
so little that is out of the ordinary to tell.

Of course, if to be happily married is out of the ordinary I can
claim that as a feat of great distinction. I have a happy home
life, a very charming and lovely wife, and three very interesting
children. . ,

After college I went to Law School. Since Class Day of 1928,
I spent one year as a law clerk with the Supreme Judicial Court
of Massachusetts, working with the Honorable Justices of the
court in the preparation of opinions, possibly thirty-five in num-
ber, many of which have now become the law of jurisdiction.
Having achieved the distinction in one short year of writing
opinions for the highest court in the Commonwealth, I felt that
the “mundane” practice of the law had no greater benefits to
offer than the “ordinary” practices of the business world. So I
turned to business. In the short half-year of August, 1929, to
January 7, 1930, I witnessed the stock market crash, I joined
with my brothers and others in the Clear Weave Hosiery Stores
organization, and I was married. During the next five years I
Was getting acquainted with business sufficiently to become the
president, treasurer, and general manager of the company in the
year 1934. Also, in that year, with the aid of my associates, we
started a western group of stores known as Van’s Hosiery Stores.
From 1929 to January 1, 1950, I was affiliated with both com-
panies in the position of a minority stock holder, and since 1934,

[391 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

I have been president, treasurer, and general manager of both
companies. During this period of time I contributed to helping
the company grow from a small group of ten stores to an organi-
zation of seventy stores doing over $12,000,000 worth of business
annually. On January 1, 1950, a business deal was consummated
wherein the group of stores represented by the Clear Weave
Hosiery Stores was sold by my associates, with my consent and
approval. I retired from Clear Weave just at the time of the
writing of this narrative. I have now become the sole owner of
a group of fifteen stores through Ohio and Pennsylvania, doing
several million dollars worth of business annually. At the
moment, with the aid of a nephew, Herbert H. Goldberger, who
is becoming associated with me, we are in the process of once
again building up an organization. I look forward to this under-
taking with great hopes and expectations and with great pleasure.

As for “extra-curricular” activity, I am still very much inter-
ested in music, particularly glee club work. I have retained m
interest in the theatre and the arts. I continue to find that I like
people, like social events, and that I enjoy attending lectures and
participating in social and civic movements. One of my para-
mount interests at the moment is helping to develop three good
citizens for this community.

I am looking forward to my daughter’s graduation from the
Northampton School for Girls and her entrance into college life.
I hope to have the pleasure of seeing my daughter, Robin, grad-
uate from junior high school very shortly. My greatest hope is to
have my boy, Tony, become a good Harvard man about the
year 1957 or 1958. ,

HUBERT FIELD GORDON

HOME ADDRESS: 4540 Balboa Ave., Encino, Calif,

OFFICE appress: 510 S. Spring St. Los Angeles, Calif.

Born: Feb. 1, 1904, South Norwalk, Conn. parents: William Alexander
Gordon, Jessie Mary Frick,

prepared at: Shelton School, Shelton, Conn.; Worcester Academy, Wor-
cester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925, DELUEE: A.B, 1925.

Maguirp: Virginia Keim, May 8, 1943, Los Angeles, Calif, ciutp: Beatrice
Jean, May 12, 1948.

[ 392 ]

,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Special agent, Federal Bureau of Investigation.
WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: With F.B.L. since 1942.

NOT even a whiskey distiller has recognized me as a man of
distinction, but after a certain amount of study I have come up
with a tentative claim on my own behalf. What other member
of ’25 has become a father for the first time only two years be-
fore his Twenty-fifth Reunion? (My daughter selected May 12,
1948, as the day from which my possible distinction can be
reckoned). My wife explains that the reason it took me so long
after graduation was that I waited seventeen years to come to
California where we met.
- The war had a hand in it too. Offering my services freely after
Pearl Harbor, I was surprised to find that J. Edgar Hoover recog-
nized my possibilities before anyone else in Washington, and
what began as an attempt to do something helpful in the emer-
gency has become a thoroughly absorbing and enjoyable voca-
tion. Since 1942 my residence has been in the West, a year in
Seattle, three in Chicago, and the rest of the time in Los Angeles.
This past year, 1949, saw us become home owners, and many of
you will understand that what to do evenings and weekends has
ceased to be much of a problem for us.

California is truly a wonderful place to live, but it will always
have the disadvantage for me of being a little too far from Cam-

bridge. It’s not only that getting back for a reunion becomes a

man-sized problem, but the papers here don’t realize what’s going
on back there — even when Harvard wins a game! I believe I
understand why championship football teams are a thing of the
past in Cambridge, and my faith in Alma Mater is not faltering.
But there comes a time each fall when I wish one of the better
pro teams would take over the H.A.A. as a farm club.

EDWARD JOSEPH GORFINKLE

HOME AppREsS: 43 Walker St. Newtonville, Mass.

OFFICE appress: B, S. Edward Co., 1353-5 Washington St. West Newton,
Mass.

BORN: Jan. 2, 1904, Chelsea, Mass. PARENTS: Emanuel Gorfinkle, Ida Edith
Wolper.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

[ 393 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

marrirp: Mary Mildred Danca, May 30, 1941, Boston, Mass. cHitp: Susan
Beth, March 26, 1943.

occupation: President, B. S. Edward Company (department store).

WITH diploma framed and appropriately hung in June, 1925, I
decided to wind up my carefree life with one more summer as
camp athletic director. During this summer the lure of the last
frontier gripped me. The Florida land boom was then at its
peak. Fabulous fortunes were being made over night. Oppor-
tunity and adventure beckoned. In September of that year I set
sail on a Savannah Line steamer with that splendid classmate,
Leon Rome, Florida-bound. Sometime later we found ourselves
quite by chance in Sarasota, where the sheer beauty of this little
gem on the Mexican Gulf so fascinated us that we decided to
stop and try our luck.

In Florida, life was different —a great contrast from the ivy- |
clad walls of Cambridge. Here were bird dogs, dog tracks, sub-
divisions, lots, acreage, the Ringling Brothers circus, Bobby
Jones, Muggsy McGraw, the New York Giants, the Ku Klux
Klan, barracuda, and Bacardi all rolled up in one with plenty of
easy money to boot. Unfortunately the bubble burst too soon.
From then on things were done mostly the hard way.

The year 1927 found me joining a chain department store
outfit with branches all over the map. And it was all over the
map I sojourned too. Taking in Augusta, Maine, Bristol, Con-
necticut, Akron, Ohio, Providence, Rhode Island, and finally
back to Boston. In those years, especially 1929 to 1937, a man
had to keep his nose close to the grindstone. I almost got mine
scraped off.

In the spring of 1937 I decided to make a break and get into
business for myself. But before doing so, I journeyed across the
Atlantic, visiting my long lost relatives in England and in Ireland.
There I found them enjoying life and talking with brogues. In
England and later in France and Italy, I got some close-up views
of the preparations for the inevitable conflict. This was about
the closest I came to the war, for although years later I volun-
tceered several times, my services were never accepted,

On this trip abroad my great passion for history was greatly
stimulated by visiting the places of renown, culminating in al-

most falling off the ship over the site of the Battle of Actium.

[ 394]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

That was way back in 31 B.C. in case anybody forgot.
After this the sailing was more direct. My travelling days
were now over. I had sufficient experience and backing to es-
tablish a business of my own. Consequently, in 1940, after care-
ful preparation and investigation, the Edward Company, a de-
partment store, was begun and it has flourished ever since.

Subsequently I married a fine woman, bought a home, and
raised a daughter, Susan, who at six can read thirty-six words.
What more can a man expect in life?

It has been a long time since Grant Hyde Code assigned us
our Autobiographies in English A and a long time since Roger
Merriman, in his inimitable way stated, “Gentlemen, the pre-
ponderance of the Hapsburg Dynasty was remarkable.” But the
imprint of these men and their kind is still on me. Those four
formative undergraduate years at Cambridge left their indelible
mark on us. Can there now be any doubt how deeply they in-
fluenced our lives and how immeasurably they brightened the
last twenty-five years for us?

And so my thanks to a glorious University for what it did for
me. Let’s raise the “Festive Cup” and drink a toast and say, “Fair
Harvard, may you continue forever ‘to advance learning and per-
petuate it to posterity.’ ”

THEODORE DAVID GOTTLIEB

ADDRESS: 202 15th St., Racine, Wis.

BORN: Jan. 2, 1906, West Pullman, Ill. PARENTS: Simon Gottlieb, Minna
Gottlieb.

PREPARED AT: Kenosha High School, Kenosha, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923~I1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

OCCUPATION: Mercantile business.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Gottlieb did not return a questionnaire.

ARTHUR LEON GOULD

HOME ADDRESS: 215-34 43d Ave., Bayside, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 239 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.

BORN: May 30, 1902, Newark, N. J. parents: Leo Gould, Sarah Goldstein.

PREPARED aT: Uniontown High School, Uniontown, Pa.; Pittsburgh Pre-
paratory School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

[ 395 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925, DEGREES: A.B. 1925; U.8. (Columbia Univy,),
1928,

marrieD: Bernis E. Newmark, Dec. 28 1929, New York, N. Y. cerpren:

Judith Rose, Mav 21, 1936; Sara Estelle, Feb. 14, 1940; Leah Beth, Nov.
12, 1946.

occupation; Attorey-at-law.

orFices HELD: Member, Committee on Special Calendar Problems, New
York County Lawyers Association; chairman, Committee on the
Municipal Court, New York County Lawyers Association, member

Surrogate’s Court Committee, Queens County Bar Association; past
vice-president, Bayside Republican Club.

MEMBER OF: New York County Lawyers Association, Queens County Bar
Association, New York Civic Center Association, Bayside Republican

Club.

AFTER graduation from Harvard I enrolled at Columbia Uni-
versity Law School and in June, 1928, completed my studies
there. In February, 1929, I was admitted to the New York Bar
and have since, except for a short period of time, practised law
largely in Manhattan, though residing on Long Island. For about
two to three years I was associated with several law firms, but
after that I gave all of my time to my own practice.

My wife and I have had a rather successful marriage. It has
been on the whole pleasant and we have a lovely family of three
daughters. Judith Rose, the eldest, now in high school, talks
about going to Radcliffe, because, we believe, that is the surest
way she feels she can go to or be near Harvard. I don’t dis-
courage her as it is apparent, to judge from the trend in the
Harvard Yard and the influence of the war on it, that the College
may go co-educational (!). Sara Estelle, now ten, a little too
young to talk of her ambitions, has a strange and astounding
devotion to prayer and things religious and we wonder just whom
she takes after, but we are a little proud of her for it. Leah Beth,
only three, now emerging into the delightful period of little-
girlhood talks her head off, mostly about nursery school. Our
home is a haven for many other girls since my wife has always
been active in the Girl Scouts. All girls love her. Under the
circumstances, surrounded as I am by females, one might feel a
little sorry for me. I rather like it.

In 1929, after becoming a member of the New York Young
Republican Club (Manhatran), I managed either that year or the
next to get mysclf involved in a political campaign, Since that

[ 396 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

time I have frequently been active politically. In that 1929 or
1930 campaign I found myself a member of a small group of
young lawyers who had espoused the candidacy of Frederic R.
Coudert, Jr. (now a Congressman from New York City), for
District Attorney of New York County. Among that group
was a young lawyer, then unknown, destined to become Gov-
ernor of New York (Thomas E. Dewey), and others who have
since been heard from. In 1938 at request of Dewey I took
charge of and managed his (then unsuccessful) campaign for
Governor, in Queens County, and again in 1942 I was exceed-
ingly active on his behalf in New York County. I have had much
fun in local politics until a few years ago when professional duties
prevented my giving any more time to politics. My ardor for the
Republican party has of late cooled because it seems to lack con-
structive policies and has failed to gauge or grasp the common
view.

Such time as is allowed me I give to activities in the New York
County Lawyers Association, particularly as a chairman of its
Committee on the Municipal Court. I am also a member of a
special committee selected to study and devise means to re-
organize the judicial system of New York City, and have the
honor of serving there in the company of distinguished lawyers.
During 1949 I served as associate chairman, Committee of Spon-
sors, Fiftieth Anniversary Celebration of the Municipal Court of
the City of New York. I also serve as a member of the committee
on the Surrogate’s Court, Queens County Bar Association.

My favorite hobbies are reading, motoring, and travelling’
whenever we get a chance. I hope some day, when the children
are fully grown, to do a lot more travelling.

WILLIAM HENRY GRATWICK

HOME abpress: Linwood, N. Y.

BoRN: April 13, 1903, Buffalo, N. Y. parents: William Henry Gratwick, ’92,
Emilie Victorine Piollette Mitchell.

PREPARED AT: Nichols School, Buffalo, N. Y. Phillips Academy, Andover,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1925; M.L.A., 1929.

MARRIED: Harriet Lee Saltonstall, September, 1928, Milton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Emilie Mitchell, July 25, 1929; Lee, Oct. 27, 1934; Lucy Saltonstall, Feb.
24, 1939.

[ 397 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

HARVARD BROTHERS: Roger Weare Gratwick, ’21; Mitchell Gratwick, 22,
occuPATION: Nurseryman.

MEMBER OF: Thursday Club, Buffalo, N. Y.

I SPENT the summer of 1925 working in the wheat fields of
South Dakota, having made the trip from Buffalo to Duluth as
a coal passer on a Great Lakes freighter, and continuing m
travels via box cars. Finding out that I could get along on my
own, without the help of friends, family, or money, was a good
experience.

The following winter I spent travelling around in Europe.
Then I returned to Cambridge to go through the School of
Landscape Architecture, and two years of architecture, running
a very remunerative boys’ camp during the summer vacations. I
look back to these years as being exceedingly valuable ones, not
so much for the professional training acquired as for the oppor-
tunity of becoming somewhat acquainted with creative activity
in the fields of painting and sculpture, and of attending such
things as exhibitions and concerts. (The fact that I was married
during this time, and that my wife was interested in these arts,
undoubtedly had much to do with it.) In 1930 I competed for
the Charles Eliot Travelling Scholarship in Landscape Architec-
ture, and, assisted by a few tricks I had learned from the archi-
tects, I managed to win it. The trip to Europe we took that year
and part of the next was an extensive and memorable one.

On returning, I practised landscape architecture and worked
for a nursery in Buffalo. However, after a few years, I found
that my work in the small nursery I had started as a hobby on
our farm and country place in the Genesee Valley, was much
more interesting, and more profitable as well. My two specialties
are Japanese yew and Japanese tree peonies. Of these two the
tree peomies are the more interesting, being probably the rarest
and most beautiful of all hardy shrubs, as well as the most diffi-
cult to propagate commercially. I have been working with them
for about twelve years and have developed what is probably the
- best commercial collection in this country. Most of the credit

for my success in this venture must go to my good fortune in
being a friend of Professor A, P. Saunders. By turning over to
me the results of a lifetime of work with peonies and tree peonies,
he set me off to a good start; and by giving me the responsibility

L 398 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of preserving his hybrids and carrying on further work in this
field, he has made me feel that my work is important and signifi-
cant.

The second major interest on the Genesce Valley property is
a flock of pure-bred Dorset sheep. Here again I had luck in
getting off to a good start. By picking out a few very old, but
distinguished, ewes from two or three of the best flocks in the
country, I have gradually built up a flock of really high quality.
My recent consignments to the New York and New England
regional shows and sales have stood right at the top. Last spring
a ram lamb, bred and raised on our place, was champion of the
Eastern stud ram show at Staunton, Virginia, topping the sale for
three out of the four breeds shown.

As soon as the ground in the nursery freezes, and the flock is
well sheltered in winter quarters, and my hired man has retired
to chop in the woods, I spend a good deal of time working in
stone, wood, and beeswax. Sculprure appeals to me as a very
exciting, though unremunerative, occupation, ] got started by
making some fountains and carving some animals for garden
ornaments. This developed into some experiments with plant
forms based on the architectonic design found in many unfolding
buds. Now my interest is mainly centered in those qualities of
vitality in plant forms which suggest human analogies, Though
I have received a number of awards from our up-state New York
art shows, very few ripples of recognition have spread beyond
the local region.

Music is also a field of great activity around here. My wife is
the leading spirit and I tag along. During the summer a com-
munity music school is held at the big house, with classes offered
in choral conducting, theory, lessons for string players and
vocalists, and a chorus with a membership of about seventy. The
teachers come mainly from Rochester. In the winter (to finance
the school program) the York Opera Company plays Gilbert
and Sullivan to standing-room-only audiences in neighboring
towns. My wife conducts, and this year the cast comes from
eleven different communities. The combined efforts of two
singing teachers resulted in my singing all the notes required of
“Frederick” and “Rafe Rackstraw,” and the other musical de-
ficiencies were made up for by dramatic fervor.

[ 399 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

KIMBALL GRAY

HOME AppREss: 40 Barrow St., New York 4, N. Y.

OFFICE ADpREss: Olson Marine Supplies, Inc., 59 Water St., New York 4,
N. Y.

BoRN: Dec. 13, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: Albert Morton Gray, Caro-
line Adelaide Jacobs.

PREPARED AT: Trinity Chapel School, New York, N. Y.; Jamaica High
School, Jamaica, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

mMarriED: Fanchon Fisk, April 12, 1929, New York, N. Y.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U, S. Naval Reserve,
Aug. 8, 1942; served in Naval Intelligence, about twenty months,
transferred to a special naval construction battalion, Civil Engineer
Corps; executive officer, 32nd Special Naval Construction Battalion

(stevedoring), Oakland, Calif., and Philippines; separated as lieutenant
commander CEC-U.S.N.R., Jan. 8, 1945.

THE Class wants to know,” does it? All about my family? This
could be interesting if we took it literally and told all. However,
I suspect that the vital statistics offered above will have to suffice.

Travels? Well, I can’t offer much spicy reading in this cate-
gory either — I’ve been around in a limited sort of way, from
Newfoundland to New Orleans, including practically all of the
way-ports, and a business jaunt to the West Indies— but my
desire to see a little of Europe has thus far been frustrated. Even
the war took me westward to California and eventually to the
Philippines instead of eastward as I had hoped.

Hobbies! Now there’s a fascinating subject! But this Report
will doubtless be published in Boston, thus obviating many
potential flights of fancy in this realm. Besides, gentlemen, we
grow older. Well, I also like to paint (pictures, I mean, though
I confess I don’t mind slapping paint on a house or a fence or the
hull of a boat). I like, too, my weekends in Connecticut at the
little cottage I built near the sugar maples along the edge of my
five sloping acres (the deed says “four and a half, more or less”).
I like fishing for trout in the nearby stream, the aroma of a steak
broiling over a charcoal grill, the sound of birds singing and the
tinkle of ice in a highball glass as 1 watch the sun slip behind the
hemlocks. The contents of the glass, too, I like. Then there’s
music —I like all kinds 1 guess, from Bach to Bop — but mostly

[ 400 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I go for the emotional boys, Tchaikowsky, Beethoven, Rach-
maninoff, etc.

My social and political opinions (“‘convictions” yet! — who
has convictions except Communists and Republicans?) seem to
have stranded on the rather vaguely charted shoals of Liberalism.
My Republican friends suspect that I am a Red and my leftist
acquaintances regard me as a Fascist, I am sure. I hate to use the
term, but “liberal” about covers it— and a plague on both your
houses!

O yes, I work for a living, but work is not one of my hobbies.
I seem to have had an uncanny faculty for selecting the least
likely way of scratching out a living. My first job was with the
receiver of a defunct steamship company. Since that time I have
been a financial analyst and writer employed by various banks
and brokers (during the depression, of course), a life insurance
salesman (also during the depression), a purchasing agent and
later operating manager of a small steamship company which
went through the wringer, but emerged nevertheless quite suc-
cessfully. When this happened I hasted to accede to the Navy’s
overtures and accepted a commission in the O.N.I. thus expertly
avoiding accumulation of any moss, or other green stuff. After
returning from the Pacific, I went back into the steamship busi-
ness, this time as the assistant to the assistant assistant manager
of a small department in a subsidiary of one of the largest com-
panies in the world. I still managed to avoid making any money.
At this moment I am the manager of a ship chandlery firm, claw-
ing its way out of the bankruptcy courts (receiverships and such-
like seem to exert a deadly fascination for me). Anyhow, I’ve
had a lot of fun, I suppose, and I'm still in there pitching.

JOSEPH MAY GREELEY

HOME aporEss: 655 Maple St., Winnetka, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Leo Burnett Co., Inc., 360 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago 1, Ill.

BORN: Sept. 13, 1902, Winnetka, Ill. parents: Morris Larned Greeley, Anne
Sophia Foote.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.; New Trier High
School, Winnetka, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: S.B., 1925; M.B.A. 1927.

[ 4o1 ]

°

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Marriep: Margery Gerould, Dee. 15, 1928, Cambridge, Mass. cHipren:
Margery Gerould, Nov. 29, 19:9; Samucl Joseph May, Jan. 18, 1935,

HARVARD BRoTHERS: Aforris Larned Greeley, ’15; Sidney Foote Greeley, ’15,
occupation: Account executive.

MEMBER OF: Minneapolis Club, Harvard Club of New York; Skokie Coun-
try Club, Glencoe, HL.

I WONDER how many 1925 families have lived in more houses
than we have? The other night we added them all up and found
we had occupied eleven different homes in the past twenty-five
years. Furthermore we made a complete cycle, starting our
married life in Winnetka, Illinois, and ending up there in the old
family homestead thirteen years later, having moved some 4,000
miles in the process. We had three places in Winnetka, then nine
years in England in three different establishments, three in Con-
necticut, one in Scarsdale, New York, which was later bought by
Wally Snow (but not from me, I am sorry to say), and finally
back to 655 Maple Street, Winnetka, where I was born.

Most of this time we were moving around with two children,
Margie who is our elder and is now a junior at Radcliffe, and
Sam who, by the way, was born in England and has dual nation-
ality until he is twenty-one (he’s now fifteen, with six more years
to go on this most favored nation basis). Sam dislikes passing
through Canada, which we do quite frequently on the way east,
because he’s always afraid they’re going to keep him there on
account of his British nationality. We like to think this moving
process has added something to our education and particularly
to our appreciation of the old home town, which we are thor-
oughly enjoying now.

My wife is often taken for an English girl (but not by the
English) on account of her Cambridge, Massachusetts, accent,
which she acquired by birth, and also on account of the fact that
she has one of those gorgeous English complexions, also acquired in
Cambridge, Massachusetts,

My business life has been spent trying, with some success, to
sell a very wide variety of excellent food products. I started with
Quaker Oats, Quaker Puffed Rice and Wheat, Quaker Corn
Flakes (yes, that’s a popular brand in England), and continued
with such items as Cheerios, Softasilk Cake Flour, Kix, Betty
Crocker Cake Mixes, and Gold Medal Flour for General Mills.
Presently my great purpose in life is to sce that Americans buy

[402 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

enough Pillsbury’s Best Flour, Pillsbury’s Hot Roll Mix, Pie Crust
- Mix, Cake Mixes and, in fact, some thirty other Pillsbury prod-
ucts, and this despite the fact that the president is a Yale man,
class of 1924.

I started out in 1927 with the Quaker Oats Company and was
sent to England in 1930. For nine years we kept English tummies
full of delectable Quaker products. Then the war came along,
and in October, 1939, we moved back to this country. After a
brief spell with the Hecker Products Corporation (now the Best
Foods Company) I got into the advertising business with Pedlar
& Ryan in New York and have been in it ever since.

In 1943 I returned to Chicago to work with Dancer-Fitzgerald-
Sample on General Mills, eventually becoming a vice-president,
and heading up the account. When the agency moved to New
York I decided to stay in my native heath and joined the Leo
Burnett Company, where I am now in charge of the Pillsbury
account.

The advertising business I do not recommend to anyone with
a weak constitution, but for excitement, hard work, and a chance
to see things happen it’s good fare. In addition it’s loaded with
a lot of bright convivial souls, including quite a few of our class-
mates.

Our principal hobbies are foregathering with friends at any
conceivable time, playing golf, tennis, and fishing in Maine for
a few weeks in the summer.

HOWARD DUSTIN GREEN

HOME ADDRESS: 44 Prindiville Ave., Framingham, Mass.

OFFICE aDpREss: Hayes Pump & Machinery Co., 125 Purchase St., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: April 11, 1903, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Edmund Howard Green,
’95, Mabelle Dustin.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

MarRIED: Isabelle E. Tyler, Sept. 27, 1930, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Elaine Dustin, Dec. 1, 1931; Edward Holden, May 25, 1937.

OCCUPATION: Sales engineer.

AFTER leaving college, I spent several years as salesman for my
father who conducted a wholesale business in butter, cheese, and

[ 403 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

eggs in the Boston marker area. About the time that the ex.
pression “a big butter and egg man” became popular, I went to
work for the Hayes Pump and Machinery Company in Boston,
and have been with them for the last twenty years. I have suc-
ceeded in earning a living in this manner, as nobody has yet dis-
covered a better way to make liquids flow up hill.

I trust that nothing happens to upset things until after the
children get through school. Elaine goes to Hood College in
Frederick, Maryland, this fall for a two-year college course prior
to entering the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston for a
three-year finishing course and a degree in nursing. Edward,
being a regular boy, spends his time building model airplanes,
fishing and playing baseball. The Mrs. keeps us fed, clothed, and
otherwise generally contented. We have at last all agreed on a

house, and after five moves have reached what we hope will be
a permanent address.

MARVIN HOWELL GREEN

HOME ADDRESS: §3 Birch Rd., Darien, Conn.

orFice appress: U.S. Hoffman Machinery Corp., 10§ Fourth Ave, New
York, N. Y.

BoRN: April 24, 1902, Oxford, Mich. parents: Rollan Adelbert Green, Rose
Zelinda Howe.

PREPARED AT: Brighton High School, Brighton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925; DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

margigp: Evelyn Hougen, Nov. 24, 1928, Wellesley, Mass. cHtmpreN: Mar-
vin Howell, Jr March 30, 1935; Deborah Hall, Jan. 30, 1937.

occupation: General sales manager.

I GRADUATED in February — never quite sure why — and
went to work in Chicago for the Elliott Addressing Machine
Company, a Cambridge company.

I was indeed fortunate that Buck Evans, Sam Clarke, and
Wilson Smith arrived after the June graduation to start their
labors. L roomed with each in turn, until Buck left for the West
and Sam and Wilson married. This close association with former
school friends made the transition to business life less painful. At
the same time I ran across a girl whom I had known slightly at
Wellesley —she made the transition even less painful. I trans-
ferred to the Elliott Indianapolis office, but made f requent weck-

[ 404 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

end trips to Chicago, taking a Wellesley postgraduate course. I
transferred to the Elliott New York office, and took a Wellesley
correspondence course.

In 1928, two big changes: (a) Married at Wellesley at seven
in the morning in order to get to New Haven in time for the
game (score: Harvard 17-Yale 0, a most auspicious start in
married life). (b) Went with United States Hoffman Machinery
Corporation on temporary sales job at Syracuse, New York.

_ Thirteen years and two children later, still in Syracuse, the
war made sales secondary to production and fighting. I tried to
get into the Navy, unsuccessfully. I resigned and went back to
Cambridge (Allston) for a “retread” course at the Business
School. Not much glory, but one of the most interesting and
beneficial periods of my life.

I went back to Hoffman Company and two years later became
general sales manager. This last job has given me a most active
and interesting life, taking me to most sections of the United
States. On these trips I have had a chance to contact old friends
of Harvard days from coast to coast.

Life has been good, and through it all there has seemed to be
a thread, sometimes strong, sometimes weak, running back to
Harvard. I hope that it will always be so.

RICHARD MARTIN GREENE

HOME apprEss: 40 Elm St., Camillus, N. Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Camillus Cutlery Co., Camillus, N. Y.

BorN: March 21, 1905, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: Max Greene, Betty
Schwarz.

PREPARED AT: Franklin School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MarrieD: Helene M. Zinn, Jan. 28, 1928, New York, N. Y. cap: Richard
Martin, Jr., Sept. 25, 1928.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edwin Greene, ’19.

occupation: Merchandising, selling and sales promotion,

OFFICES HELD: Committeeman, Cub Scouts, New Rochelle, N. Y. 1937-38; -
member, Auxiliary Police, New Rochelle, 1941-42.

PuBLICATIONS: “Marvel of Merchandising,” Modern Plastics Magazine, July,
1941,

THE years since graduation have been very full and happy ones

for me. If my business career was slow in getting started, my

[ 405]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

marital life began early, the latter compensating amply for the
former. It is a pleasant feeling now, in my mid-forties, to have
a son in his early twenties and be closely attuned to him. My wife
completes the trinity, and we are all most “clubable,” as Johnson
(or was it Boswell?) and “Copey” would have expressed it. On
our frequent returns to Boston and Cambridge, both on business
and for pleasure, we often wander through the Yard, and I feel
at home in it still, despite the labyrinth of new buildings.

My vocation is manufacturing, merchandising and sales pro-
motion in the hard goods field, of pocket knives and kitchen
cutlery, and I enjoy it immensely. I got into it via advertising
and then, during the late war, by way of having been purchasing
agent for, and in production work with, several large metal
manufacturing concerns.

My interests are music, photography, art (particularly as ap-
preciative audience of my wife’s oil paintings), and the practical
applications of psychology and psychiatry in relation to indi-
viduals and groups. This interest stems from my wife’s similar
and earlier one, and the contributing factor that our son, now
studying for his Master’s degree at Boston University, is headed
for some phase of work in psychiatry.

As a family we've all been interested in psychiatry and have
done what good we have been able to do in assisting (on a non-
professional plane, of course) acquaintances in need of help. Our
son does similar work on a more professional level, too. He
taught at Olivet College, Olivet, Michigan, from which he re-
ceived his A.B., and has done professional counseling, guidance
work, testing, and measurements. He is also an active member
of the American Society for Psychical Research, Inc.

I’ve travelled a lot, mainly from Chicago east and Washington,
D. C., north, and have run into Harvard men everywhere. I can’t
say that a Harvard degree has ever actually hindered me.

BERNARD HAROLD GREENMAN

HOME avprEss: 118 Wood Lane, Woodmere, N. Y,

orrice appress: Louis Milani Foods, Inc. 50 Church St. New York, N. ¥

BoRN: Feb. 3, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents; Max Greenman, Katharine
Cooperman,

parpareD AT: Boys’ High School, Brooklyn, N. Y,
[ 406 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Phyllis Jacob, May 28, 1929, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Katharine May, Feb. 3s 1932; Linda Jane, July 17, 1933; John Jacob,
March 30, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederick Francis Greenman, ” 14.

OCCUPATION: Sales representative.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Village of Woodsburgh, since 1945; member of
board, Five Towns, Community Chest, since 1943; president, Police
Boy’s Club of Inwood, 1944-46.

MEMBER OF: Woodmere Club.

I ENTERED college with the class of 1925 and finished the re-
quirements for an A.B. degree by June, 1924. After a year in New
York, I returned to Cambridge to take my degree with the Class
in June, 1925.

My year in New York was spent in working for a security
analyst with whom I was later associated for a few years. Then
I became chief statistician for a New York Stock Exchange firm.
After the crack-up in 1929 I started over again with a shoe manu-
facturing company as salesman, and was associated with this com-
pany for fifteen years when it was liquidated. The next two years
I devoted to philanthropic and religious organizations, travelling
around the country extensively. Since 1946 I have been selling
processed foods, at present representing Louis Milani Foods, Inc.,
of California in the New York area.

So much for a brief résumé of my business career. My family
has been the most absorbing part of the past years and I suppose
will be for the years to come. My daughter, Katharine, is now a
freshman at Radcliffe and my wife and I are getting a tremendous
kick out of reliving our college days with her. We follow her
activities in class and are intensely interested in her reactions to
life in Cambridge.

Linda, the younger daughter, aged sixteen, is a junior in high.
school. We are hoping she will follow in the path of her mother
and sister and enter Radcliffe in September, 1951. The matter of
grades and ability to pass College Board Exams are still to be
contended with.

John, aged ten, is in the fourth grade in elementary school and
a long way from planning any college career — but here again
we are hopeful he will make the grade,

Since graduation I have managed to see at least the Yale game

[ 407 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

every year, with possibly one or two exceptions. Of course, this
year — and for the next few years — I hope to get to Cambridge
more often. A better football team would certainly be a help.
I've seen too many “moral victories” lately.

Politically, my views have become more liberal within the
Republican party sphere and here again a few victories would be
welcomed. While not active in politics, I am: very much inter-
ested in national, state, and local affairs.

I find myself more and more drawn to my religious affiliations
during the past years and while my convictions have not under-

gone any change, I am conscious of a stronger feeling for religion
than I felt in my earlier years.

+ MALCOLM WHELEN GREENOUGH.
BORN: Jan. 22, 1904, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Malcolm Scollay Greenough,
Jr., 98, Violett Whelen.
PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; M.B.A. 1927.
marriepD: Katherine Lawrence Rotch, June 17, 1925, Boston, Mass. cHIL-

DREN: Malcolm Whelen, Jr., June 11, 1926 (m. Sarah Eden Browne,
Feb. 7, 1938); Lawrence Rotch, Dec. 13, 1930. GRANDCHILD: Katherine
Lawrence Greenough, Nov. 16, 1949.

HARVARD soxs: Malcolm Whelen Greenough, Jr., ’48; Lawrence Rotch
Greenough, ’53.

piep: May 1, 1948, Boston, Mass.
wow: Mrs. Malcolm W. Greenough, “Owlsgate”, Paine Avenue, Prides
Crossing, Mass.

MALCOLM WHELEN GREENOUGH entered Harvard after
preparing at Groton. A brilliant athlete, he won his numerals as
a member of the Harvard Freshman Football Team, and was a
regular tackle on the Harvard Varsity in his sophomore and
junior years, receiving his “H” in his sophomore year. He was
elected captain for 1924, the youngest man ever to have received
that honor. He was prominent in Class activities, serving as a
member of the Freshman Jubilee Committee, and in 1924 was
President of the Class. He also served on the Student Council
(1924-1925), the Senior Endowment Committee, the Athletic
Committee, and was selected to serve as chairman of the Class
Day Committee. His club memberships included the Hasty
Pudding Club, D.K.E., Insticute of 1770, S.K. Club, Signet So-

[ 408 ]

Le

te

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ciety, Porcellian Club, Stylus Club, Harvard Memorial Society,
and the Varsity Club. After receiving his A.B. degree with the
Class, he entered the Harvard Business School, and was granted
his M.B.A. in 1927.

After working in the Old Colony Trust Company, he entered
the firm of Hutchins & Parkinson, investment bankers, becoming
a partner in 1930, and, except for his war service in the Navy,
remained with the firm until his death. He was president of the
Bond Club of Boston, a trustee of the Massachusetts Savings
Bank, and from 1938 to 1941 was a member of the Board of Gov-
ernors of the New York Stock Exchange.

In 1937 he applied for a commission in the United States Naval
Reserve, and was appointed a lieutenant on August 2. In January,
1940, he served a short tour of duty on the USS. Hatfield (DD
231), on the so-called Neutrality Patrol, and on October 8, 1940,
he went on active duty. He was Commanding Officer of the PC
455, the YP 215, the SC 503, and the PC 566, and then set up and
was Commanding Officer of the Destroyer Escort Pre-Commis-
sioning Detail in Boston. Following this duty he was given com-
mand of the U.S.S. Rudderow (DE 224). He was promoted to
lieutenant commander on June 15, 1942, and to commander on
August 28, 1943. He served in anti-submarine operations in the
Atlantic, the Caribbean, and the Pacific, and took part in the
Lingayen and Zamboanga landings in the Philippines, and the
Tarakan landing in Borneo. In August, 1945, he was ordered to
command the U.S.S. Vixen (PG 53), the Flagship of the Com-
mander-in-Chief, Atlantic Fleet, but as the war ended before
these orders could become effective, they were cancelled. He
was released from active duty on November 5, 1945, after five
years and one month, having earned the American Defense
ribbon with star, the American Theatre ribbon, the Asiatic-
Pacific Theatre ribbon with one star, and the Philippine Libera-
tion ribbon with one star. He received seven commendations, of
which four were for rescue work, and also two group com-
mendations, and was awarded the Order of the British Empire.

He was very much interested in civic affairs and politics.
Among’ his many associations, he was vice-president of the Boys’
Clubs of Boston, trustee and secretary of the Free Hospital for
Women, director and member of the Executive Council of the

[ 409 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children,
and president of the Boston Council of the Navy League. He
had been a member of the Visiting Committee of the Blue Hill
Meteorological Observatory of Harvard University, director and
clerk of the corporation of the Army and Navy Service Com-
mittee, and president of the Board of Trustees of Dexter School.
He had worked for the Greater Boston Community Fund, and
was chairman of the Advance Gifts Committee of the Greater
Boston Red Cross Fund for 1947. He had been the head of the
Boston Chapter of the Crusaders, an organization to repeal Prohi-
bition. He was treasurer of the Lodge-for-Senator Campaign
Committee in 1936 and again in 1946, and in 1947 was made
chairman of the Massachusetts Republican Finance Committee.

His interest in sports continued after his college years and he
became one of the leading racquets and court tennis players in
the country. He raced his own yachts with the Eastern and New
York Yacht Clubs and in five New London to Marblehead races,
and had taken part in the Bermuda and Miami-Nassau races. He
was president of the Tennis and Racquet Club, vice-commodore
of the Eastern Yacht Club, and rear-commodore of the Manchester
Yacht Club when he went on active duty in the Navy. He was
also a member of the Somerset and Myopia Hunt Clubs, the
Cruising Club of America, and the Racket and Tennis, Brook and
Harvard Clubs of New York, and the Naval Order of the United
States.

His wife, two sons, and grandaughter survived him.

JOHN GRIFFIN

HOME AppreEss: 260 Moss Hill Rd., Jamaica Plain, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Joseph P. Manning Co., 500 Atlantic Ave., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 5, 1903, Roxbury, Mass. parents: John Francis Griffin, Bertha
Florence MacDonald.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: 8.B. 192§; M.B.A., 1927; A.M. (Boston
Univ.), 1936.

Marniep: Virginia Manning, Oct. 16, 1936, Jamaica Plain, Mass. CHILDREN:

Virginia Manning, Aug. 11, 1940; Susan M., May 11, 1945; Kathleen,
June 25, 1948.
Hakvarp BeoTHER: Charles Griffin, Gb °32,

occupation: Merchant; treasurer, Joseph P, Manning Company

[410 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Secretary, Draft Board #35, Boston, Mass.
OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Junior Executive Division, National Association of
Tobacco Distributors; trustee, Suffolk University, 1934-50; president,
Jamaica Plain Cooperative Bank, 1944-50, Southeastern Hospital As-
sociation, 1933-34; secretary and trustee, Weymouth Hospital, 1926-36.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Engineers Club.
‘THE past twenty-five years have brought to me more than my
share of joy and happiness blessed as I am with three girls, ten, five
and one — sounds as though I succumbed to the Russian Five-Year
Plan. The September following Commencement, I enrolled in the
Business School and, with the artfulness and duplicity associated
with the capitalist, proceeded to earn my degree with a minimum
of effort. Upon due reflection, I recall that I was in the first class
to occupy the new Business School buildings across the river and
perchance the authorities were more interested in buildings than
in students. The next twenty years were happily spent teaching
in all grades from grammar school to college grades. To be greeted
cordially and sincerely by former pupils is ample compensation
for the time and effort expended on apparently unappreciative
minds. Then came the revolution. I left teaching and entered
upon a career of business and finance which has its more immedi-
ate but less spiritual compensations.

As I look back upon my “formative” years, I am thoroughly
convinced that the fierce intellectual pace of today would leave
me staggering although the prime requisite for completing my
four years’ work was the physical stamina needed to cope with
the extra-curricular activities of the twenties. Happily, my in-
structors were not as interested in my degrees as they were in
their own candidacy for a Ph.D.

My exposure to Taussig and his colleagues has unhinged me
politically. My Republican friends say I have principles and my
Democratic friends say I have prejudices. I think I have ideals.
However, I feel that I am too educated to be a Democrat and too
poor to be an effervescent Republican. Incidentally, I have felt
that Dun & Bradstreet could do more for us than the Welfare
State, if they would give considerably more weight to our moral
risk than to our tangible assets. .

My hobbies are few and inexpensive —a workshop, sailing —
until I got married — and Sunday afternoon drives into the coun-
try. Education does strange things to people. I find myself reading

[4qir]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

reviews of symphony concerts, operas, and concerts by eminent
cohimnists and yet I don’t Know what they are writing about.
But I continue to read them.

I have served faithfully as a member and officer in numerous
neighborhood associations and groups and have come to the con-
clusion that the maximum prestige with the minimum expenditure
of time and energy is to be found in the chairmanship of the house
committee — especially if there be no quarters. I have always
felt a deep sense of duty and responsibility to give freely of my
time to civic groups. Certainly leadership should come from those
who are fortunate enough to receive college training.

In looking into the future, 1 am hopeful and optimistic and an
isolationist. I have no thought-provoking messages to leave for

posterity.

FRANZ WALDO GRILLI

HOME ADDRESS: 7935 S. Drexel Ave., Chicago, TIl.

OFFICE apoRESS: Wisconsin Steel Co., South Chicago, IIl.

BORN: Sept. 18, 1901, Chicago, Ill. parents: Philip Grilli, Albertine Bengtson.

PREPARED AT: Waller High School, Chicago, Hl.; Lewis Institute, Chicago, Il.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926. DEGREES: §.B. IN MET., 19253 S.M. IN MET. 1926.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Manufacturing (open hearths of the Wisconsin Steel Company
of the International Harvester Company).

MEMBER oF: American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers.

WILLIAM ALEXANDER GRIMES

HOME ApDREss: 100 W. Oakdale Rd., Baltimore 10, Md.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 630 Mathieson Bidg., Baltimore 2, Md.

BORN: June 7, 1904, St. Louis, Mo. PARENTS: William Hearne Grimes, ’97;
Isabelle Seguenot.

PREPARED at: Marstons School, Baltimore, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1925; LLB.,
1928.

marrirp: Adela Lawrence Ax, Feb. 13, 1934, Catonsville, Md.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Scguenot Grimes, 26.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned ist licutenant, Air Corps, May 12,
1942, entered on active duty, May 26, 1942; promoted captain, March

13, 1943; promoted major, May 27, 1944; retired to inactive duty Nov.
18, 1945.

[412]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Baltimore Mail Steamship Company, 1930-42; presi-
dent, Harvard Club of Maryland, May, 1946-May, 1947; Maryland
chairman, Harvard Law School Fund, 1948-49.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Rule Day Club; Maritime Law Association,
Harvard Club of Maryland; Baltimore Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Financing Automobile Sales on the Time Payment Plan.

WITH the exception of an interlude of three and a half years
during the recent war, my days since graduation have been occu-
pied with law. I find it hard now to realize that when I was in
college the law was the last thing to which I expected to devote
myself. Like so many of us in the golden twenties, I thought
then of business. Although somewhat skeptical at the time, with
the passing of the years I have come more than ever to appreciate
the wisdom of my father’s advice that a legal training was an ex-
cellent preparation for nearly any field of activity. At the end
of my next three years in Cambridge I concluded that it might
be best first to utilize that training for its intended purpose be-
fore trying its efficacy in other lines of human endeavor. That I
am still practising more than twenty years later is sufficient evi-
dence that I have.never regretted the decision. Part of the satis-
faction I have found in practising can be ascribed to the relatively
varied nature of the work. Unlike New York and some of the
other cities where there is apt to be a marked degree of specializa-
tion, Baltimore provides and almost requires acquaintance with
many different facets of practice. I have found it interesting and
instructive to work not only on corporate reorganizations but
with tax problems, wills and trusts, the many phases of maritime
law, and a little bit of most everything else.

Politically I am a Democrat, as one must be in Maryland to
have any voice in local affairs. However, like my late senior
partner, Governor Albert C. Ritchie, I am not a “New Dealer”
or a “Fair Dealer,” and I sometimes think I have too little patience
or tolerance for those who are.

My Army experience was, with minor exceptions, amazingly
satisfying. In retrospect, the friends I made, the places where I
was stationed, and the things I saw are among my most pleasant
memories. Although I did not get overseas I was at eleven differ-
ent stations in this country and worked in or visited many places
in a great many of the forty-eight states. I was particularly for-
tunate in being the longest in the two assignments I enjoyed the

[ 413 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

most. The first was as trial judge advocate at Big Spring Bom-
bardier School, one of the four west Texas fields dedicated to
training bombardiers to “lay them on the line” and avoid “d

ns.” When, after a year, the Air Corps finally discovered that
it had greatly underestimated its requirement for lawyers, and
that I was supposed to be one, I was transferred, much against
my will, from the training command to the materiel command,
Ey entually that led to an assignment as contracting officer at the
Marietta Aircraft Assembly “Plant, Marietta, Georgia, where I
was privileged to see the remarkable feat of training people with
little or no industrial experience to build and later to modify
ready for combat the world’s then most complicated airplane,
the B-29. I was often appalled at the number and size of govern-
ment vouchers bearing my approval for payment, but I was con-
soled in the thought that the tremendous amount alone would
make it well nigh impossible for the General Accounting Office
to catch up with my mistakes.

The demands of practice and the distance from Cambridge
have limited my Harvard contacts almost entirely to the local
Harvard Club, which is pretty active for a city where most of
the Big Three graduates are from Princeton. We have a friendly
rivalry with the local Yale club, with which we meet annually
to hear, and now to see, the Harvard-Yale game. It is hardly
necessary to add that the 1948 meeting was far more successful
than that in 1949!

GEORGE MORTON GRINNELL

HOME apprEss: 57 E. 80th St., New York, N. Y.
oFFice appress: Dick & Merle-Smith, 30 Pine St., New York, N. Y.

Born: Feb, 22, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: William Morton Grinnell,
Elizabeth Lee Ernst.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-192§. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.
MaraieD: Elizabeth Cole, Nov. 6, 1926, ‘Concord, Mass. CHILDREN: Jeanne,

July 3, 1930, George James, June 1, 1933.
occuPaTION: Investment banking.

ANDREW CLARKE GUNBY

HOME aporess: 1118 Roanoke St, Scatele 2, Wash.
orvice avorrss: Anderson & Thompson Ski Co., Scattle 22, Wash.

[414]

(25 TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: March 2, 1902, Sherman, Texas. parents: Isaiah Phipps Gunby, Bessie
Hathaway Clarke.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925, DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

marrieD: Marion Whiting White, July 1, 1927, Dover, Idaho. cumpren:
George Whiting Clarke, May 24, 1928; Anne Whiting, Nov. 15, 1930.

HARVARD SON: George Whiting Clarke Gunby, "49.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Paul Clarke Gunby, ’r4; Edwin Clarke Gunby, ’28.

occuPATION: Office manager, Anderson & Thompson Ski Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II: U. S. Coast Guard Temporary
Reserve.

I MOVED from Texas to Seattle, Washington, immediately after
leaving Cambridge in 1925 and I am still here. For seventeen
years of that time I was employed by the Shell Oil Company
and since then by the Anderson Thompson Ski Company.

I have seen very few members of our Class during these
twenty-five years. Talbot Wegg moved here a few years ago and
as far as I know, we are the only two of ’25 in Seattle.

The Puget Sound section is exceptionally fine for sailing and
to enjoy it I built an eighteen-foot sailing dory, over a period of
two and one-half years. Most of my summers have been spent
sailing with my family on Hood Canal and among the San Juan
Islands. During the spring of 1949 I was in Chicago and one of
the high points of that trip was a sail with Sam Clarke on Lake
Michigan.

I am glad that my son George had the opportunity of spending
his first two years of college at Harvard. He is finishing his
undergraduate work in physics at Reed College in Portland,
Oregon. .

My daughter Anne is in her second year at Mills College in
Oakland, California.

I shall be back this June with my wife, some weight, a pair of

‘glasses, and the wish that people would speak a little louder.

ROBERT PALMER GUNKEL

LAST KNOWN ApprEss: P. O. Box 216, R.R. 10, Station M, Cincinnati, Ohio.

BORN: May 30, 1903, Cincinnati, Ohio. PaRENts: Ferdinand Gunkel, Ernes-
tine Geiser.

PREPARED AT: Woodward High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923, 1924-1926,

[415 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

GUNKEL has been carried as a “lost”? man on our records since
November, 1943.

GORDON BANCROFT GUPTILL

HOME appreEss: 11 Waverley Ave., Newton 58, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 31 State St. Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: May 29, 1903, Jamaica Plain, Mass. parents: Lloyd Hayden Guptill,
Charlotte Winslow O'Donnell.

PREPARED AT: Canton High School, Canton, Mass.,; Weston High School;
Weston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1021-1925. DEGREE: A.B. cm laude, 1925.

marrieD: Blanche Miller Lichty, Sept. 3, 1927, Lancaster, Pa. (divorced
1933); Virginia Eileen McAleer, June 17, 1937, Newton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Charlotte Anne, Dec. 22, 1928 (m. Alvin W. Norcross); Lloyd Hayden,
zd, Dec. 1, 1942; Anthony, Dec. 11, 1944 (died April 18, 1945).

occupation: Insurance and commercial real estate.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Kingston Realty Trust, Washingtonian Hospital,
Boston; trustee and treasurer, Otis General Building, Cambridge,
vestryman, Grace Episcopal Church, Newton.

MEMBER OF: Union Boat Club, Boston.

AFTER four years in other fields I entered the commercial real
estate business in Boston in 1929, added general insurance in 1938,
and in March, 1948, opened my own office. My work is kaleido-
scopic, constantly bringing me in touch with new people in
varied spheres of activity. Fortunately, in spite of inevitable
routine, I have a certain amount of freedom which I prize highly
as it enables me to get to the boat club for a game of handball or
a sunbath about twice a week, and occasionally to the Athenaeum
to follow up something that interests me.

Collecting American and English cigarette cards is one of my
hobbies, and old juvenile magazines is another. From time to time
I work on the ancestry of George VI (there are amazing blind
alleys) and on my own genealogy (far more blind alleys). I
like light verse and parodies, Edward Lear, Charles Carryl, W. S.
Gilbert, Owen Seaman, and the early Ogden Nash. I am still
faithful to Beatrix Potter, E. Nesbit (Edith Bland), G. A. Henty,
and Mark Tidd. I prefer history and biography to fiction and
among other things would like more time for Arnold Toynbee,
René Fiilép-Miller, and the life of Danicl Defoe,

Iam partial to oolong tea, buttermilk, Scottish f ancics, pumper-

[416]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

nickel, cheese, candy with paregoric, chutney, curries, casserole
dishes, teapots, Royal Worcester, Florida water, Eskimos, train
whistles, my boy’s electric train, Sunday afternoon walks,
museums, libraries, mayflowers, lilies-of-the-valley, a wood fire,
hymns, dry martinis, Ushers’ Green Stripe Scotch, the House
of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha, the princes of Reuss, blue eyes, and Cléo
de Mérode, a mistress of Leopold II of the Belgians.

I am short-tempered, sentimental, nostalgic about the past, con-
servative, radical, an Episcopalian with Unitarian leanings, and
a Bostonian who thinks Bostonians are queer people. I dislike
secret societies, killing animals and birds for sport, opposition to
birth control, religion in politics, government eggs rotting in
warehouses, and television shows.

My family and home give me my deepest satisfaction. My
wife, my parents, my children — what can I say? I can quote
E. Nesbit’s final words in The Story of the Amulet: “I see so
many things now—things I never saw before. The dear
children! The dear, dear children!” \

MORRIS HARRY HADLER

AppRESs: 1963 Ryer Ave., Bronx, New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Oct. 8, 1903, in Russia. parents: Max Hadler, Rose Vze.
PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1925; M.D., 1929.
OCCUPATION: Medicine.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Hadler did not return a questionnaire.

CHARLES EDWARDS HALL

HOME AppREss: 59 Highland Ave., Newtonville, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Jordan Marsh Co., Washington St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 13, 1901, Cambridge, Mass. parents: William Hall, Harriet
Wilson Foster.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.; Browne and Nichols
School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MarrieD: Alice Cornelia Bradford, 1932, Cambridge, Mass. camp: Cornelia
Harriet, July 13, 1933.

[417 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

PDWARD MATTHEW HALL

ampenss: tgot Helotrope Drive, Santa Ana, Calif.

pax: Mav so, rgoa, Stuttgart, Ark. parents: Harry Sanderson Hall, Avia
Mane Fenton.

expraasp at: Ohnaha Central Eligh School, Omaha, Nebr.
VERS EN COLLELED 1921-1925.

weszeinp: Margarct Lyon, Aug. 27, 1932. cHttp: Thomas Lyon.
cmctranios: Agniulture.

TEE infonnation printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Ed-
ward Elall did not return a questionnaire.

HENRY ENGLISH HALLORAN

Howe aporess: sg Pighland Ave, Hillsdale, N. J.

orice apoarss: Great American Indemnity Co., 1 Liberty St.. New York 5,
N.Y.

poes: Jan. 18, 1902, Brookline, Mass. parents: Henry Gregory Halloran,
Mary Elizabeth English.

rurparrp At: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

Magaiep: Edna M. Smith, Oct. 12, 1941, Jersey City, N. J. camp: Maureen
Regina, May 4 1944.

occepation: Superintendent of accounting department, Great American
Indemnity Company.

MILITARY O@ NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned second licutenant, O.R.C., U. S.
Anny, June 25, 1925; ordered to active duty as first lieutenant, Chemi-
cal Warfare Service, Fort Totten, N. Y., December, 1940; post adjutant,
September, 1941; transferred to adjutant general’s department, October,
Iggt; assistant adjutant general and classification officer, Headquarters
AAAC., Fort Totten, May, 1942-February, 1944; promoted captain,
December, 1941, major, September, 1942, served in European theatre,
March, 1945-October, 1945 (chief classification and assignment officer,
tith Reinforcement Depot, later adjutant general of same unit), pro-
moted licutenant colonel, July, 1945; returned to United States and
assigned as chicf of War Department Personnel Audit Team, Novem-
ber, 1445-January, 1944; hospitalized with fractured vertebra until re-
heved from active duty, April, 1947; awarded battle stars for Rhineland
and Central Europe campaigns, ribbons for American Defense, Ameri-
can and Furopean theatres, German Occupation, and World War II.

ovsiess wag: President, Bergen County Chapter, Reserve Officers Associa-
uon of U.S, 1935-34.

messam or: Association of Casualty and Surety Accountants of New York;
Keserve Officers Association of U. S., American Legion.

[418 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SINCE shortly after leaving college, I have been associated con-
tinuously with the Great American Indemnity Company, first as
cashier of the Boston branch office, and presently as superin-
tendent of the accounts department at the home office in New
York. In my travels with the Army in Europe, | saw a great deal
of England, Wales, France, Belgium, Holland, and Germany, and
while I would not want to have missed it, I was glad to get home
and settle down again.

I am most happily married, with a five-year-old daughter
whose current ambition is to go to Texas and marry the “Lone
Ranger.” Close questioning discloses that anyone with a horse
will do in the event the “Lone Ranger” is already married. This
is the influence of television!

Aside from the hobbies (?) of lawn-mowing, painting the
house, garage and fence, and trying to do all the many odd jobs
that seem to be everlastingly with us around a home, I am still
active in the Army Reserve, with a commission as lieutenant
colonel, and attached to the 147q4th Logistical Division. I am
planning to attend the second Phase of the Associate Course,
Command and General Staff College in March.

ROBERT HAYDOCK HALLOWELL, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Powisset Street, Dover, Mass.

OFFicE ADDRESS: Minot, DcBois & Maddison, 294 Washington St. Boston,
Mass.

BORN: Aug. 31, 1903, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Robert Haydock Hallowell, '96,
Rebecca Borland Jackson.

PREPARED AT: Santa Barbara School, Carpinteria, Calif.; Milton Academy,
Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926, DEGREE: A.B. 1925(26).

MarRieD: Nancy Rice Means, March 31, 1934, Boston, Mass, CHILDREN:
Cynthia, Nov. 10, 1936; Robert Haydock, 3d, April 27, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Samuel Haydock Hallowell, ’27.

OccuPATION: Real estate management.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted as seaman 1/c in Coast Guard Tempo-
rary Reserve, April 29, 1943; released from active duty as chief
boatswain’s mate, May 15, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Trustce, Boston Children’s Aid Society, Huntington Institute
for Orphan Children.

THE summer of 1925 saw me entering upon a career as an invest-
ment banker with the firm of Parkinson & Burr in Boston. After

[419]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

fourteen years as a bond salesman, I obtained a position with the
real estate management firm of DeBlois & Maddison with whom
I am still affiliated.

In 1934 I married Nancy Means and after five years and two
children in Dedham, we moved further out in the country to
Dover. I find the peace and quiet of a rural home well worth
the extra time spent in commuting. A modest vegetable garden
serves the double purpose of keeping the deep freeze filled and
the waistline down.

All my life I have liked anything to do with the sea and have
cruised extensively along the coast from Long Island to Nova
Scotia with one memorable trip to Bermuda. For many years I
raced every weekend with my beloved classmate, Mally Green-
ough. After having a very jaundiced eye cast over my physique
by the U. S. Navy, I joined the Coast Guard Temporary Re-
serve whose only requirement was that one’s body be slightly
warm. For one night a week from 1943 to 1945 I helped to pro-
tect the Cape Cod Canal from imaginary enemies.

Although my past twenty-five years may seem to have been
rather prosaic and devoid of outstanding material success, they
have, much more important to me, been crowned with a perfect
family life and complete personal happiness. All I can wish for
is that I may fare as well in the future as I have in the past.

HAROLD HALPERIN

HOME ADDRESS: 789 St. Marks Ave. Brooklyn, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 16 Court St., Brooklyn, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 17, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: Louis Halperin, Rose
Phillips.

PREPARED AT: Hallock School, Great Barrington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925, 1927-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1925(28); tx.B. (St.
Lawrence Univ.), 1938.

MarRiED: Helen Spiegel, March 14, 1937. cuttoreN: Ann Elaine, March 26,
1938; Marilynn, July 25, 1945.
OccuPATION: Construction, management, and operation of apartment houses.

CHARLES NATHAN HAMBERG

HOME appeess: 11 N. Russell St, Boston 14, Mass.
orrice appress: O. T. B, Co., 387 Washington St., Room 304, Boston 8, Mass.

[ 420 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BorN: April 4, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Isadore Hamberg, Rebecca
Gordon.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922, 1926-1929. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude,
192§ (29); M.P.Ay 1044.

MarrieD: Valborg Marie Gustafson, Sept. 4, 1937, New Hampshire.

occuPATION: Importer.

IT HAS been my experience in life that you either go round in a

circle or else travel in straight lines (with a curve here and there as

you pass some strong center of attraction). On the whole I have

tended to take the latter course. I prefer travelling through space

to spinning round on my axis. The result has been strenuous and

sometimes even painful but it has at least been interesting. Einstein

tells us that space is actually curved so I suppose it will all work

out right in the end.

Before writing me off as simply another one of those queer
ducks, you might reflect upon the fact that almost everybody is
queer, once you know the person well enough to penetrate be-
neath the crust. I should certainly beware of a man who had no
oddities at all. So call me “tangential” instead of “circular” if you
choose, and for my part, Ill admit to doing things which some of
you might consider peculiar. What is more I hope to do other
such things before I die. I may not have been entirely wise in the
things I have done but I just can’t fancy a life where there is no
place for even a single mistake or misdirection, where a man has
to be exactly right in everything he does — in other words, where
the future is as dead as the past. As I see it you just have to leave
room for an occasional folly.

But am I really a queer duck? Honestly, I don’t know. You'll
have to decide that one for yourselves. There are times when I do
think I am a bit queer — until I turn around and see the things that
others are doing. Take my marriage, for example. I’ve been very
happily married since 1937, and to the same wife. This is supposed
to be quite an accomplishment nowadays. I should say it’s more
of an accomplishment in our case. My wife is a distinct personality
in her own right, and believe me, that’s putting it mildly. A mar-
riage of this sort is not an automatic thing. We've had to do some
strenuous travelling to keep up with one another. Yet we have
managed to have the greater part of our pleasures and interests in
common, which makes me fairly well-balanced after all.

[421 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

I suppose you could call me a “highbrow.” I went back to
school for graduate study, a few years back, and have a PhD,
(Political Science) waiting until such time as I can get back to
finishing my doctoral dissertation. (I hope to see it published
some day or I should not take it that seriously.) But I read other
things besides political science. You're apt to find me browsing
around in Goodspeed’s at odd times during the day. (Do any of
you remember Goodspeed’s under the Old South Church?) I pre-
fer to select my own reading, too, to make my own digests and to
work out my own opinions about what I read instead of having
things selected and digested for me and crammed down my throat
in convenient little capsules. The truth is that I don’t take kindly
to any sort of regimentation, physical or intellectual. You could
call me an individualist if that term were not currently used to
describe the sort of people who prefer capitalistic or religious to
communistic regimentation. I think of myself as a real individual-
ist and, frankly, there are times when I feel quite lonesome.

I realize that the sort of person who will not think in terms of a
“party line” is an uncomfortable fellow. But don’t go picturing
me as a fanatic for that reason. The sad truth is that most of my
hair is gone, and a bald-headed fanatic — it just wouldn’t work!
As a matter of fact I prefer a close trim for what little hair remains
to me and on the whole I make a rather professional appearance,
like that of a doctor without the aroma of disinfectant. Of course
that’s when I’m dressed. When I’m poking around in the basement
people usually take me for the janitor.

Quite a few of my other interests are also highbrow. I detest
most radio and motion picture shows and run out of adjectives
when I think of television. I much prefer the stage to the screen,
real music to so-called popular music, modern art to bar-room
nudes, and modern dance to the ballet. If this be treason —. But
it will be a sad time when a Harvard man has to apologize for
these things. On the other hand I can also qualify as a typical,
red-blooded out-of-door American male, much more readily than
you low-brows who spend your time playing bridge. Most of my
hobbies are strenuous and out-of-doors and I am myself in vigorous
health, so far. My most important hobbies are photography,
birding, sailing, skiing, fishing, and cycling. I’ve been passionately
in love with the ocean all my life and cannot even conceive of a

L 422 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

life away from it. In the past ten years, however, fishing and
cycling have come to the fore. As a fisherman I am primarily a
surf-caster. I can tolerate a fly-rod, but only until the blues and
the stripers begin to run in the surf. There’s something to tramp-
ing up and down the beach with a rod in your hands and the roar
of the surf in your head —! Both my wife and I are enthusiastic
cyclists, but please don’t confuse us with hostelers or the sort of
middle-aged riders you see on Martha’s Vineyard and Nantucket.
We're fairly hard riders, 50-100 miles on a Sunday’s run and va-
cation tours depending upon available time. I may even do a bit
of racing this summer. Strenuous, but it keeps us in trim.

So there you have me, or enough for an opinion or prejudice, if
the puzzle interests you. My own feeling is that I am still in
process and that the story cannot be told until it is over.

ALEXANDER HAMILTON

HOME appREss: Sloatsburg, Rockland Co., N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 370 Park Ave., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 25, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: William Pierson Hamilton,
Juliet Pierpont Morgan.

PREPARED at: Morristown High School, Morristown, N. J.; St. Paul’s School,
Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924.

MaRRIED: Katherine Comly, July 12, 1930, Sterlington, N. ¥. (divorced
1935); Elizabeth Peltz Wanamaker, Dec. 26, 1935, New York, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: Pierpont Morgan Hamilton, ’20.

OCCUPATION: Executive,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned captain, U. S. Marine Corps Re-
serve, August, 1942; promoted major, 1944; released to inactive duty,
October, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, New York Young Republican Club, delegate,
Republican National Convention, 1931; deputy commissioner, Depart-
ment of Public Markets Weights and Measures, New York, N. Y.
1934-353; assistant to commissioner of sanitation, New York, N. Y.
1937-38; president, Tuxedo Memorial Hospital; treasurer, American
Scenic and Historic Pres. Society, director, Ramapo Land Company,
Tuxedo Stores; co-director, Pothat Water Company; secretary, St.
Nicholas Society; Tuxedo Club.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club; Racquet and Tennis Club, Marine Corps Re-
serve Officers Association; Federal Grand Jury Association; Sons of
the American Revolution.

[ 423 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

I LEFT college at the end of my junior year when the going was
good. After a short European exposure, I joined the staff of the
Metropolitan Newspaper Service in New York where I alter-
nated in an editorial and selling capacity from comic strips to
feature stories.

Hollywood called in 1928 and, after producing one picture for
First National Pictures, I discovered that the new media of talk-
ing pictures and the stock market crash of ’29 were too much for
the independent producer.

Returning to New York, I entered the political arena in an .
East Side district by accepting the Republican nomination for the
State Senate. Fortunately, we now have more Republican office
holders in that district than there were voters of my persuasion
in those days. Pursuing a beaten course for year after year, the
first fruits of political perseverance were plucked by my appoint-
ment as Deputy Commissioner in the Department of Public
Markets Weights and Measures by Mayor LaGuardia at $1.00
per annum, cut to §.67 the day of my installation by President
Roosevelt.

After an interesting but exhausting two years trying to help
Commissioner William Fellows Morgan reorganize and decon-
taminate that department, I resigned at the unspoken but evident
request of Mayor LaGuardia.

A year later I was called back to City Hall to serve as assistant
to the Commissioner of Sanitation. While the salary was fabulous
in comparison with my previous pay check, the hours and duties
were not compatible with domestic harmony. Reluctantly |
tendered my resignation. Both Commissioner Morgan and Com-
missioner William Carey were a real inspiration and I shall always
remember them as the gems of a rather crummy lot gathered to-
gether in the name of Fusion.

My brother then called upon me to help him with a color film
process that he had recently acquired from England. Its delicate
financial position was made more precarious by the outbreak of
war in Europe and finally settled to quiescence under 77 B.

Family and personal affairs seem to have encompassed my
time for the next two years. The next official milestone was my
notification by the U.S. Army Medical authorities that I was unfit
for even limited duty. Acting on a rumor that I found subse-

[424]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

quently to have some basis, I applied to the United States Marine
Corps. Passing the Naval Medical Board requirements, I was
commissioned a captain in the Marine Corps Reserve in August,
1942.

Ordered to Quantico, I spent the fall and winter crawling
through the swamps of that extensive base and undergoing other
indignities to the mind and body requisite of the Reserve Officers
School. Well matriculated, I departed for the West Coast via a
special ordnance course at Lansing, Michigan. However, on the
completion of Lansing, my orders were cancelled and I was or-
dered to Washington to a liaison billet with the Navy Depart-
ment.

It was from this vantage point that I observed the balance of
the war including both V-E and V-J Days. I was glad that my
desk jobs with the City of New York had hardened me where
Quantico wanted to remove the lead. I became so expert with
the red tape and protocol of BuAer, BuOrd and CNO that until
my true identity was disclosed by promotion to the rank of
major, Captain Hamilton cut quite a lot of corners in causing the
furtherance of the war effort and the U. S. Marine Corps.

Since the Navy would not permit my transfer and the Marine
Corps would not order my relief, I had visions of becoming a
permanent fixture. Finally, some months after V-J Day, a kind
friend solved my problem by ordering me to inactive duty while
I was on leave and omitting the routing of my orders via channels.

In the ensuing years I have been devoting my time to a hetero-
geneous lot of unremunerative responsibilities and have been
living in the country outside of New York for the most part. I
sometimes wonder what would have happened if it had been as
difficult to enter Harvard in 1921 as it is in 1950. I know that I
would not have had to write this Twenty-fifth Anniversary
Report.

RICHARD KING HAMLEN

HOME ApDpREss: 1033 Parkwood Blvd., Schenectady 8, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREss: Central Station Divisions, General Electric Co., Schenectady,
N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 11, 1903, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Ewing Wallace Hamlen,
Mary Gore Child.

[425 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1925; M.B.A. 1927.

marriep: Caroline Schuyler Jenkins, March 22, 1930, Schenectady, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Ann Schuyler, Nov. 7, 1931; Richard King, Jr., Sept. 27,

1935; Katharine Rockwood, March 9, 1940; Charles Ewing, July 9, 1943.
HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Rufus Hamlen, ’29.

OCCUPATION: In charge of marketing services, Central Station Divisions,
General Electric Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman governmental committee, Schenectady Chamber of
Commerce, 1949; chief air raid warden, Schenectady County, 1941,
1942; member Schenectady County War Council, 1942-45; chairman
Citizen’s Council for Proportional Representation, 1938, 1939. Cur-
rently: vice-president, board of trustees, Schenectady County Public

Library; director, Schenectady Bureau of Municipal Research; presi-
dent, Fortnightly Club.

MEMBER OF: Schenectady Chamber of Commerce.

BUSINESS School followed College and after receiving my
M.B.A., I joined the General Electric Company as a test engineer
—as far as I know, the only test engineer they ever hired without
engineering training. After a year spent testing turbines, power
transformers, and other large apparatus, I transferred to the Inter-
national General Electric Company. In the same year, most ap-
propriately on Thanksgiving Day, I met Caroline Jenkins, and
when I was offered a job in San Juan, Puerto Rico, we were
married and combined a tropical honeymoon with my trip to
embark on my new assignment. Our three and one-half years in
San Juan were highlighted on the one hand by the birth of our
elder daughter and on the other by a series of hurricanes — first,
the terrible storm of 1930 which destroyed most of Santo Do-
mingo City and later, two storms that swept over our home in
San Juan. The first of these stripped the roofing paper from our
bungalow, and the second removed the roof itself with ceiling
attached. Despite these violent interludes and the depression, our
stay in Puerto Rico was a pleasant one. Late in 1933, we returned
to Schenectady and I rejoined the General Electric Company,
this time in the market research division of the apparatus depart-
ment, Hurricanes continue to plague us, for the 1937 storm in
New England did extensive damage to our summer place in Jaff-
rey, New Hampshire.

In the late °30's, I got into politics on a strictly amateur basis,
first as chairman of a group which campaigned for the adoption

[ 426 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of Proportional Representation in city elections and later as Demo-
cratic candidate for City Councilman in this Republican strong-
hold.

In 1941 I was appointed Chief Air Raid Warden for Schenectady
County and as such, had the job of organizing and training a
force of 3,000 wardens, At present I am in charge of marketing
services for the Electric Utility Division of the General Electric
Company.

Twenty-five years after graduation, I find myself grey-haired
and glad of the concealing properties of conventional clothes.
My younger daughter describes me in all good faith as a “strong
old man.” During the children’s waking hours, I find that my
hobbies tend to be theirs — baseball, tennis, music, and working
in the woods at Jaffrey. Bridge and, of course, reading occupy
my spare time once they are asleep.

Last year my daughter, Ann, brought great pleasure and ex-
citement to our family by winning a national high school contest
with an essay on “Swiss Neutrality.” This resulted in a great
quantity of photographs, interviews, publicity, and congratulatory
letters, and as a climax, a three weeks’ tour of Switzerland. The
whole business was handled in royal style.

In retrospect, I find that “I have left undone those things which
I ought to have done.” I have failed to justify the pronouncement
of the last maid we had — prewar — when she remarked, “Of
course he earns $25,000 a year. He’s a Harvard man, isn’t he?”
But for all that, I have few regrets and great happiness in my wife
and family.

JOHN WILLIAM HAMMOND

HOME ADDRESS: 2615 Boulder Rd., Altadena, Calif.

OFFICE apprEss: Aluminum Co. of America, 108 W. Sixth St., Los Angeles,
Calif.

BORN: Dec. 21, 1901, West Roxbury, Mass. parents: Henry Ernest Ham-
mond, Alice Mary Fee.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925,

MaRRIED: Marjorie Coombs, July 27, 1929, Weare, N. H. crip: Patricia,
Nov. 20, 1930.

occupaTION:; Sales engineer.

[ 427 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

MASON HAMMOND

HOME ADpREss: 85 Dunster St, Cambridge 38, Mass.
OFFIce appress: Kirkland House N-11, Cambridge 38, Mass.

BorN: Feb. 14, 1903, Boston, Mass, parENts: Samuel Hammond, °81, Grace
Learoyd.

PrePaRED aT: St. A\fark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1925; B.A.

(Univ. of Oxford), 1927; Barr. (ibid.), 1930.

marrigp: Florence Hobson Pierson, Aug. 25, 1935, New Orleans, La.

cuitpreN: Florence, April 15, 1937; Anstiss, April 17, 1940; Elizabeth,
Dec. 23, 1946. °

HARVARD BROTHER: Samuel Hammond, ’23.
occupaTion: Teacher.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned captain, Sept. 16, 1942, VU. S.
Army Air Corps; assigned after training to Headquarters, Army Air
Forces, A-2 (Intelligence), Washington, D. C.; transferred, 1943, Civil
Affairs (served as specialist officer for monuments, fine arts and
archives in Sicily, Italy, England, France, and Germany); returned to
inactive duty as lieutenant colonel, Jan. 10, 1946.

MEMBER OF: American Philological Association; Archaeological Institute of
America; American Historical Association, American Academy of
Arts and Sciences; Phi Beta Kappa, Somerset Club.

puBLications: The Augustan Principate, Harvard University Press, 1933;
The Menaechmi of Plautus (ed. with N. Moseley), Harvard University
Press, 1933; various articles on classical subjects.

UPON graduation, a Rhodes Scholarship enabled me to spend
three years at Balliol College, Oxford. I returned to Harvard in
the fall of 1928 as instructor and tutor in classics, and have re-
mained here ever since. My present title is professor of Greek
and Latin and of History, and as of July 1, 1950, Pope Professor of
the Latin Language and Literature. Two leaves of absence per-
mitted me to serve as professor in charge of classical studies at the
American Academy in Rome, from 1937 to 1939, and to participate
in the war as indicated above. I also taught at Radcliffe until the
war and the introduction of “joint instruction.” Two years (1928-
30) as a freshman proctor gave me some preparation when Profes-
sor Julian Coolidge generously asked me to be head tutor of Lowell
House at its inception (1930-32), and when Provost Buck asked
me to be master of Kirkland House, a position I have filled from
February, 1946, to the present.

The Houses at Harvard, with the tutorial system, integrate the

[ 428 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

educational and extra-curricular aspects of undergraduate life
to a degree which our Class did not know. Although since the
war tutorial has been considerably limited, the Houses have con-
tinued to fulfill to a considerable degree the function of focusin
the students’ interests. Their varied activities, intellectual, ath-
letic, and social, afford a chance for the student who does not
have talents of varsity or Phi Beta Kappa calibre to play a part in
the life of the College. If it is true that an experience is valuable
not for what you get out of it but for what you put into it, then
the opportunity for wider student participation in all phases of
college life increases the effectiveness of a Harvard education.
Moreover, the student does not lose loyalty to college or class
through any loyalty which he may develop to his House; rather
his participation in House activities makes him more interested
in Harvard as a whole.

Education remains the central function of the College and edu-
cation is more than the learning of subject matter or the acquisi-
tion of grades. The most valuable type of education is that which
develops the power of analysis and judgment. Such education
must be largely self-education under the stimulus of teachers,
books, and all the other varied resources which the College offers.
‘The Houses have therefore broadened and deepened the prepara-
tion which Harvard gives to those whom it admits “to the com-
pany of educated men.”

RICHARD LOCKE HAPGOOD

HOME appreEss; 51 Brattle St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Eddy-Rucker-Nickels Co., 4 Brattle St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 18, 1903, Cambridge, Mass. paRENTs: Lyman Sawin Hapgood,
’97, Clara Gertrude Locke.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925, DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Management consultant.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Inducted U.S. Army, June 22, 1942; interviewer,
Recruit Reception Center, Fort Devens; classification specialist, Air-
borne Engineer Unit Training Center; sergeant-major, Airborne En-
gineer Battalion; chicf clerk, Operations Analysis Section (research
section), Fourteenth Air Force, Kunming, China; discharged as master
sergeant, Oct, 2, 1945; awarded Bronze Star.

[ 429 ]

——

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

OFFICES HFLp: Secretary, United States Figure Skating Association, 1932-34,
1935-39 (also chairman of various committees).

MEMRER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Skating Club of Boston; Lt. Joseph

P. Kennedy, Jr. Post 5880, Veterans of Foreign Wars.
ruBLications: History of the Harvard Dental School, 1930.

IF IT be true that “variety is the spice of life,” then a goodly
portion of spice has come my way. At first blush, it might seem
that moving from a cub reportership on the Boston Traveler, to
news and sports correspondent at Harvard representing a string
of papers, to assistant to the dean at the Harvard Dental School,
to manager of an ice skating arena, is a crazy-quilt pattern of
work experience. The interlude of the war further broke up the
pattern, and upon return I was fortunate enough to jump quickly
into a new field, business management consulting work, where |
have been happy and content since. |

Yet, it is interesting to reflect that this varied experience is
continuously useful to me today. I find that I am constantly
going back to it for help in solving all sorts of problems one
meets in consulting work. It may be presumptuous for anyone
to set himself up as an adviser or consultant to business manage-
ment. Does not a man know his own business better than anyone
else? Perhaps: but it is amazing how often in his mind the forest
is lost sight of for the trees and how much the fresh approach
can contribute.

The small or medium-sized business, which cannot support
extensive research and management facilities, often finds it serv-
iceable and profitable to engage outside help for guidance in
planning programs of expansion and in setting up management
controls to measure precisely and accurately week-to-week or
month-to-month progress. The work I have done for numerous
clients has been varied and intensely interesting. It has also led
me to the conclusion that small business is remarkably vigorous
despite governmental restrictions and burdensome taxes, and is
truly the backbone of the American system of free enterprise.

There have been two underlying trends common to all my
undertakings. One is a keen interest in writing and literature;
the other is a passion for mathematics. The two are happily com-
bined in my present work, for I have not only been associated
with the advertising side of our business, writing copy and so on,

[ 430]

2§$TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

but more recently have concentrated on the management side,
' making all kinds of statistical analyses of operating figures, writ-
ing reports on the results, and setting up controls. Calls on clients
and prospective clients, involving periodic travelling, have pro-
vided the practical personal contacts that get one out of the
“ivory tower.”

For recreation I played fairly hard over quite a few years with
ice figure skating, both as a competitor and an administrator
through various posts and committees in the national governing
body. Since the war, attention to business has prevented my
being as active in skating as before, but I still retain my interest
through board membership and committee work at the Boston
Skating Club.

As it was to millions of others, the war was a big experience for
me. When Hitler marched into Poland in September, 1939, I be-
came convinced at once that this was going to be our war, too,
that it was to follow a pattern similar to 1914, and that the sooner
we got into it actively the better for all concerned. When France
fell in 1940, I tried to get myself placed in relation to the coming
war effort by applying for a Navy commission. I could not pass
the eye tests then or two years later when I was about to be
drafted into the Army. After my induction in June, 1942, I was
fortunate in finding assignments where my civilian experience was
useful, and fifteen months later I found myself a master sergeant
and chief administrative non-com of an airborne engineer bat-
talion —a rugged bunch! This outfit was subsequently broken
up, and we were sent overseas as “air force fillers” on an individual
basis. I wound up in China with Chennault’s Fourteenth Air Force
(Flying Tigers), where I was chief clerk of the Operations Analy-
sis (research) Section under the chief of staff at the main head-
quarters in Kunming. At the end of my tour of duty, I was rec-
ommended for a Bronze Star Medal,

If I ever travel extensively again, I hope to do it under more
pleasant and comfortable circumstances than the troop transport
or convoy train. But I feel I was lucky to have my war travel take
me completely around the world, going out to China by way of
the Atlantic and returning by way of the Pacific, with a couple
of flights over the “Hump” thrown in.

Although I have by no means achieved the goals I have set for

[431 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

mvself, deo gratias, yet I have enjoyed many of the satisfactions
lite has to offer. And I express here a sincere wish and hope for

all my classmates that they have fared no worse than I during this
past quarter-century.

KYUNG-DURK HAR

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 10 Farwell P]., Cambridge, Mass.
BorN: June 26, 1897, Chunju, Korea. parents: Kyeng-Lyul Har, Akie Kim.
PREPARED AT: Pyung-Yang Union Christian Academy, Pyung-Yang, Korea,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1025. DEGREES: S.B. C17 laude, 1925; A.M., 1927}; PH.D.,
1928.

HAR has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since March,
1935.

FREDERICK KNOWLTON HARDY

HOME apprEss: 2175 W. Seminary St., Gainesville, Fla.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Office 151, Bldg. G, University of Florida, Gainesville, Fla.

BORN: June 4, 1904, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Frederick Sewell Hardy, Matilda
Teresa Knowlton.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922, 1923-1926. DEGREES: A.B. 1925 (26); M.B.A., 1928;
Pup. (Univ. of Wisconsin), 1933.

Marriep: Mildred Edith Hilberg, Dec. 22, 1937, Geneva, N. Y.

occupation: Associate professor of business administration, College of Busi-
ness Administration, University of Florida.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Price specialist, Office of Price Admiunistra-
tion; civilian instructor, Navy V-12 training program.

MEMBER OF: American Marketing Association, Southeastern Economics
Association,

ON THIS warm, sunny February day in my home in Gainesville,
Florida, I think of a snowy day in Cambridge when a Mason jar
of orange blossoms sent to me by my parents from Florida was
delivered to my dormitory room. As the fragrance of springtime
filled the room, I resolved that sooner or later, my home would be
in Florida. I dreamed of the possibility of opening a branch of my
father’s business in Miami (with summers in New England, of
course).

Life looked rather bleak from my hospital bed during the year
which should have been my sophomore year with the Class of

[ 432 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1925, when I was fighting my battle against polio. Graduating in
1926 on crutches, with a fine liberal arts education, but with little
practical knowledge, except how to spend money, I decided to
increase the knowledge of business which my father had attempted
to teach me.

I entered the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administra-
tion, graduating with an M.B.A. in 1928. By this time, 1929 was
not far off, and the Florida branch of F. S. Hardy & Company of
Boston was not established. So, after canvassing various job possi-
bilities, I decided that teaching would offer me the best opportuni-
ties. By that time, I had “graduated” from crutches to a cane, and
within a few years was able to discard the cane, too, except for use
at formal teas (how I hate them, but they are a part of university
life), when standing with a teacup in one hand becomes a sort of
* balancing stunt for me.

After a two-year period as an instructor at Emory University
in Atlanta, I received an Honorary State Legislative Fellowship
for more graduate study at the University of Wisconsin, where I
spent three happy years of hard, hard work, ending with a Ph.D.
in 1933. What a year to look for a job, even with a third sheep-
skin! I made it, however, and soon found myself as an associate
professor of business administration at the University of Texas in
Austin. This proved to be a lucky choice as there a social worker,
a Goucher and Johns Hopkins graduate, added me to her “case-
load” on an extra-curricular basis and married me shortly after I
started on a teaching stint at Hobart College in Geneva, New
York.

A couple of years later, a Florida opportunity opened at a small
denominational college in Lakeland, a college with a campus in an
orange grove, and some Frank Lloyd Wright buildings (worth
seeing on your next visit to Florida). We lived in a large boom-
time house with a gorgeous lake view, with the scent of orange
blossoms in spring, which brought back nostalgic memories of my
college dream.

Then came War. I volunteered my services to the military for
a “chair-borne” assignment, the only one I could fill, but was re-
ferred for wartime civil service and was placed in the O.P.A. in
Jacksonville, which proved to be one long headache for me. I was
glad when I could return to my profession and still feel that I was

[ 433 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

participating in the war effort. Teaching sailors preparing for the
Service of Supply, U. S. Navy, at Miami University, Oxford,
Ohio, especially those who had been in the fleets, was a pleasant
experience for me. There, my wife and I sponsored the Canter-
bury Club, an Episcopal student group, entertaining them at our
home for supper each Sunday evening.

I spent the first three years after the war teaching business ad-
ministration subjects at Michigan State College in East Lansing, a
pleasant place, but with too much snow and ice to suit one who
had had Florida sand in his shoes. When an opportunity opened
at the University of Florida (thanks to the excellent Harvard
placement service), I lost no time in sending the moving van on
the road again.

This time we are not in an orange grove, but our new, shiny
_ white ranch-type house does not have to have the smudge of fac-
tory smoke removed each year, and we revel in gardening twelve
months of the year in Gainesville. Our camelias, azaleas, roses,
tulips, poinsettias, hibiscus, and other flowers too numerous to
mention, competed for our admiration and enjoyment in January
and we are still enjoying them. Last year we grew strawberries
and vegetables, too, but this winter we are enjoying our garden
more because it does not mean constant work in our leisure time.

As an associate professor in the College of Business Administra-
tion of the University of Florida, I feel that I am most fortunate.
I teach advertising and marketing, my favorite subjects. The older
students of the last few years, the veterans, have been stimulating
to teach.

Throughout the years of teaching, it has been my privilege to
encourage some of my best students to seek admission to Harvard
graduate schools. I hope that I have added to the “sum total of

human knowledge” bya few modest pieces of research and articles
for publication.

ARTHUR BROOKS HARLOW

HOME Appress: 31 Searles Rd., Tokencke, Darien, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 135 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y.

Baws; Dec. 4, 1901, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: George Arthur Harlow
M.D. ‘93, Genevieve Madison Hancock.

[ 434]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

marRIED: Alice Williams Kelley, April 2, 1932, Albany, N. Y. comp: Arthur
Brooks, Jr., June 13, 1934.

occupation: Life and general insurance.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Duty at Ethan Allen Training Camp, North
Hero, Vt., July-August, 1918; released from service as corporal; duty
with Citizens Military Traiming Camp, New York Guard, oth Regi-
ment, July-August, 1940; commissioned lieutenant, Nov. 28, 1940, cap-
tain, Feb. 19, 1941; resigned March 12, 1942; active duty with U. S. Navy
as lieutenant in Eastern Sea Frontier, April 6, 1942; stationed at U. S.
Naval Training School, Noroton, Conn., June 1, 1942—-Jan. 15, 1943;
instructor, U. S, Naval Reserve Educational Center, 1943-44; sent over-

. seas to Milne Bay, New Guinea, 1944-45; joined Naval Advanced Base
Unit #10 at Samar Island, Philippine Islands, March, 1945; engaged in
operations on Cebu and Mactan Islands, honorably discharged as lieu-
tenant commander, Feb. 15, 19463 currently in U. S. Naval Reserve, on
inactive basis. ;

OFFICES HELD: Assistant to James G. Blaine, ‘11, chairman of the greater New
York Fund; director, Welfare Council, New York, N. Y. (both offices
held before the war).

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Tokeneke Beach Club; The
Lunch Club; Naval Order of the United States; Military Order of
World Wars; American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars.

AFTER leaving college I headed for New York City to make my
start. This city fascinated me and I soon located a room at 61 W.
55th Street where some twelve other Harvard grads had found a
cheap place to hang their hats. It was a unique establishment run
by two old maids who seemed to trust us, as no lease was ever
signed or required. However, there was a standing gentleman’s
agreement that if any of the brethren left he was to provide an-
other congenial member to take his place. ‘This was always done,
and was never a problem because of the constant flow of new
grads coming to New York who were looking for such ideally
cheap quarters with Harvard pals. I enjoyed five years of bache-
lor’s bliss here and two more at another apartment with three other
fellows who had “graduated” with me from the old brownstone
on West ssth.

During these first seven years I ate most of my meals at the
Harvard Club and used it as a constant haven. Looking back on
these interesting years I appreciate fully the tremendous part that
this fine club plays in the life of the young graduate away from his

[ 435 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

home (mine was in Wisconsin) — the wonderful recreation and
complete facilities that it offers for exercise and the companionship
found in its big library, coupled with its great membership. Here
was a true crossroads, and a glorious place to run into friends from
all over the country.

After seven years as a bachelor in New York I had thoroughly
got the “Broadwayius” out of my system and it took a tenth re-
union over a Memorial Day weekend at Groton School to intro-
duce me to my wife-to-be, who was visiting the wife of one of
the masters there. She had happened there to visit this master
because she was godmother to his daughter. It was love at first
sight for me and a very casual first meeting blossomed into matri-
mony the following April. We have been blessed with a most
happy life. Because my wife had spent some months previously
in New York with a cousin of hers, seeing the gay life, she too
had got the “Broadwayitis” out of her system and after a month
in Bermuda on our honeymoon we immediately moved to Darien
to live. Several years before I had sailed to Bermuda on the
schooner Saispas in the 1930 Bermuda Race. While there I swam
often at Elbow Beach and I remembered a cottage on a knoll over-
looking this famous beach. I said then that this cottage would
make an ideal place for a honeymoon and two years later I en-
gaged it for our honeymoon and never had a happier time. It was
isolated yet run and serviced by the big hotel on the hill above us.
It had a telephone so we had meals and service easily obtainable,
making living simple and delightful.

Sailing is my hobby. Yet while not having the time or money to
run a yacht big enough to cruise in safely, I have been most for-
tunate in having very dear friends who do, and for some strange
reason they seem to ask me and my wife to sail often with them.
On the last two cruises of the New York Yacht Club we have been
guests aboard the famous schooner Mistress which needs no intro-
duction. My greatest concern is to live long enough to see my son
educated and happily established to carry on. He seems to be
doing much better in every way than I ever did, scholastically or
athletically, which is as it should be with each new generation. As
an interesting sidcline I have tried to take an interest in local town
and county politics. Our good classmate, John Davis Lodge, was
urged to run for the Efouse and he has been sent back there regu-

[ 436 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

larly. His Connecticut classmates have been well rewarded for
their efforts on his behalf as his fine record shows. Personally I
feel that he will go far in Connecticut politics and that he has a
bright future.

In closing I should like to add that these last twenty-five years
“out” have been very good to me in filling my life with an ideal
happiness which has come from a devoted son and a most loving
wife — all that I could ever have hoped and wished for. In other
words the truly valuable things in this life have been mine in
abundance and I can only hope the future will be as kind to me.

RUDOLPH JOHN HARPER

HOME apprEss: 148 E, 48th St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE apDRESS: Fiduciary Counsel, Inc., 40 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

BorN: March 6, 1903, Fitchburg, Mass. parents: John Oscar Harper, Maria
Sophia Hietala.

PREPARED AT: Fitchburg High School, Fitchburg, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

MarRIED: Elizabeth Louise Leffel, March 4, 1950, Brooklyn Heights, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Conrad Aaron Harper, '26, Raphael Simond Harper, 732.

occupation: Manager of bond department, Fiduciary: Counsel, Inc.

OFFICES ‘HELD: Member board of directors, St. Bartholomew Community
House Club, New York, N. Y., 1942-46; treasurer and member board
of governors, Municipal Forum of New York, 1947-50.

MEMBER OF: St. Bartholomew Community House Club; St. Bartholomew’s
Church; Municipal Forum of New York; Harvard Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Annual review of municipal and government bond markets
in Moody’s Government Manual, 1934-q2 incl.

WILLIAM CUTHBERT HARRISON, JR.

HOME apprEss: North Street, Ridgefield, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New York Life Insurance Co., 51 Madison Ave., New York,
N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 13, 1900, Winchester, Mass, parents: William Cuthbert Har-
rison, Mary Martin Green.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Washington, D. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREE: S.B. cum latde, 1925.

MARRIED: Mary Elizabeth Snow, Nov. 18, 1932, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Anne Hartwell, Nov. 13, 1933; William Duncan, June 6, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Member, insurance committee, New York Life Insurance
Company.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous reports in government and insurance publications.

[ 437 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

AFTER graduation I spent some time in China, mainly in the
Yangtze Valley from Shanghai to Chungking. I became associated
with the New York Life Insurance Company in 1927 and have
remained with them since. My work has been extremely inter-
esting and involves the technical reviewing of insurance cases.
In order to keep up to date the work necessarily involves both
research and close following of current events. A good deal of
attention must be paid to developments in various industries and
thousands of different occupations, and day by day the various
matters relating to aviation, both military and civil, in this coun-
try and abroad, are closely observed and studied.

As for travels, hobbies, and social, political, or religious con-
victions, my sixteen-year-old daughter and my nearly three-year-
old son have me so mixed up about such matters that 1 won't
comment, except to say that it is great fun being a taxi driver for
a teen-age daughter (my travels), and my young son keeps me

supplied with hobbies. I guess they are pretty much my social,
political, and religious convictions, too.

ABRAHAM JOSEPH HART

HOME ADDRESS: 53 Field Pl, Newark, N. J.
OFFICE aporess: Hart Products Corp., Woodbridge, N. J.

BorN: July 19, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: Hyman J. Hart, Esther
Shencker.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; LL.B. cum laude (Boston
Univ.), 1928.

Margigp: Jean Feldman, Sept. 8, 1931, Boston, Mass. cHILDREN: Elinor, Jan.
29, 19333 Edward J. April 22, 1938.

OccuPATION: Plant manager, Hart Products Corporation, manufacturers of
textile and leather chemicals.

oFFices HELD: Director, Hart Products Corporation.

TWENTY-FIVE years later, and again I am filling out applica-
tions for college entrance. More accurately, I am “aiding, assisting,
and abetting” my daughter, Elinor. If the colleges don’t hasten to
invite Elinor she may decide to devote her full time to further study
with Martha Graham, the high priestess of modern dance. By the
way, does some classmate contemplate a Broadway musical pro-

duction where the services of an ambitious young dancer will be
needed?

[ 438 ]

|
25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Lest I be reprimanded by Red, I must mention Edward, my son,
an extrovert at eleven with a keen sense of humor, a good mind,
and an ambition to go to Harvard. I have suggested that he choose
as his goal “doctor or Indian chief,” but not “lawyer.”

After fourteen years of practising law in Boston, I joined my
brothers’ firm in New Jersey, the Hart Products Corporation,
manufacturers of textile and leather chemicals. However, the
charm of Boston persists and we hope that Elinor will be admitted
to a Boston college so that we may have reason to visit there often.

Hobby? By now you must know that the kids are my hobby.
As for politics, I class myself as an independent Democrat. As the
years go by I have come to respect the truly religious individual
and have become more and more tolerant of other people’s con-
victions.

CEDRIC MUNROE HASTINGS

HOME ADDRESS: 45 Oaks Rd., Framingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dennison Mfg. Co., Framingham, Mass. °

BORN: Sept. 7, 1903, Framingham, Mass. parents: Harry Payson Hastings,
Lucy Berenice McAlpine.

PREPARED AT: Framingham High School, Framingham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Virginia Frances Rice, June 22, 1929, Framingham, Mass. CHILDREN:
Dana Munroe, May 28, 1931; Alyce Berenice, May 27, 1935.

HARVARD SON: Dana Munroe Hastings, 53.

OCCUPATION: Merchandise manager.

OFFICES HELD: President, Framingham Civic Music Association, 1944-47;
music director, First Church in Marlboro, Congregational, since 1927;
assistant conductor and soloist, Community Choral Society of Framing-
‘ham, since 1942; vice-president, Framingham Civic Music Association,
since 1947; vice-president and president, Silver Grays, 1943-44.

MEMBER OF: Alpha Lodge, AF. & F.M.; Community Choral Society; Civic
Music Association; Silver Grays; Red Cross Motor Corps.

INSPIRATION to think back twenty-five years comes easily this
fall of 1949 as my Harvard 1925 banner adorns the wall of Grays
14 and the fringed pillow with the large H softens the seat of an
easy chair in said suite. Yes, our son has realized his one goal of
youth and our new loyalty is to “1953.” As a member of a class
which grew up at Harvard “the other way around,” may I add my
two cents’ worth in praise of the present system of housing fresh-

[ 439 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

men and transfer students in the Yard. I believe that the beauty of
the Yard contributes to a deeper appreciation of Harvard, by both
the student and his family, some of the latter visualizing Harvard
as a conglomerate mixture of subway stations, soda fountains,
traffic signals and school buildings, I suspect.

After looking forward to a Dennison career all through school
years and trying out the work during two summer vacations, |
reported one week after graduation for a three-month office train-
ing course. In the next two years in adjustment, credit, and col-
lection work, supplemented by night school business courses, |
had opportunity to study the fundamentals of business conduct.

Those were the days of the standard forty-eight-hour-week
with Saturday a half-holiday. Promptly at 12:01 each Saturday I
left for Northampton (first in my $25 Ford touring, then a $100
Ford coupe, and so on) where I carried on the old campaign of
Harvard vs. the field for the hand of the lady who, on June 22,
1929, after nine years of my pursuit, gave in and conceded a
Harvard victory.

Those were the days too of happy-go-lucky stock speculation.
Paper profits looked so good in 1929 that we had no worries — the
nest egg was reassuring. Should we have known it was rotten, not
golden? After the initial crash we had enough left to try recoup-
ing. Result: by 1932 we had neither egg nor nest. Final payment
on this account was made in 1939.

A fling at methods research in 1928 proved less than spectacular
and late that year the real break came in a chance at merchandising
work. Twenty-one years later finds me less green at it, but still
fascinated by the endless variety of daily problems in this most
interesting phase of business as organized at Dennison, Under the
over-all direction of this diverse business, each manager specializes
on a single industry line —in my case the gummed and coated
paper field, which I have been learning these twenty-one years.
Paper industry conventions, trade association contacts and mer-
chandising aid to the sales force have increased my acquaintance
with many cities in the East, Midwest, and Canada.

The birth of our son, Dana, in May, 1931, started a new and
richer kind of life which had already seemed to be completely
happy, though financially puzzling. This future snare-drummer
of the Class of ’53 brought happiness but soon came deeper and

[ 440 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

deeper salary cuts as depression hysteria affected business more
seriously. Shall we forget “black February, 1932” — tear-stained
familiar faces leaving any hour of the day; our own feelings as we
saw them go, wondering whether discharged or discharger suf-
fered more?

A third happy event came in May, 1935: our daughter Alyce.
Life promptly and permanently took on a busier aspect. This tall,
triple-tonguing first trombonist of the high school band (though
still a ninth-grader) is a far cry from the squalling mite whose
dietary problem was nearly unsolved at two weeks or whose de-
lirious thrashings from hemolytic-strep at the age of four were
cured only by pioneering use of the earliest sulpha drugs. (By the
way, she broke her neck while diving last summer but is well
again.)

After years of nomadic wandering around Framingham in
search of proper rentals, our lucky star guided us into the building
of an eight-room rambling Cape Cod house with many authentic
details. Our summers on Cape Cod studying fireplaces, windows,
fences, and so on paid off, as did house-building in 1937 with 1936
materials!

Having no special skills for war and being on the high side of
age, our war work centered around carrying on the office func-
tions shorthanded and diving head first into all civilian defense
projects possible. In a household where both adults are natives of
the community, where the female is a veritable dynamo of civic
consciousness and leadership — well, Red Cross, Hospital Aid,
Nurses Aid, First Aid, just to begin (I wonder when Home Aid
begins). Since the war, and currently, it is School Committee,
Library Trustee, Nursing School Committee, ad infinitum, while
I sit home —or do I? Singing and other musical interests plus
travel leave little time for pondering.

Busy life, did I say? Would we have it otherwise? Perhaps,
under the surface, we may envy those who can afford time and
money for travel or sojourns at grand hotels, while we are begin-
ning eight consecutive years of college expenses and are tied to
community duties of various kinds, elected and voluntary. Yet,
deep within, there must be a satisfaction in all this upon which our
present and future happiness is based.

[ 441 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

COLTON DUNBAR HAZARD

HOME ADDRESS: 35 Greenough Ave., Jamaica Plain 30, Mass.
OFFICE ADprEss: Fidelity Fund, Inc., 35 Congress St., Boston 9, Mass.

BoRN: Nfay 16, 1902, West Chester, Pa. parents: Willis Hatfield Hazard,
Mary Dunbar Creigh.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; M.B.A., 1927.
UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Vincent Hatfield Hazard, ’25; Willis Gilpin Hazard, ’29.
occuPATION: Investment analyst.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: 2nd lieutenant, Field Artillery Reserve, June 18,
1925~June 17, 1930; enlisted man, A.U.S., Sept. 23, 1942—-Nov. 12, 1943;
served as radio operator and mechanic, Army Air Forces; officer,
A.US., Nov. 13, 1943-Oct. 13, 1945; served as statistical control officer,
Army Air Forces; released from active duty as 1st lieutenant.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Head, Molybdenum Unit, Ferro-Alloys Sec-

tion, Industrial Materials Price Division, Office of Price Administration,
March 2-Oct. 6, 1942.

MEMBER OF: Appalachian Mountain Club; Boston Camera Club; Cambridge
Boat Club; Concord Country Club; Harvard Club of New York;

Boston Security Analysts’ Society.
IMMEDIATELY after graduating from the Harvard Business
School in June, 1927, I entered the investment banking business.
I was employed by the First Boston Corporation or its predecessors
until January, 1949, with the exception of an interlude of govern-
ment and military service during World War II.

In March, 1942, I followed the trek to Washington and became
head of the molybdenum unit of O.P.A.— not that I knew any-
thing about molybdenum, but O.P.A. needed statisticians to study
the economics of the ferro-alloy metals. I found myself in the
company of a number of investment bankers like myself whose
regular business was then at a low ebb. At various times during
my stay in Washington I tried to get into some kind of uni-
form but to no avail. In September, 1942, however, when my
draft board beckoned, I was forced to be a perfect physical
specimen and was inducted into the Army of the United
States.

Whether it was because I was a Harvard man or an investment
banker or simply because I could read and write I never quite
understood, but at any rate the Army Air Forces thought I would
make a good radio operator and mechanic; and so I became one.

L 442 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After sweating it out (literally) at various air bases in Georgia and
South Carolina, I finally got to O.C.S. at Miami Beach in the sum-

_ mer of 1943. There I learned discipline, discipline, and more
discipline and then was transferred to the A.A.F. Statistical School
at the Harvard Business School. What a break to attend one’s
Alma Mater at the expense of the government!

As a statistical control officer I was assigned to several stations,
all within continental United States, including Sacramento, Day-
ton, Detroit, and Chicago. While in Chicago I attended the Twen-
tieth Reunion dinner of Harvard ’25. Just after V-J Day the Air
Technical Service Command decided it didn’t need us old men any
longer and in a surprisingly short time I found myself heading for
the separation center at Fort Devens, Massachusetts, and, what was
more important, civilian life.

I dusted off my desk at the First Boston Corporation and began
to catch up on the current status of the investment banking busi-
ness which fortunately had taken a new lease on life. In the fall of
1945 and again in 1946 I taught certain phases of the business to a
group of ex-service men in a refresher course at Boston University.
In January, 1949, I changed my business affiliation and joined the
Research Department of Fidelity Fund, Inc., a mutual, open-end
investment company. Seeing the investment business from the
other side of the counter has proved to be an extremely interesting
experience.

As for what might be called extra-curricular activities: I have
pursued my hobby of photography when time permits and have
attained some success in exhibiting my pictures in the national
salons. I am treasurer of the Boston Camera Club. About two
years ago I joined the Cambridge Boat Club and took up what was
for me a new sport, rowing. I'll have to admit that at my age this
is more my speed than skiing. At least you can sit down while
doing it. With a little tennis in the summer and a lot of square
dancing all year ’round I continue the battle against the ever-
expanding waistline.

I live in Jamaica Plain with my parents who, incidentally, have
celebrated their fifty-first wedding anniversary.

[ 443 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

VINCENT HATFIELD HAZARD

HOME AppRESS: 85 Prescott St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

orFice apprrss: State Street Trust Co. State and Congress Sts., Boston 1,
Mass.

BorN: May 16, 1902, West Chester, Pa. parents: Willis Hatfield Hazard,
Mary Dunbar Creigh.

prepare AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 1925; M.B.A., 1927.

sarriep: Mary Chapman Coburn, June 20, 1942, Woburn, Mass.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Colton Dunbar Hazard, ’25; Willis Gilpin Hazard, ’29.

occupation: Administration of agency accounts, Trust Department, State
Street Trust Company.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Vice-chairman, Disaster Preparedness and

Relief Committee, Cambridge Chapter, American Red Cross, May,
1943—January, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Vestrvman, St. John’s Church, Jamaica Plain, 1932-42; trustee
and treasurer, Eliot School, Jamaica Plain, since April, 1939.
MEMBER OF: Appalachian Mountain Club; Boston Camera Club.

SURROUNDED by the ship models and harpoons of the State
Street Trust Company, I spent the first twenty years after gradua-
tion from the Harvard Business School in the statistical depart-
ment doing security analysis for trust department investments. In
1947 | was transferred to the agency division where the emphasis
is more on the administrative side and the contracts with our cus-
tomers are much more personal and exciting. An agency account
is a very simple, flexible, and effective arrangement for the man-
agement of investments, operating without the legal complexities
of trust instruments, yet securing any desired degree of super-
vision and discretion. It is a growing type of financial service.

With one or both of my brothers I spent most of my vacations
during the thirties travelling to five countries in Europe, the Mari-
time Provinces of Canada, Labrador and Newfoundland, Bermuda
and the West Indies, the Rockies and the southern highlands.
These expeditions I look back upon with a great deal of pleasure
and a realization that I always seemed to be very glad to return to
the granite hills of New England.

It was through my interest in photography that I met a girl who
had been given a new camera. She said “yes” about two hours
before we heard the news of Pearl Harbor. She taught me to cast
a fly and we spent our honeymoon at a fishing camp. At Middle-

[ 444]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

down or Sourdnahunk it is hard to keep our eyes on the Parma-
chenee Belle when the cameras are loaded with Kodachrome.

My wife’s profession of social work and my job keep us both
busy. Our small apartment is convenient and comfortable but we
are studying house plans and hope that some day the budget and
building costs will meet on equal terms and that we may have a
home in the country.

WILLIAM THOMAS HEAGNEY

HOME ADDRESS: Calle 11, No. 453 entre E y F, Vedado, Havana, Cuba.

OFFICE ADDRESS: First National Bank of Boston, Apartado 49, Havana, Cuba.

BoRN: Aug. 1, 1899, Worcester, Mass. paRENTS: Thomas Francis Heagney,
Elizabeth Rose O'Malley.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925(26).

MARRIED: Virginia Woodland, July 14, 1931, Kenilworth, Il]. cHipREN: Ann,
Sept. 18, 1932; Virginia Lynn, Aug. 31, 1933; Elizabeth Grace, Oct.
24, 1934. : :

OCCUPATION: Sub-manager, First National Bank of Boston, Havana.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Sergeant, U. S. Army, American Expeditionary
Force, France, 1917-19.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman of admissions, six years, member board of gover-
nors, American Club of Havana; chairman of house committee, three
years, comptroller and chairman of admissions committee, three years,
member board of directors, Havana Biltmore Yacht & Country Club.

MEMBER OF: Havana Country Club.

AMONG the things most people have in common are the need to
make a living, and how to do it, and with some misgiving I pon-
dered a suggestion in college years about making a career in com-
mercial banking. It came from two men who had achieved prom-
inence, and some fortune, in banking and other fields, and they
felt strongly that success in a bank, or elsewhere, probably would
come from hard work and not money. This was assuring, not that
they spoke meanly of wealth, but they did think its mere posses-
sion could hurt more than help. The counsel was convincing, and
with the providential aid of a year’s preparation in other banks, I
entered the employ of the First National Bank of Boston. Now,
with no pretense of having scaled all of the ridges, or of aspiring
invidiously to reach the peak, I am happy to have taken the advice
of my kind friends. Their guidance did more than help me to earn

[445 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

a living, because the circumstance of it eventually brought me to
the lovely girl I married in 1931.

With my decision made about a banking career, it seemed to me
that it would not be necessary to go far afield, Boston perhaps, but
certainly not farther than, say Hartford, Connecticut, which
would enable me to come home to Worcester, Massachusetts, for
weekends and if need be, within a matter of hours at any time.
Boston it was, and now I find that in twenty-five years, I have
made only brief visits to Worcester, because early in 1926, I was
transferred by my bank to Havana, Cuba. Statistics at the time
would show that my banking knowledge was about on a par with
my knowledge of Spanish, but possibly because those in command
took the generous attitude that a Harvard degree implied sufficient
learning for the initial tasks in Havana — opening some of the mail,
I recall — off I went. It exploded the theory that banks do not
take chances.

Foreign banking has proved to be an engaging field, and has
given me great satisfaction. There is seldom a dull moment, but
at any rate, the work has afforded me an active and interesting life.
The business here is done largely in Spanish, a fascinating Jan-
guage, which, by the way, could be taught to advantage to chil-
dren in grammar school, if they are really intended to learn it.
A pleasing note during my years here is that we, as Americans, are
treated by the people in the same high degree of confidence that
we are glad to give them. The economy of Cuba is tied closely to
that of the United States, and the two neighbors are valued cus-
tomers of each other, which explains in a measure, at least, the
friendly relations between them. In these times of strained inter-
national relations, there is plenty of convincing evidence that a
basic factor in the development of good feeling between any two
nations is mutually beneficial trade. A better understanding fol-
lows, and its merit is frequently underestimated by so many of us
who wonder about the cause of conflicts in the world.

A more personal topic is our family of three daughters, Ann,
Virginia Lynn, and Elizabeth Grace, each one of whom has added
to our happiness, and in a spiritual way, strengthened our early
beliefs in the goodness of God. Of high school age, they speak
Spanish and English fluently, and their schooling has consisted of
three months of the year in the United States, and six months in

[ 446 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Cuba. Right now, their aim is college, and Ann, the eldest, who
remained in the North this year, is a senior at Roycemore, Evans-
ton, Illinois. Her two sisters, a junior and a sophomore, are at
Ruston Academy, Havana. The problems incident to changing
schools have been minimum, we think, because it is a practice con-
tinued since kindergarten, and, on the other hand, the advantages
have included two languages, and opportunities for young and
growing friendships in both countries, not to mention the knowl-
edge and experience of over 50,000 miles of travel.

Our annual vacation affords us too fleeting a glimpse of old
places and old friends, but even so, we always are glad to return
to Cuba, which, with its new places and new friends, is home to
us now.

CHARLES STEPHEN HEARD

HOME apprEss: Sandy Valley Road, Westwood, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: State Street Investment Corp., 140 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 13, 1903, Savannah, Ga. paRENTS: Charles Stephen Heard, Har-
riett Fancher Eaton.

PREPARED AT: Tabor Academy, Marion, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: S.B. IN MECH. ENGIN., 1925; M.B.A., 1927.

MarRIED: Elsbeth J. Reuter, Sept. 2, 1933, Milwaukee, Wis, CHILDREN:
Charles Stephen, Jr., June 2, 1936; Judith, Sept. 19, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Hamilton Heard, ’28.

OCCUPATION: Investment management.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chairman, Rationing Board, O.P.A., West-
wood, Mass.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Electric Bond & Share Company, Treasurer, Boston
Floating Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Varsity Club; Ski Club, Hochebirge.

PUBLICATIONS: “Timing of Recovery from Major Depressions,” The Review
of Economic Statistics, November, 1933; “Corporate Dividend Policy
under the Revenue Act of 1936,” Atlantic Monthly, November, 1936;
“The Effect of Rights on the Growth Factor,” Guild’s Stock Growth
and Discount Tables.

I WAS married September 2, 1933, in Milwaukee, to Elsbeth
Reuter. We have a son, Stephen, thirteen, who is in the fifth class
in Milton Academy and already has had two summers under the
tutelage of Bert Haines and who I hope will some day stroke the
varsity crew. A red-headed daughter, Judith, aged nine, in the

[ 447 ]

—_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925
fourth grade at Dedham Country Day School, also makes life

interesting.

In 1936 we built a country home in Westwood which we love
and in which we have been very happy. Before the war my hob-
bies were skung, photography, vegetable and flower gardens,
raising chickens and mallard ducks, the last-named obtained from
classmate Frank Akers. Since the war I have been too old for
skiing, so instead have taken up amateur magic and _ polaroid
photography. ,

After graduation I obtained an M.B.A. degree from the Busi-
ness School. While there, and for a couple of years thereafter, I
coached the varsity 150-pound crews. At present I am a partner
of State Street Research and Management Company and vice-
president of State Street Investment Corporation, with which I
have been associated since graduating from Business School. Last
year our office was honored by the appointment of my partner,
Paul C. Cabot, ’21, as treasurer of Harvard College, and the office
is retained by the University to aid in the handling of its invest-
ments.

Since 1944 I have been a director of Electric Bond and Share
Company, trying to help solve the many problems created by the
Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935. This has involved
many trips to Washington and Philadelphia in proceedings before
the Securities and Exchange Commission, not only with respect to
Electric Bond and Share Company, but also for other public
utility holding companies.

As I could not pass the physical examination for the armed
forces the closest I came to a uniform was an O.P.A. button as
chairman of the Westwood Rationing Board from January, 1942,
until after V-J Day. As the war progressed it became necessary
for me to take a leave of absence from the office in order to com-
plete the job. There were a few rocks tossed through my window
and some threats made, but I managed to survive.

I have enjoyed an active interest as treasurer in the management
of the Boston Floating Hospital and several other charitable or-
ganizations, as well as local town affairs.

With respect to travel, we have managed to spend a few weeks
in Bermuda in many of the past fifteen years, and the month of

[ 448 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

August on Cape Cod for the last ten years — very informal and
relaxing vacations.

In a world in which Cardinal Mindszenty was jailed because he
would not render unto Stalin the things that are God’s, I fervently
hope that the next twenty-five years will bring far more under-
standing and tolerance among all peoples and that we may keep
our “free society” free.

Finally, I hope for the continuation of the very happy family
life for which I am deeply grateful, and which, in these uncertain
times, is more important than anything else.

GUSTAV ARNOLD HEDLUND

HOME ADDRESS: 309 McKinley Ave., New Haven, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 221 Leet Oliver Memorial, Yale University, New Haven,
Conn.

BorN: May 7, 1904, Somerville, Mass. parents: Mauritz Theodore Hedlund,
Thekla Maria Starck.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925, DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1925; A.M. (Columbia
Univ.), 1927; PH». (Harvard Univ.), 1930; a.m. (Yale Univ.), 1948.

MARRIED: Frances Denton Hutcheson, Jan. 24, 1931, Hempstead, Long
Island, N. Y. cuttpren: Marianna, Feb. 13, 1935; Gustav William, April
24, 1940.

OCCUPATION: F;ducation.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Research mathematician, O.S.R.D., Applied
Mathematics Group, Columbia University, 1944-45.

MEMBER oF: American Mathematical Society; Mathematical Association of
America; American Association for the Advancement of Science;
Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences; Sigma Xi; Farmington
Country Club, Charlottesville, Va.; Harvard Club of New Haven.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in various mathematical journals.

AFTER majoring in physics while in college, I accepted a position
as instructor in mathematics at Hunter College, more because it
meant an opportunity to have the new experience of living in
New York City than because I had serious intentions of going into
the teaching profession. In keeping with my lack of intentions, I
lived in Spuyten Duyvil in a decidedly pleasant and non-academic
atmosphere. After considerable contemplation of the life of the
broker, the advertising man, and various other work-in-the-city-
and-live-in-the-suburb kinds of man, I decided these were not my
meat and that mathematics was. I anticipated neither what would

[ 449 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925
happen to the market in 1929 nor that the last war would be a
physicist’s war.

This meant serious study, so in 1926 I moved to Columbia for
graduate work and obtained an A.M. in 1927. Realizing the im-
possibility of doing justice to my work while doing full-time
teaching, I requested and obtained a position as part-time instruc-
tor at Harvard and moved back to Cambridge for the years 1927-
1930, with the customary Ph.D. stamp, but also with the realiza-
tion that I had barely begun what I had set out to do.

During the summers I had continued to teach summer school
at Hunter, for what we could earn as part-time instructors (they
are considerably worse off now) was scarcely enough to keep one
alive. In the summer of 1929 I lived in Hempstead, Long Island,
and met the charming young lady who became my wife some-
what over a year later and has graced that trying position ever
since,

Bryn Mawr College (teaching at Hunter and Radcliffe must
have made me a logical candidate) needed a teacher in 1930 when
Dave Widder (1920) returned to Harvard, and for the next nine
years I was a member of the faculty there. Bryn Mawr is a re-
markable institution. It gives its faculty every opportunity to do
scholarly work even though this has the inevitable effect that
many of them leave Bryn Mawr to go to the larger institutions,
precisely because of this work.

There were a couple of interludes. During the year 1933-34
I held a National Research Fellowship and we lived in Princeton,
to which we returned again in 1938-39, when I had a sabbatical
and spent the year at the Institute for Advanced Study.

The year 1939, with war starting on the day we moved, saw us
in Charlottesville, Virginia, where I had accepted a professorship
in mathematics. The university was, of course, disrupted by the
war. With numerous Army, Navy, and Air Force programs we
taught around the clock. A number of us acted as consultants in
war work and then in 1944, when our teaching program appeared
well adjusted, I obtained leave of absence and went to work as a
research mathematician with the O.S.R.D., stationed at Columbia
with the Applied Mathematics Panel. The end of the war brought

an end to this, though no end to the university problems, and we
all returned to our overcrowded schools.

L450 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In 1948 Yale offered me a professorship and here I am, slightly
tinged with blue (Yale graciously gives an honorary A.M. to those
unfortunate professors who do not have sense enough to earn one
of her degrees) and chairman of the mathematics department.
We are finding life in New Haven altogether pleasant and I am
beginning to appreciate the greatness of the institution we looked
at with somewhat jaundiced eye on November weekends many
years ago.

ARNOLD DAVID HELMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 108 University Rd., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Benjamin’s, 685 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Sept. 27, 1904, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Benjamin Arthur Helman, Ida
Goldstein.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1925; ED.M., 1932.

marrieD: Mildred Louise Lipman, July 7, 1934, Meredith, N. H. cni_pren:
Judith Ann, March 11, 1938; Jane Ellen, July 7, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Irving Joseph Helman, 39.

OccUPATION: Retail merchant.

SINCE leaving school I have been associated with my Dad in the
retailing of men’s apparel and military supplies. From 1930 to
1932 I was at the Graduate School of Education, receiving the
Ed.M. in 1932. Mildred Louise Lipman (Simmons ’32) and I were
married in 1934. We have two lovely, lovely little girls, Judy,
eleven years, and June Ellen, who is three.

Reading, theatre-going, motoring, and swimming in the sum-
mer, together with an all-year-round devotion to pinochle are
my chief interests.

FRANCIS WILLIAM HENNESSEY

HOME ADDRESS: 313 Tunbridge Rd., Baltimore 12, Md.

OFFICE appREsS: Western Electric Co., Point Breeze Works, Baltimore, Md.

BORN: March 11, 1904, Walpole, Mass. parents: William Joseph Hennessey,
Ellen M. Cullinane.

PREPARED AT: Walpole High School, Walpole, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921—1925. DEGREE: 8.B. IN MECH. ENGIN., 1925.

MarRiED: Margaret O’Brien, Jan. 31, 1931, Elizabeth, N. J. (died Jan. 109,
1940); Ruby Hall Sheats, May 9, 1942, Baltimore, Md. cHtLDREN:

[451 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Richard. Scpe. 15, 1933 (died June 11, 1939); A. James Sheats (stepson)
aged twenty-three; Philip E. Sheats (stepson), aged twelve.
occupation; Assistant superintendent, rubber covered wire plant.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Engincering Society.
I ENTERED the course for college graduates at the Westem
Electric Company in Chicago after graduation and at the end of
a year of temporary assignments in all of the major phases of the
business, took up the specific tasks of a development engineer.
This work consisted of devising better methods and facilities for
the mass production of telephone products and represented a
challenge to the individual with ample opportunities for the exer-
cise of originality and imagination as well as the practical applica-
tion of formalized engineering principles.

I have been continuously engaged in this activity since gradua-
tion, transferring to the Kearny, New Jersey, plant for several
years’ stay until 1930 and then to the new cable and wire plant in
Baltimore where I am now located. In 1937 I took charge of the
engineering development of tinsel cords, which are the familiar
products connected to telephone subscribers’ instruments. During
the war I headed the engineering planning of cord and wire manu-
facture and in the past year became assistant superintendent of
rubber covered wire operations at the Baltimore plant.

These years of service and association with the telephone in-
dustry have been a stimulating experience and the joint endeavor
and comradeship developed over the years have been a source of
deep satisfaction to me.

My leisure is most often occupied around the house and garden
but on occasion, when the Maryland countryside is in its spring
or autumn colors, I enjoy a weckend game of mediocre golf. For

summer vacation the life of an islander at Nantucket continues to
be first choice.

PHILIP ROMAN HEPBURN

Home avoress: Ringwood Road, Rosemont, Pa.

Orrick AppRESS: Norris, Bell, Lex, Hart & Eldredge, 1500 Walnut St., Phila-
delphia, Pa.

poan: Aug. 31, 1902, Cumberland, Md. parents: Arthur Japy Hepburn,
Louisa Lowndes Roman,

perpauto at: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N. J.

[452]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 19253 LL.B. (Univ. of Pennsyl-
vania), 1928.

marrieD: Lucylle Austin, July 30, 1935, Chestnut Hill, Pa. curpren: Lor-
raine Fleming, May 12, 1936; Philip Roman, Jr., May 19, 1939.

occupation: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve,
May 19, 1942; indoctrination course at Naval Air Station, Quonset
Point, Rhode Island, Air Operations N.O.B., 5th Naval District, 1942-
45; promoted lieutenant commander, Oct. 17, 1944; stationed at N.A.S.
Corpus Christi, Texas, August-September, 1945; separated from ser-
vice, Sept. 10, 1945; issued permanent commission as lieutenant com-
mander, May 2, 1949.

MEMBER OF: Rittenhouse Club; St. Anthony Club, Merion Golf Club, Union
League of Philadelphia, Harvard Club of Philadelphia, Gibson Island
Club; University Barge Club; American, Pennsylvania, and Philadel-
phia Bar Associations.

I ATTENDED the University of Pennsylvania Law School from

1925 to 1928 and on graduation and after passing the Pennsylvania

Bar exams, I became associated with the Philadelphia law firm of

Hepburn & Norris and a member of the firm in 1933. Except for

absence during the war years I have been continuously with this

same firm which has grown considerably in size over that space of
time.

On July 30, 1935, I was married to Lucylle Austin of Chestnut
Hill, Pennsylvania, and our home has been in Rosemont, Pennsy]l-
vania, ever since, though during 1942-45 when stationed at Nor-
folk, Virginia, it was temporarily moved to quarters on the Newal
Operating Base and subsequently to Virginia Beach, the latter
move being necessitated by the fact that I was transferred to sea
duty (but not from the same desk ashore), thus no longer en-
titling me to free quarters. Among other things, it afforded our
daughter an opportunity to try out four different schools within
two years, but she is now back with her original class at Miss
Irwin’s, Wynnewood, Pennsylvania; and our son is in the fifth
grade at Haverford School.

Prior to the war my wife and I spent many pleasant weekends
on Chesapeake Bay, where we had a cabin cruiser. Since then our
yachting experiences have been limited to attending the New York
Motor Boat Show fairly regularly. More often than not our sum-
mer vacations have been spent at Northeast Harbor, Maine. When

[453 ]

J

+ RTM

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

not, we have travelled, taking trips to California, the Canadian
Rockies, Mexico, and this past summer, England and France.

Of my time not otherwise accounted for, I would guess the
major part had been spent at my desk, with fortunately very few
days off for sickness. Golfing somewhere in the nineties — and
not ofren enough from the point of view of keeping my weight
down — is my ‘sole form of exercise.

Politically, I have for twenty-five years invariably chosen the
correct party in presidential campaigns, but can report a winning
candidate only once.

I also regret to hear from my wife that a dangling participle
has reared its ugly head somewhere in all of this. I have forgotten
what one looks. like, but she is a graduate of the Class of 1927 at
Bryn Mawr College and remembers such things. For fear some-
thing even worse ‘might creep in, I shall stop herewith.

+ EDMUND CARL FELIX HERRMANN
BORN: Sept. 20, 1900, Berlin, Germany. PARENTS: Edmund August Herr-
mann, Jr., Charlotte Gauss.
PREPARED AT: Kiskimenetas Springs School.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.
piep: Nov. 1, 1935, Massillon, Ohio.

EDMUND CARL FELIX HERRMAN prepared for college at

Kiskimenetas Springs School, and studied for a year at Wooster.

College in Ohio before transferring to Harvard. During our
freshman year he took an active part in sports and Class activities,
played on the Class football squad, was a member of the Class
baseball team, and served on the Jubilee Committee. He later
became a member of the Hasty Pudding Club-Institute of 1770.
During junior year he played on the varsity baseball nine.

After leaving Cambridge, Herrmann never comunicated with
the Class Secretary. In 1935 word came that for more than two

years he had been an invalid. He died at Massillon, Ohio, where
his family had resided for many years.

JOHN EDWARD HERTEL, JR.

LAST KNOWN Appress; 131 W, 6th St, New York, N. Y.
Born: Feb. 14, 1902, New York, N, Y. PARENTS
Margaret Baum.

[454]

: John Edward Hertel,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: DeWitt Clinton High School, New York, N. Y-
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922, 1923-1925. DEGREES: 8.B., 1925(26); A.M., 1926.

HERTEL has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since
July, 1934.

HOWARD SYLVESTER HEVERN

HOME ADDRESS: Condado Beach Hotel, San Juan, Puerto Rico.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Puerto Rico Water Resources Authority, San Juan, Puerto
Rico.

BORN: April 24, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: Arvey Frank Hevern,
Catherine Ann Kiernan.

PREPARED AT: DeWitt Clinton High School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

marrieD: Lucille Ann Garrison, New York, N. Y. cuuoren: Howard Syl-
vester, Jr., April 29, 1926; Margaret M. and Louis C. (twins), Aug. 30,
1930,

occupation: Controller.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Controllers Institute of America.

ALLAN HERBERT WEBSTER HIGGINS

HOME ADDRESS: 6 Joy St., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 84 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 15, 1904, Dedham, Mass. parents: Herbert Franklin Higgins,
Ftta Garfield Smith.

PREPARED AT: Dedham High School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1925; LLB., 1928.

MARRIED: Mildred L. Bradshaw, Sept. 14, 1928 (divorced 1941); Lou C.
Johnston, Dec. 18, 1942. CHILDREN: Richard A., Sept. 7, 1932; Audrey,
Feb. 1, 1936.

occupaTIon: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Keystone Charitable Foundation, Inc.; Federal
Tax Institute of New England; trustee, Emerson College, Keystone
Profit Sharing Fund; director, N. C. Lyon & Company, Inc., Kinkade
& Company, Inc. Croft Brewing Company, Willey-Biggin Wool Ser-
vice, Inc., Sea Cliff Inn, Inc., Synthon, Inc.; member of the executive
committee, Arch Deaconry of Boston, Episcopal City Mission; lecturer
on taxation; member of council of section on taxation, chairman of
committee for codperation with state and local bar associations, chair-
man of committee on equalization of taxes in community property and
common law states, American Bar Association; member committee on
taxation, Boston Bar Association; member advisory committee on draft-
ing of internal revenue code, American Law Institute; member School
Committee of Marblehead, two three-year terms; past president, Har-

[4ss ]

a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925
vard Class of ‘25 Association of Boston, executive secretary Class of
"25; chairman Class of '25 Twenty-fifth Reunion.
MEMBFR OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New York; Univer-
sity Club of Washington; Corinthian Yacht Club, Marblehead, Mass,

Boston Bar Association; Massachusetts Bar Association; Essex Bar Asso-
ciation; American Bar Association; American Law Institute.

NOT unul college was over did I finally decide to practise law.
While working my way through college, I had had an unusual
opportunity to deal with all kinds of problems and all types of
people. As the result of this experience, I made up my mind that
I would derive the greatest satisfaction and enjoyment from an
occupation that made it possible for me to continue dealing with
people and their problems.

The law has fulfilled these requirements completely, even
though it has meant long hours, constant study, and sometimes
nerve-wracking work under pressure. A love of people, a sense
of humor, and an enjoyment of work well done have served to
eradicate any thought that the work was hard or onerous.

Upon graduation from the Harvard Law School in 1928, |
started work with my present firm; and I became a full partner
in 1936. I am now in my twenty-first year at the Bar. Although
I started in general practice, I soon began to specialize in taxation.
This work is not as dry as it sounds. Preparation of tax returns,
refund claims, protests and tax litigation are only a minor part
of tax practice. The major part of my work is advising clients,
partners, and fellow-lawyers, on the tax aspects of all kinds of
situations and documents. Almost everything a person does
today involves tax problems, whether it be investing, buying or
selling property, organizing or liquidating businesses, making
employment contracts, planning estates, setting up wills or trusts,
or arranging divorce settlements. They all involve taxes. Ac-
cordingly, I get into all kinds of situations, many of which are
most interesting.

More than any other branch of the Jaw, the tax law is con-
tinuously changing; and it demands constant study of new legis-
lation, rules, and regulations, as well as analysis of a tremendous
number of new court decisions which are being rendered almost
daily.

Fach year I am becoming more of a lawyer's lawyer; that is,
advising other attorneys. This work has taken me throughout

[456]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

this country and neighboring countries, such as Canada, Mexico,
and Cuba. My practice has necessitated my going to Washington
so frequently that, in the past fifteen years or more, I have prac-
tically become a commuter between Boston and the Capital.

Being sometimes unwilling to accept the law as is, I have been
active in trying to bring about changes in the law, regulations,
and administration, wherever I have found them unfair, inequit-
able, or unworkable. Perhaps the most important change in the
law with respect to which I have played a leading role was the
insertion of the so-called “split income” and “marital deduction”
provisions in the 1948 Revenue Act. As chairman of the com-
mittee of the Tax Section of the American Bar Association which
sponsored this legislation to correct the inequities existing be-
tween the citizens of the so-called Community Property and
Common Law states, I led the fight to get this legislation through
Congress. In this effort I was assisted by an able committee of
lawyers from many parts of the country as well as by many
professional and business organizations and interested members
of Congress. Married men from all over the country have written
thanking me and the committee for this long overdue tax relief.

Other activities of the Tax Section of the American Bar Asso-
ciation have kept me busy, such as the chairmanship of the com-
mittee on Co-operation with State and Local Bar Associations,
membership in the Council of the Section, and service on numer-
ous committees and panel discussion groups.

As a member of the Income Tax Advisory Committee of the
American Law Institute, I am helping in their effort to draw a
model Internal Revenue Code. Under the sponsorship of the
Institute and numerous Bar Associations, I have delivered ad-
dresses in cities throughout the country as far west as Seattle and
as far south as Miami, Florida. The audiences have consisted not
only of lawyers, but also of accountants, bankers, insurance and
business men.

More and more I find that my interests are in active business
and finance. The problems of an enterprise, such as finance, per-
sonnel, manufacturing, sales, advertising and new products, inter-
est and fascinate me. I am an officer and/or director of numerous
business organizations, including manufacturing companies, com-
modity dealers, hotels, insurance agencies, etc. As executor and

[457 ]

Se here agtneghto

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

trustee of numerous estates, I have had to manage and invest
substantial sums of money; and these duties have also stimulated
my interest in and knowledge of various businesses and properties
in which these funds are invested.

All this professional and business work has still left some time
for church, civic, and charitable activities. In my younger days,
until I had to be out of town so much, I taught Sunday School.
More recently, I have been interested in various diocesan activi-
ties, being a member of the Executive Committee of the Arch-
deaconry of Boston and the Episcopal City Mission. Except for
sponsoring and working for the election of others, my only polit-
ical activity has been my election to two three-year terms on the
school committee of the town of Marblehead. There pure de-
mocracy still flourishes in the form of an open town meeting;
and the work on the school committee in such a town is a won-
derful experience.

As trustee and director of several charitable foundations and
organizations, I have been able to help on many worthwhile
projects. Recently I became a member of the corporation and a
trustee of Emerson College in Boston, which presents me with a
new challenge in higher education.

My family and my children are a constant source of joy and
inspiration. My wife has an unusual interest in business and
finance, and has been successful in many real estate projects. My
daughter, almost fourteen, and my son, seventeen, keep me young
with their interests in the studies and extra-curricular activities,
music, drama, and sports. The children and I have an abounding
love of the sea and have spent much time swimming and sailing.
For several summers | have cruised down East on a forty-three-
foot schooner with three other kindred souls who enjoy setting
a course out of sight of land (and away from the hubbub of the
cities), finding new and unfamiliar shores, and dropping anchor
in remote harbors, as did my ancestors who moved from Cape
Cod to Maine in the 18th century to get more elbow room than
the Plymouth Colony then permitted.

Sitting alone at the wheel of a sailboat far out on the open sea
at night, with all other “hands” in their bunks below, really makes
you feel that you are captain of your fate and master of your
soul, A four-hour watch at night gives time for quiet meditation

[458 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

— for wondering whether the world can really be measurably
improved by more laws and regulations. All governing and regu-
lating must be done by human beings; and, if the governors and
regulators are not themselves unselfish, just and conscientious,
and, if the governed and regulated are not likewise unselfish, just
and conscientious, all the laws and regulations are not only futile
gestures, but may, in fact, be unfair, onerous, and violative of
those very inalienable human rights for which our ancestors
struggled and fought.

So, too, with our efforts to insure peace in the world. To what
avail are pacts, Leagues of Nations, or United Nations unless at
least the majority of the people in the world are unselfish, just,
hard-working, and conscientious?

What is this stress on leisure and security? Are they not false
goals? Or even false gods? Would it not be better to instil in
the minds of our children, and in all citizens of this nation and of
the world, the abiding conviction that there is joy in working
and joy in accomplishment? Are we not teaching a philosophy
that you don’t begin to enjoy yourself each day until your work
is over; that you don’t really enjoy yourself until you retire; and
that some intangible government or “they” owe you leisure and
security?

The greatest figures in all history appear to have found that
their greatest joy was in their work and in their accomplishments.
Even when work involved such mechanical tasks as hoisting an
anchor or making up a sail, there was joy in teamwork. In World
War II, men in the armed services, in the Engineer Corps, and
in the Seabees, found similar joy in teamwork and accomplish-
ment. -

All these thoughts flashing through your mind ona starry night
at sea make you think that perhaps what the world needs is a
great moral revival, a reorientation, a new emphasis on the virtue
of hard work, unselfishness and justice, not for ourselves, but for
the other fellow, be he employer, employee, government agent
or citizen.

+ ERNEST LAURENCE HILL

BORN: Jan. 26, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: Ernest Laurence Hill, ’97,
Annette Shaw.

[459 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

peeparntD At: Country Day School, Newton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: AB, 925.
UN MARRIFO.

piro: July go 1925, Wellesley, Mass.
sotHea: Mrs. Annette S. Hill, g Pinckney St, Boston, Mass.

FRNEST LAURENCE HILL prepared for Harvard at the
Country Day School in Newton, During his freshman year he
served on the editorial board of the Red Book. As an upperclass-
man he was interested in the sciences and was a member of the
Bovlston Chemical Club. Only a few days following our gradu-
ation he was stricken by a fever which proved fatal.

Just before graduating he had received two first prizes from
the Rudder magazine for articles sent in. He was amused to be
taken for a teacher at Harvard by correspondents concerning the
articles. Ele was always busy experimenting, fixing up the old
boat, making radios, and so forth. His interest in mechanics and
his love of the sea found expression in his first writing and also in
his academic work when he entered Harvard. He would have
made an outstanding leader in his chosen field of law. For he was

strong, yet in his strength imbued with sympathy; he was thought-
ful and independent.

CARL HILLER

HOME appress: 3 Ferry Lane, Marblehead Neck, Mass.
OFFICE aporess: James Bliss & Co., Inc., 220 State St., Boston, Mass.

Bow: Nov. 20, 1902, Swampscott, Mass. parents: Fred Lindsey Hiller,
Manilla Mina Morehouse.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925.

MaAkaitp: Maud Tristram Brochner, April 18, 1929, Swampscott, Mass. CHILD:
Joan Hiller, April 29, 1931.

OCUPATION: Wholesale sales representative, Marine Hardware and Supplies.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned licutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve,
February, 1942; first lieutenant, Fargo Barracks, Boston, Mass. April,
1942-November, 1944; promoted licutenant commander, April, 1944;
executive officer, Naval Base, Buckner Bay, Okinawa, 1945; promoted

commander, November, 1945; released to inactive duty, February, 1946.
MeMetr oF: Corinthian Yacht Club, Marblehead, Mass,

TPHAVE no claim to fame bur manage to cat regularly and enjoy
life at the scashore as my hobby is yachting. Drew Pearson is

[ 460 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my favorite columnist and Time and Yachting are my choice of
magazines. Cities with their crowds and congestion are things
to be avoided. My desire to travel is at a low ebb as I had enough
under orders in the service. We can win wars but have the
unfortunate faculty of losing the peace. Let us never forget that
a strong offense is the best defense.

DONALD HIRST

AppREsS: 812 Park Ave., New York 21, N. Y.

BORN: July 21, 1903, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Morton Bernsheim Hirsh,
Louise Beckhardt Tuck.

PREPARED AT: Episcopal Academy, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925, DEGREE: A.B, 1925. -

MaRRIED: Elizabeth L. Smith, Dec. 28, 1927, New York, N. Y. cum:
Elizabeth L., June 6, 1930.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary's files.
Hirst did not return a questionnaire.

THOMAS WOOD HOAG

HOME ADDRESS: 210 Savin Hill Ave., Boston 25, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 80 Federal St. Boston, Mass.

BorN: April 27, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: William Hoag, ’94, Ruth
Coffin Wood.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; LLB. (Northeastern Univ.),
1929.

MaRRIED: Marion G. Walker, June 19, 1926, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Elizabeth Louise, Dec. 17, 1929; Gilbert, April 7, 1934.

occupation: Resident attorney, Prudential Insurance Company, New Eng-
land Regional Office, Mortgage Loan and Real Estate Investment De-
partment,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Coast Guard Reserve.

OFFICES HELD: President, Republican City Committee of Boston, since 1942}
member, Suffolk County Commission to Apportion Representatives,
1947; director, Republican Club of Massachusetts, since 1947; governor,
Suffolk County Republican Club; alternate delegate, Republican
National Convention of 1948; assistant treasurer, Benevolent Fraternity
of Unitarian Churches.

MEMBER oF: American Bar Association; St. John’s Lodge, AFF. & A.M;
Savin Hill Yacht Club; 76 Club.

[ 461 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

TIME passed swiftly, T thought, upon graduation from college,
That year I was engaged to be married, entered my father’s law
office, and started evening law school. The next year I mar-
ricd the girl who was my favorite companion throughout my
undergraduate life. In December, 1928, I took the Bar ex-
amination, was admitted to the Bar in May, 1929, graduated
from law school in June, and was presented with a daughter in
December.

Then came depression and concomitant struggles with fore-
closed and depreciating real estate. That was a literal nightmare,
for after the problems of the office I rode the circuit evenings.

In 1934 the Prudential Insurance Company of America opened
a Mortgage Loan Department New England Branch Office. As
resident title attorney I started my new career the next day after
taking my wife and new-born son home from the hospital. I had
planned to specialize for only five years but instead I have stayed
on. There have been times when I have been tempted to change
but my interest in my work overbalanced any other advantages.
Our activities have been increased by a growing office and by
enlargement of our investment powers. Curiously enough, by
narrowing my field I have broadened my outlook. Perhaps try-
ing to keep pace with the law and conditions of the six New
England states has something to do with it. Then, too, my private
practice conducted from an office in my home has grown to as
much as I can care for,

Politics became important as war clouds gathered. For some
time I had been disturbed by the programs adopted by Washing-
ton. It appeared futile to be concerned with the freedoms of other
peoples unless a similar fight was made for our own freedoms.
These considerations induced me, in 1942, to accept the nomina-
tion and election to the office of president of the Republican City
Committee of Boston.

Step by step we have travelled down the road to socialism.
Fach new proposal, glittering with beneficent promises, is made
to appear idealistic. Each proposal is so separated from the whole
program that the inevitable result is concealed. If the whole pro-
gram were presented to the people, they would decisively vote
it down, but they have fallen for it piecemeal. On the deck of
our ship of state these new proposals have been set up as a battery

[ 462 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of winches. The crew work on one to make a small gain. When
they have gone as far as they can, that winch is set to hold while
they work on another one. So far none of the winches has slipped
and the crew has worked the ship inch by inch but surely to be
tied to the dock.

Before departing from the subject of politics, may I call atten-
tion to the fact that conditions have changed and we face a new
world. I shall mention but two. The heavy concentration of ©
people in our cities with its floating population has limited the
effectiveness of community control. The ease of travel and effi-
ciency of communication have consolidated people into groups
not geographically defined. These and other changes have in-
creased the necessity for governmental regulation. As conditions
change, legislation must be judged in accordance with the condi-
tions then existing. Consequently, legislation must now be judged
from new perspectives and new landmarks found to take the
place of those no longer controlling. With the past as a guide
we must go forward. We cannot return to the past as the answer.

The passage of time announces itself unmistakably in the form
of our twenty-year-old daughter, now as tall as her mother and
much as she was when I first began my courtship. Her gradua-
tion from Swarthmore this June and our Twenty-fifth Reunion
remove any doubt which could remain.

When I say that we live in the house where I was born and
that Gilbert is the third generation to attend Roxbury Latin
School, I mean to say that we are well rooted and seek life’s
nourishment beneath the surface. Our roots would be in more
congenial soil and we would happily acknowledge being Boston-
ians if our city government were by a manager and a council
elected by proportional representation.

CLARK HODDER

HOME apprEss: 9 Belknap Rd., Framingham Center, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 73 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 9, 1903, Brookline, Mass. parents: James Riley Hodder, ’94,
Gertrude Caldwell Clark.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.By 1925.

[ 463 ]

Tenet ccna iach ROC

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Marrirp: Marjorie Estabrook, March 4, 1931, Newton, Mass. (divorced
1935); Marion Dewey Tumer, Aug. 20, 1937, Framingham, Mass.

CHILDREN: James Clark, March 20, 1932; James Dewey Turner (step-
child), Dec. 10, 1932.

occtpanion: Patent law.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Advisory member, Selective Service.
OFFices HELD: Vice-president, Massachusetts Golf Association.
MEMBER OF: Framingham Country Club.

IN ATTEMPTING to prime my mental pumps for the voyage
over the past twenty-five years, I am at once confronted with the
startling realization that the time has passed swiftly and that I
have been “at sea” most of the while, splashing amongst the tide-
rips of boom, bust, battle, and bureaucracy.

After being temporarily grounded on the bar of wedded dis-
cord, my ship finally got squared away in 1937 with my marriage
to the present pilot and with the acquisition upon that occasion
of my crew of two small sailors, both answering to the call of
Jimmy. They soon took over the helm and have been directing
the course of the family craft ever since from our mooring in the
peaceful and quiet little haven of Framingham Center.

Throughout the years I have retained my interest in sports,
having competed successfully, and otherwise, in golfing and
hockey regattas since graduation, as well as serving on the crew
of the Harvard Athletic Association coaching staff from 1930 to
1941, and having been an executive of golf’s local ship of state,
the Massachusetts Golf Association, since 1945.

In bucking the tides of business, I am most fortunate to have
shipped with a master navigator, my father, Commodore James
R. Hodder. Together we have sailed the interesting and diversi-
fied seas of patent law, steering the crafts of inventive genius to
ports of worth-while protection, and rescuing many a drowning
inventor from shark-infested waters. It has been and still remains
a pleasant sail. We have dropped anchor in many harbors,
wherein we have met a cross section of the world’s best people.

Although retaining in part an innate sense of optimism for the
cruise down the stretch, I have at the same time acquired a reali-
zation that new and far different charts will be required for the
completion of a successful voyage. Confusingly-shaped reefs and
ledges have appeared off government headlands, which make
navigation by the individual sailor far more restricted and much

[ 464 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

less venturesome. But life will always be fun for me, albeit 1 must
confess that pulling an oar on the Harvard alumni shell during
football season has its trying moments.

PARKE ABERNETHY HODGES

HOME ADDRESS: Noroton, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 11 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 17, 1902, Wellesley Farms, Mass. pARENTS: Henry Clay Hodges,
Jr., Netta Richmond Haines,

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREES: S.B., 1925; S.M. IN MINING ENGIN. (Mas-
sachusetts Inst. of Technology), 1927.

marrieD: Ann Lennihan, Dec. 4, 1937, New York, N. Y.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Behre Dolbear & Company, consulting mining
engineers and geologists.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; University Club of Mexico City;
Mining Club of New York; Mining and Metallurgical Society of
America; American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers;
Alpha Sigma Phi.

AFTER graduation I took two graduate years at M.LT., study-

ing mining engineering and geology, and obtained my Master’s

degree in 1927. Since leaving M.I.T., except for a short period

spent in the light and power business in Mexico (1930-1932), I

have been actively engaged in the search for, development, and

operation of metal mines. I lived nearly three years in Chile, and

eight years in Mexico, returning to the States in 1938.

Much of my work has been connected with exploration and
the development of deposits of the ferro alloys, such as molybde- .
num, vanadium, tungsten, chrome, etc. For ten years I was chief
field engineer for the Climax Molybdenum Company and during
that time made numerous trips to Alaska, the Yukon, Canada,
Mexico, and all over the United States.

Last year I spent some months in Southern Africa, principally
Southern Rhodesia (although I visited the Union, Northern
Rhodesia, and Mozambique), studying chrome, tungsten, and
tantalum deposits and making a general geologic reconnaissance
of Southern Rhodesia. ,

At present, I am vice-president of the firm of Behre Dolbear
& Company, consulting mining engineers and geologists. Besides
doing general consulting work on management, mining and geo-

[ 465 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

logical problems, we are active in the field of technical assistance
to foreign governments, acting as general consultants on mineral

affairs, so it looks as if I shall continue to travel, looking for new
mineral deposits,

ARNOLD DAVID HOFFMAN

HOME aApprEss: 172 W. 79th St., New York, N. Y.; Cavendish, Vt.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 452 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y.

BorN: April 8, 1903, Boston, Mass. parents: Jacob Hoffman, Mina Irene
Arenson.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

mMarrieD: Georgia Dingle Jesseph, March §, 1927, Boston, Mass. (divorced
1933); Lillian Berger, June 23, 1942, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1945);

Patricia A. McGreevy, Nov. 5, 1948, Fort Lee, N. J. cuttp: Michael
Arnold, Aug. 15, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHERS: David Hoffman, ’17 (deceased); Robert David Hoffman,
% 9. .

occuPATION: Mining.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Guayana Mines Ltd. Fidelity Associates, Inc.;
director and vice-president, Thompson Lundmark Gold Mines Ltd.,
trustee, Berman Memorial Laboratory, Harvard University.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Engineering Society,
Harvard Club of Vermont; Explorers Club; American Institute of
Mining and Metallurgical Engineers.

PUBLICATIONS: Free Gold, 1947; various articles and stories in magazines.

IMMEDIATELY after Commencement I left for northern
Canada and for several years thereafter engaged in prospecting
and mining exploration with my brother, Robert. We staked
claims, wildcatted, participated in several gold rushes, and gen-
erally roamed the bush from Quebec to the Northwest Terri-
tories. _In 1929 we set up a mining consulting office in New York
City and can still be found at 452 Fifth Avenue when we are not
in the field. Free-lancing in mining has its ups and downs and
there have been moments of envy when reading about classmates
enjoying the comfort and security of sedentary pursuits (even
as they may envy my “colorful” life), but if I had to choose
again I'd probably be chasing that elusive gold mine or waxing
enthusiastic about some new mining development.

My sole claim to distinction is that of being, as far as I know,
the eldest first father in the Class. I may be the most married,

[ 466 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

also, and await the publication of the Report with great interest
to determine, among other things, whether anyone else in the
Class has more than three marriages and two divorces to his credit
—or discredit. Domestically my life has followed the flux and
rapidly changing pattern of my work, but I cannot be accused of
lacking courage, even if it is the courage of ignorance. In any
event, with the beginnings of a family | trust I have come home
to rest at last, an expert bottle (baby) holder and manipulator of
diapers.

Of lesser importance was the publication of Free Gold, the
Story of Canadian Mining, released by Rinchart & Company in
1947. The financial returns have been moderate but the critical
reception devoted and enthusiastic; in fact I blush to say that
several reviewers insisted that I had written the definitive book
on the Canadian north. Other than the modest royalty checks
and the satisfaction of completing what appeared to be a hopeless
job, the only realistic result of the book was a telephoned pro-
posal of marriage from a Winnepeg widow who heard me broad-
cast from CBC in Toronto, My answer was negative, for reasons
I shall gladly furnish to any interested classmate.

Shortly before Pearl Harbor I enlisted in the 7th Regiment,
N.Y.S.G., and applied for a commission in the Army Engineers.
Called to Washington, I was interviewed an entire day concern-
ing the Northwest Territories in connection with the then pro-
posed Alcan Highway. I knew the region well and had with me
a large folio of maps, reports, and photographs, all of which was
left with my interlocutor at his request. I left for New York
feeling that I was “in” but nothing happened during the ensuing
months. To this day I have never received my data. In any event
I applied to Army Ordnance, hopeful that experience with ex-
plosives would be useful. This time the response was prompt and
I was asked to present myself for another interview. However,
I was not destined to wear Army khaki. A telephone call came
the same day and altered plans. The Polaroid Company had in-
vented a new and secret device called the optical ring sight for
which the Navy had contracted in large quantity. Unfortunately,
large amounts of optical calcite were required, and the availability
of this material, really a gem as far as scarcity is concerned, was
the great deterrent to the project.

[ 467 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

At this juncture the late Professor H. Berman, Harvard Depart-
ment of Mineralogy, recommended that the Hoffman boys be
consulted. Accordingly, there was a quick conference in New
York and then one in Washington at Admiral Blandy’s office.
The problem, it seemed, was to get men young enough to stand
the rigors of mining in remote spots and yet experienced enough
to handle the work. Naval Ordnance stressed the importance of
the venture and I was soon convinced that my little contribution
to the war effort could begin and end with calcite. And so I
went west to the Barrego Desert of southern California, hard by
the Saltone Sea which is something below sea level. Conditioned
to the waterways of Canada and rigorous winters, I found burn-
ing sands and dust storms a strange experience. Obstacles beset
us at every turn. For one thing, we could not even move into the
scene of proposed operations, but at the eleventh hour the good
old Marine Corps came to the rescue and supplied four-wheel
drive combat trucks and drivers. We ploughed through blow
sand, struck camp, and then our work fairly began. I could write
a lengthy and, I think, interesting account of Operation Calcite,
but suffice it to say here that we supplied more optical calcite in
‘one year than the entire world yielded in the entire pre-war
period, and that at cost to the Navy. We also opened up deposits
near Clyde Park, Montana, later taken up by the government and
operated by earnest lads who spent a good time combing over our
waste dumps. Before we were through we devised hitherto un-
used techniques of exploration for and mining of optical calcite,

with and without the use of explosives.

Towards the end, I was threatened with an operation on both
eyes, but I was fortunate in having a series of treatments which
obviated any surgery, leaving my eyesight unimpaired so that I
could still look over the field and select an attractive red-haired
miss for Mrs. H., II.

One of the few sensible things I have done since college was
purchase a retreat in Cavendish, Vermont, about eight miles from
Calvin Coolidge’s birthplace. Here we reside for the summer
months, hoping that some day Cavendish will be our permanent
home.

Hobbies are tree chopping, mineral collecting, playing piano
duets, furniture making, and writing, but this last I may take up

[ 468 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

seriously if our bespectacled and cherubic friend in the White
House continues to throw harpoons into the unlucky hides of
rugged individuals.

As to my social, political, and religious convictions, I may
safely say I am not a religious man, but I believe that people
should cling to their religions before surrendering to a new and
sinister belief which, as a cure, always turns out to be far worse
than the disease. I refer, of course, to Joe Stalin worship. As one
who has travelled a bit and in rather out of the way places, I have
observed a world suffering from too much government, a form of
illness which may overtake us here if we are not watchful. When
government threatens to become the master and not the servant
of the people then, indeed, has the time come to protest, even if
this takes the form of voting Republican.

One final word. My eye condition, noted above, was termed
pinguicula by the treating physician. Curious, I consulted Web-
ster and read the following: “A small yellowish elevation situated
near the nasal margin of the cornea. Usually caused by irritation
from dust; occurs especially in people of advanced age.” Italics
are mine,

ALAN NORDBY HOLDEN

HOME appREss: New Vernon, N. J.

OFFICE apprEss: Bell Telephone Laboratories, Murray Hill, N. J.

BORN: May 19, 1904, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: Charles Emerson Holden,
Edna Louise Morgenroth.

PREPARED AT: Montclair High School, Montclair, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: 8.B. cum laude, 1925(26).

MarrieD: Cornelia Jaynet Conselyea, Sept. 27, 1930, Montclair, N. J.
CHILDREN: Stephen and Jonathan (twins), July 18, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Justin Holden, °35.

occuPATION: Chemist.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in the scientific press on crystallization, piezoelectric
substances, and microwave spectroscopy.

HE WHO reaches at once his twenty-fifth Class Reunion and his
twenty-fifth year with the same company is a stick-in-the-mud.
But commercial methods investigation, technical publicity writ-
ing, and chemical research form a sufficiently diverse succession
of doings to reward me for sitting, as it would seem, in one spot.

[ 459 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Living first in New York, then in the country, forms another.
Latter-day high points have been helping to get a crystal-grow-
ing plant going in Chicago for the Navy’s sonar program during
the war and chasing about Britain and Europe to observe post-
war developments in the production and use of large crystals and
to participate in the Faraday Society’s “Discussion of Crystal
Growth.”

Until our twin sons were born, Jaynet and I hand-printed,
hand-bound, and published a thin flow of books, under the name
of the Cassoway Press (including poems by Kenneth White and
stories by Eugene Armfield, both Harvard twenty-something)
but now we haven't the uninterrupted time for such exacting
labor, and Jaynet weaves and I paint a picture or make a swim-
ming pool or repair cap pistols.

For the rest, summarize it as the beliefs and goings-on of what
is presently called an “old-fashioned liberal” — sometimes a
“Gladstone liberal.” There aren’t as many as there used to be
for since they are ineffectual and unglamorous, and give few
quick answers, folks laugh them off. Let me describe the type!
You may not even have run into one, though the Harvard Stu-
dent Liberal Club had a bunch in our time. He argues that Ezra
Pound’s poems are outside politics, that the American Civil Liber-
tics Union is just what it savs it is, that if educators measure the
1.Q. of his child they should tell him the result, and that the
theory that free competition produces all things for all people
(while the socialized state produces only a standard product) is
disproved by eating a slice of bakery bread. He finds himself on
a committee to represent the interests of non-striking engineers
in an industrial dispute, and tramps back and forth among the
picket lines, the management, and the county sheriff, because he,
the unorganized, is the chap who is squeezed as the irresistible
force approaches the immovable object. If your social gamut is
wide enough, you will hear him called a fascist at one side of it
and a communist at the other. But watch out: if you travel over
a wide enough social orbit to hear those things, you run the
danger of becoming an old-fashioned liberal yourself.

[ 470 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WALDO COLEMAN HOLDEN

HOME ADDRESS: 120 Monument Ave., Bennington, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 449 Main St., Bennington, Vt.

BORN: Feb, 15, 1903, Bennington, Vt. parents: Arthur John Holden, Frances
Louise Coleman.

PREPARED AT: Westminster School, Simsbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; M.B.A., 1927; LL.B. (George
Washington Univ.), 1937.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Dodge Farwell, Oct. 10, 1940, Bennington, Vt. CHILD:
Waldo Coleman, Jr., July 10, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Arthur John Holden, Jr., ’23; Richard Stedman Holden,

20.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Disputes Director, National War Labor Board,
Region 1, Boston, Mass.

oFFices HELD: Director, Y.M.C.A., First National Bank of Bennington; trus-
tee, Village of Old Bennington; president, Bennington County Bar
Association; state’s attorney, Bennington County.

AFTER leaving the Business School, I was with the Boston
Woven Hose and Rubber Company in Cambridge for several
years learning something about manufacturing, from planning to
sales. My next venture was in Washington where I tried to lend
my efforts to the New Deal and ended up doing research work
with the American Federation of Labor. Because of my interest
in labor problems and some constitutional questions involved in
legislation, I devoted a substantial portion of my nights, week-
ends, and holidays to the study of law at George Washington
University where I ended up with a degree in 1937.

My next venture was with the National Labor Relations Board
. where, as trial examiner, I travelled the country over and over
and had an opportunity to see many good college friends. Al-
though the work was extremely interesting and for the most part
very enjoyable I finally tired of hotels and pullmans and decided
to return to Vermont to practise law.

This was in December, 1938. In December, 1941, came Pearl
Harbor. After a tour of duty with the State Guard, I journeyed
back to Washington to see what my meager contribution to the
war effort might be. After a year in Washington with the Na-
tional War Labor Board, I landed in Boston as director of the
Disputes Division of the Regional Board handling New England,

© [470]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

where, fortunately, I was able to find a place to live in Cambridge.

After the war I returned to Bennington to try to pick u
where I had left off in the early days of the war. Practice of law
here, as in most communities of this size, is general, but with a
sideline, sometimes a full-time sideline, of prosecuting crime, it
is extremely interesting.

Although it is true that I did not get down to the serious prac-
tice of the law until my twenty-five years were pretty well gone,
I do not believe that the years I spent with industry, labor, and
government were spent in vain. They were all highly enjoyable
and constructive years.

I am a member of the Congregational Church, which is said to
be the first church in the State of Vermont, and plan to attend
regularly, although business, pleasure, or recreation all too often
interferes. Needless to say I am a Republican. My wife and I
manage to keep reasonably active in community activities and
our son, aged six, although not yet admitted to Harvard, may
well be there someday. Although there is no need to leave here
for a vacation we try to make the Coast of Maine or Cape Cod
each summer.

There is something to be said for having an office where one
can walk home to lunch, and which is only a few minutes from
a mountain trail, a good fishing brook, or snow covered ski
slopes in winter. Although we are far from the maddening

throng, it is a simple matter to go to Boston or New York for
the day.

HOWARD COONLEY HOLLIS

HOME ADDRESS: 2250 Delamere Drive, Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

orrice aporess: Efollis & Co., 2250 Delamere Drive, Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

BORN: Oct. 7, 1899, Concord, Mass. parents: Thomas Hollis, Mary Letch-
worth Coonley.

PREPARED AT: Concord High School, Concord, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Acad-
emy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924, DEGREE: A.B,, 1925 (24).

Maarizo: Helen G. Rice, Dec, 20, 1932, Miami, Okla. cHitoren: Anne, June
1, 1937; Richard Avery, Oct. 17, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Efollis, 18,

occupation: Dealer in Far Eastern art.

[472]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chief, Arts and Monuments Division, Civil
Information and Education Section, GHQ, SCAP, Tokyo, July, 1946-
July, 1947.

oFFices HELD: Member advisory council, American Institute for Persian Art
and Archaeology, 1932-40; member advisory committee, Chinese Art
Society of America, since 1945; member board of directors, India
Cultural Center, since 1947.

MEMBER OF: Chinese Art Society of America; Far Eastern Association; Far
Eastern Ceramic Group; India Cultural Center; Society for Japanese
Studies.

puBLicaTions: Articles for the Bulletin of the Cleveland Museum of Art,
several articles for magazines and books dealing with Oriental art.

AFTER two unsuccessful years at Cornell and a successful one
at the Widow Nolen’s, I entered Harvard in the fall of 1921 with
the Class of 1925. I graduated at midyears in 1924 and went to
China. Sometime during the summer I received a degree with
the Class of 1925, thereby becoming an undergraduate with a
degree.

After spending three and a half years in China, I returned to
Cambridge where I became secretary of the Harvard-Yenching
Institute and assistant in Chinese at Harvard College, although I
did not assist in Chinese. I held these positions from the fall of
1928 to the fall of 1929 when I became curator of Oriental art
in the Cleveland Museum of Art. I remained there until the end
of 1948. At the beginning of 1949 some indulgent friends and I
formed a partnership, the purpose of which was to send me to
Japan to buy objects of Oriental art which I would then try to
sell in this country. That is my present occupation and it looks
as though it might last for some time.

JOHN JAMES HOLLISTER, JR.

HOME AppREss: Route 1, Goleta, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 911 Chapala St., Santa Barbara, Calif.

BORN: Dec. 24, 1901, Santa Barbara, Calif. parents: John James Hollister,
Lottie Steffens.

PREPARED at: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREE: A.B, 1925(26).

MARRIED: Cynthia Boyd, June 23, 1928, San Rafael, Calif. cttrtpren: Cynthia
Boyd, Sept. 18, 1929; John James, 3d, Feb. 19, 1932.

HARVARD BROTHER: Clinton Bennett Hale Hollister, ’29.

occupation: Agriculture.

[ 473 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Production and Marketing Association, Jan. 1
1946-Dec. 1, 1949; director, Santa Barbara County Farm Bureau; chair.
man, March 1, 1945-March 1, 1948, secretary, March 1, 1948-March 1,
1950, Southern Coastal Santa Barbara Soil Conservation District.

MEMBER OF: University Club; Society of Los Alamos; Santa Barbara Yacht
Club; U. S, Coast Guard Auxiliary; Montecito Country Club.

MY FIRST job was the usual one. I worked in Rudolph Spreck-
els’ bank for a year and then left for a year in E. H. Rollins &
Sons to try to sell Frankfurt on Main bonds to friends and rela-
tives. This was fine but not too profitable as I made the mistake
of buying some myself.

During this time I took time off to marry Cynthia Boyd. This
effort was more successful and has lasted until now and still looks
promising.

Some little time before the ’29 depression (about four and a
half days) I decided that there was a lot of money to be made in
electrical appliances. There was very little competition in this
field. Some outfit called General Electric was already in the field
but I wasn’t too worried and anyway I had a better product. The
stuff | had didn’t need any selling. I was assured that all I had
to do was make it and the world would build its own four-lane
road to my door. So I started in. Things went from ’29 to ’30
and so did the business. I have heard that this General Electric
Company is still operating. As for myself, I am still here, and
my electrical appliance is still the best, and the model is sull
sitting on the top shelf of the fishing closet and even though
everything pertaining to my invention is very “still,” 1 will argue
about it at the drop of a hat.

I forgot to mention that somewhere along the line I produced
(with the help of my wife) two children, a girl and then a boy.
They are around some of the time, I am told. I see them occa-
sionally. They haven’t made up my mind yet what they are
going to do, but I have confidence in them. I sort of hope the
girl will marry a very old, rich man, preferably the head of a
steel company, and that the boy will either join the military or
get to be a lobbyist. I would like to get some of my money back.

Sometime along about 1933 I remembered that the Hoollisters
owned a ranch in Santa Barbara County. They had owned it
since 1860. As I had an A.B, in agricultural economics safely
tucked in the handkerchief drawer of my bureau, I thought that

L474]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I should be very useful to the rest of the family. We moved into
a bunk house and I spent my Sundays chopping wood and put-
ting a new roof over the old. We were very prosperous at $3.50
a day and even more so at $100 a month which came later. Cattle
prices wavered between 6¢ per pound and 2¢ and sometimes not
at all according to grade and the pocket books of the buyers,
and we used to eat dried beans and so did a lot of other people.
We knew that prosperity was pretty close and the two wecks’
fishing trip in the Sierra Nevada was very satisfying.

Fishing, while rough on the fish, is a good hobby. It gets your
mind off the ground and your lungs get cleared of dust and
politics and if you are religious you get a chance to relax. Spcak-
ing of this and following the directions as sct forth above I will
say this. I am fairly social. My wife is more so. She keeps an
untold quantity of sheets, blankets, and beds upstairs which are
occasionally filled to capacity.

I am a good Democrat and have voted that way since I came
of age. Most of my friends are Republicans and things are
getting to the point where honor and not convictions hold me to
the party line. I do not know where I stand as my voting would
show if the ballot were not secret. There is not too much differ-
ence between a Democrat and a Republican, However, I am not
one of those who believe that a man has the right to starve if he
wants to. I would like to see the liberal (and sensible) Democrats
and Republicans get together and run this country for the most
of us the way we want it run. There are an awful lot of us in
that category, And those who are so pleased with the system the
Russians have should be given a one-way ticker to find out what
it is all about.

I think I am religious, but I don’t go to church. I haven’t got
time and I am not interested. However, I will help support any
church. I do not like to see any church messing into the political
economy of the country. I suppose that with everybody getting
his feet in the trough, there is no real reason why a church
shouldn’t do the same. A church is a hobby and its expenses
should be paid for by those using it.

My life at present is very satisfactory, except for worrying as
to what the Republicans and the Communists are going to do
next. I broke my leg three years ago and after spending two

[475 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

years in and out of hospitals and casts I finally got my foot t
in part, but not enough for me to go fishing in the mount:
However, it doesn’t stop me from getting around on the decl.
a boat. So 1 designed and had a boat built. I spend as much

my free time on it as possible. To you boat-minded peopl
shall describe it as a sailer-motor. It is mostly motor but will s
And besides the sail gives me a little respectability as a meml
of our local yacht club. I take a little time off the boat occasic
ally to try to help run our various agricultural enterprises. The
are a lot of members of the family doing the same and of cou
we always agree as to everything. This agreement may ta.
some time but somebody always wins.

As for the future, I am convinced that the more atomic bomi
there are the less chance anyone will have to use them. I wou
like, however, to get one put into my car so I could get out ¢
paying thirty cents a gallon for gas which will get me only fiftee
miles. I could even use one in my boat. Joseph Grew, last Priz
Day at Groton, said that undoubtedly paleolithic man predicte
the end of the world when some dope made a fire. It seems im

probable to me that even a Russian will want to get himsel:

ionized. Perhaps if we were to build a fire under 66 2/3% of ous
Congressmen we might get some place.
What do you think?

RICHARD BOURNE HOLMAN

HOME appress: 37 Concord Ave., Cambridge 38, Mass.
OFFICE ADpress: 34 Court Sq., Boston 8, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 26, 1903, Needham, Mass. parents: Louis Arthur Holman, Edna
Lake Bourne.

PRrpanep AT: Needham High School, Needham, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921~1925.
Masairo: Lucy Madison Light, Dec. 17, 1927, New York, N. Y.

occupation: Dealing in old prints (engravings, lithographs, etchings, et 4!.)
for collectors, museums, and home decoration.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Massachusetts State Guard, October, 1940-19423
boarding duty at Boston harbor entrance, U. S. Coast Guard Temporary
Reserve.

FROM 1925 to 1939 I was a textbook salesman for the Century

Company, and its successor, D. Appleton-Century Company:
My particular beat was New York colleges. In 1939 I came back

[476 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to Boston to wind up my father’s little business after his death.
Somehow it never got wound up and here I am, trying to make
a living selling things that very few people understand and even
fewer have any desire to buy. My wife is active in the business,
too, and so far we have found it extremely good fun, very unre-
munerative, and about four times as much work as anything else
we can think of.

»

JOHN RODMAN HOOKER

HOME Appress: Carolands, Burlingame, Calif. (winter); Route 1, “Valley of
the Moon,” Sonoma, Calif. (summer).

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hooker & Fay, 315 Montgomery St., San Francisco, Calif.

BORN: March 30, 1903, San Francisco, Calif. parents: Robert Gay Hooker,
Elizabeth Lawton Shreve.

PREPARED AT: Santa Barbara School, Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Josephine Dunham, Oct. 15, 1934, San Francisco, Calif. cHILpREN:
Anthony Shreve, April 4, 1938; Harry Beach Clow, 3d (stepchild),
April 24, 1925; Adrian Clow (stepchild), Nov. 30, 1929 (Mrs. Walsh).

HARVARD BROTHERS: Robert Gay Hooker, Jr., ’23; Rodman Lent Hooker, ’33.

occupaTion: Stock broker; senior partner, Hooker & Fay.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered Navy as lieutenant, Feb. 18, 1942; sta-
tioned: St. Mary Pre-Flight School, Calif. Del Monte Pre-Flight
School, Calif., N.A.S. St. Simms Island, Ga.; officer-in-charge, N.A.A.S.
Stuart, Fla.; promoted commander; separated Sept. 5, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Santa Barbara School for Boys, since June, 1949;
chairman, Santa Barbara School Alumni Association, June, 1947-June,
1949.

MEMBER OF: Burlingame Country Club; Pacific Union Club, San Francisco.

I SUPPOSE the first few years of my life after leaving college
were identical with those of many others of that era. First, a
trip abroad with one of my best friends — Yale 25. Then, just
because it was the thing to do for those who had no special train-
ing, a couple of years with a large bond firm of national coverage
— presumably to learn the financial business from the bottom up.
That was too slow, however, and the accomplishments of my
more adventurous friends in the brokerage business led me, in
1929, to buy a partnership in Hooker & Fay, of which I am senior
partner today. Things boomed for awhile, and then came the
great leveler of 1932. Suffice it to say, the firm endures and the
wolf doesn’t hang around the door, but the memory lingers on.

[477]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

In 1934, luckily, after the above experience convinced me for
the first time that I did not have the wisdom of Solomon, came
marriage. Then followed fifteen years of happiness, when For-
tune smiled and showered down our share of the material things
of life. By this marriage, I inherited two stepchildren, both now
married. They have grown up to be good examples, in m
opinion, of what American children should be. All credit goes
to their mother for her wise and understanding guidance. In
1938 my only child, Tony Hooker, was born. The problems of
world conditions and his future interested me in preparatory
school and college education. I am active in this field as presi-
dent of the board of trustees of the Santa Barbara School. If
democracy fails, how did we or our educational system err in
allowing it to fail? This is a question that often occurs to us
today, with the corollary question, “What can we do about it?”
The answer, I am convinced, can be partially found in the writ-
ings and beliefs of Dr. George Benson, of Harding College, Ar-
kansas. He maintains that in the home, in the school, and in
college we fail to impress on our youth the great advantages of

the American way of life, how it was achieved, and the responsi-
bilities of freedom.

THEODORE SHERWOOD HOPE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Claremont Ave., New York 27, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Donovan, Leisure, Newton, Lumbard & Irvine, 2 Wall St,
New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 7, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: Theodore Sherwood Hope,
Winifred Ayres. .

PREPARED AT: Ridgewood High School, Ridgewood, N. J.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.),
1928,

MaRRIED: Emily Louise Blanchard, June 28, 1934, New York, N. Y. cum:
Peter Blanchard, Aug. 25, 1935.
OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional Law Review articles.

FOR the five years following my graduation from Law School,
I was associated with the faculties of, successively, Columbia Law
School and the Johns Hopkins Institute of Law. In 1933 I began
the practice of law and in 1934 I became associated with the firm

[ 478 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of which I am presently a member. In 1940-41, I took a leave of
absence to teach for a year at Cornell Law School.

Like my legal career, my personal life has been uneventful.
I am happily married, to the same wife I started out with, and
have one son who will be ready for college (I hope Harvard)
in another four years.

HENRY OSCAR HOUGHTON

HOME ADDRESS: Doublet Hill Road, Weston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Houghton Mifflin Co, 2 Park St. Boston 7, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 3, 1903, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Henry Oscar Houghton, ’77,
Rose Rysse Gilman.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

marRIED: Marcia E. Clark, July 3, 1928, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Patricia,
Dec. 30, 1929, Henry Oscar, Jr., Jan. 15, 1931.

OccUPATION: Publisher.

MEMBER OF: Society of Colonial Wars in the Commonwealth of Massa-
chusetts.

BY COMPARISON with the “autobiographies” of other class-
mates, mine is going to be dull and uninteresting as I have been
at the same job since leaving Cambridge.

In the summer of 1925 Jim Dwight and I set sail in the bilge of
the S.S. Majestic for a shoe-string tour of London, Paris, Brussels,
and Switzerland, where we met many of our classmates doing the
same thing. My most vivid memory is of Tom Scudder at a
Paris sidewalk café, complete in a dazzling French Foreign Le-
gion uniform. He was off to fight the Riffs in North Africa. I
think both Jim and I envied his daring.

After returning home from this last fling, I started working as
a salesman with the publishing house of Houghton Mifflin Com-
pany in Boston, which was founded by my grandfather. I am
still here twenty-five years later.

During that time and in the course of my duties, I have trav-
elled the length and breadth of the United States east of the
Rocky Mountains with the result that I feel at home almost any-
where in this vast territory. Perhaps Bernard Pinkus, who at
one time was the book buyer for M. E. Blatt Company in Atlantic
City, will remember my call on him. George Goodspeed is the

[479 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

only other classmate that I know of who is in the retail book busi-
ness. However I am proud to be associated in the company with
two other classmates, Lovell Thompson and Stanley G. French,
and all too occasionally am in contact with the celebrated Phila-
delphia author, Boies Penrose, 2d.

In 1934, because of a windfall, I built my house in Weston and
have lived in it contentedly with my pleasant family ever since.
Here the welcome mat is always out to members of 1925.

My offspring are now grown up. My daughter, Patricia, earns
her living in the Boston office of General Electric Company, and
my son is a freshman at Williams College. If, after graduation,
he continues with postgraduate work, I hope he will head for
Harvard. This will help keep the record straight.

So much for the Houghton saga. I promised that it would be

dull, and by gosh it is! Here’s looking to a bang-up Twenty-fifth
for 1926§.

GEORGE KENNAN HOURWICH

HOME ADDRESS: 133 E. 38th St, New York, N. Y.

OFFICE AppreEss: Bergerman & Hourwich, 14 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 19, 1904, Washington, D. C. parents: Isaac A. Hourwich, Louise
Elizabeth Joffe.

PREPARED AT: Afanual Training High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923. DEGREE: LL.B. cum laude (Fordham Univ.), 1927.

marrige: Andria Todd Taylor, Aug. 3, 1929, Staten Island, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Andria Elizabeth, April 3, 1935; George Kennan, Jr., Feb. 15, 1938;
Abigail Acheson, Feb. 27, 1945.

occupation: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York; New York
County Lawyers Association; New York State Bar Association; Ameri-
can Bar Association; Lawyers Club; Players’ Club.

McBURNEY HOWARD

HOME apokess: 1980 Washington St., San Francisco, Calif,
OFFICE appREss: 567 Russ Bldg., San Francisco, Calif.

born: Oct. 16, 1900, Dover, Mass, parents: Philip Barthold Howard, ’93,
Ruby Farum Stoodley,

puepaxepo at; Weston High School, Weston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1921-1924,

manuep: Ellen Cunningham, Sept. 27, 1935, Santa Barbara, Calif.
[ 480 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Assistant vice-president, First Boston Corporation.

MEMBER OF: California Club, Los Angeles.

I JOINED the First Boston Corporation in June, 1924. After a
year or so in Boston, I opened an office for First Boston in Hart-
ford. I spent four very pleasant years there and then transferred
to California, the far west in those days, to start an office in Los
Angeles. I remained there until 1942 and then came to San
Francisco.

THOMAS CLARK HOWARD

HOME AppREsS: 46 Mt. Vernon St., Boston 8, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Howard Motors, 525 Union St., Lynn, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 5, 1900, Brookline, Mass. parents: Henry Howard, Alice Sturte-
vant.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. .

MARRIED: Frances Minturn Hall, April 6, 1929, New York, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Sturtevant Howard, ’22.

OCCUPATION: Automobile business.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Boston Yacht Club.

ON LEAVING college, my first job, chosen with difficulty from
the crowd of employers clamoring for my services, was with a
company which manufactured and sold refrigerators. The selling
end was what supplied color. Housewives, when anything went
wrong with the smooth running of the refrigerator I had sold
them, used to save the spoiled food for me to see and smell. For
a while I suffered from an unaccountable loss of appetite. I also
was privileged to go behind the scenes at many restaurants, hotels,
and tearooms. This has given me an abiding distrust of all arty
little places. I like a place where the lights are bright and you
can see what’s under the table.

From 1927 to 1939 I was with a firm that did construction
work particularly for churches, monumental buildings, etc., and
sold a special type of material which plasterers were with diffi-
culty persuaded to put on. It was good acoustically and I still
look up and see it in the few eating places in which you can hear
yourself speak. This job also gave me an insight into the prob-
lems architects face, from building committees, contractors, and
general politics, and made me realize that the ones who succeeded

[481 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

on these subjects cannot be acquired out of college, because of
course it can. But it takes time, and how few of us — though |

don't like to bring up any doubts on this subject at our Twenty-
fifch Reunion — are immortal!

THOMAS FINE HOWARD

OFFICE aporEss: so9 Madison Ave, New York, N. Y.

Born: Nov. 24, 1902, Ogdensburg, N. Y. parents: Jonathan Childs Howard,
Charlorte Strong.

preparep AT: Ogdensburg Free Academy, Ogdensburg, N. Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926, DEGREE: A.B. 1925 (26).
occupation: Wholesale decorative fabrics.

OFFICES HELD: President, Howard & Schaffer, Inc.

GURDON SALTONSTALL HOWE

HOME appRESS: 319 W, 14th St. New York, N. Y.
OFFice Appress: 114 E. 18th St. New York 3, N. Y.

Bors: Aug. 16, 1903, Haverhill, Mass. parENTs: Gurdon Saltonstall Howe,
Dolores de Rivas.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Garden City, Long Island, N. Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. cum Jaude, 1925.

marrieD: Ethel King Norton, June, 1929, Jericho, Long Island, N. Y. crn:
Anthony Gurdon, July 12, 1930.
OCCUPATION: Art.

I STUDIED art abroad for several years, and at the Art Student's
League in New York. I had several one-man shows in New York
and elsewhere, and have been represented in various national
shows, etc. However, I find art unremunerative and have turned
to business. My wife and I have our own business under the
combined name Norton Elowe and are engaged in manufac-
turing picture frames principally for museums, galleries, and
decorators. Elowever, we also have as customers many well-
known and Jesser-known artists in New York and elsewhere.
This gives us a good deal in common to talk about. But as most
of them also seem to find art unremunerative, we aren’t getting

rich fast. It’s a way of making a living and it has its interesting
moments, especially if you care about pictures.

[ 484]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT POULSON HOWE

HOME ADpREsS: 2 Beekman P]., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADpREss: J. P. Morgan & Co., Inc., 23 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 22, 1904, Indianapolis, Ind. Parents: Will David Howe, ’95,
Elizabeth Poulson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926, DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1925 (26).

MARRIED: Barbara Shepard, 1935, Pumam, Conn. cup: William D., Dec. 4,
1942. |

OCCUPATION: Finance.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

MY LIFE has been uneventful which makes it really pretty unin-

teresting to others. I’m conservative and happy, which seems to

be a little unusual. The days at Harvard seem a long time ago,

and I remember them with pleasure.

% UNBAY HSU

BORN: March 9, 1901, Wasin, Chekiang, China. PARENTS: Ken Dau Hsu,
Lilis Shen.

PREPARED AT: Nanyang Preparatory School, Country Day School, Newton,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; A.M., 1927.

piep: April 22, 1941, Lishui, Chekiang, China.

UNBAY HSU entered Harvard after preparatory work at the

Country Day School in Newton. He received his A.B. degree

with the Class, and then remained at Harvard for an A.M. degree

which he received in February, 1927. Returning to his native

China, he became engaged in finance and for several years was

associated with the Chekiang Provincial Bank at Hangchow,

Chekiang, China. He died in Lishui, Chekiang, the victim of a

Japanese bombing attack.

JOHN PERRY HUBBARD

HOME aAppreEss: St, Davids Road, St. Davids, Pa.

OFFICE apprEss: University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia,
Pa.

BORN: Oct. 26, 1903, Germantown, Pa, Parents: Russell Sturgis Hubbard,
Elizabeth Russell Perry.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

[ 485 ]

Tape ecicaMe nce rts AA

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREES: A.B., 1926; M.D., 1931.

MARRIED: Dorothy Allen, June 30, 1933, Wilmington, Del. cHitpren: Eliza.
beth, Sept. 20, 1935; Florence Allen, Oct. 12, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Russell Sturgis Hubbard, ’24; James DeWolf Hubbard, 29,
OCCUPATION: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Chief, Medical Service, Mitchell Field, N. Y,
1942-43; attached to SHAEF Military Government Public Health as
colonel, 1943-45; chief, Public Health Section, Military Mission to

France; chief, Public Health Section, Military Mission to Denmark;
awarded Order of Dannebrog.

OFFICES HELD: Rockefeller Travelling Fellowship, 1934; member Pediatric
Staff, St. Luke’s International Medical Center, Tokyo, Japan, 1935; in-
structor in pediatrics, Harvard Medical School, 1937-42; associate physi-
cian, Children’s Hospital, Boston, 1937-42; director, Sharon Sanatorium,
Sharon, Mass., 1937-42; director of study of child health services, Ameri-

can Academy of Pediatrics, 1945-48 (director, Academy’s committee for
the improvement of child health, 1949).

MEMBER OF: Pediatric and Public Health Society, Harvard Clubs of Boston

and Philadelphia; Rittenhouse Club, Philadelphia; Metropolitan Club,
Washington.

PuBLIcaTIoNs: Contributions to medical literature in the fields of pediatrics,
cardiology, and public health; Child Health Services and Pediatric Edu-
cation, 2 vols., The Commonwealth Fund, 1949.

ONE of my daughters remarked recently, “We've been living
here for two years. Isn’t it time we moved again?” Here, perhaps,
is the epitome of the years since graduation and also a reflection
of recent family discussions as to whether we should remain in
Philadelphia or accept tempting bait held out to us in California.
But to begin at the beginning.

After continuing my student days at Harvard for another four
years, I became the proud possessor of an M.D. degree and moved
all the way across the street to the Children’s Hospital. Intern
days were somewhat complicated by an urge to commute to
Vassar and then even more complicated by setting up house-
keeping adjoining the hospital in quarters since considered unfit
for the hospital help.

School, college, medical school, and hospital training, all under
the shadow of Johnnie Harvard. It seemed high time to sally
forth. We sallied forth and sometimes it seems as if we have been
sallying ever since.

With the help of a Rockefeller Travelling Fellowship I saw
something of pediatrics and public health in England and Ger-

[ 486 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

many (1934), and saw too the extent to which German medicine
had already fallen into the destroying hands of the Nazi.

Our travels continued and in 1935 brought us to Japan where
for a year and a half I served as pediatrician on the staff of St.
Luke’s Hospital in Tokyo. Here our first daughter was born,
choosing not to wait until the one and only American obstetri-
cian returned from a visit to China. (Some of my friends wonder
why I became prematurely gray!)

In 1936 I returned to the Harvard Medical School and the
Children’s Hospital and spent the next five years in the rarefied
medical atmosphere of Longwood Avenue, in a happy combina-
tion of private practice, teaching, and clinical investigation. It
was in these days, when life was both consecutive and predict-
able, that I learned the reward that comes to a physician from a
grateful parent. Also, through the good fortune of being closely
associated with a skillful and courageous surgeon, my medical
classmate, Robert Gross, I shared with him the early work on
the surgical correction of congenital defects of the heart, thus
opening the door to the many advances which have been made in
this field. |

In 1942 when hospital units were forming and when uniforms
appeared in increasing number at the lunch tables at the Harvard
Club, I knew that one day I would step off the office elevator
one floor below my own and drop in to the office of procurement
and assignment. Six months later I was chief of medical service
at the station hospital at Mitchel Field. I was told the assignment
was permanent and so brought the family (two daughters by
now) to a house assigned to us on the post. I had not learned
that ‘‘permanent” meant only until orders were changed.

Without warning and for reasons never revealed, I was pressed
into the mold of the public health part of military government,
AMGOT, until it was found that this combination of initials
meant naughty things in Turkish. I, together with equally be-
wildered officers, was trained for the Balkans. With this and
with some qualifications for the Far East it was the Army’s
whimsy to send me to France as chief of the health section of the
SHAEF mission and then to Denmark in the same capacity.

Luck went with me as I dodged the “buzz bombs” and luck also
favored me as my rank rose to that of a chicken colonel.

[ 487 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Upon returning in the fall of 1945 to my office on Longwood
Avenue, I found that my specialty, pediatrics, was on the march
and really determined to do something about the distribution of
medical care and the dreaded “socialization” of medicine. In
order to clear the air and get the facts of the matter, as least as far
as children are concerned, a vast nationwide survey was already
underway. I was asked by the American Academy of Pediatrics
to step in and direct this portentous venture which involved
gathering information from doctors, hospitals, medical school,
and health agencies in every state and Hawaii. (We stopped
short of Alaska! )

During the conduct of this study it became necessary to move
to Washington where help could be had from the Public Health
Service and Children’s Bureau. So, in 1946, we took up residence
along Massachusetts Avenue and established office headquarters
in the former residence of the Lodge family. Though not in
Boston we were still in its shadow.

Instead of returning to Boston after a three-year sojourn in
Washington, we find ourselves in Philadelphia where I have con-
tinued with the work of the American Academy of Pediatrics.
As I write, this further assignment with the Academy is reaching
its conclusion. And so, to bring this saga back to the opening
paragraph, we were again faced with the question: “What next?”
An attractive opportunity in California? But no, by the time this
reaches print I shall be ensconced as professor of preventive medi-
cine and public health and head of the department at the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania School of Medicine while at the same time
serving as medical director of the National Board of Medical
Examiners, a permanent assignment which this time really looks
permanent.

From this vantage point we look forward to the next twenty-
five years.

MOSES SAMUEL HUBERMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 170-26th Ave., San Francisco, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif.

BORN: July 17, 190s, Boston, Mass. PaRENTS: Benjamin Huberman, Mary
Dlugatsch.

[ 488 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Portland High School, Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: AB. summa cum laude, 1925, LL.B.
magna cum laude, 1928.

MARRIED: Jane Dickhoff, June 6, 1938, San Francisco, Calif. ciiLpren;
Barbara, Nov. 7, 1939; Alice, Jan. 15, 1942; Robert, March 14, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Kenneth Huberman, ’24; Leo Huberman, ’29.

OccuPATION: Lawyer and teacher.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT POSTS: Special assistant to the United States attorney
general, in charge of War Programs Section and also on special as-
signments.

OFFicEs HELD: Member board of directors, San Francisco Jewish Community
Center, since February, 1949.

MEMBER OF: Commonwealth Club; Lawyers Club of San Francisco, Jewish
Community Center, B'nai B'rith; Masons; American Bar Association;
San Francisco Bar Association; Bar Association of the City of New
York,

MOST of us must feel as I do that the Twenty-fifth Reunion is a
long way off until suddenly here it is! One expects to have at
least one Harvard son for this event, but, alas, my son arrived only
last year, and of my two daughters, only one is barely qualified
to participate in the Reunion (if we can manage to get there at
all). Perhaps having all small children makes one feel too young
to be going to a Twenty-fifth Reunion.

The years have passed very rapidly. Following Law School
(1928), I practised law in New York City with one of the large
firms. These were the miserable depression years, as we all re-
member only too well. They were a rude awakening after the
careless and carefree period that preceded the crash. In 1933 1
joined the New Deal as Special Assistant to the United States
Attorney General. My work had to do with the enforcement and
drafting of some of the new legislation. During 1936-37 I was in
Puerto Rico as general counsel to the Puerto Rico Reconstruction
Administration, an agency in the Department of the Interior
which made a start in the work of rehabilitating Puerto Rico now
being carried on by the insular government. In 1937 I was back
in the Department of Justice and spent the next few years prose-
cuting anti-trust cases throughout the country. It was on one
of these prosecution trips to San Francisco in 1938 that I met and
married my wife. A few months before the outbreak of the war
I was ordered back to Washington to take charge of the War
Programs Section of the Department of Justice. This was a unit

[ 489 J

~—m

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

which had the responsibility of working out with the War Pro-
duction Board, Army, Navy, and other war agencies programs
whereby industries could pool their patents, know-how, and
facilities in aid of the war effort without doing permanent damage
to anti-trust policies. In addition, I was assigned to make special
studies having to do with postwar demobilization, including such
matters as the ultimate disposition of the government-owned war
plants and postwar legislation.

Since 1946 I have been engaged in the private practice of the
Jaw in San Francisco and have also been teaching law part-time at
Hastings College of the Law.

Our daughters (10 and 8) did so much travelling with us on our
various wanderings that they are only now getting used to the
notion of settling down in one place. As all of my own family is
back East, we plan much more travelling in the future, and only
last summer all of us, including the then four-months-old son,
drove some 8500 miles to Maine and back.

My hobbies are gardening and mountain hiking but so far I
have had very little time for either.

I am a New Deal Democrat and believe that it is possible to
develop greater opportunity for all without regimenting industry.
Perhaps we shall get back to that work when the war scare is
over.

We are members of a Jewish reform congregation in San Fran-
cisco but are not as active in religious work as we would like or
expect to be. It seems to me that the teachings of our great reli-
gions are all too often lost sight of by those who deal with the
destinies of the peoples of the world.

ALFRED MORRIS HUGHES

HOME appress: 21 Clover St., Belmont, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Second National Bank, 111 Franklin St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: April 27, 1902, Soledad, Cuba. parents: Llewelyn Frederick Hughes,
Helena Spencer.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: §.B, IN E. ENGIN., 1925; M.B.A., 1929.
UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Assistant vice-president, Second National Bank of Boston.

[ 490 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S. Army Air Corps, 1943-45; project officer,
Office of the Air Communications Officer, Headquarters Staff; final rank
major; awarded Commendation Ribbon for posthostilities intelligence
work in Germany.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society; Boston Yacht Club.

AFTER graduation in 1925, I went to work for the International
Telephone & Telegraph Company and was sent to Cuba. How-
ever, I found life too rugged in the tropics and returned to the
United States in 1926 and joined the American Telephone & Tele-
graph Company. I resigned in the fall of 1927 to enter Business
School. I found business a pleasant change from engineering and
completed the course in 1929 (as I remember it, Professor
Sprague was the only one who was disturbed about the stock
market that year!). I entered the General Electric Company’s
Factory Training Course at Schenectady, New York, in the fall
of 1929 and was transferred to Lynn in spring, 1931.

Things fell apart pretty rapidly and I resigned and attended
the summer course for business executives at the Harvard Busi-
ness School that summer. At the end of this course, I was able
to make a connection with the Second National Bank, where I
started at the bottom, counting checks and so forth. In the spring
of 1932 all the banks closed, which was a good introduction to
the banking business. I have been at this bank ever since, with
an interlude for the war.

I obtained a leave of absence from the bank in 1942 and joined
the Radio Research Laboratory at Harvard as a Research Asso-
ciate. After a year there, a commission came through for the
A.A.F. and I reported to Miami Beach for Officers’ Training
School. That was quite an experience, but I lived through it. I
was ordered to Washington in the fall of 1943 and commenced
the battle of the Potomac. After about six months, I could find
my way around the Pentagon Building and thus became very
valuable in the conduct of the war. With my fellow-officers, I
spent the time trying to find out what sort of communication
equipment was needed by the boys doing the fighting. We never
did. After the shooting stopped in Europe, I was assigned to a
group to go to Germany and study the German Air Force Com-
munications organization. I spent two months driving all over
Germany in a jeep. It was a wonderful experience and the high

[ 491 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

point of my life to date. We wrote a long report, which I am
sure nobody has ever read, and returned to Washington. I was
released from the service in December, 1945, and returned to the
banking business.

My summers are spent sailing my small auxiliary yawl out of
Marblehead and in the winter I can still climb the hills well
enough to enjoy some skiing. I have avoided the entanglements
of matrimony so far, but I understand that one is never safe,
When I graduated from the Engineering School in 1925, if any-
one had told me I would end up in a bank in Boston, I should
have said he was plumb crazy. But that is the way it has worked
out and I have no regrets. In the past twenty-five years, I have
lived in Cuba, Washington, Schenectady, and I have seen some-
thing of life in Europe. Not a very broad experience, I admit,
but enough to convince me that the Boston area and New Eng-
land have the most to offer as a place to live and work.

NORMAN LLEWELYN HUGHES

appress: 83 Village Hill Rd., Belmont, Mass.

BORN: July 9, 1903, Weston, England. parents: Llewelyn Frederick Hughes,
Helena Burston Spencer. |

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925. DEGREES: S.B., 1925; M.B.A. 1929.
Marrizp: Eleanor Brooks Noyes, Oct. 4, 1930, Newton Center, Mass.

cHitpREN: Elizabeth Stevens, Feb. 29, 1936; Patricia Brooks, May 20,
1938; Frederick.
OCCUPATION: Finance.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Norman Hughes did not return a questionnaire.

JOHN WESLEY HUGULEY, JR.

HOME Appress: 618 Gresham PL, N. W., Washington 1, D. C.

oFFice appress: Dept. of Chemistry, Howard University, Washington, D. C.

bors: Feb, 12, 1899, Americus, Ga. parents: John Wesley Huguley, Ella
Erminie Spencer.

prepakrp At: Tuskegee Institute, Tuskegee, Ala.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: 8.B., 1925(26); s.m. (Univ. of Min-
nesota), 1935.

[ 492 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Alice Broussard, June 5, 1927, New Orleans, La., Leona E. Gray,
Sept. 2, 1932, Washington, D. C. cumpren: Leona Marie-Curie, Sept.
5, 1935; John Wesley, 3d, Feb. 6, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Instructor in chemistry (inorganic and chemical education),
university marshal; sometimes executive secretary to the president of
the University.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Graduate S.A.T.C. instructors camp, U.S.A.,
1918; instructor and sergeant major, N.A.T.C., Tuskegee, 1918; second
lieutenant, Second Separate Battalion, Massachusetts National Guard,
1922-23; second lieutenant, O.R.C. (first Negro in U.S. to be graduated
from C.M.T.C., Blue Camp, and commissioned in U.S.A.).

OFFICES HELD: Sometimes executive secretary to the president of Howard
University; instructor in powder and explosive courses, E.M.S.D.T.
courses, and A.S.T.P. courses, Howard University, during the war.

MEMBER OF: Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity; National Institute of Science,
Beta Kappa Chi Scientific Honors Society; Boylston Chemistry Club,
Associated Harvard Chemists; Scabbard and Blade Military Society
(honorary member).

PUBLICATIONS: Essays and scientific papers: “Some Modern Aspects of
Physics”; “The Church at the Crossroads”; “The Fifth Estate”; “Our
Heritage”; “E. E. Just: Biologist”; “Where Shall the Scientist Dwell?”;
“The Visualized Presentation of Chemical Theory”; “A Mnemonic
Scheme for the Activity of the Metals’; “A New Apparatus for the
Determination of Water in Silicates”; “A New Apparatus for Teaching
Electrolytic Dissociation”; “Fifty Years of Negro Progress in Science”;
“Bronze Alembics: Contribution of Black Folk to Science” (in pre-
paration).

SINCE graduating from Harvard I have furthered my studies at
the University of Pennsylvania and at the University of Minnesota
where, in 1936, I received the degree of S.M. in chemistry. I am
now working towards the doctorate degree in inorganic chemistry.
Before coming to Howard University, I taught one year at Wiley
College, at Southern University, and at Livingstone College, suc-
cessively, Since 1928 I have taught inorganic chemistry at Howard.
Here I have been university marshal for a number of years and
was formerly secretary to the department of chemistry. I am
sometimes executive secretary to the president of Howard Uni-
versity. My favorite hobby is photography.

THOMAS ROBERT HULL

apprEss: 1347 E. Eighth St., Tucson, Ariz.
BORN: Nov. 29, 1903, Chicago, Ill. Parents: Robert Henry Hull, Isabel
Marion Kelley.

[ 493 J

1 seep ponent RTO TREN EOE

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926, DEGREE: A.B. 1925(26).
Mmaariep: Thelma Hendricks, May 28, 1930.
occupation: Education.

   

THE information printed above is taken from the Secretary’s files.
Hfull did not return a questionnaire.

GEORGE HOPPIN HUMPHREYS

HOME ADDRESS: 1211 Park Ave., New York 28, N. Y.

orFice aporess: Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, 620 W. 168th St,
New York, N. Y.

BorN: Nov. 22, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: John Sanford Humphreys,
Maria Mitchell Champney.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1925; M.D. cum laude,
1929; D.MED.scI. (Columbia Univ.), 1935.

MarrieD: Edith Sturgis, Oct. 4, 1930, Groton, Mass. CHILDREN: John Sanford,
June 15, 1933; Cornelia, Oct. 10, 1934; Edith Barnes, Jan. 18, 1941.

occupation: Professor of surgery, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Co-
lumbia University; director of surgical service, Presbyterian Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, 1932-38, assistant professor, 1938-46, professor, since
1945, Columbia University; assistant attending surgeon, 1941-46, attending
surgeon, since 1946, Presbyterian Hospital; assistant visiting surgeon,
1935-41, associate visiting surgeon, 1941-45, City Hospital; visiting sur-
geon and director first surgical service, Goldwater Hospital, 1938-42.

Member of: American Medical Association; American College of Surgeons;
American Surgical Society; Society of Clinical Surgeons; American As-
sociation for Thoracic Surgery; Society of University Surgeons, New
York Academy of Medicine, New York Surgical Society; New York
Society for Thoracic Surgery; Harvey Society; Century Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Various papers in medical journals.

TO RECAPTURE twenty-five years in as many lines is not easy.
Yet my course in this troubled quarter-century must be con-
sidered unusually steady and serene, marked by many incidents
but no violent upheavals, not devoid of anxieties but free of
major crises, and so it can be outlined briefly.

My academic life did not finish with graduation; it has con-
tinued to the present. First there was another four years at Har-
vard in the Medical School. Then, following a now extinct tra-
dition, came a short trip abroad with several months of study at
the Pathologisches Institut in Munich and a glimpse in Vienna
of the twilight of a once great medical brilliance, Finally, back

[494]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to New York in the winter of 1930, the main job really began.
At the Columbia Medical Center two years of internship was
followed by three as a “fellow” and culminated in another
doctor’s degree. Thus passed the first few years and I was finally
ready to enter the practice of surgery.

It was not all work, however. In the fall of 1930 I found time
to return to Boston for a short two weeks and bring back my
bride to the little transitory community of “medical widows”
living in the shadow of the hospital. In 1932 a three-month respite
after internship afforded us a glimpse of pre-tourist Mexico.
Then came the first two children, and with them responsibility.

A down-town office, small jobs teaching anatomy and surgery,
still left spare time. But if there were all too few willing to pay
for a young surgeon’s services there were many who were grate-
ful for what he could give away. So I worked at the old City
Hospital on Welfare Island, then on the wards of Babies Hospital,
and finally as director of the Columbia University surgical serv-
ice of the new Welfare (now Goldwater) Hospital. During this
period a long-standing interest in chest surgery matured and
found a new and fascinating outlet with the birth of cardiac
surgery. The rewards were rich in what a surgeon values most:
experience and the satisfactions of giving help where needed. But
there was little financial return and now there was another mouth
to feed.

Then came the war, and with it a sudden call for doctors. In
the first six months my little service was swept away. I was re-
called to the Medical Center and, as the only chest surgeon left,
held as “essential.” The moral battle of the able-bodied stay-at-
home has to be fought alone, and for the next four years I fought
it and stayed. In every quarter the need was overpowering, and
there was no relaxation for other interests or reflection. And at
the end came new needs. The shattered organization of clinical
teaching had to be reconstructed and the magnificent guidance
of my teachers came to an end. The helm, in surgery, was passed
to me.

Since the fall of 1946, when I began as professor of surgery,
the satisfactions and frustrations of a clinical department head
have offered an interesting contrast to private practice. The re-
sponsibility for teaching students and training men in surgery,

[ 495 ]

RDI prerepRREVER I a acetone nme ees a NET

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

the opportunities to expand and develop my chosen field of
cardio-vascular surgery, and the hope of fostering a broad pro-
gram of productive research are constant challenges. I miss the
little black bag and the cross-section of life in a big city, which
only a practising doctor sees, and sometimes wonder whether
skills so dearly won are best employed at a desk or committee
table. But the horizon is broader and it is a busy and all-absorb-
ing life.

Of relaxation, hobbies, or philosophy, there is all too little.
For a month or more each summer a little place in the mountains
of Vermont gives opportunity for the simple pleasures of a rustic
life. Here I can momentarily catch up with my family in an
environment practically unchanged since my own childhood
there. It is hard to realize how fast the children grow, and that
in another year, if all goes well, I shall renew my acquaintance
with the Harvard undergraduate through the eyes of my son.

POWELL HORNER HUMPHRIES

HOME ADDRESS: 301 Newbury St., Boston, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Franklin Technical Institute, Boston, Mass.

BorN: April 11, 1903, Inlet, Va. parents: Lillian Powell Humphries, Lydia
Emma Horner.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: S.B. IN E. ENGIN. cum laude, 1925;
S$.M., 1928; LL.B. (Northeastern Univ.), 1940.

Marriep: Marion Elizabeth Hornor, Feb. 22, 1930, New Lisbon, N. J. (di-
vorced 1948); Marjorie P. Seavey, Dec. 23, 1948, Boston, Mass.

occupaTion: Professor of electrical engineering.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant and instructor in electrical engineering, 1925-28,
research associate in electrical engineering, 1928-30, Harvard; assistant

professor of electrical engineering, Tulane University, 1930-36, Franklin
Technical Institute, since 1936.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Electrical Engineers, American Society
for Engineering Education; Sigma Xi.

PUBLICATIONS: Four technical papers on high voltage research (with C. L.
Dawes of Harvard).

HOW does one compel oneself to recognize realities? Can it be

fact that we chaps have lived through twenty-five years since

graduation, that we are the old fossils of the twenty-five-year

class? On our Class Day how well I remember watching the old

grads of 1900 march into the stadium; they were tall and short,

[ 496 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

lean and paunchy, and I thought them ancient. Alas! We now
are the ancients,

Somehow though, I just do not feel twenty-five years older
than I did on that memorable day in June so long ago. Perhaps
it is due to life’s having been so full of activity — nothing histor-
ically enduring but, I hope, worth while. After a stint of six long
years at Tulane teaching fellows I would rather not, I returned
here to Massachusetts to one of my first teaching loves, electrical
engineering, at Franklin Technical Institute. In 1936 I indulged
an urge which my finances would not permit in 1925 and re-
ceived an LL.B. degree in 1940 at Northeastern University here
in Boston. Of course, as I have pursued for many years the rel-
atively “clean” profession of teaching electrical engineering, my
pursuit of law had no vocational purpose — just nice to know to
protect myself against those members of my Class at Harvard
who had studied law. But seriously, it was great fun being both
a teacher and a student during those four long hard years and I
would do it all over again.

When war first overwhelmed us, I taught Signal Corps classes
at Harvard for several months until the Institute went on a war
footing, bulging at the seams with Coast Guardsmen. Our staff
worked day and night through the next several years training the
men who softened up beach-heads so the Navy could safely stand
in to bombard.

In December, 1948, I married the former Marjorie P. Seavey of
Boston, a member of the Massachusetts and Federal Bars, and I
wish I had done so long before. Some chaps may talk a lot about
a happy family life but I live it.

I have done considerable local travelling, preaching to high
school students and vocational guidance counselors the merit of
technical institute training. If any of you chaps who read this
are counselors of students or employers of technically trained
men, better look into the subject— our graduates have basic
engineering training without a white-collar complex.

I suppose no Class Report after all these years is considered
complete without some reference to religious experience and to
politics. The former might be dictated by the realization that I
am now twenty-five years nearer Judgment Day. Life has been
kind to me; for such I am thankful and with trusting confidence

[ 497 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

and humility I face the future. One can be religious, you know,
without being a slave to the prejudices of sectarian theology. As
to politics, the less said the better. I entered Harvard a Virginia
Democrat, I graduated as one, and my political complexion has
endured. Your inference that I am not a Missouri Democrat is
correct. If ultimately I become a Republican, it will not be due
to the pleadings and threats of my Republican wife but to a grow-
ing political nausea.

Mav I congratulate the Class of ’25 for its fortitude in having
survived the perils of the past quarter-century and wish it a glori-

ous Twenty-fifth Reunion as the opening gun of a second quarter-
century of success.

EDWARD LIVINGSTON HUNT, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 235 E. 73rd St. New York 21, N. Y.

orFice aporess: % Mitchell, Capron, Marsh, Angulo & Cooney, 20 Exchange
Pl. New York 5, N. Y.

Borx: Oct. 26, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: Edward Livingston Hunt,
Margaret Emily Tobin.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; LL.B., 1928.

MagraigD: Phyllis Gordon Sackett, Sept. 1, 1928, Winchester, Mass.

occupation: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned captain, U. S. Army Air Force,
June 27, 1942; attended Air Force School of Applied Tactics, Orlando,
Fla., July-September, 1942; stationed at HQ Philadelphia Fighter Wing,
September, 1942—July, 1943; assigned HQ I Fighter Command, July,
1943-September, 1944; assigned HQ 3or1st Fighter Wing, September,
1944-F ebruary, 1946; duty in Ryukyus Theatre (Okinawa), July, 1945-
February, 1945; temporary duty at HQ, 7th Air Force and HQ, 8th Air
Force, Okinawa; released from active duty as lieutenant colonel, March,
1946, awarded Army Commendation Medal. ,

meMpeR oF: Union Club, Harvard Club of New York; City Midday Club;
Association of Bar of City of New York; Lawrence Beach Club.
ASIDE from three years in the Law School and four years in
the Army Air Force during World War II, my last twenty-five
years have been spent in the practice of the law in a New York
law firm, first as an associate attorney and then as a member of
the firm. Attention to my professional dutics in the field of real
estate, probate, and estate law has left me little time or oppor-
tunity to enjoy hobbics other than vacation travel (to Bermuda

[ 498 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

when possible) and light literature. My wife and I are typical
“cliff dwellers” in a New York apartment with all of the advan-
tages and disadvantages of life in a big city.

Like many others of the Class I have seldom voted the same
political ticket more than twice in succession and find myself
becoming more staid and conservative politically than heretofore
— which may go hand in hand with my gray hair.

During the war I was fortunate enough to be assigned to the
Air Defense section of the Air Force and found the work stimu-
lating and interesting. After spending most of the war in this
country, I found myself in Okinawa (after a forty-day transport
trip across the Pacific) shortly before the armistice. I then “en-
joyed” the winter in the Ryukyus, with a brief trip to Japan and
Korea. I returned home to civilian life in March, 1946, and went
back to the law firm. Aside from the 1942 to 1946 period, I doubt
that anyone would find my life particularly interesting, but my
wife and I have enjoyed life during these years and would not
change a bit of it.

_ DAVID HURWITZ

HOME ADDRESS: 29 Williston Rd., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 520 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 18, 1905, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Max Hurwitz, Rose Gold-
smith,

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: S.B. ct laude, 1925; M.D., 1929.

MaRRIED: Pearl S. Birnbaum, Scpt. 9, 1928, Boston, Mass. cumpren: Robert
Michael, May 29, 1931; Stephen J., April 27, 1937; Alfred L., March 21,
1941; Julie B., June 27, 1947.

HARVARD SON: Robert Michael Hurwitz, ’52.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alfred Hurwitz, ’29.

occupation: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Clinical associate, Harvard Medical School; consultant in
diabetes, Boston Lying-In Hospital; junior visiting physician, Boston
City Hospital; physician, Mt. Auburn Hospital; director, New England
Diabetes Association; consultant, Public Health Service, Diabetes Section.

PUBLICATIONS: Papers in medical journals.

AFTER college I went to the Harvard Medical School and
graduated in 1929. Thereafter I interned and spent several years
in being processed into an internist. In 1934 I opened an office

[ 499 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

for private practice in Boston, and went through the customary
period of malnutrition before I was able to achieve a reasonable
facsimile of a livelihood.

My tame at present is spent mainly in the private practice of
medicine, and also in teaching at the Harvard Medical School.
In addition, my special interest in diabetes has led me to work
with the problem of diabetes and pregnancy at the Boston Lying-
In EHlospital. (For several years my appointment from this hospital
has been signed by Haskell Crocker.) Recently I have been
working on reorganizing the care of the diabetic at the Boston
City Hospital, which, as you can well imagine, is a large under-
taking.

I have done a certain amount of clinical investigation, but the
pressure of practice and administration has of necessity cut down
the time I should like to spend in such pursuits. I have always
derived a great deal of satisfaction from the practice of medicine.
There is no discipline, it seems to me, that has the comprehensive
scope that is peculiar to our profession. The work is hard, the
hours long, the remuneration poor in comparison to other fields,
but the personal satisfaction is great.

I have never had any hobbies, and frankly, never felt the need
of any. I have always preferred work and the enjoyment of my
family (I have four children) but occasionally find it a little
difficult to shift gears between the eldest who is a sophomore at

Harvard, all the way down to the youngest, who is just out of
her diapers.

ALFRED RODMAN HUSSEY, JR.

HOME appreEss: 1750 Harvard St., N.W., Apt. 504, Washington, D. C.
OFFICE appRESS: 2430 E St. N.W., Washington, D.C.

Born: Feb. 1, 1902, Taunton, Mass, parents: Alfred Rodman Hussey, ’92,
Mary Lincoln Warren.

prepared AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREES: §.B,, 1925; LL.B, (Univ. of Virginia),
1929.
marriep: Jane Strickland, Jan. 1, 1935, Plymouth, Mass. cHitpren: Chris-
topher, Jan. 4, 1936; Charles Rodman, July 18, 1939.
OCCUPATION: Lawyer, U.S, Government.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD; Commissioned lieutenant, D-V(S), U. S.
Naval Reserve, Aug. 15, 1942; promoted lieutenant commander, Oct. 17,

[ s00 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1944; served at GHQ, SCAP, Government Section, Tokyo, Japan, until
July, 1946; promoted commander, Dec. 12, 1945; released to inactive duty,
July 31, 1946; awarded Legion of Merit.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chief, Governmental Powers Division, Govern-
ment Section, General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for Allied
Powers, Tokyo, Japan, until July, 1948; awarded Certificate of Civilian
Merit, July, 1948.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Town of Plymouth Board of Retirement, 1937-42,
chairman, 1941-42, Board of Public Welfare; president, Plymouth Public
Library, 1936-38.

MEMBER OF: United States Naval Institute; Military Government Associa-
tion; Pilgrim Society.

WILLIAM WHITE INGRAHAM

HOME apprEss: 181 Great Rd., Union Village, North Smithfield, R. I. ‘

OFFICE ADDRESS: 99 Main St., Woonsocket, R. I.

BORN: June 8, 1904; Oakland, R. I. parents: Arthur Ingraham, ’96, Elizabeth
Williams White. _ .

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

MaRRIED: Barbara Bosworth, Sept. 3, 1927, Portland, Maine (divorced 1944).
cHitp: William White, Jr., Dec. 4, 1928.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Arthur Ingraham, Jr., ’30; Andrew Clark Ingraham, ’3r.

OCCUPATION: Real estate and insurance.

OFFICES HELD: First vice-president, Woonsocket Public Health Nursing Asso-
ciation; Rhode Island delegate, N.E.L.T.A.

MEMBER OF: Agawam Hunt Club.

AFTER leaving college I spent a year in the life insurance busi-
ness in New York City, Boston, Providence, and Woonsocket.
In the fall of 1926 I returned to Cambridge to attend the Harvard
Graduate School of Business Administration.
In June, 1927, I came to Woonsocket, Rhode Island, and be-
came associated with Mr. John C. Cosseboom in the real estate
‘and insurance business. The agency is known as the John C.
Cosseboom Insurance Agency and I am now the sole owner.

HILLER INNES

HOME Appress: Hotel Lombardy, rit E. 56th St. New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Paramount Pictures Corp., Times Sq., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Aug, 21, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: Charles Hiller Innes, Eleanor
A. Mills.

[ 501 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925
prrparrp at: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.; Choate School,
Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925(26),
UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles John Innes, 22.

occupaTION: Executive assistant to Paramount Pictures’ eastern production

head.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Junior Plattsburgh, summer, 1918; attended U. S,
Naval Training School, Dartmouth, fall, 1942; photographic officer,
Public Information, Third Naval District, November, 1942-February,
1944, Seventh Fleet, April, 1944-July, 1945; in charge of two combat
photo units and made thirteen landings in New Guinea, Philippines, and
Borneo, field officer in charge of submarine motion picture project,
Pearl Harbor, July-November, 1945; awarded Bronze Star, two Com-
mendations from General MacArthur’s headquarters.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Nassau Country Club, Glen Cove,
Long Island; Meadow Club, Southampton, Long Island; Bathing Club,
Southampton; Columbian Lodge (Masonic), Boston.

GREETINGS! Is it possible that twenty-five years have passed
since we all spread to the four corners of the country and perhaps
the world? I’m sure your tales will be most interesting and in
many cases surprising. I only hope mine will prove equally so.

In a sense I suppose good fortune has pursued me for the most
part. I wish I could report a happy marriage and a flock of
children but that hasn’t been my lot. I am still a bachelor. No,
my good fortune lies in other directions, my work, my serv-
ice in the Navy, the devotion of family and friends, and good
health which has permitted me to enjoy all the activities of my
post-college days.

Thanks to some slight difficulties with the divisional exams and
a sincere desire to insure good seats for the football games, I re-
.turned to college in the fall of 1925, won my letter, and graduated
in January, while most of you were already struggling with the,
business of earning a living or preparing yourselves to become
doctors, lawyers, professors, scientists, or businessmen.

With a lawyer for a father and a brother, I had prepared for
Harvard Law only to find myself headed in an entirely different
and surprising direction in March, 1926. As TI recall, I had a very
strong urge to get out into the world and to work. All of a sudden
I was in the motion picture business and I have been in it ever since
with a slight breather for World War II. Starting in Philadelphia

[ 502 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

for FBO (subsequently RKO), I quickly learned enough about

branch office operations to become a film salesman in the New

Haven office. About three months later I was in the home office in

New York where for nearly three years I was given lots of oppor-

tunity to “learn the business,’”’ more especially distribution.

In the late spring of 1929 I thought I had had enough —no
doubt I figured I wasn’t going any place in particular. I resigned.
Then, as sound came to the movies, an opening occurred at Para-
mount and I was fortunate enough to become home office produc-
tion manager under Jesse Lasky, vice-president in charge of pro-
duction and one of the company founders.

I guess the general impression of the movie business is that it’s
glamorous, crazy, and remunerative. All three are comparatively
true. I certainly do not know any business like it and consider
myself fortunate to have been a part of it, come what may from
here in. It has been a thoroughly broadening experience which
Pm sure some of you, including my good friends, will be happy to
learn.

In spite of my high regard for Paramount, and in spite of all the
exciting and interesting work in helping to handle the studio’s
problems, my three and a half years in the Navy truly comprise
one of the major highlights of my whole life, thanks in part at
least to the fact that I had the good fortune to return intact. I only
hope that none of us will ever forget the thousands who didn’t.
As photographic officer in the Third Naval District and for the
Seventh Fleet in the Southwest Pacific and finally the submarine
force at Pearl Harbor, I had unusually interesting duty and de-
veloped highly valued friendships which I shall prize the remain-
ing years of my life.

New York is an exciting and interesting city in which to live
but the frequent excursions out of it make it truly liveable. Keep-
ing close contact with the remaining members of my family, most
of whom still live in Boston, has meant frequent visits home
throughout the years. My love for football continues and most
every fall weekend will find me on the hop to Cambridge, New
Haven, or Princeton, via convertible, top down, as of old. Tele-
vision may drive us out of business but it will never keep me at
home if I can possibly be “there” in person, After several summers
around Greenwich, Connecticut, and Oyster Bay, I have spent my

[ 503 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

summer weekends since the war at Southampton, Long Island,
Goif, tennis, and swimming still consume most of my spare time.

I have found many of my classmates remembering my interest
in dogs. The last two chows I had departed this world soon after
I went overseas. Rest assured my interest continues unabated — I
shall have some more once things are a little more normal (no
offense, you Democrats) and I have an apartment in which to live
instead of a hotel.

Ourside of the war years my distant travels have been confined
to an occasional visit to California on business and to innumerable
trips to Jamaica and Bermuda during winter vacations. An oppor-
tunity for more extensive travel would be greatly appreciated but
we executives of corporations must play the game, unfortunately,
and stick to our two or three weeks a year.

This is my story in brief. My work, my service, my family and
friends, have given me most all the happiness for which one could
ask. I am grateful. I like to consider myself much the same guy I
was twenty-five years ago, except with a little keener knowledge
and appreciation of life, its problems, and people. Now, before I
become too serious, I’d better close. Good luck.

JOHN HENRY ISELIN, JR.

HOME ADprEss: 9 Club Way, Hartsdale, N. Y.

orrice appress: Consolidated Edison Co., 4 Irving Pl. New York, N. Y.;
Chase National Bank, 18 Pine St., New York, N. Y.

Bors: Feb. 21, 1901, New York, N. Y. parents: John Henry Iselin, ’96,
Caroline Lydia Goodridge.

prepareD AT; Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925(26); M.D. (Columbia Univ.),
1934.

Marainp; Lydia Merrill, Feb. 6, 1926, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1941);
Harriett Davis Gesner, Jan. 23, 1942, New York, N. Y. cHitpren: Joan
Lydia, March 4, 1928 (m. John Hindon Hyde, June 26, 1948); John
Henry, 3d, April 17, 1932; Alan Davis, July 15, 1943.

HaRvarD BROTHER: Warburton Gouverneur Iselin, ’31.

occUPATION: Physician in the practice of internal medicine in industry.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECOKD: Captain, Medical Corps, A.U.S., October, 1942-

' December, 1945; Ashford General Hospital, White Sulphur Springs,
W. Va. November, 1942-November, 1943; goth Gencral Hospital, No-
vember, 1943-Scptember, 1945, with service in England, France, and
Germany, promoted major on inactive duty, December, 1946.

{ 504]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Association of Alumni of Bellevue
Hospital; Roosevelt Hospital Alumni Association, West Side Clinical
Society; New York County and State Medical Societies; Shenorock
Shore Club, Rye, N. Y.

WHEN the spring of 1925 rolled around, I found myself not alone
in needing a few more credits towards my degree. So John P.
Duncan and I teamed up in a room on Mount Auburn Street that
summer and went to work. By dint of Italian 1 and a course on
the intimate life of the Romans, I finally received my diploma.
Our chief extra-curricular activity was a life saving course (co-
educational) in the Charles River off the freshman boat house.
John was a splendid companion. Never did one have a more
loveable or devoted friend. Unfortunately, not long after an
excellent career in the Navy in World War II, he died as the result
of a coronary thrombosis.

In the fall of 1925, I had the mistaken idea that the way to get
rich quickly was to enter the real estate business in New York City.
By 1929 I was convinced that I could sell nothing to anybody,
even to one in the most urgent of circumstances. I then went to
Columbia to prepare for the College of Physicians and Surgeons.
After four tough years there, I interned for two years at Bellevue
Hospital. Like Paris, there is no use explaining the feeling one has
for Bellevue unless the listener has been exposed to it himself. It
was a happy and invaluable experience. In a six weeks’ tour of
ambulance duty, I made over five hundred calls among the poor of
New York’s lower East Side.

When the war came upon us, I had been in the practice of in-
ternal medicine in New York for five years. Then I volunteered
my services to the Navy, but was turned down because of a stiff
shoulder, the result of a runaway accident in Central Park in 1926,
when I was a private in Squadron A, New York National Guard.
A hurried trip to Washington to sell myself to Naval Headquar-
ters was of no avail, except that I was told that the Navy would be
glad to recommend me to the Army. When, at the Army exami-
nation a few days later, a hernia was discovered, I did not know
whether to laugh or cry, but decided on the former. It is always
better policy, come what may. I lost no time in getting the thing
repaired but was not accepted for two months, thus losing, in the
aggregate, several months of valuable time out of the service.

[ 505 ]

[renner ERREHraeino NEN NRIENRINRDRE Te aS TEN TER EINES

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

My first year in the Army was spent at Ashford General Hos-
pital, formerly the Greenbrier Hotel, in White Sulphur Springs,
West Virginia. We worked hard there, but still found time to
take advantage of the many splendid tennis courts and golf
courses. Most of my work consisted of running a psychiatric
ward filled with patients from the Pacific Theatre. I worked up
these patients from a medical standpoint and referred them to one
of our three psychiatrists. My youngest child was born in what
was once the Prince of Wales’ suite.

In 1943, I spent a month in the School of Tropical Medicine,
Army Medical School in Washington.

In January, 1944, I went overseas with the goth General Hos-
pital, after basic training at Camp Campbell, Kentucky. I spent
seven months in England, thirteen in Le Vesinet, a suburb of Paris,
and two weeks in and out of Frankfurt, Germany, as commanding
officer of a hospital train. Never having seen the inside of a hos-
pital train, I was certain, when my orders arrived, that some mis-
take had been made, but no. It was all too true and proved that
anything can happen in the Army. Thanks to majoring in Ro-
mance languages while at Harvard, I had no trouble in speaking
French and had a very fine social life in France. I saw a good deal
of Sam Reber, who was then political adviser to General Eisen-
hower. I had at least one humiliating experience in France. Born
without a sense of direction, I got lost while leading a platoon in
a dress parade. This would have seemed impossible even to me.
The commanding officer, who took great pride in his parades, was
chagrined (understatement) but was kind to me, nevertheless, and
immediately asked me to join him, with my French friends, in his
quarters to quaff some fine wine.

When I returned to the States in 1945, although I had an excep-
uonally good opportunity to resume practice in New York City,
I could find no place to live there and no suitable office. Prior to
my Army service, I had been working as a part-time physician
with the Chase National Bank. I could not afford to give this up.
I bought a house in Hartsdale and considered entering practice
there, but abandoned the idea because of my work with the bank.
This inevitably made industrial medicine my field from then on.

T work as physician for the Consolidated Edison Company
every morning and am on duty at the bank from one to five.

[ 506 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

There I lunch in delightful company with the bank officers, but
miss not being able to get out to lunch with my friends. However,
I am always glad when they can find it convenient to come as my
guest to the bank. Perhaps, with the present-day trend in medi-
cine, I am fortunate to be in industrial work, even though I miss
my service on the hospital wards.

My spare time is devoted to reading and attempting to write
fiction for publication. So far, I have had nothing published, but
I am young at it and never lose the urge to write. In summer, |
enjoy tennis and gardening. In winter, I attend medical meetings
and an evening cardiac clinic at Bellevue, where patients, seeking
employment, are advised as to the type of work they should
undertake. I also play squash rackets at the Harvard Club.

The religious side of life has always been a great source of
strength to me. I have recently been appointed to a committee of
a small Episcopal Mission church here in Hartsdale, and hope that
I shall be equal to the service expected of me.

MAURICE MAX ISEN

HOME Appress: 1 Merrill St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 24, 1904, Russia. PARENTS: Max Isen, Anna Echilson.

_ PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. C477 laude, 1925; LL.B. 1928.

MARRIED: Jeannette Hershon, Feb. 1, 1931, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Brenda Ruth, May 2, 1939; Eric Michael, Oct. 13, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Member, Advisory Draft Board 47, Cambridge,
Mass.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary and director, Temple Ashkenaz, Cambridge, 1935-
43; president, Constitution Lodge, B’nai B'rith, Cambridge, 1943-44;
secretary, Hillel Foundation of Cambridge, Inc. (Harvard unit), 1947-49.

MEMBER OF: Temple Israel Brotherhood; Cambridge Bar Association; Har-
vard Law School Association.

AFTER graduation from law school I began to practise law and
maintained my office in Boston. I have continued to practise law
ever since, except during the war years when I worked in “war
employment” for the General Electric Company, Lynn, Massa-
chusetts.

I found myself early involved in community activities. I took

[ 507 ]

SI te AERP EE OE RAED TOT WE es emp rageine cee ern

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

part briefly in some local, state, and national political campaigns,
and then decided to apply myself on the local level to community
problems. ‘Therefore my life has revolved around my family and
my community. Most recently the Hillel Student Center in Cam-
bridge has claimed most of my time and I have found a great deal
of personal satisfaction in the solution of the problems that arise in

connection with the maintenance and administration of this stu-
dent center.

I specialize in problems of federal taxation in my practice and
so life goes on, in a world that becomes more baffling. However,

I hope to keep on, with the wish that I can continue to discharge
all my responsibilities.

JOHN LESH JACOBS

ADDRESS: 2883 Andrews Drive, Atlanta, Ga.

porn: Aug. 28, 1904, Newton Center, Mass. parents: Thornwell Jacobs,
Maud Kistler Lesh.

PREPARED AT: Boys’ High School, Atlanta, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925. DEGREES: A.B. (Oglethorpe Univ.), 19235 5.B.
(Harvard Univ.), 1925; M.v. cum laude (ibid), 1929.

MaRRIED: Marjorie F. Evatt, June 15, 1933, Boston, Mass. CHILD: Pressley,
Nov. 25, 1934 (died Nov. 11, 1939).

occupation: Medicine.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Jacobs did not return a questionnaire.

BERNARD MAX JACOBSON

HOME AppREss: 22 Hyslop Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 422 Beacon 5St., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: July 31, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Abram Jacobson, Esther
Greenblatt.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1925; M.D. magna
cum laude, 1929.

MARRIED: Rosalind Siegel, July 16, 1933, Boston, Mass. cHrpren: Rachel

Susan, Sept. 3, 1936, Esther, June 11, 1939; Alice, Feb. 24, 1941; Abram
Robert, Jan. 16, 1948.

occupation: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, Medical Corps, U. S.
Naval Reserve, 1940; duty in U. S. Navy Yard, Boston, 1941-43; Over-
seas duty in U. S. Fleet Hospital #110, Russell Islands, Southwest

[ 508 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Pacific, 1943-45; stationed at U. S. Naval Hospital, Chelsea, Mass., 1945;
promoted lieutenant commander, 1942, commander, 1945; termination
of active service, Nov. 24, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Intern in medicine, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston, 1929-31,
Moseley Travelling Fellow, at University of Wiirzburg, Germany,
1931-323 instructor in medicine, Harvard Medical School, since 1933;
research fellow in medicine, 1932-35; assistant physician, Massachusetts
General Hospital, since 1935; associate visiting physician, Beth Israel
Hospital, Boston, since 1946; attending physician, Cushing Veterans
Administration Hospital, Framingham, Mass. since 1946; consultant
in medicine, U. S. Naval Hospital, Chelsea, Mass., since 1946.

MEMBER OF: New Century Club, Boston, American Medical Association;
American Society for Chemical Investigation, American Rheumatism
Association; International Society for Haematology; Greater Boston
Medical Society; Boston Medical Library.

PuBLicATIONS: Low Basal Metabolism in Health and Disease, 1931; numerous
technical papers in medical journals, dealing principally with chemical
aspects of disease, joint diseases, and blood diseases.

GRADUATION from college was followed by four years at
Harvard Medical School. These were years in which I felt I ma-
tured at an incredible pace. I was able to follow my bent along
chemical lines (possibly a tribute to the inspired teaching in Chem-
istry 5 by the late Professor Elmer P. Kohler), carrying on re-
search in biological chemistry with the late Dr. Y. Subbarow. He,
a native of India, was an intellectual giant who was sadly unappre-
ciated at the University, but later became the distinguished di-
rector of research of one of the large pharmaceutical firms. To
him I owe an incalculable debt for his training in scientific method
and in intellectual honesty. My unorthodox but apparently pro-
ductive years at the Medical School earned for me a Moseley,
which I utilized for investigative work at the hospital of the Uni-
versity of Wiirzburg in northern Bavaria for about sixteen months.
Wiirzburg, in those days, before the complexion became brown,
followed by General Patton’s devastating visitation in 1945, was a
lovely old university city nestling among the vineyard-clad hills
bordering the Main River. The last words of the late Dean Edsall
of the Medical School, before my departure, were ‘remember,
Jacobson, we’re not sending you to Europe just to study medi-
cine!” J hasten to add that I hearkened to his advice and during
those months in Germany I saw the disintegration of the Republic.
Amongst my German friends it was evident who would later
follow the horrible monster to come to power in January, 1933,

[ 509 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

who would passively be pulled along, and who, all too few, would
remain decent and true to the liberal tradition.

The year after my return to research in medicine, at the Massa-
chusetts General Hospital, I fell in love (at first sight) with the
girl whom I married a few months later. To Rosalind Marriage
was, and still is, a keen adventure. When I told her I was earning
a salary of only $2,500.00 she understood me to say $25,000! This
type of slight misunderstanding has continued, to enliven our
happy home. The years 1936 to 1941 were our period of fruitful-
ness in females, with a yield of three wonderful girls. The wartime
hiatus was followed by the synthesis in 1948 of a boy, who now
struts about under the admiring gaze of his devoted sisters. It isa
wonderful family.

Four and one-half years, while I was away at war, is a signifi-
cant proportion of a man’s productive life, and seemed even
longer then. Two years in the Southwest Pacific were rich in
opportunities for interesting medical work and in warm human
fellowship, but left me allergic to palm trees and to other mani-
festations of equatorial climate. An impress remained, also, of the
fact that the Navy was engaged in two wars, one with the Japs,
and the other with the Army. At times it was difficult to decide
which was being more intensively fought. This experience I later
transmitted to a group in the Senate, at the beginning of the move-
ment for unification of the armed forces, and possibly my modest
contribution helped further this present approximation to an im-
perative reform of our military establishment.

Since 1946 I have spent most of my time in private practice of
medicine, with particular emphasis on the diseases of the blood.
Most of my investigative work and teaching I have carried on at
the Massachusetts General Hospital, where I head up a special
clinic for such maladies. My consulting work carries me to other
hospitals around Boston. Medicine is a hard taskmaster, and leaves
me with all too little time for relaxation with the family and for
getting away into the woods to tramp and fish. But I suppose, if
I had my life to do over, I would make the same choice.

SAUL JARCHO

HOME Appress: 11 W. 69th St., New York 23, N. Y.
orFice appress: Mount Sinai Hospital, 11 E. rooth St. New York 29, N. Y

[510]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Oct. 25, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Julius Jarcho, Susana
Wallenstein. . 4s

PREPARED AT: De Witt Clinton High School, New York, N. Y. -

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1925; A.M.
(Columbia Univ.), 1926; mov. (ibid.), 1930.

MARRIED: Irma Seijo, Oct. 24, 1948, Washington, D. C.

HARVARD BROTHER: Leonard Jarcho, ’36.

occupaTion: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served in Army, October, 1942~September, 1946;
worked on parasitology and tropical medicine, Army Medical School,
six months; medical intelligence officer collecting and analyzing in-
formation concerning medical and sanitary conditions which prevail
in many parts of the world, three years; consultant in medical in-
telligence to the surgeon general, since the war.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant and instructor in pathology, Johns Hopkins Medical
School, 1934-36; instructor and associate in pathology, College of
Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, 1936-42; adjunct phy-
sician, 1940-48, associate physician, since 1948, Mount Sinai Hospital,
New York. ‘

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; about twenty-five scientific societies (medi-
cine, tropical medicine, public health, parasitology, geography); sev-
eral societies of historians.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on pathological anatomy, tropical medicine, history
of medicine, and related fields; pseudonymous pieces in Spanish for a
daily newspaper published in a Caribbean capital; about twenty-five
book reviews for the New York Times.

AFTER twenty-five years of intermittent reflection — and reflec-
tion in America can hardly be anything else than intermittent — I
have reached no settled conviction about the purpose and value of
college education or about the value of Harvard. A critical, truth-
ful, just, and mature treatment of these themes would be worth
twelve inches of any man’s bookshelf.

In the classroom of Professor Lowes I had the opportunity and
the stimulus to learn a few principles of English philology. In the
classroom of Professor E. K. Rand the smallest details and the
broadest aspects of Roman literature were placed within reach.
The stacks of Widener Library were wide open. Twenty-five
years have shown that the attitudes, principles, and methods in-
culcated by Lowes and Rand are applicable also to the practice of
clinical medicine and to the practice of life. Perhaps this conclu-
sion is adequate evidence of the value of Harvard.

[str]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

CHARLES STREET JEFFREY

HOME ADpREss: 180 Brattle St., Cambridge 38, Mass.
OFFICE ADprEsS: Jeffrey, Gray & Co., Inc., 79 Milk St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: July 24, 1903, Toronto, Ont., Canada. parents: Edward Charles
Jeffrey, Jennette Atwater Street.

PREPARED aT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; M.B.A., 1932 (33).

marrieD: Anna Hollis, June 20, 1931, Lynn, Mass. cemp: Anna Street,
Jan. 18, 1939.

OccuPATION: President and treasurer, Jeffrey, Gray & Company, Inc,, in-
vestment dealers and brokers.

OFFICES HELD: President, treasurer, director, Jeffrey, Gray & Company;
director, Pittsburgh Ineline Plane Company.

AFTER reading the “sample lives” of 1924 — thumbnail autobiog-
raphies by our distinguished junior senator from Massachusetts,
the very bright gentleman who looks after all the foreign problems
of the perfume trust, and the self-styled “epitome of provincial-
ism” from New Canaan, Connecticut —I must regretfully state
that in no case am I impressed with their skill in this rather difficult
form of the literary art. However, I hasten to add that I make no
claim to be able to better their performance. Probably the results
would be even worse! Hence, quoting the well-worn proverb,
“silence is golden,” I am delighted to leave the task of adorning the
virgin white pages of the Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report with
autobiographical sketches to those of my classmates with more
distinguished careers, or a greater desire for self-expression, or
perhaps a lesser sense of personal privacy.

WILLIAM WHITTEM JENNESS

HOME ADpREss: 106 Upland Rd., Quincy 69, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 134 Pearl St., South Braintree 85, Mass.

BorN: April 3, 1904, Quincy, Mass. parents: William Whittem Jenness,
Ella Adelaide Becker.

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.; Thayer Academy, South

Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1925.

MarrieD: Mary Alice Thomey, Sept. 28, 1935, Hartsdale, N. Y.

OCCUPATION: Editor and_ business manager, Observer Press, Inc.; State
Representative.

OFFices HELD: Acting mayor of Quincy, 1942; city councillor, 1938-453
council president, 1941-43; state representative, since 1945.

L512]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I REMEMBER very vividly the words of our late classmate,
Robert Emlen Sumner, in his Ivy Oration twenty-five years ago.
He predicted that, at the completion of our Harvard education,
we would “return to our homes to become respectable law-
breaking citizens, read the Saturday Evening Post, and vote the
straight Republican ticket.”

During the past thirteen years, much of my time has been oc-
cupied as a City Councillor and State Representative, making the
laws for the rest of you to break. Unlike most of you (if the
election returns are any criterion), I have been voting the straight
Republican ticket. However, because I am a Republican, I have
found that I do not always have enough money to buy the
magazine.

The wherewithal to purchase it on rare occasions (before the
price went up, that is) has been acquired in the printing and news-
paper publishing business which I entered about ten years ago as
a result of my interest in advertising. The interest in advertising
was purely accidental.

Back in 1929, when those of you who had moncy were losing it,
I was credit manager for a local lumber and building material
firm, and the advertising manager (who was a friend of mine)
asked me to write a few ads while he was away on his vacation.
When he returned, we both discovered to our mutual amazement
that I had his job. Incidentally, we are still friends, because the
boss gave him a better job.

_ My interest in politics originated from a desire to achieve econ-

omy in our local government. (For the benefit of those who have
only an academic interest in politics, economy is something that
Republicans practise on the rare occasions when they are given
the opportunity.) Some degree of success greeted this effort as
indicated by the fact that the tax rate in Quincy, which had been
skyrocketing, was reduced every year during the entire eight years
that I was in the City Council; and each reélection was with a
bigger majority during a period in our American life when a
fellow-Harvard man in the White House was relegating economy
to the rank of obsolete words.

In this effort, I have been immeasurably aided by a young lady
who never had much intention of entering politics before she mar-
ried me in 1935. Although she held a law degree, she chose depart-

[513]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

ment store work instead of the legal profession and, at the time |
took her out of this field of endeavor, she was earning more money
than I in a little store at the corner of 34th Street and Broadway in
New York called Macy’s.

At the present time, she has just completed serving four years
as president of the Women’s Republican Club of Quincy. She is
also vice-chairman of the Republican City Committee and a di-
rector in the Norfolk County Republican Club. Her man friends
insist that she is a better politician than her husband, but they’re
only saying that because it’s true — and anyway that only proves
that she had a very good teacher.

It is also generally acknowledged that we are one of the greatest,
if not the greatest, contract bridge teams of all time.

In 1944 I was elected to the Massachusetts House of Representa-
tives and have been twice reélected with easy margins. In the
Republican debacle of 1948, I was the only Republican to carry
every precinct in my district. At the same time, the Democrats
secured control of the Massachusetts House for the first time since
a time to which the memory of man runneth not.

This convinced me that the Republicans could not carry the
State if they continued to lose the cities — and that they could
never carry the cities so long as they retained the smug self-
complacent attitude that characterized the party leadership. Con-
sequently, I ran for minority floor leader, but found the Old Guard
too much for me, although I did finish second in a field of nine
candidates of which I was the youngest in age and point of
experience.

It is still my determined hope, however, that a revived Republi-
can party will regain the State this year and the nation in 1952 to
end for all time the threat of burial by bureaucracy that faces
every free American enterprise.

GEORGE BLAKE JOHNSON

HOME AppreEss: 23 Indian Head Rd., Framingham, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 73 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 18, 1902, Nahant, Mass. parents: Arthur Stoddard Johnson,
’85, Jennie Maria Blake.

PREPARED AT: Adirondack-Florida School, Onchiota, N. Y,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREE: A.B., 1925(26).

[514]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Margaret Hunt Ingraham, June 16, 1928, Woonsocket, R. I.
cuipreN: George Blake, Jr. July 26, 1930; Elizabeth White, Aug. 26,
3932.

OccuPATION: Trustee; treasurer of trustees of Andover Theological Semi-
nary, Newton, Mass.; clerk, Beaver Mills, Boston.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant, U.S. Naval Reserve, July 29, 1942;
attended Naval Training School (local defense), Boston, Aug. 1o-
Oct. 3, 1942; promoted lieutenant commander, Oct. 17, 1944; attended
submarine chaser training school, Miami, Oct. 12-Dec, 18, 1942; served
on USS. Kern (AOGz), Dec. 30, 1942-April 1, 1945 (commanding
Jan. 18, 1944-April 1, 1945); service in Marshalls, Marianas, and
Western Carolines; executive officer, U.S.S. Bexar (APA 237), June
1-Aug. 25, 1945 (pre-commissioning duties); stationed at Naval Offi-
cers Separation Center, Boston, September-Nov. 1, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman of assessors (governing board), First Parish Church,
Unitarian, Framingham, secretary, board of managers, New England
Home for Little Wanderers, Boston; member, board of managers,
Home for Aged Women, Boston.

MEMBER OF: Silver Grays; Committee for the Observance of the 2soth
Anniversary of Framingham; United World Fedcralists.

FILLING out forms could well be classified as a major occupation
of the average citizen. It should be interesting to add up the num-
ber of hours one spent worrying about and completing all the
various demands carefully labelled for information, historical,
statistical, and financial which must be submitted in compliance
with definite deadlines. Between the periods of form filling, life
has been very good to me. Those things which we cherish most
of all, a lovely home, a splendid family, and a lot of devoted
friends, I have.

My first years out of college were spent in the employ of the
Hood Rubber Company and the Warren Telechron Company.
From 1923 to 1937 I carried on, with the able assistance of my
wife, a small manufacturing company, designing, making, and dis-
tributing gift novelties. In 1937 I sold out the business, went to
my father’s office in Boston, took up the duties of a trustee, and
did some special research work.

Not too long after Pearl Harbor, I did some more form filling,
this time of my own volition, directed towards the United States
Navy. I had to offer, besides my business experience, some know]-
edge of navigation gained through Astronomy I in college and
preserved more or less through the years by yachting on boats of

all sizes and descriptions. In June, 1942, I received word that the

[515 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

President of the United States thought I should have two stripes
and go to the Local Defense School in South Boston. How this led
to the command of a Navy tanker in the Pacific is one of those
things that is difficult to trace back. I just lay it to a natural feeling
for the waves and the winds and the tides and the currents plus
the tutelage of the grand skipper I first served under as navigator,
first lieutenant, and executive officer.

There was no glamor, just hard steady work to this service, al-
ways pushing west. We served the forward areas but most always
arrived after things had pretty well quieted down. Other than
battling the almost impossible conditions for pumping the aviation
gasoline which we carried ashore to the newly established bases,
our most dreaded foe was the typhoon, two of which we weath-
ered. At the end of two and one-half years on the Kern, my
executive officer qualified for command, and I received my orders
for leave in the States and dury as executive officer on the Bexar,
an A.P.A. V-J Day came as I was putting the officers and crew
through the final phase of the rigorous training at Treasure Island,
California, prior to commissioning.

On my return to civilian life, I took up my duties where I had
left off. I found my children all grown up and flourishing in high
school, and my wife still knee-deep in Red Cross work at the
Cushing Hospital. Gradually I learned that one gets out of bed
and steps on the floor and that the bulkhead is really a wall and
that one only goes up a ladder when he has to do some painting or
hang a picture.

As for the children, George, after much deliberation, decided
that he wanted to go to Dartmouth where he is now a sophomore.
Elizabeth turned her back on her mother’s alma mater and is now
a freshman at Mount Holyoke. What this proves is anybody’s
guess, Mine is that the youngster of today takes his college educa-
tion more seriously than the average individual did twenty-five
ycars ago; and that he picks and chooses, if he has the chance, the
institution he thinks will benefit him the most, regardless of
parental tics. I believe that this shows a definite advance in the
general educational outlook. That a college rejects or is turned
down by the applicant is no discredit either to the college or the

applicant. It is rather a justification of the system of trying to fit
round pegs to round holes.

[516]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE REEBIE JOHNSON

HOME ADDRESS: 346 Calvert Rd., Merion Station, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 3938 Market St., Philadelphia 4, Pa.

BORN: June 18, 1903, Chicago, Ill. parenrs: Frank Hargrove Johnson, Lillian
Elizabeth Reebie.

PREPARED AT: Chicago Latin School, Chicago, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Virginia Cox, Feb. 14, 1931, Chicago, Ill. cumpren: Valerie Reid,
March 26, 1935; Craig, March 9, 1937.

occuPATION: Philadelphia district sales manager, Lincoln Electric Company.

OFFICES HELD: Partner, Frank H. Johnson & Son,’ 1927-32; vice-president,
Frank H. Johnson Company, 1930-32; Milwaukee district manager,
1932-36, Philadelphia district manager, since 1936, Lincoln Electric
Company.

MEMBER OF: American Welding Society.

BEING blessed with wife, daughter, and son of quite normal
physical and mental characteristics has made the growth of the
family interesting to a good limit and without, so far, more than
the pleasant trials and tribulations of growth. ‘Their questions of
me concerning the inconsistencies of human nature revealed in
world politics, government, and business are difficult to answer
to their satisfaction, Schools (the Baldwin School at Bryn Mawr
for the girl and Bala-Cynwyd Junior High School for the boy)
apparently do no better job on these questions, which is not stated
as criticism.

Since 1936 we have lived in Merion where we own a modest
home now being extensively remodeled (mostly by me on week-
ends). Excursions away from Merion have not been extensive.
For many summers the salty surf, sand, and sun of the south
Jersey shore, Stone Harbor, contributed to the health and amuse-
ment of the family. Interspersed were summer trips to Los
Chenneux Islands in Lake Huron and the Stanley Basin, Idaho,
in the Rockies fifty miles above Sun Valley. Summer camps now
are topping off the summer experiences of the daughter and son.

The daughter, like her mother, is artistically inclined, and the
son, like me, is mechanically bent. Work shop projects are a natural
outcome.

My job as Philadelphia district manager for the Lincoln Electric
Company of Cleveland involves me in the application of arc

[517]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

welding processes in all industry. Contacts therefore are wide
and, to me, could not be more interesting.

AUGUSTUS FREEMAN JONES

HOME ADDRESS: 563 W. Central St., Franklin, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Dean Academy and Junior College, Franklin, Mass.

BORN: July 23, 1901, Newfields, N. H. parents: Ralph Pearl Jones, Sarah
Richmond Richards.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: S.B., 1925; A.M. (Boston Univ.), 1937.

marrieD: Alice Prescott, Aug. 18, 1928, Littlejohn Island, Maine.
OCCUPATION: Teacher.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman, since 1946, Board of Overseers, Cousins and
Littlejohn Island Village Corporation, Maine; dean of men, 1941-45,

Dean Junior College, Franklin, Mass.; assistant postmaster, summers,
Littlejohn Island, Maine.

MEMBER OF: Excelsior Lodge, A.F. & A.M.

UPON leaving college I was employed by the duPont Company
in Parlin, New Jersey, as a sales correspondent. After about seven
months of what I hope was a mutually satisfactory relationship, I
was forced to retire for about two years because of ill health.

On recovery I entered teaching at the earnest solicitation of my
wife who felt that a summer’s vacation on an island in Maine out-
weighed the mercenary pursuit of the lucre. So we married in
August and to pedagogy I went in September, 1928.

My first and present location was at Dean where I have survived
the iron test of four headmasters, over a period of twenty-two
years, as a teacher of sundry subjects, mostly in the nature of
biology and social sciences. Some of my work has been adminis-
trative but I never quit my teaching even when loaded up with a
multitude of extra-curricular duties. In 1945 my eyes went back
on me considerably but I kept going at the job and improvement
slowly evidenced itself and they are still progressing favorably.

In the summers we ran our large cottage as a small boarding
house for many years. We rent a smaller place and my wife serves
as postmistress. I am available as a trucker or cottage maintainer,
when not keeping up our own property. With a motorboat, out-
boards, and skiffs to rent we survive the summer successfully.

On the whole life has been kindly, busy, and happy. Maybe I
rationalize but have no envy for those who are caught on the

[ 518 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

needless belt of demanding business, profession, or social whirl. I

still hope to travel more but am otherwise quite content. I am

convinced that the harmony and security which many seek is in

the simple and available things to be found very close to us all

and not in the mad and febrile chase which characterizes so many.
Pll see those of you who can make it at our Fiftieth.

FRANKLIN WEEKS JONES

HOME ADDRESS: 1627 33rd St., N.W., Washington 7, D. C.

BORN: Sept. 25, 1905, Evanston, Ill. parents: Carroll Henry Jones, Helen
Frances Weeks.

PREPARED AT: Evanston Township High School, Evanston, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1925; A.M., 1927;
M.B.A. (Northwestern Univ.), 1934; PH.D. (ibid.), 1942.

MARRIED: Eve Caswell, May 12, 1945, New York, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Carroll Henry Jones, Jr. °28; John Sills Jones, ’31.

occupaTIon: Research analyst, Central Intelligence Agency.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: First lieutenant, A.U.S., 1943-44, captain, AUS.
1944-46, major, A.US., 1946.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Research analyst, 1942-45, Office of Strategic
Services, Washington, D. C.

GEORGE ARTHUR JONES

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Riverview Ave., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Moseley’s Ballroom, 50 Bridge St., Dedham, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 13, 1903, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Arthur Bacon Jones, Helen
Durant.

PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

MARRIED: Jean Anderson, April 20, 1926, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1931);
Agnes Crosby, July 8, 1933, Ogunquit, Maine. cumpren: Lillian Alice,
June 16, 1927 (m. Thomas Dolan, August, 1944); George Arthur, Jr.,
June 18, 1929; Anne Catherine, Nov. 1, 1936. GRANDCHILDREN: Michael
Thomas Dolan, June, 1945; Sharon Dolan, June, 1948; Patrick Dolan,
August, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Owner-operator of the food and drink concession, Moseley’s
Ballroom.

HERBERT BERNHART JONES

HOME appress: 1817 N. Orleans St. Chicago, Ill.
OFFICE apprEss: Lion Manufacturing Corp., 2640 Belmont Ave., Chicago, Ill.

[519]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925
Born: Afarch 20, 1902, Denver, Colo. parents: Edward Adams Jones,
Elsbeth Lena Beese.
prepared AT: Hyde Park High School, Chicago, Il.
VEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: $.B., 1925.

maxriep: Olive Roselia Drake, Sept. 12, 1925, Chicago, Ill. cump: Celia
Phylis, Dec. 8, 1931.

occurarion: Vice-president, Lion Manufacturing Corporation.
orrices HELD: Director and treasurer, Coin Machine Institute, 1947-49; presi-
dent, American Coin Machine Manufacturers Association, 1950.

BEN PAUL JUBELIRER

HOME ADDRESS: 1226 Denniston Ave., Pittsburgh 17, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1007 Jones Law Bldg., Pittsburgh 19, Pa.

BORN: Jan. 6, 1904, New Salem, Pa. parents: Osias Jubelirer, Leah Ehren-
werth.

PREPARED aT: McKeesport High School, McKeesport, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; LL.B. (Univ. of Pittsburgh),
1928,

marRieD: Adeline Crown, June 18, 1929, Pittsburgh, Pa. camp: Lynn, Jan.
17, 1934-
OccUPATION: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Westmoreland Country Club.

SINCE graduation I have taken life and earning a livelihood for
granted. Marriage and a lovely daughter were both fortuitous
circumstances which focused themselves as a plan for my future.
Their specifications required work and incentive. I’ve been at
work since, weathering one professional storm afrer another.

CHARLES J. KALINAUSKAS

HOME ADDRESS: 509 Broadway, South Boston 27, Mass.

OFFice appress: Office of United States Attorney, 1131 Federal Bldg,
Boston, Mass.

Born: Feb. 29, 1904, South Boston, Mass. parents: Anthony Michael Kalin-
auskas, Elizabeth A. Vasilauskas.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1925(24); LL.B. 1927.

Maraiep: Anna R. Gabrunas, June 27, 1937, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:

Charles Joseph, April 9, 1938, Philip, Nov. 23, 1941; Elizabeth A,
Jan. 12, 1944.

occupaTION: Lawyer; assistant United States attorney, District of Massa-
chusetts.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Attorney for alicn property custodian, Boston.

[ 520]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, South Boston District Red Cross Drive, 1944;
past president, United Lithuanian Citizens’ Club of Massachusetts, Massa-
chusetts district of Lithuanian Alliance of America, and Dorchester
American-Lithuanian Citizens’ Club.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Federal Bar Association; Massa-
chusetts Bar Association; Boston Latin School Association, Harvard Law
School Association; Catholic Alumni Sodality.

TO GIVE an account of my life from graduation to 1940 is easy.

I need merely to quote what appears in three earlier Reports. In

1931 I wrote for the Sexennial Report: “Upon graduation from

college I spent three years at the Harvard Law School and then
went into private practice in Boston.” In 1935, for the Decennial

Report I observed: “It is said that Law is a jealous mistress. I might

add that at first she is also frugal. Not being inclined to form any

alliance which would bring the wrath of law upon me, I am still
unattached, although, by making gradual inroads on her frugality,
daily I am gaining courage to cope with her jealousy.” For the

Quindecennial Report in 1940, I remarked: “Practising law almost

exclusively. I found time to get married, and now have to find

time to comply with the orders and whims of irrepressible Junior.”

In retrospect, from Commencement on, my meditations suggest
. that the years have brought the usual joys, sorrows, encourage-
ments, and disappointments. The loss of both my parents during
that time was severely jolting, but the arrival of my three children
in the same decade stressed the perpetuation of man.

As in all lines of endeavor, the lawyer has his successes and
reverses; after a score of years he mellows noticeably within and
without. Comparing the portrait of 1925 with that of 1950 will
attest for proof of external mellowing, and as for internal mellow-
ing — the fact is cited that about now one feels truly ready to
COMMENCE the journey down life’s road, for only now does one
feel equipped by experience with an indefinable something which
explains much that was previously incomprehensible, yet the lack
of which was sensed. Very likely, if we are around to reflect
twenty-five years from now, we shall similarly certify our ap-
preciation for the experience gained in the years then directly
preceding.

Since 1940 much has happened to the world and to me. After
the Army and Navy rejected me in 1942 because J did not have
enough twentieths to my vision without glasses, I was relegated

[521]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

to intensive and vigorous law work. My responsibilities were in-
creasing and I sought new opportunities. I was accepted to the
staff of trial counsel by the Liberty Mutual Insurance Company
and tried many of its accident cases on a fee basis. About the same
time, I undertook to represent the Alien Property Custodian in
Boston, frequenting Probate Courts to restrain the flow of assets
to any place or person not consistent with the war effort. In 1945
I was appointed an Assistant United States Attorney for the Dis-
trict of Massachusetts, and since then I have been “prosecuting for
commission of federal crimes and representing Government in
enforcing certain administrative laws” as I said in 1947 for the
Directory, Class of 1927, Harvard Law School.

It will be noted that I was late in getting married, and when all
my contemporaries had done the inevitable, fortunately I was
found twelve years after graduation by the “one and only” who
has completely lived up to my expectations as a superlative wife
and mother. It has been a source of great happiness to relive
youth with my growing boys and to observe the antics of their
little sister. In selecting hobbies for my sons, I have become an
avid disciple of Izaak Walton and am gratified that my lads have
been introduced to angling so much earlier in life and so much
more intensively than had been my lot.

I enjoy travelling and managed to get around the United
States and to Canada and the West Indies on pleasure trips, but
this activity has been curtailed of late. I now wait for the time
when the children will be grown enough to travel with us and
enjoy it.

My social, political, and religious affiliations have been typical
of the new Boston: social diversification as a Catholic Democrat
is the new motif, coupled in my case with a liberality influenced
by the Harvard we knew in the twenties and which stressed the
constitutional guarantees in the Bill of Rights.

PHILIP KEENE

HOME ADDRESS: 34 Home Ave., Middletown, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: State Highway Dept., Hartford, Conn.

BORN: Oct. 31, 1902, Newton, Mass. PaRENts: Thomas Means Keen i
. 9 . ey; Ed th
Gwendoline Shankland.

[522]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

preparED AT: Wellesley High School, Wellesley, Mass., Missoula High
School, Missoula, Mont.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREES: $.B, IN C, ENGIN. cum laude, 1925,
S.M. IN C, ENGIN. cum laude, 1940.

MARRIED: Fenncl Virginia Thornton, Sept. 6, 1941, Middletown, Conn.
CHILDREN: Thomas Philip, Dec. 7, 1943; Charles Thornton, April 29,
1945; David Lacy, April 20, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Keene, 26.

occupaTION: Engineer of soil mechanics and foundations.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Committee on Subsurface Drainage, Highway Re-
search Board, since 1947; member various committees of professional
organizations,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Connecticut; Harvard Engineering Society;
American Society of Civil Engineers, Connecticut Society of Civil
Engineers; Highway Research Board; American Socicty of Testing
Materials; University Club of Middletown.

PuBLicATIONS: Articles and papers in publications of some of the above pro-
fessional societies and in civil engineering magazines.

THE variety of life which I was fortunate to enjoy in my boy-
hood continued after graduation in 1925. Up to 1939 I had five
different jobs, all in civil engineering in New York and Wash-
ington, mostly in subway construction. Also I was able to get in
a three months’ cruise through the length of the Mediterranean
with trips in the interesting countries we touched and two months
in Sicily and Italy.

However, construction work does not usually provide a steady
lifetime position in one location. Since modern scientific soil
mechanics and foundations were beginning to be taught in our
engineering schools and it scemed promising and interesting to
me, I pulled up and returned to the Harvard Graduate School of
Engineering in 1939 for a year’s study in this field. Harvard at
that time was (and is today) the leader in instruction in this field,
so my choice of school was easy.

Everything worked out perfectly. I secured a position with
the Connecticut Highway Department, gradually organized the
present division of soil mechanics, met an adorable southern girl,
and we were married here in Middletown. We have three of the
finest little boys (except when they scuffle too much) and we
enjoy living in Middletown very much. It is not too large and
yet is not far from Boston and New York.

About a year ago we bought a large house, about 125 years

[ 523 ]

ab ag

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

old. While it has character, it also has need of some new paint
and paper and numerous minor repairs. Working on the house
and grounds, including a good vegetable garden, raising the
children, and enjoying a pleasant social life keep us busy at home,
so we have no time for other hobbies. With the coming of the
children, my golf and tennis have suffered greatly from neglect.
Add, too, a generous amount of overtime work in the office and
the field. And now I am putting some spare time on a contribu-
tion on soil mechanics for a highway engineers’ handbook.

Politically, I am an independent Republican and a liberal (I
hope), the latter partly because of the influence of my wife who
is a humanitarian by nature, formerly a social worker by education,
and a liberal Southern Democrat by conviction.

My religious affiliations have been varied; a Congregationalist
by birth, an Episcopalian (in Cuba) by necessity, a Unitarian by
inclination, and a Methodist by marriage.

WILLIAM SHELTON KEESE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1259 Duane Rd., Chattanooga, Tenn.

OFFice Apress: Trotter, Boyd & Keese, Provident Bldg., Chattanooga, Tenn.

BorN: May 28, 1903, Cuthbert, Ga. parents: William Shelton Keese, Lucy
Beall.

PREPARED AT: McCallie School, Chattanooga, Tenn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MarRigD: Elsie Louise Gosnell, Aug. 27, 1927, Chattanooga, Tenn. CHILDREN:
Wilson Baldwin, Aug. 28, 1931' (died); William Shelton, 3d, July 15,
1933 (died, Aug. 10, 1939); Janet Pendleton, Nov. 18, 1934; Peter

Gaines, Jan. 28, 1936; Stephen Alexander, March 7, 1942; Timothy
Gosnell, June 14, 1943.

occupation: General Insurance.

OFFICES HELD: President, Tennessee Association of Insurance Agents, 1936-
38, Chattanooga Insurance Exchange, 1930-32, Episcopal Churchmen
of Tennessee, 1949; member Executive Committee, National Associa-
tion of Insurance Agents, 1941, Bishop’s Council, Protestant Episcopal
Church, Diocese of Tennessee, 1942-45, 1946-49; member of board,
Episcopal Endowment Corporation, 1948; treasurer, Chattanooga
Chamber of Commerce, 1949; secretary, Chattanooga Rotary Club,
1948-49, vice-president-treasurer, DuBose Memorial Church Training
School, 1945.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club; Mountain City Club; Chattanooga Golf and
Country Club.

[524]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I’M HERE at the office Saturday morning — rather quiet since
we have it open to answer the phone only.

My life has had none of the glamour of travel or exciting tours
of duty on foreign soil on army service. I came home after grad-
uation, worked for two years for another company, set up in
business in 1927 for myself and later, in June, 1930, formed my
present partnership.

The usual jobs and responsibilities of an insurance agent have
been mine: president of the Insurance Exchange of Chattanooga,
president and national counsellor of the Tennessee Association
of Insurance Agents, and member of the Executive Committee
of the National Association of Insurance Agents.

Community affairs also devolve on an insurance agent in a
small city: Chamber of Commerce, vice-president of the Rotary
Club, secretary of Community Chest campaigns, and Opera As-
sociation and Symphony Orchestra board membership. Currently
I am president of the Episcopal Churchmen of Tennessee, mem-
ber of the board of the Episcopal Endowment Corporation, vice-
president and treasurer of the DuBose Memorial Church Train-
ing School, vestryman of St. Paul’s Episcopal Church, and a
delegate to the General Convention at San Francisco this month,

On the family side, I have a house full of children. In another
three years my daughter will be ready for college; five years and
my son should be ready for Harvard, Then a short breather and
the two younger boys will be heading east to college. Believe
me, four youngsters can keep one busy. What with going to
music recitals, P.T.A. meetings, art exhibits, and drills, I know
what keeps youngsters busy.

During the war I did not serve directly, but as treasurer of
the Guntersville Limestone Company we did produce 750,000
tons of crushed limestone used in the production of synthetic
rubber. The work had to be done by me nights, Saturdays, Sun-
days, and holidays, as my regular business had to keep on.

I have been interested during the last few years in Muzak.
Two of our operations in Houston and Dallas, Texas, are coming
along fine. Our operation in Chattanooga is not so good and
frankly is an experimental one, being located in one of the smallest
cities with a Muzak franchise. My experience has taught me that
salesmen and management earn whatever they can get!

[525]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

In politics, ’'m a Southern Republican, driven into this camp
by the late New Deal. We in the South can do very little except
raise and give’money. I’ve been chairman of the finance com-
mittee for this Congressional district for the last six years. We
have sent some money to other sections where we felt it would
do some good, rather than waste it here in the South.

I’m completely out of sympathy with the philosophy today
that “the world owes me and everyone else a living.” I don’t
believe in the Social Security system, concentration of power in
Washington, socialized medicine, the Marshall Plan, or aid to
the socialistic government of Britain. I think local government
should pay its own way and not receive anything from the fed-
eral government. I’m opposed to crop control, to federal aid
to education, to public housing, to the T.V.A., or any other arm
of government invading private business. If government can’t
regulate, how can it operate? I believe in the private enterprise
system and think government has invaded too much in business.

But enough. Maybe we shall live another twenty-five years

and thus celebrate our soth anniversary. I hope to be present
for our 25th.

WALTER TELL KELLER

HOME ApprEss: 701 First St., Lenexa, Kans.
OFFICE appREss: Cramer Posture Chair Co., Inc., 1205 Charlotte St., Kansas

City 6, Mo.

BORN: July 22, 1903, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Gustav Frederick Keller, Frieda
Carolina Walter.

PREPARED AT: Westport High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREFS: AB., 1925; LL.B. (Kansas City School
of Law), 1929.

MarriepD: Lois Gray Swingle, Nov. 1, 1930, Kansas City, Mo. CHILDREN:

Walter Tell, Jr., June 24, 1931 (died Jan. 26, 1939); Carol Leslie, Dec. 5,
1932; Sandra Allison, June 27, 1934.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, secretary, and director, Cramer Posture Chair
Company, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: City clerk, 1941-43, councilman, 1944-45, mayor, since 1945,
Lenexa.

MEMBER OF: Phi Alpha Delta Law Fraternity.

ALL DAY long the wind has been blowing with almost hurricane
speed, reminiscent of the dust-bowl days, carrying good Kansas

[ 526]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

topsoil eastward into Missouri. Well, Missouri needs it all right,
but some Jayhawkers, no doubt, will demand that the legislature
pass a law to keep the wind from blowing so hard in Kansas. If
the wind can blow so hard outside the house, why can’t it blow
inside as well?

Certainly autobiography is not my forte, especially when tech-
nical deficiencies are accentuated by a colorless subject matter.
My life during the past quarter-century is extraordinary only in
the fact that it has been very ordinary, and cold, factual narrative
doesn’t help it any. Like most men (and women too, for that
matter), I would prefer to talk or write about others, rather than
myself; it’s fashionable to use imagination when discussing the
other fellow but a personal narrative must be glued to the bare
skeleton of fact.

The past twenty-five years, in prospect, were most attractive,
exciting, and haloed by golden dreams; in retrospect they have
been but a ‘watch in the night,” filled with woes and joys, suc-
cesses and failures, dissipated dreams and ambitions, and all the
other peaks and pits incidental to the mere labor of breathing.
Looking back at these years is like peering into a rear-view mirror
— the picture is at times unreal, limited, and mechanical, it seems
to lack the vitality of a present event, Much of my immature
conduct during that time appears stupid, incomprchensible, and
some of it is as aromatic as yesterday's unfinished cigar.

Yet, with the passing of time, I appreciate more the Harvard
years which prepared me for the long walk down the lonesome
road, furnishing a frame for the picture of life, a backdrop for the
drama of living, which we, as actors, so often fail to understand as
spectators. To me, a liberal education is far more important for
the science of living than training for a profession, particularly
if a choice must be made. It adjusts one to an understanding of
people and their affairs and to me people are the most important
and interesting subject in the world.

But to return to the business at hand. Under duress and to
complete the record, I am obliged to confess the events in the life
of an ordinary person, and being just ordinary has been the most
difficult thing I’ve had to do.

Like any other graduate, full of fire and ambition, I hurried
home to Kansas City and went to work for the Kansas City Marble

[527]

i

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

and Tile Company of which my father, the late G. F. Keller, was
president. This company was engaged in the milling and finishing
of natural marble, both domestic and foreign, for installation in
structures of all kinds. The artistic and perfectionist tempera-
ment of my patient father was subjected to severe strain during
the tutelage of a sophomoric son but this indulgent training proved
invaluable as the years went by. However, the impact of the
depression upon this unusual and interesting industrial art was so
great that I was obliged to seek greener pastures in the interest
of self-preservation. In 1941 I obtained employment with the
Cramer Posture Chair Company of Kansas City, manufacturers
of metal adjustable chairs for office and factory workers. To
avoid the tempting tangent of “talking shop,” all I shall say is
that I have thoroughly enjoyed my association with this company.
Since 1946 I have been vice-president, secretary, and a director
of this corporation.

From 1925 to 1929 I studied law in night classes at the Kansas
City School of Law (later absorbed by Kansas City University),
receiving an LL.B. degree. I was admitted to the Missouri Bar in
1929 but have never actively practised law as a profession. In
1930 I married Lois Gray Swingle of Kansas City, who is also a
graduate of the law school. Between 1931 and 1934 three children
joined our family group, a boy and two girls. In 1939 we were
obliged to face one of the crushing realities of life in the death of
our son at the age of seven.

Under the impact of this distressing event, further aggravated
by a struggle to meet economic needs, we decided to change
surroundings, and moved to Lenexa, a small city in suburban
Johnson County, Kansas, about fifteen miles from Kansas City,
Missouri, where I worked. It was here we hoped to adjust our-
selves to a changed situation, away from the rush and noise of the
city, and lead the quiet life. However, since coming to Lenexa
(named after the daughter of an Indian chief), I have been busier
than ever, being active in the affairs of the community. Here I
found the opportunity to study democratic processes at the grass
roots level. I was appointed city clerk, and then elected council-
man. Since 1945 I have been mayor and will conclude my third
term in 1951. Needless to say, my experiences as an official of a
town of nine hundred people have been most interesting and in-

L 528 ]

ae

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

structive and I have absorbed much abuse for a remuneration of
one dollar a year. With my business activity in Kansas City dur-
ing the day and my struggle with city affairs at night, my time
has at least been well occupied. Perhaps I might say that com-
munity service has been my avocation.

With two active teen-age daughters and a wife with many in-
terests, my limited social activities have been more or less dictated
for me and without opposition. My daughters are presently in-
terested in singing and our household is pleasantly lively, to say
the least. However, I am obliged to turn on the radio to hear a
mature masculine voice. On our vacations we generally go west
or southwest, and we are particularly intrigued with New Mexico
and the city of Santa Fe. My wife Lois, desperately devoting her
married life to developing my better side (if she can find one),
inveigled me into teaching the Men’s Bible Class at the Roanoke
Baptist Church in Kansas City. This I have done for the past
several years, instructing myself as well as others, to my surprised
enjoyment.

Although we midwesterners back in the hinterlands have a
peculiar penchant for expressing opinions on any subject at the
slightest provocation, I shall not abuse the privilege of presenting
my social, political, or religious convictions. I shall reserve this
choice hobby for conversation; it isn’t safe to freeze opinions in
print. To be sure, the world is never static — things must either
grow or decline and what is gospel today may be heresy tomorrow.

Yet I must say that I am grateful for a pleasant family life,
parents full of grace, and a modicum of the material things to
carry on comfortably, if not indulgently. As to a moral pattern
for living, after all, “what doth the Lord require of thee, but to
do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?”

Having presented my apology for the past twenty-five years,
I look forward with eager anticipation to the next quarter-cen-
tury!

SYLVESTER BAKER KELLEY

HOME ADDRESS: 34 Exeter St., West Newton 65, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 412 Beacon St., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: June 9, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: Isaac Staples Kelley, Clara Ann
Morse.

[ 529 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: S.B., 1925; M.D., 1929.

MaRRIED: Hope Elizabeth Hanly, July 29, 1933, Newtonville, Mass. am.
DREN: David Baker, March 5, 1935; Sarah Campbell, May 11, 1937;
Jonathan Merrick, Jan. 11, 1940; Elisabeth Morse, Jan. 18, 1949.

occupation: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Chief of Urological Section, 6th General Hos.

pital, May 12, 1942—September, 1945; released from active duty, Jan.
15, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in surgery, Harvard Medical School.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Duxbury Yacht Club; Aesculapian
Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Short papers on various urological subjects.

IN FRESHMAN English, twenty-five years ago, kind Mr. A
shook his head skeptically over Kelley’s English composition; it
was structurally sound but utterly Jacking in charm. My failure

to overcome this impediment is one of the reasons why I am
just one of the working boys today.

I entered the Harvard Medical School in the fall of 1925 and
was awarded my M.D. degree four years later. My original
dream of becoming a general practitioner was disrupted by my
good fortune in winning a straight surgical internship at the
Massachusetts General Hospital. Later, two more years were
spent at the same institution as resident in urology.

Long before I finished my hospital training I succumbed to
the charms of Hope Hanly, the former secretary in the old M.
G. H. operating room, and we were married in July, 1933. Ever
since then, domestic happiness has prevailed, and my attain-
ments today are the result of my wife’s patience and foresight.

Feeling that a young physician should settle in a place where
he wants to live rather than where he might find the greatest
financial remuneration, I opened my office in Boston for the
practice of urology. I never have regretted my decision. Prac-
tice in Boston is notoriously strenuous, yet very pleasant amid
congenial colleagues. My interests in this specialty are protean,
emphasis being placed on the clinical management of genito-
urinary problems rather than upon laboratory work. Research
is limited to literary investigations.

Professional obligations and participation in community affairs

[ 530]

sae Tp

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

leave little time for hobbies. During the summer I enjoy gar-
dening, not so much with the idea of earning huge profits by
plowing under a field of corn as through the thrill of meeting
the challenge of production from poor soil. I have not set foot
in a shell since intern days when I had many a pleasant trip
down Boston Harbor in one of those heavy wherries from the
Union Boat Club. Salt water cruising is still my chief delight
but a desire to diversify vacation activities of the family limits my
peregrinations to short trips in Duxbury Bay. A part of each
summer is spent in taking the family overland to different parts
of the country.

In the recent war it seemed that I played a small part in the
ultimate result. Activated in May, 1942, with the General Hos-
pital unit from the Massachusetts General Hospital, I spent the
next eight months in Florida becoming indoctrinated into Army
routine which was so different from competitive private practice.
Eventually we reached Casablanca, Morocco, where for more
than a year we nursed casualties on their way home. This oppor-
tunity to enjoy the delightful climate in that part of Africa and
to visit ancient cities like Marrakesh, Rabat, Fez, and Oran com-
pensated in part for our lack of professional activity. Subse-
quently we were equally fortunate in being stationed at Rome,
Leghorn, and Bologna. From a social point of view the most
pleasant assignment overseas was the three months I spent aboard
a hospital train in Italy facetiously named “Kelley’s Comet” be-
Cause of its inactivity.

Politically I am far out on the right wing, anxious merely for
an opportunity to conduct my private affairs unfettered by
political supervision. As far as socialized medicine is concerned,
I am opposed to any universal plan of subsidy administered from
the capitol. While some form of federal aid to the sick un-
doubtedly is necessary in certain parts of the country, I feel
strongly that a national program, politically controlled, would
not be conducive to the welfare of the patient. Occasionally,
when I pause to observe the trend towards government waste,
I wonder if I am just too old-fashioned — out of step with modern
ideas. If such is the case, I shall try to revise my point of view
and drift with the majority, miserable, however, with the thought
of where we’re bound.

[531]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

THOMAS ANDREW KELLEY
HOME ADDRESS: 2 Westwood Rd., Somerville, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 52 Central St., Somerville, Mass.

Born: March 25, 1903, Somerville, Mass. PARENTS: John Henry Kelley, Nora
Josephine Mullen.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; M.D. (Boston Univ.), 1929,

MARRIED: Eleanor M. Bowen, Sept. 16, 1931, Somerville, Mass. crttoren:
John Bowen, Dec. 3, 1932; Thomas Andrew, Jr. Oct. 20, 1934; Paul
Martin, Aug. 23, 1936; Michael, Nov. 12, 1937; Mary Ann, Dec. 27, 1939;
Sheila, Feb. 10, 1942; Kevin, Nov. 15, 1943.

occuPATION: Physician.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Selective Service Administration.
OFFICES HELD: Surgeon, Somerville Hospital; obstetrician, Massachusetts

Memorial Hospital, instructor in obstetrics and gynecology, Boston
University.

MEMBER oF: American College of Surgeons; American Medical Society;
New England Obstetrical and Gynecological Society, Massachusetts
Medical Society; Somerville Medical Society.

A QUARTER of a century passes very rapidly from hindsight.
My first four years were spent in medical school and teaching
science to augment my income. Then came three years of hos-
pital training, then the fatal step. The fatal step was most for-
tunate for me. J still insist that the woman a man marries makes or
breaks him. I was most fortunate and still think so. Whatever
of good fortune or success I have attained is directly due to my
wife and she is still the hub of my universe. __

I started practice in my home town and I am still the family
doctor and father confessor to my own people. We have a large
family and our cup of happiness if filled to overflowing. We have
not much money but lots of funny stories and: wonderful times
as a family group.

I have been associated with the sporting world as physician to
the Boston Garden for the past twenty years. The children have
enjoyed and seen intimately, from behind the scenes, the world of
sports.

We have only one mission in life: to make the world a little
better for having lived in it and to teach our children to work
hard and to love God. We sincerely hope that our five boys can

go through Harvard to aid them in accomplishing the purpose
and fulfillment of their lives.

[ 532 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LEE GORDON KENDALL

HOME ADDRESS: 110 Belknap Rd., Framingham, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: 198 Union Ave., Framingham, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 29, 1902, Vineyard Haven, Mass. parents: Charles Pierce
Kendall, ’o2z, Jennie Elisa Moss.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 19253 M.D., 1930.

MarRRIED: Priscilla Waterman, Oct. 16, 1936, Chestnut Hill, Mass. curtpren:
Ann Louise, Jan. 10, 1938; Georgia Lee, June 23, 1939; Lee Gordon,
Jr., Nov. 20, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Moss Kendall, ’24.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered active service as captain, Medical
Corps, A.U.S., 5th General Hospital, Jan. 10, 1942; arrived Belfast,
N. L, March 2, 1942; chief of surgery (with rank as major and lieu-
tenant colonel), roth Station Hospital, Belfast, April, 1943—April, 1944,
348th Station Hospital, England, April-December, 1944, 303rd Station
Hospital, England, December, 1944-July, 1945, discharge promotion,
colonel, November, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Visiting surgeon, Framingham Union Hospital; attending
surgeon, Cushing Veteran’s Administration Hospital, associate in sur-
gery, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, instructor in surgery, Harvard
Medical School.

MEMBER oF: American College of Surgeons; American Board of Surgery;
New England Surgical Society.

A YEAR of teaching in a girl’s boarding school convinced me
that I was not cut out for teaching and so with some difficulty
I entered Harvard Medical School in the fall of 1926. I would
say that during my four years there I got to know more people
better and more faculty members better than in college. In fact,
I cannot say that I ever got to know any faculty member at all
in college. I suppose that is changed now. After four and one-
half years of hospital work I was financially exhausted and em-
barked upon a practice of surgery in Framingham, Massachusetts.
Except for the period from January 10, 1942, to August, 1945,
when I was in the Army, I have been there ever since.

Since the war I have been doing a little teaching at Harvard
Medical School and visiting in surgery at Cushing Veterans Hos-
pital in addition to my practice. Both of these contacts are very
stimulating.

., Perhaps the smartest thing I ever did was, at the tender age

[ 533 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

of thirty-four, to marry Priscilla Waterman. We have two re-

war girls and a postwar boy who are, fortunately, well and 4
great source of satisfaction.

HIARRISON EISENBREY KENNARD

HOME ApbRESS: 246 Dudley Rd., Newton Center, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1180 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.

BORN: June 26, 1903, Brookline, Mass. parents: Frederic Hedge Kennard,
's8, Sarah Harrison Eisenbrey.

prepared AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 1925; M.D., 1931.

UN MARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Frederic Hedge Kennard, Jr. ’24 (deceased); Robert
Martin Parry Kennard, ’26.

occupation: General surgeon.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant commander (M.C.),
U. S. Naval Reserve, 1940; active duty, including 20 months in South
Pacific, 1941-45; promoted commander, 1944.

oFFices WELD: Teaching fellow in surgery, 1935, instructor in surgery,
since 1949, Tufts College Medical School; medical officer in charge,
1935-36, Grenfcll Mission Hospital, St. Anthony, Newfoundland;
assistant in surgery, 1935-48, Massachusetts General Hospital; assistant
surgical adviser, since 1947, Harvard University Department of Hy-
giene; assistant to visiting surgeons, since 1948, Boston City Hospital,
director, since 1936, New England Grenfell Association, vice-president,
since 1947, Harvard Traveller's Club; trustee, since 1948, Boston
Museum of Science.

semper or: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Traveller’s Club; Harvard
Mountaineering Club; Appalachian Mountain Club, Duck Lake Club,
American College of Surgeons (Fellow); Massachusetts Medical So-

ciety; American Medical Association, American Board of Surgery
(Diplomate).

PuBLicaTions: Six articles in various medical journals, 1935-49.

AFTER studying for a year at the Harvard Graduate School of
Business Administration, I decided against a business career, and
enrolled for a year of pre-medical work in Cambridge before
becoming qualified for admission to the Harvard Medical School.
The four-year course at Harvard Medical School was most in-
spiring and interesting.

Immediately after graduation in 1931, I was invited to serve
as ship’s doctor on a surveying expedition to Northern Labrador.
Under the able leadership of Dr. Alexander Forbes, Professor of

[534]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Physiology at Harvard Medical School, the expedition made the
first accurate map of Northern Labrador (using aerial photo-
graphs). That same autumn I went to Vienna and studied path-
ology for two months. I returned by way of Constantinople,
Greece, and Italy to start a two-year surgical internship at the
Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston.

After finishing the internship in February, 1934, I visited our
classmate, Blake Field, at his ranch school in Arizona for a
month, and then returned to Labrador as Medical Officer for the
Grenfell Mission at the small village of Cartwright. That autumn
I came back to Boston to begin a year of service at the Boston
City Hospital as resident surgeon.

In November, 1935, I was asked to take charge of the principal
Grenfell Mission Hospital located at St. Anthony, Newfound-
land. Never did I spend a pleasanter winter. Work at the eighty-
bed hospital was most interesting and we made several dog-team
trips to outlying settlements. The snow was very deep and the

‘weather consistently below freezing. However, we were always
adequately dressed and found it very enjoyable.

After returning to Boston in June, 1936, I worked for four
years as assistant to three Boston surgeons: Drs. W. J. Mixter,
C. G. Mixter, and R. H. Smithwick. Then, in 1940, I set up for
myself in the private practice of general surgery with an office
at 374 Marlboro Street, Boston.

However, in October, 1940, I was commissioned a lieutenant
commander in the Medical Corps of the U. S. Naval Reserve,
and, in December, 1941, was ordered to active duty soon after
Pearl Harbor. The first tour of duty was at Newport, Rhode
Island, examining recruits at the Naval Training Station. One
of the recruits was John Duncan who had courageously volun-
teered for the submarine service. Duty at Newport lasted for
six months. Then, in July, 1942, I was sent overseas to New
Zealand as a surgeon on the staff of U. S. Naval Mobile Hospital
#6. In that charming country, we got many casualties from
the Solomon Islands campaign and the work was most interesting.
Our classmate, Arthur Beals, lives in Christchurch, New Zealand,

-and I saw him several times.

After fourteen months in New Zealand, I was ordered north

to the miserably hot island of Espiritu Santo in the New Hebrides.

[535]

Er PY RE AE UEP MERPEKT Mr Al een R ne et uso lid A.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

There I remained for about six months and was promoted com.
mander in December, 1943, and made chief surgeon of U. §.
Naval Hospital #3. After twenty months overseas, I was ordered
home in charge of ninety sick and wounded on a baby aircraft
carrier. My next tour of duty was a year at the Naval Hospital
in Chelsea, Massachusetts, as ward surgeon.

After the war, I returned to the private practice of general
surgery in Boston. In May, 1948, I moved my office from Back
Bay out to 1180 Beacon Street, Brookline, because of traffic con-
gestion in Back Bay. |

For the past four years, I have enjoyed winter vacations in
Arizona in the desert, near Blake Field’s fine ranch school in
Phoenix. During the college year, I work part-time at the Har-
vard University Department of Hygiene, and in the spring I
go down to Red Top, Connecticut, to take care of the crew
squad during its two-week training period there. Tom Bolles
is an amazingly good crew coach and a fine gentleman as well.

Outside of surgery, as a member of the staff at the Boston
City Hospital, and teaching at Tufts College Medical School,
I enjoy serving as a member of the Board of Directors of the

New England Grenfell Association and as a trustee of the
Boston Museum of Science.

WILLIAM CALVIN KENNARD

HOME appress: 17 Ruby Ave., Marblehead, Mass.
OFFICE AppREss: Dexter School, Brookline, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 6, 1901, Peabody, Mass. parents: Henry Delano Kennard, Jean
Munroe.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1025. DEGREES: S.B., 19253 ED.M., 1927. |

MARRIED: Priscilla Wildes, June 28, 1930, Malden, Mass. cyiLp: Carolyn,
Aug. 27, 1931.

HARVARD BROTHER: Delano Munroe Kennard, 730.

OccuPATION: Teacher.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active duty, U. S. Navy, serving in Atlantic
and southern bases and the northern Pacific, early 1942 to several
months after V-J Day; currently lieutenant commander.

MEMBER OF: Essex Masonic Lodge of Salem; U. S. Power Squadron;

Marblehead Arts Club; Essex Historical Society; Harvard Teachers’
Association.

[ 536]

ee :

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

A FRIEND and classmate said to me recently “I can’t think of
a thing that I’ve accomplished during these years since college.”
Perhaps I haven’t done much either. I do know, however, that
I have enjoyed myself in a quiet way. Since graduation I have
been concerned with private education, as either a teacher or
an administrator. For a short period I owned a small boarding
school but I sold it to return to the more restful work of teaching.
Because of an interest in geography I have frequently spent my
summers in wandering about this country, or in foreign lands.
After my marriage my family usually accompanied me. During
the war period my travels continued quite intensively.

For the last seventeen years I have been based in Marblehead,
originally attracted to the place by my interest in sailing or
cruising. I have recently added a second base on the coast of
Maine in the town of Friendship. As soon as my daughter,
Carolyn, is graduated from Colby Junior College, which she is
now attending, I hope to purchase another small schooner for
use in wandering along our Atlantic coast once more.

With regard to my politics, I have always becn a Republican
although I hope not of the ultra-conservative group.

My ” wife, Priscilla, who attended Wheaton College, is es-
pecially interested in the historical societies of our area. May I
state here that a man could not have had a more understanding
comrade than my wife during these years.

Near the end of the war I thought for a while of not returning
to teaching. Nevertheless, what I had observed of the education
of many of my fellow-servicemen convinced me that I would
probably be more useful to my fellow-men as a teacher. I am
not sorry that I decided to teach once more. I hope to continue
in this profession for some time to come.

FREDERIC PECKHAM KENT

HOME AppRESS: 124 Carlton Rd., DeLand, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 222 N. Woodland Blvd., DeLand, Fla.

BORN: Jan. 27, 1902, Northampton, Mass. parents: Frederic Houston Kent,
’94, Mary Elizabeth Barber.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

[ 537 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925.

marRIED: Mary Jane Seyk, Sept. 19, 1937, Daytona Beach, Fla. cumprey:
Robin Seyk, Sept. 1, 1943; Candace Dodge, July 6, 1945.

OccUPATION: Proprietor of retail and wholesale outlet for photographic
supplies and equipment; factory sales representative in Florida ang
Georgia for manufacturers of photographic supplies and equipment,

MEMBER OF: Vice-president and charter member, DeLand Players, Inc,

SINCE leaving Harvard, I have led and am still leading a full
and busy life; so busy, in fact, that it is a toss-up whether or
not this account will be received in time for publication. For all
the variety of occupations in which I engaged, I found I liked
best the operation of my own business. For a period of fourteen
years, from 1928 to 1942, I established and developed a successful
business in the retailing of radios, phonograph records, and
photographic supplies in the town of Scarsdale, New York.

Prior to this period, I tried my hand at a number of occupa-
tions, all in the field of radio which had fascinated me since 1914
when I heard my first wireless signal on my own home-made
oatmeal box construction crystal set. These occupations included
employment in a more or less technical capacity by the Canadian
National Railways, and as a sales representative for a manufacturer
of radio parts. Both involved travel, the former in Canada from
coast to coast, and the latter in the eastern and middle western
states. Through both I was imbued with a love of travel, and a
deep interest in all that travel implies. Except for two trips to
South America, I have so far been unable to get very far afield, but
I still have hopes. My association with the C.N.R. left me with a
pronounced distaste, which has not lessened with the years, for
government operation of business enterprises.

In 1937 I married Mary Jane Seyk of Sturgeon Bay, Wisconsin.
We spent our honeymoon in St. Augustine, Florida, where we
drank freely at the Fountain of Youth, and after returning to
Scarsdale briefly, went back to Florida to spend the winter at
Daytona Beach. In the spring of 1938 we came back north and
finally settled down in New Rochelle, New York.

In 1939 my father retired and associated himself with me in
my business which by this time was solidly established and to
all appearances looked forward to a comfortable and secure
future. At about this time I took on photography as a sideline
and a hobby, and Mary Jane and I acquired a substantial piece

[ 538 ]

vee

persons

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of woods (the deed said 80 acres, more or less) in the Berkshires
about 26 miles south of Pittsfield, Massachusetts. This acqui-
sition was made after prolonged and spellbound reading of farm
and country offerings in the New York Sunday papers. We
then understood construction, and except for occasional assistance
from local craftsmen in the more difficult spots, built with our
own hands a summer cottage, complete with ficldstone fireplace,
one room and path.

The impact of Pearl Harbor on our lives was such as to upset
our applecart along with millions of others. Shortly before Pearl
Harbor I had attempted to join the Naval Reserve, but was re-
fused because of my age. Strenuous efforts to find a useful
berth in the Navy at war again met with failure, this time be-
cause in the early days of the war, the demand was for technical
personnel and unfortunately from my standpoint my long pre-
occupation with the business aspects of operating a retail store
had left me sadly deficient in technical ability.

By this time the operation of the store required the services
of four employees in addition to my own and in the first few
months of the war, all left my employ for war jobs leaving only
my father and myself. The trend of events, including my father’s
failing health, decided me to liquidate the business and in one
way or another to get into the war effort myself. And so in
the summer of 1942 I literally went back to the beginning and
started over again. The first of several jobs to be undertaken
during the war years was with a manufacturer of electronic
equipment in Torrington, Connecticut, about thirty-five miles
from our Berkshire acres and we took to our woods and the life
rugged.

During the first year we expanded and converted our summer
cottage into three rooms suitable for year-’round living, eliminated
the path and went rural complete with garden, chickens and
pigs (one for ourselves and three for friends, and that’s a story
in itself), It was fun at first, although driving seventy-odd miles
a day, six days a week over the Berkshire roads made the two
winters considerably less fun. In September, 1943, our fine son,
Robin, arrived.

By this time my familiarity with radio had proved its useful-
ness in the procurement field, and two jobs later I found myself

[ 539]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

in the employ of classmate John Wells as purchasing agent for
Hlarvey-Wells Electronics, Inc., in Southbridge, Massachusetts,
One week after starting with John in July, 1945, our daughter
Candace, a pixie if ever there was one, put in her appearance.

I remained with Harvey-Wells for the next four years and, a
year or so after the end of the war, added to my procurement
duties the search for and solicitation of contract manufacturing
calling on larger firms and government agencies. With the re-
lease of wartime pressure and demands on the purchasing func-
tion I found this latter much more to my liking.

Although I commenced my employment in Southbridge in
July, it was October before I found living quarters for the
family in an old Colonial farm house with a beautiful view in
the little village of East Woodstock, Connecticut. We found
the Woodstocks populated with kind, interesting and congenial
people and in the course of our stay there, made many good
friends. Time was also found to revive my interest and activity
in photography which to a great extent had been neglected
during the war. Also, to my complete surprise but great pleasure,
I suddenly found myself a member of and active in the Wood-

stock Players, a community amateur theatrical group which I
found absorbingly interesting.

In January, 1949, I took an overdue vacation and drove my
family to Florida to spend some time near my mother who was
ill. While there, my wife and I assessed our situation, our pref-
erence for a more clement climate, and my recurring urge to
have my own business. Returning home in February, we reached
our decision, dynamited our bridges and in April moved to
Florida.

After due deliberation we selected the city of DeLand in
which to make our third start. DeLand is the home of Stetson
University, and is a friendly, comfortable community. I opened
my camera shop in August, 1949, and it is doing well. I am also
travelling the State as sales representative for a number of manu-
facturers of photographic supplies and equipment. My main
regret at the moment is that my occupation proves again the
truth of the old adage about the shoemaker’s children. I am so
occupied with providing the materials for other people to take
pictures that I have no time to use my own cameras any more.

[ 540 ]

~~

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Perhaps, however, my association with the DeLand Players will
provide another hobby outlet.

To sum up — but how can I? —I’'m not ready for that yet. ’m
just getting started Probably a majority of my classmates have
children in college or even beyond, with children of their own.

‘Tm a long way from being a grandfather even though I am old
enough, so I'll save the summation for our fiftieth.

‘GEORGE EDWARD KENT, JR

HOME ADDRESS: 318 Caribbean Rd., Palm Beach, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Webb Brothers, 242 S. County Rd., Palm Beach, Fla.

BORN: Sept. 14, 1901, Garden City, Long Island, N. Y. parents: George

_ Edward Kent, Lilius Juanita Grace.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

MarRIED: Mary C. J. Gawthrop, Feb. 25, 1933, Bermuda.

OCCUPATION: Real estate and insurance.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II: U.S. Army enlisted reserve,
active duty as pilot (first lieutenant), Civil Air Patrol, Coastal Patrol
Unit No. 3 on Anti-Submarine Patrol, eighteen months; awarded Air
Medal.

MEMBER OF: Meadow Brook Club, Westbury, Long Island; Racquet and

_ Tennis Club; Bath and Tennis Club, Everglades Club, and Sailfish
’ Club, Palm Beach, Fla.

AFTER graduating from college at mid-years, I took a three
months’ trip around the world, which was very interesting but
done in much too short a time. After that — the usual — get to
work. I spent one year in the exporting business with W. R.
Grace & Company in New York, and two years in the stock
and bond trade with Edward B. Smith & Company. Aviation
then became the bright light in my life, and I spent several years
doing commercial flying and occasionally flying air races. Prob-
ably the nicest thing that flying did for me was being the means
of my meeting my wife, who was also a pilot. In 1932 I settled
on the real estate and insurance business, in which I am still en-
gaged, although I keep up my sportsman’s flying to a certain
extent.

Recreations in which I keep active include polo, tennis, and

golf,
[541 ]

"THIN pnt SS tc ope me ER ORR EERO E EO IE Orr

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

JOHN BELFORT KEOGH

HOME ADORESS: Y% American Embassy, Lisbon, Portugal.

Born: Jan. 10, 1903, Chicago, Ill, parents: John Stephen Keogh, Maria Elisa
Romaquera Belfort.

PREPARED aT: Chicago Latin School, Chicago, III.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921~192§. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

Marrirp: Maria da Piedade Pitta de Avillez, Jan. 10, 1949, Lisbon, Portugal.
occuparion: Writer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: World War II: Consular officer at Bradford,

Yorkshire, England, London, England, Glasgow, Scotland; Horta, Fayal,
Azores; Lisbon, Portugal.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Associacao Naval de Lisboa
(Lisbon Rowing Club).

I HAVE just received from Ambassador Lincoln MacVeagh (an
old Advocate man like his brother Charlton) congratulations and
best wishes for Christmas and the New Year, 1950. I shall need
those good wishes as I have resigned from the Foreign Service,
returned to Lisbon, got married, and am now settling down to
write the great American novel — following in the golden foot-
steps of my Advocate brothers LaFarge, Couzzens, Smart, and
Edmonds.

With his congratulations MacVeagh enclosed a Service Award
from the Department of State, one of those parchment affairs
with a big gold seal at the top and the lettering, “Official recog-
nition and appreciation is tendered to John Belfort Keogh for
completion of seventeen years of service in the Department of
State.” I wonder if I shall have it framed and look at it when my
pen won’t write and my mind feels as stiff as a mimeographed
instruction.

Following graduation I stayed on in Cambridge, helping Bert
Haines coach crews, teaching English A, and studying Anglo-
Saxon and Old French until January, 1928, when I joined the busi-
ness office of the New York Times. 1 sold advertising space for
several years, and still like to think of the million dollars I made
for that grand newspaper in my last year before going into the
Foreign Service. (Moral: if you want a damn good salesman,
always hire a Harvard Advocate poet!)

I think it was in our 1925 Yearbook that I set down the Foreign
Service as my goal. The Times wrote me a handsome recom-
mendation to the Secretary of State and I was in art last, thankful

[ 542 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

for a broad newspaper experience which had brought me into
contact with American business firms of all descriptions and
which helped me understand and promote American business in-
terests in the consular field. A series of interesting posts — Nassau,
Nairobi, Bradford, London, Glasgow, Horta (Azores), Lisbon —
bootleggers, lions and German colonial claims, diplomatic reports,
wool reports, bombs, Murmansk convoy survivors, liaison work
with the Navy during the Battle of the Atlantic, destroyers need-
ing urgent services at all hours of the day and night, twenty hours
a day sometimes handling every sort of shipping problem in the
Azores, wrecked Liberty ships, LCPs and LST’s en route to the
invasion, and afterwards the E. Phillips Oppenheim atmosphere
of spies in Lisbon, consular officer in charge of shipping, security
controls, etc., etc. A hell of a long way from English A!

But the writing bug was still in me, and for better or worse I
shall try my hand, and for pastime coach the crews of the Lisbon
rowing club on weekends. I checked up on some of the new
rowing styles when I went to Princeton two summers ago to
watch the Olympic rowing trials. I looked up Buzz Henry in
Princeton and had a splendid sight of Bert Haines. Don’t know
when I'll get home again, From time to time I used to get home
leave, and was able to look up Jere Whiting in Cambridge, where
he holds forth so famously on Chaucer; or see Mike Cowles in
his grand office on Fifth Avenue. I once got as far as San Fran-
cisco and had lunch with Ted Eliot and Grat Curran. God bless
us all! How the years roll on—robbing us of the sight of old
friends. Thank God for that fine fishing trip with Phil Robb in
Canada some years ago! Are the two-pounders still biting fiercely
in the Lac des Gros? Is Sam Reber still outwitting the Russians?

JOHN JOSEPH KEOUGH

HOME apprEss: Chesterfield Road, Worthington, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 30, 1900, Boston, Mass. parents: William Keough, Mary Cathe-
rine Crocker.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

MARRIED: Stella Frances Vodrie, Dec. 4, 1926, Laredo, Texas. cuitp: John
Joseph, Jr., June 12, 1928.

occupation: Retired.

[ 543 ]

Wepre pepeatactet creme ter seneg ste pecan eacmamancee pect RE Rare OAEE EA HET” AS

_/

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

JOHN JAY HICKS KERR

HOME appress: Mill Reef Club, Antigua, B. W. I.

BorN: June 18, 1902, Pueblo, Colo, parents: Guy Manning Kerr, Bertha
Thompson.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

marrieD: Helen Olivia Clark, 1925, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1928); Lily
McCabe, 1930, Richmond, Va. (divorced 1941); Elizabeth Baxter Keene,
1946, Wolfeboro, N. H. cHitpren: Joan Hicks, Dec. 27, 1932; Frances
Rachel Urquhart, March 11, 1934.

OCCUPATION: Retired.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Burton Brothers & Company, Inc.; customers
man (obsolete), Henderson & Company; parmer, Morgan Pope &
Company; sports director and promotor, The Homestead Hotel.

MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club, New York; New Club, Antigua;
Gambles’ Golf Club, Antigua.

AS THE English language has always been a hurdle for me
(three years in English A), this résume of my life since graduation
will be terse, though my life has been rambling. My early business
career in cotton goods was interesting and lucrative until I found
myself, along with a few others, in a stock brokerage firm in
1929. I then spent a few years in the travel business and, though
I saw much of the world, I found I was slowly going broke.
After ten very delightful years in the promotion and sports end
of the Homestead in Hot Springs, Virginia, I returned to New
York. I found New York exceedingly futile, suitable only for
ants or other go-getting species of which I am not one.
Leisure and a peaceful life with time taken up in living and
not pursuing a living seemed to be the only mature decision, so
my wife and I left New York to seek our home in the West
Indies. Nassau was too tropically suburban to suit us so off we
went to St. Croix in the American Virgins. We found that the
same but cheaper. After reading of the beauties and cheapness
of Haiti we went there and stayed nearly a year. Interesting
and beautiful as it was, a sense of security is not offered there,
especially as we wanted to build a home and needed a more stable
atmosphere. My home has just been completed on Antigua in
the Leeward Islands. The Mill Reef Club was started a year ago
by a group of Americans, many of whom are also building. So
far I fecl a little conspicuous among twenty-seven Yale men vs.

[ 546 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

three Harvard. Happily that is compensated for by the mutual
interest we all have in developing this ideal spot. I am raising
chickens on the side and that, along with trying to understand
electricity on a broken down Delco, working on a gas Servel
refrigerator, going seventeen miles to market, learning the in-
tricacies of horticulture, and winning the Antigua Golf Cham-
pionship, I find that the months slip by all too soon. After
reading of blizzards, heat waves, high prices, and the Democratic
party, this Island home of mine, with the Mill Reef Club and
the beautiful climate seems the ideal life for my wife and myself.
We have already chosen our burial plot so hurry down and see
us before we have to make use of it.

LAWRENCE REEFER KESSEL

HOME AppREsS: 4 E. 78th St., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Nov. 1, 1903, Kansas City, Mo. parents: Paul Kessel, Laura Kessel.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: S.B. #agna cum laude, 1925.

MarRRIED: Marie Adler, March 25, 1933, Little Rock, Ark. cuitpren: Paul,
2d, April 15, 1937 (died Jan. 19, 1946); Laura, March 30, 1940.

FOR the years after graduating, my commercial interests were

centered in a mercantile enterprise. I became the head of this

business by the end of 1928. Convinced that this was not a

“New Era” by August, 1929, I had disposed of the branches of

the business which had developed during the boom, and got my

financial house in order.

With the advent of the “Great Depression,” though I main-
tained control of the business, I embarked on a sabbatical. For
most of 1931 I travelled; actually my journeys took me com-
pletely around the world. I spent most of the following year
in Europe, doing a semester at the University of Berlin and in-
cidentally I spent the spring in Russia. In 1933 I married and
for a honeymoon toured western Europe. Our trip ended with
both my wife and me doing a semester at the Sorbonne.

From 1935 to 1945 I was interested in the business of livestock
production, moving my residence to the most beautiful of the
farms. With the advent of the war I determined to convert the
farms to a war basis, We began production on an extended scale

[ 547 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

of pure-bred swine and sheep for service to breeders, and large
scale beef production. Though the operation was a strenuous
one, there were many satisfactions — winning grand champion-
ships with our blooded stock, “topping” several of the mid-
western markets with superiorly finished livestock, rearing a
family in an idyllically rural environment, etc.

By the end of 1949 I had disposed of the livestock farms and
my mercantile interests. Now I am again embarking on a sab-
batical. I have moved my family to New York City, each mem-
ber at a different school. In addition to my cultural activities
I am maintaining my contacts in the commercial world through
engaging in consulting work.

My Twenty-fifth Reunion year thus ends the second chapter
of my life. I hope that I can report in 1975 that my life has
been as productive and stimulating in the third chapter.

DONALD WAIT KEYES

HOME AppREss: Rush, N. Y.

BORN: June 2, 1903, Rush, N. Y. parents: Wayland Albert Keyes, Jeanette
Deane.

PREPARED AT: Genesee Wesleyan Seminary, Lima, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 19295.
occuPATION: Actor; farmer.

AFTER twenty-five years of playing “theatre,” I can claim neither
fame nor fortune but I’m solvent and having a lot of fun.

Two seasons as a scholarship pupil at Boleslovsky’s American
Laboratory Theatre, a summer’s jaunt to Italy working on a
freighter, a lot of stock (summer and winter variety), nine years
of teaching, directing high school and college plays in Rochester,
New York, and since 1941, back to the professional theatre either
acting or stage managing — that’s the record. Four reasonably
long engagements —- You Cawt Take it With You and Rebecca
on tour and The American Repertory Theatre and Edward, My
Son on Broadway — have enabled me to pay off the mortgage
on the old farm at Rush and still have a little cash for wine and
love. Right now I’m busy with television for Kraft, Colgate, and
Ford,

If old age comes I hope to return to the farm. That’s where

[ 548 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I started as a child and that’s where I hope to finish, still a child,
full of wonder and awe.

RAYMOND LINCOLN KILGOUR

HOME ADDRESS: 513 Oswego St., Ann Arbor, Mich.

orrice aporess: University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.

BoRN: July 27, 1903, Lexington, Mass. parents: Ashburn Cogswell Kilgour,
Fannie Louisa McKay.

prePaARED AT: Lexington High School, Lexington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-25. DEGREES: A.B. Summma cum laude, 1925, A.M.,
19273 PH.D. 1930; A.B.L.S. (Univ. of Michigan), 1942.

maraieD: Sarah Vance, Aug. 24, 1933, Cambridge, Mass. cuinp: Katharine
Vance, July 22, 1939.

occuPATION: Assistant professor of library science, School of Graduate
Studies, University of Michigan.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Co-director of Library School, National Li-
brary of Peru (under direction of U. S. State Department and Library
of Congress).

OFFICES HELD: Instructor and tutor in Romance languages, Harvard Uni-
versity, 1931-41; assistant, Carleton College, 1942-43; co-director, Li-
brary School of National Library of Peru, 1943-44; assistant professor,
University of Michigan, since 1945.

MEMBER OF: American Library Association; Special Libraries Association;
Modern Languages Association of America; Michigan Library Asso-
ciation; University Club, Quadrangle Club.

pustications: The Decline of Chivalry, 1937; Messrs. Roberts Brothers,
Publishers (in press); numerous articles,

AFTER 1925 I stayed on at Harvard for a Ph.D. in Romance
languages, doing some teaching at the same time. It seemed very
pleasant and thrilling, though as I look back, I wonder that I
ever stomached all the courses in linguistics. After the Ph.D. in
1930 I spent a year in Europe on a Sheldon Travelling Fellowship,
a year I count as the very best, when Europe was still Europe.
This was followed by several years of teaching French at Harvard.

In 1933 I was married to a girl who was as mad about music
and the arts as I have always been, and our lives since then have
been spent in giving as much time to business as could be spared
from the more durable satisfactions. During these years we were
able to do considerable travelling in the U.S., make another trip
to Europe, and build a summer cottage near Peterborough, New

[ 549 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Hampshire, which has been a haven of delight ever since, a re.
storer of the soul on countless occasions.

In 194 I made a change which I had long meditated and after
a year of study at the University of Michigan I became assistant
librarian of Carleton College, in Minnesota. This was a delightful
experience for an easterner and I was kept extra busy by doing
some teaching in the special training program for the Army.

In the fall of 1943 I was sent by the State Department to
Lima, Peru, to organize a library school for the National Library
of Peru. This was a strenuous but enjoyable task, giving lectures
in a Spanish the Peruvians were polite enough to understand. No
one who has done any work of this kind can ever feel indifferent
to programs for international codperation, especially in the
Americas.

On my return I spent a few months at the New York Public
Library, then came to the present teaching position at Michigan,
where I have been more than satisfied. Teaching is still my chief
delight, and the chance to teach librarianship made this post an
ideal one, for I can now revel in the history of printing, book
publishing, and bibliography to my heart’s content.

My twenty-five years have been quiet, even sheltered, and I
cannot much regret it. I have one daughter, now ten years old;
our family circle has been very tight, and life has flowed smoothly
along. I am enough of a New Englander still to think that the
time | can spend in New Hampshire in the summer is the very
best part of the year.

WALTER HARRINGTON KILHAM, JR.

HOME ADvRESS: 233 W. 11th St., New York 14, N. Y.

OFFICE ADpress: O’Connor & Kilham, 101 Park Ave., New York 17, N. Y.

BorN: April 29, 1904, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Walter Harrington Kilham,
Jane Houston.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. cum? laude, 1925; M.ARCH., 1928.

Marrirp: Louise Collins, Jan. 23, 1943, Cornwall, Conn. cnitpren: Leslie
(daughter), June 9, 1945; Timothy, Jan. 12, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Peter Kilham, ’28,; Lawrence Kilham, ’32.

occupaTION: Architecture.

MILITARY OR NAVAL recorD: Duty with Battery A, rorst F.A., Massachusetts

National Guard, served in Harvard R.O.T.C,, 1921-25; second lieutenant,
F. A. Reserve, 1925-35.

[550]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Principal architect, Zone II Constructing
Quartermaster, 1941; chief, Site Planning Section, 1941-43, consultant,
1944, U. S. Army Engineers, New York District.

OFFICES HELD: President, New York Chapter, American Institute of Archi-
tects, 1949-50; trustee, Beaux Arts Institute of Design, 1947-49; member
visiting committee, Architectural Accrediting Board, 1946 and 1949;
member Commission to Survey Architectural Education and Registration
(Carnegie Funds), 1949; member council, Fund for Astro-Physical Re-
search, Inc.; campaign, Harvard Foundation for Advanced Study and
Research; associate, National Academy of Design; member board of
advisers, American School and University.

MEMBER OF: Architectural League of New York; Century Association;
Coffee House.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles for American School and University, School Execu-
tive, and Obio State Journal of Higher Education.

THE year 1928: “That,” said Raymond Hood, “interests me
very much. I once asked Ralph Adams Cram what it was worth
to keep body and soul together and he said it wasn’t worth any-
thing. Bertram Goodhue said it was worth three dollars. What
is yours worth?”

The dreamy look left my eyes — “Fifty dollars a week,” I said.
He gave me forty-five and I began my little career in skyscrapers,
beginning with the Daily News Building and ending with Radio
City five years later.

I was then eased out and into the street where I found all the
rest of the architects in New York and a lot of other people be-
sides. By the time Roosevelt closed the banks, three dollars looked
like eight square meals at the Automat. I gave up my flute lessons
with George Barrere.

After scratching around a bit, I started in again with Wallace
K. Harrison. For a while I was the entire office staff, but it grew
with remarkable swiftness and soon had the Trylon and Perisphere
and the Rockefeller apartments to look back on.

I pulled out my watch — ten years had gone by. Time to start
in business for myself, D. v. Bennington College had been given
a sum of money to pay for the design of a music building. A few
weeks later the new firm of van der Gracht & Kilham pooled its
resources in a modest bank account and a sixty-dollar car and
drove to Bennington College with their T-squares in the rumble
seat. The money never was raised to build the music building

[551]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

but it gave us our start and little jobs in the neighborhood rapidly
multiplied.

We did quite a bit of other work at the college, too, including
teaching for a term. I realized where I stood when, after opening
my class in history, a young lady stood up and said she was afraid
I did not understand the principles of Bennington. “What prin-
ciples?” I said. “At Bennington,” she said, “we start with the
present and go forward, not backward.” I have been trying to
live up to that one ever since.

We moved our “office” to New York and soon found we had all
the work we could do. Of this the best I think was the Library for
Carroll College in Wisconsin, one of our first opportunities to
design a modern building. The model was received rather coldly
by the conservative trustees until one of the more elderly stated,
“When we did the old buildings we did what we thought was
best then. If we think this is a better way to do it now, then |
think this is the way we should do it.” And they did. This point
of view is rare, even today.

Between times I had taken several trips to Europe, but was
slowing down. Then in 1938 I was awarded the Wheelwright
Travelling Fellowship from Harvard University, a most generous
award. I determined to see as many modern buildings, schools,
hospitals, libraries, theatres, etc., as I could, feeling that they
would be of most help in any work I might subsequently have to
do. There is space for but a few names: Stockholm City Hall,
Paimio Sanatorium, the Aalto Library in Vipurii, the Palace of
the Soviets in Moscow, the Grundtvigskirken in Copenhagen,
and the Hilversum Town Hall. Later I walked into Copan, Hon-
duras, and climbed the rockbound heights of the Inca city of
Macchu Picchu, a site which seemed closer to a fairy tale than to
reality.

Another trip gave me a chance to see the United States; the
TVA, Bonneville Dam, Canyon de Chelly and Chaco Canyon,
Frank Lloyd Wright’s house over the waterfall, and his desert
camp in Arizona. By this time the war was near and I gave the
balance of the money back to Harvard.

In view of what was coming, I stopped at the Army Building
on Whitehall Street one spring day in 1941. “Sorry we cant
help you, Mr.,” the sergeant said. “You might try the New York

[552]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

State Unemployment Bureau.” I have always been grateful to
the sergeant. Outside I heard of a more realistic organization.
Forty-eight hours later I was principal architect for the Zone II
Constructing Quartermaster. I later became chief of the Site
Planning Section of the Army Engineers, New York District.
Ammunition storage areas, piers, staging areas, hospitals, depots,
all rolled by at a terrific rate.

Since the war I have been the partner of R. B. O'Connor. We
have designed schools, hospitals, office buildings, and banks, and
have done work for colleges including Cornell University, Carroll,
Trinity, Kenyon, and Barnard, and our great pride is the new
Princeton Library.

At the time I thought I was winning the war all by myself I
came to realize that a lot of my success really depended on some-
one else. So we were married and lived happily ever after. We
have a little girl of nearly five who stole my heart away long ago,
and a little boy of two.

In Cornwall, Connecticut, I have been building a house on
weekends, so far without help, though it is taking years to finish.
So much junk and Jumber have accumulated in it that now I am
building a barn to clear out the house. Influenced, probably, by
John Goffe’s Mill, I have acquired a one-man sawmill for which,
on my jeep, I bring logs out of the woods to make the boards, to
build the barn to clear the house —I’ll never be finished.

JOHN FRANCIS KING

HOME ApDpREss: 10 Highland Ave., Montclair, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 34 Nassau St. New York, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 7, 1904, Holbrook, Mass. parents: John King, Anne Frances
Coffey.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, South Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1925(24); LL.B. 1931-

MaRRIED: Catherine Arnold Brown, Sept. 2, 1932, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Anne Frances, Nov. 4, 1938; John Scott, Nov. 4, 1941.

occupation: Administrative assistant, Securities Investment Department,
Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Jersey.

MY FIRST few years after graduation were spent in the produc-
tion and purchasing departments at the Milwaukee plant of Nash

[553]

rrr terrane etn mmr enten-re- Yc Meee et EPS AE: ENON SEAVER MON

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Motors Company. While there I gathered together enough cash,
mostly through putting a little money in Nash stock at the then
usual 10% margin, to see me through law school. So 1928 found
me back in Cambridge for another three years — not a bad period
at all to be out of circulation. The three years in law school were
pleasant, although I could never get down to the steady work
that seemed to be the general custom and which I thought would
be an easy habit for me to fall into after four years of daily work
at Nash. In view of my experience, my hat is off to the GI's
who, from all accounts, have generally been able to buckle down
to work in college, perhaps because they realized it wasn’t an
“easy habit to fall into.”

After law school I joined the usual trek to New York City,
going with Root, Clark, Buckner, & Ballantine. While with Root,
Clark, I worked mostly in real estate reorganizations and other
corporate matters. In January, 1937, I moved across the street
to the securities investment department of the Mutual Life In-
surance Company of New York and for the next few years
helped look after Mutual’s interests in reorganizations of railroads
in which we had investments. For the last eight or nine years
my work has been mostly in new investments and supervision of
investments in our portfolio and very interesting and varied it has
been, With interest notes what they are, though, our job of try-
ing to make sound investments which will also give us a decent
yield has been a rather taxing one.

Next, to my family. One of my classmates and friends at law
school was Scott Brown from Aroostook County, Maine, a county
with which all of you should be familiar if you read the news-
papers. Scott’s sister, Catherine, and I met in my last year at law
school. Catherine, who graduated from Bates, was then head of
the history department in Clifton High School, New Jersey,
just across the river from New York City. We were married a
year after I came to New York, lived in Brooklyn a year, and
have since lived in New Jersey, the last twelve years or so in Mont-
clair. My daughter, Anne, and my son, Johnny, were both bom
in New York City but their total stay there has been only their
first two weeks in the hospital. Anne, who is eleven, is blonde,
crazy about horses and riding, and is, as one of the boys in danc-
ing school said, a “beautiful dish.” If she doesn’t marry a rancher

[554]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

before then she says she may consider being a “co-ed” at Cam-
bridge. Johnny, eight, is tall and skinny, and looks as though he
might turn out to be big enough to be of some help to Harvard
where it needs it the most. However, after seeing the Columbia
and Yale games last year, he is inclined to take a dim view of
Harvard.

My hobbies are golf and desultory reading —a little too de-
sulrory, I am afraid. As for politics, 1 guess 1 am a Republican
because I have voted that way since 1936, although usually with-
out much enthusiasm. At heart I am still a Democrat and would
vote that way if we had a Democratic party outside of the South.
My wife, whose family have always been northern Maine Demo-
crats, “than which there are no whicher,” now votes Republican,
or at least so she tells me, for much the same reasons, My own
feeling is that Senator Taft is far more representative of the
historic Democratic party than its present standard bearers and
is much more a liberal, in its true sense, than are most of the so-
called “progressive” Republicans.

HUGH KITE

HOME appREss: 3 Madison St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 216 Tremont St., Boston 16, Mass.

Born: Aug. 22, 1903, Milton, Mass. parents: Walter Chester Kite, Susan
Sands Case.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; A.M., 1934.

MaRRIED: Marguerite Papineau, Aug. 17, 1929, Vineyard Haven, Mass. (died
July 31, 1934); Elisabeth Papineau, Sept. 26, 1935, New York, N. Y.
(divorced 1937); Elizabeth Whitney, March 22, 1938, Caldwell, N. J. (di-
vorced 1944); Evelyn D. Vincent, Nov. 24, 1944, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Henry, July 20, 1934; Jane Vincent, July 18, 1947.

occupation: Reporter.

PuBLICATIONS: A few choral arrangements.

DIRECTIONS since college have stemmed mostly from these in-
fluences there (in order of incidence): Doc Davison and the
Glee Club; Arthur Burkhard in the German Department, and the
Liberal Club. My work has included teaching (music, languages,
and elementary math) in California, New York, and various points
in New England—also other matters connected with music.

This pattern was changed by World War II. I spent the last

[555]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

six months of the war at the Fore River shipyard as shipfitter and
tack welder, and since then have been with Fairchild, the country’s
largest trade publishers. My special field is shoes, leather, and
allied industries, my work consists of straight news reporting,
from all pertinent angles, with no restricting editorial censorship.

Present off-the-job activities include singing in a choir and an
informal choral group, membership in the Parent’s Association of
Cambridge High and Latin School, and trying in these strenuous
times to maintain optimum companionship with a busy wife, son,
and daughter. My urge for physical journeying has been partially
appeased within an area roughly bounded by Chicago, California,
Mexico, Germany, England, and the Province of Quebec.

In and out of my work, attitudes of mind and spirit have been
affected by informal and spirited delving into the fields of litera-
ture, history, health and body mechanics, psychology, and social-
economic-political conditions here and elsewhere. Having got
away from an early disposition to be a “joiner,” I have found
friendships to be more numerous, varied, and meaningful than |
would have expected in 1925. I trust some classmates will share
my opinion that neither A-, H-, nor X-bomb will intervene to pre-
vent a normal proportion of us from being around for our Fiftieth.

PRITCHETT ANDREW KLUGH

HOME ApprEsSs: 82 Harold St., Boston 19, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Norwood Senior High School, Norwood, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 22, 1905, Princeton, N. J. parents: David Simpson Klugh,
Adella Lillian Plyman.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 1925; A.M. (Boston Univ.), 1933.

MARRIED: Anne Elizabeth Royster, Dec. 29, 1934, Boston, Mass. cHiLp:
Marcia Belle, Oct. 10, 1935.

OCCUPATION: Education.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in chemistry, Livingston College, Salisbury, N. CG
September, 1925—June, 1927; dean of instruction, Bennett College, Greens-

boro, N. C., September, 1934-July, 1941; science instructor, Norwood
Senior High School, Norwood, Mass., since January, 1944.

MEMBER OF: New England Association of Chemistry Teachers; Northeastern
Section, American Chemical Society (associate),

[556]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IRVING KNICKERBOCKER

aporess: Antioch College, Yellow Springs, Ohio.

porn: March 3, 1900, Albany, N. Y. parents: Henry Irving Knickerbocker,
Frances Bell Terry.

preParen AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925} A.M., 1933} PHD., 1935.

maxaiep: Marjorie Howes, 1925. cuit: Barbara, 1926.

occupation: Psychology.

THE information printed above is from the Sceretary's files,
Knickerbocker did not return a questionnaire.

+ ANDREW CROZIER KNOX

porn: March 24, 1904, Strathroy, Ont. Canada. parents: William John.
Knox, Jean Crozier.

PREPARED AT: London Collegiate Institute, London, Ont., Canada.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1926. DEGREE: A.B, 192§(26),

pep: Aug. 12, 1940, London, Ont., Canada.

motHer: Mrs. William J. Knox, 244 Hyman St., London, Ont., Canada.

ANDREW CROZIER KNOX entered Harvard after preparatory
studies at the London Collegiate Institute. Hle spent three years
with the Class, and left for one year of study at Boston University.
He received his A.B. degree from Harvard in 1926 as of 1925.
Little is known of his life since leaving Harvard. Ile reported
in 1931 that he was engaged in Canadian government service.
He died after an illness of several years. He was survived by his
mother.

WILLIAM JACOB KNOX, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 21 Woodman Park, Rochester 9, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Eastman Kodak Co., Rochester 4, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 5, 1904, New Bedford, Mass. parents: William Jacob Knox,
Estella Briggs.

PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: SB. 1925; 8.M. (Massachusetts Inst.
of Technology), 1929; pHa. (ibid.), 1935.

MARRIED: Edna Lenora Jordan, Sept. 1, 1931, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
William Jacob, 3d, Oct. 29, 1935 (died Nov. 2, 1935); Sandra Audri-
enne, Jan. 29, 1937.

[557]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

HARVARD BROTHERS: Lawrence Howland Knox, pup. ’40; Clinton Everett
Knox, PH.D. ’40.

OCCUPATION: Research chemist.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member of senior research staff and section
leader, Manhattan Project, Columbia University, 1943-45.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, Rochester Association for United
Nations.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Rochester Civic Music Associ-
tion; Rochester City Club; Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity.

PUBLICATIONS: Scientific papers in Journal of Chemical Education and
Journal of American Chemical Society.

THE last twenty-five years, although ofttimes ruthlessly difficult,
have been full and in many ways satisfying. I left college to
teach in the deep South and to complete intermittently my formal
education at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. In retro-
spect, teaching was a pleasant and rewarding experience. Al-
though I seldom found myself in agreement with the educational
philosophy of the institutions at which I taught, I shall always
feel deeply grateful to my students for the joy and intellectual
stimulation which can come from teaching eager promising
young men and women.

I was married in 1931 while I was a graduate student at MIT.
We have known deep sorrow and great happiness. We lost a
son in infancy, but have watched the growth and development
of our daughter with sustained joy and wonderment.

The war, the opportunities incident thereto, and my unwill-
ingness to continue to subject myself and my family to the in-
dignities of living in the South resulted in my going to Columbia
University in January, 1943, as a member of the senior research
staff of the Manhattan Project. I worked on this project for
two and one-half years serving as a section leader in charge of
corrosion studies during the last year and a half. The work was
both exciting and interesting, but I have since had grave concem
about the future of the world.

I left the Manhattan Project in September, 1945, to join the
Research Laboratory of the Eastman Kodak Company in Roches-
ter, New York. As a member of this laboratory I have been and
am still engaged in the study of surface chemistry and its ap-
plications to the photographic industry. This has really been

[558]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

great fun. Recently I have been elevated to the scientific com-
mittee of the research laboratory. ,

As I recall the events of the last twenty-five years and look
towards the future, I cannot help but feel that life is just now
beginning.

JACOB CLEMENS KOLB

HOME ADDRESS: 61 Grosse Pointe Blvd. Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich.

oFFice appress: Christ Church, Grosse Pointe, Mich.

BporN: Jan. 5, 1901, Elkhart, Ind. parents: Abram Bowman Kolb, Phocbe
Funk.

PREPARED AT: Elkhart High School, Elkhart, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1925; B.D. (Epis-
copal Theological School, Cambridge), 1928; s.t.o, (Univ. of Penn-
sylvania), 1944.

Marrigp: Esther Christensen, March 29, 1927, Cambridge, Mass. ciitpren:
John Clemens, Nov. 6, 1930; Martha Rittenhouse, March 1, 1935.

occupATIon: Clergyman.

OFFICES HELD: Curate, St. Stephen’s Church, Lynn, Mass., 1928-30; rector,
Church of the Holy Spirit, Mattapan, Mass., 1930-41; chaplain and
Boardman Lecturer on Christian Ethics, University of Pennsylvania,
1941-49; rector, Christ Church, Grosse Pointe, Mich., since 1949.

MEMBER OF: Winter Harbor Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Popular articles published in The Witness, The Churchman,
and The Church Review.

AFTER leaving Harvard, I entered the Fpiscopal Theological

School, graduating in 1928. After that I became the curate at

St. Stephen’s Church, Lynn, along with Al Chafe of the Class

of ’24. Later on, when they were looking for a rector, the

vestry unanimously chose Al Chafe. In 1930 I was called to
become rector of the Church of the Holy Spirit in Mattapan,
where I spent ten happy years with such Harvard stalwarts on
the vestry as Samuel D. Parker, ’90, Tom Motley, ’96, Bob

Amory, Phil Murfitt, Joe Leland, Phil Suter, and Amory Jeffries.

In fact, a vestry meeting was really a Harvard reunion.

In 1941 I became the Chaplain and Boardman Lecturer on
Christian Ethics at the University of Pennsylvania. When Har-
vard came to play football, I had a mild case of schizophrenia
from divided loyalties. On September first, 1949, I became rector
of Christ Church in Grosse Pointe. If Harvard plays Michigan,
I shall be sitting on the Harvard side.

[559]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925 .

In 1927 I married Esther Marie Christensen. We have two
children, John, born in 1930, now at Episcopal Academy and
thinking of Harvard (but he is afraid it is too tough), and
Martha, born in 1935, who would like to go to Harvard if she
were only a boy.

One of my very definite religious convictions is that there
are not enough Harvard men going into the ministry. I wish
there were many more, There were only six in the Class of
’25, if I am correct. I might also add that I have asked a Harvard
man, Henry Parsons King, Jr., ’46, to be my curate.

You have asked me about my hobbies. I have only three:
French horn, which I started at Harvard because they didn’t
have one in the Pierian Sodality, and which I have kept up much
better than my Greek and Latin; Pennsylvania Dutch painting —
I am not very good at this, but I am as Pennsylvania Dutch as a
hex sign and I enjoy trying to copy some of the art work of
my ancestors; sailing-—-I have never won a series, but I have
had a lot of fun.

ISRAEL KOPP

HOME AppREsS: 30 Bicknell St., Dorchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 371 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 25, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Morris Kopp, Dora Greenside.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922. DEGREE: M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1927.

Marriep: Sally Kurland, March 16, 1929, Brookline, Mass. cHitp: Joshua
K,, July 21, 1933.

HARVARD SON: Joshua K, Kopp, ’53.

occupation: Physician,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Neuropsychiatrist, Medical Corps, captain to
major, August, 1942—May, 1946.

MEMBER OF; American Board of Internal Medicine (diplomate); American
College of Physicians (fellow); Massachusetts Medical Society; Massa-
chusetts Society for Research in Psychiatry.

PUBLICATIONS: Author or co-author of about two dozen publications in
field of internal medicine, pathologic physiology, and neurosy philis.

FOLLOWING my departure from Harvard in 1924 (in retro-

spect, a hasty and regretful decision), I completed two years’
pre-medical work at Tufts College Pre-Medical School in 1923

and graduated in 1927. I spent approximately four and one-half
[ 560 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

years in internships and residences in internal medicine. I be-
came interested in medical research and from 1931 to 1942 was
a research associate at the Boston Psychopathic Hospital under
the excellent guidance of Dr. Harry C. Solomon, who is now
professor of psychiatry at the Harvard Medical School. My ficld
involved especially various problems in the treatment of neuro-
syphilis, Though intimately associated with psychiatrists and
mental patients, I had always retained considerable interest
in internal medicine, But with the passage of time and with my
service in the Army, I have come to be referred to as a “con-
taminated” medical man — one who has applied more and more
his psychiatric experiences in the treatment of medical problems.

I must admit considerable neglect of my family and social
activities because of my interest in writing, reading, and medical
meetings —— an accusation justly made by my family. Because
of these interests, I had neglected to a great extent the “profit”
motive but have now learned that it is time to consider onc’s
financial security with approaching “old age.”

I have done little travelling. My greatest relaxation has been
listening to classical music and relaxing in a soft chair with a
book in my hand. I have had no political interests. 1 have en-
joyed medical groups and meetings, an excellent way to keep
one’s mind active. I have done some teaching at Tufts and
Harvard Medical School with keen enjoyment.

My son, Joshua, is now a freshman at Harvard and, surprisingly,
insists he has no interest in medicine — because “the doctor
works too hard.” However, medicine is a grand profession and
I have never regretted the many hours of hard work. One
never thinks of the latter when one views the good results of
one’s labors, be it a good surgical or medical recovery or the
writing of a medical article.

STEPHEN ABRAHAM KOSHLAND

HOME AppREsS: 156 E. 62nd St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 61 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

Born: Feb, 21, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: Abraham Koshland, ‘go, Estelle
Wangenheim.

PREPARED aT: By tutor.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

[ 561 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

MARRIED: Carol Falk, April 14, 1938. CHILDREN: Anthony S.. March 26,
1940; Kathryn, July 17, 1943.
HARVARD BROTHER: William Abraham Koshland, ’28.

OccUPATION: Partner, Carl M. Loeb, Rhoades & Company; member, New
York Stock Exchange.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

* GEORGE HENRY KOTOK
BORN: Jan. 26, 1901, Gloucester County, N. J. parents: David Kotok, Anna
Shultz.

PREPARED AT: Vineland High School, Vineland, N. J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.
pieD: Oct. 15, 1927, Vineland, N. J.

WHEN he was fourteen Kotok left school and obtained employ-
ment first in the DuPont Ammunition Factory at Pennsgrove,
New Jersey, and later at the Remington Arms Works at Es-
sington, Pennsylvania. From Essington he went to Boston for
the purpose of enlisting in the United States Army. Being unable
to enlist in Boston, he went to Belmar, Texas, where at fifteen
he enlisted in the United States Cavalry under the assumed name
of George H. Karvel. As the United States was then engaged in
difficulty with Mexico, the regiment he was in was sent in to Mex-
ico under General Pershing. George engaged in several skirmishes
along the Mexican border. After he had been in service about
nine months, he was thrown from his horse and his leg was badly
injured. In November, 1917, one year after his enlistment, he
was honorably discharged because of his injuries, and he returned
to his home in Vineland.

After his return home, he resumed his studies in the Vineland
High School. Out of forty competing schoolmates he was selected
as a four-minute speaker to assist in numerous war drives during
1918. Upon graduation from high school in 1920, he entered
George Washington University. His original intention was to
study medicine, but he soon changed his plans and decided to
devote his time to literary work. He transferred to Harvard as

a sophomore in 1922 and received his A.B. degree in February,
1925, after two and one-half years in Cambridge.

Following graduation he entered the real estate business in
Brigantine Beach, a development near Atlantic City, New Jersey.

[ 562 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After a short time the wanderlust seized him, however, and he
set out upon a long series of travels in quest of material for pro-
jected literary work. It was his habit to work for a short time
at a place and then move on without any preconceived itinerary.
In the fall of 1925 he was working with a state road gang in
Illinois. After a flying visic home in 1926, he spent some time in
Colorado and then set out on his wanderings which took him
through forty-six states before 1927. In Seprember of the latter
year he returned home somewhat exhausted, but giving no indi-
cation of ill health. After two or three weeks the strain that he
had undergone and the hardships that he had endured in his travels
led to a physical breakdown. He died after an illness of about
three weeks.

ISIDORE KOULACK

HOME appress: 1540 Charlotte St, New York 60, N. Y.

BoRN: March 15, 1894, Russia. parents: Herman Koulack, Ida Blacher.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923. DEGREE: Mb. (Tufts Coll.), 1927.

MaRRieD: Annette Meretz, June, 1922, Boston, Mass. cuitpreN: Doran, Sept.
17, 1932; David, Dec. 21, 1938.

HARVARD son: Doran Koulack, ’53.

OcCUPATION: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active duty, private, for seven months during
World War I.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association.

JACOB KRAFT

HOME ADDRESS: 3616 Washington St., Wilmington, Del.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 18th and Washington Streets, Wilmington, Del.

BORN: Feb. 12, 1905, in Russia. PARENTS: Louis Kraft, Rose Wilkowsky.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925: M.H.L., Rabbi (Jewish The-
ological Seminary of America), 1930.

MARRIED: Leah Zimmerman, Aug. 14, 1938, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Ruth Atheda, Dec. 6, 1942; Deborah R, Jan. 18, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Saul Kraft, '34.

OCCUPATION: Rabbi.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Chaplain (captain), A.U.S., Nov. 6, 1943-Sept. 30,
1946; duty with Third Air Force; overseas, Italy and Germany, 15th Air
Force, Bremen Port Command, fourteen months; helped DP units.

OFFICES HELD: Member, U.S. O. Board of Wilmington, Cancer Commission.

[ 563 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

quent visits to the notorious Bergen Belsen where thousands had
been sent to death in gas chambers and human incinerators during
the Hitler rage. When I visited there, it was a D. P, camp; of the
8.000 Jews in the camp, there were but 200 children. The normal
child population should have been 50%. For every child who
survived, nineteen had been murdered or died of disease or
starvation. One could write ad nauseam of the human degradation,
The only reason for including this glimpse is to make note of the
era through which we have just passed, for we are in the process
of forgetting.

The war interrupted the growth of our family. Debbie, in her
dynamic, vociferous, and rascally manner is making up for the
lost years. She matches the intellectual hunger of her elder sister
with an insatiable desire for “cookies” and an urge to destroy. At
the present the congregation is in the midst of a building campaign
to erect a $350,000 structure. I have gone out into the market
place trying to compete with Uncle Sam in the matter of extract-
ing funds. It should be added that Uncle Sam need not fear my
competition.

HERMAN MILTON KROPP

HOME abpress: 1108 N, 15th St. Fort Smith, Ark.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Fort Smith Folding Bed & Table Co. 1101 N. First
St., Fort Smith, Ark.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1904, Fort Smith, Ark. parents: William John Julius Kropp,
Wilhelmina Louise Hunsche.

PREPARED AT: Fort Smith High School, Fort Smith, Ark.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1925; M.B.A. cum
laude, 1927.

Margie: Ethyl Imogene Dunbar, Feb. 27, 1932, Fayetteville, Ark. CHILDREN:
Phoebe Johanna, July 26, 1934; William John Julius, 2d, July 6, 1938.

occupation: President of furniture manufacturing firm. |

orrices HELD: Treasurer, 1934-41, president, since 1941, Fort Smith Folding
Bed & Table Company, president, Fort Smith Furniture Manufactur-
ers’ Company, since 1945, Carnegie Public Library, 1949-50, Fort Smith
Exchange Club, 1947; director, Ballman-Cummings Furniture Company,
Fort Smith, since 1941, Border Queen Kitchen Cabinet Company, Fort
Smith, since 194s, Southern Furniture Manufacturers’ Association,
since 1949, member executive committec, Fort Smith Traffic Bureau,
since 1949; past master, Sebastian Lodge, Masons, 1933; commander,

[ 566 ]

Seema gnemnamenennammeneadtbihih

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Fort Smith Council Knights Kadosh (Scottish Rite Masons), since
1941; 33rd Degree Mason, 1945.
MEMBER OF: Hardscrabble Country Club.

AFTER graduating from college, I returned to Harvard and
took an M.B.A. degree in 1927. I then returned to the home
town and went to work in the furniture manufacturing firm con-
trolled by members of the family as a junior executive. I later
advanced to treasurer, and upon the death of my father in 1941,
was elected president, the office I now hold. Since my company
manufactures and sells furniture all over the Middle West, and
since my work consists largely of general policy determimation
and sales supervision, I find it necessary to travel rather exten-
sively over the trade territory, and to make semi-annual trips to
Chicago, where my company’s merchandise is on display at the
furniture markets. |

My family is comparatively small, consisting of my wife, a
fifteen-year-old daughter, who is in All Saints’ College, a pre-
paratory school at Vicksburg, Mississippi (operated by the Epis-
copal dioceses of Arkansas, Mississippi, and Louisiana), and an
eleven-year-old son, who is still in the grade schools in Fort
Smith, and who, although small for his age, is intensely interested
in sports of all kinds. He would dearly love to grow big enough
and smart enough to have a chance to play on a Harvard football
team of the future.

Ever since I was in college, I have been interested in fraternal
work, especially the Masons. I got my first Masonic degree when
still in college in Boston, and after leaving the Business School,
became actively interested in the Order, being elected to office
in the Lodge in 1928, and advancing through the lower offices,
until I held the office of Worshipful Master in the worst possible
year, 1933, when our Lodge lost more members because of de-
fault of dues than were taken in. I became a Scottish Rite Mason
in 1931, and became active therein; and with the election of a
new slate of officers in 1938, I was appointed and still am Director
of Work. This has necessitated a lot of ritual writing and
direction, which I have enjoyed. This led to my election as
one of the principal officers of the Scottish Rite in 1941, upon
the death of the incumbent; all of which no doubt had its weight

[ 567 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

in my being honored with election to the 33rd degree in 1945
at the hands of the governing body in Washington.

I have tried to do my civic duty in organizations for com-
munity betterment, and have accepted such responsibilities as ]
felt I could handle adequately; but there comes a time when
such responsibilities can pile up too high. I have had to make
some choices, and not become too involved in so many things
that I do not have enough time for my business and family.

My wife is especially sports-minded, and so is my son; and
since I have always enjoyed spectator sports, although not much
of a participant myself, we will be found out to most ball games —
football, baseball, basketball, or what have you.

For other recreation, when I can find a few hours to do so, I
like to go fishing, although I am not much of a fisherman. Most
of this is done on fresh water Jakes around in this Ozark Mountain
region, and I get quite a lift out of it, even if I don’t bring home
much meat.. When my son was a Cub Scout (and at that time
I served on the Pack Committee), we got interested in stamp
collecting, with the result that I piddle a little along these lines,
which to me is an interesting way to spend a few hours now
and then.

Living in a comparatively small city, it is not too difficult a
thing to get involved in civic and other social affairs, but as yet
I have not got involved in politics. Of course, in Arkansas there
is no political faith outside the Democratic party; and if you
want to have anything to say about those who are elected to
office, you had better be qualified to vote in the Democratic
primary elections; for the general elections are mostly a formality,
in which the choices of the primary are ratified. But, although
most of our officials are what are known as “conservative Demo-
crats,” and as such enjoy my support, I cannot go along with
the socialistic tendencies of the national party. This is an ad-
justment that many of us are going to have to make in time.

I enjoyed every bit of my Harvard education; I have pleasant
memories of it; but out here in the “hinterland,” I find too few
Harvard men. Occasionally I run into one, and I enjoy talking
over what is happening and has happened in Cambridge. Once
in a while in Chicago 1 am able to get together with some of

[ 568 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my old Harvard friends; but that is about the only social re-
minder I have of the old college days.

VICTOR HARRIS KUGEL

HOME ADDRESS: 2929 N. Bay Rd., Miami Beach qo, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1700 Meridian Ave, Miami Beach 39, Fla.

Born: Feb. 4, 1905, Elizabethgrad, Russia. parents: Harris Kugel, Bluma
Remens.

PREPARED AT: Hillhouse High School, New Haven, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1021-1925. DEGREES: A.B. magna cium laude, 1925; M.D.
(Yale Univ.), 1929.

marRieD: Faye Huber, June 4, 1936, New York, N. Y. cxitoren: Constance
Louise, Sept. 7, 1941; William Henry, Oct. 29, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Maurice Alexander Kugel, '22 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Major, Medical Corps, A.U.S., 1942-46; cardi-
ologist at Valley Forge, Fletcher, and Ashford General Hospitals.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Miami Heart Association, 1949-50; president,
Phi Delta Epsilon Graduate Club of Greater Miami, 1949.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Miami; Yale Club of Miami; Civic League,
Miami Beach; American College of Physicians, Alumni Socicties of Mc.
Sinai Hospital and Montefiore Hospitals, New York, N. Y.

PUBLICATIONS: Twenty-odd articles in medical literature.

WHEN I left Cambridge in June, 1925, the future of this cuz in
Romance languages and literature was quite uncertain. Conse-
quently no one was more surprised than I when September found
me enrolled in Yale Medical School. Credit for this about face
goes to brother Mak (Class of ’22), already a junior in Yale
Medical School.

Yale turned me out in 1929 with an M.D., a fondness for tennis,
and the privilege of applying for football tickets. Now doubly
armed with Harvard and Yale “tickets” I had no difficulty in
spending three years of internships and residencies at Mount
Sinai and Montefiore Hospitals in New York City. A fellowship
at Rockefeller Hospital completed my postgraduate activities in
1934.

The years 1934-42 saw the development of a practice amid the
rugged competition of Manhattan medicine. Best of all, in 1936,
I married charming Faye who is still my best gal although Connie,
now all of eight years, wants to share that spot.

My military service proved to be quite a personal upheaval al-

[ 569 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

though the years 1942-46 were comparatively uneventful and
unexciting ones for a medical officer in general hospitals in this
country. “The highlight of this period was the arrival of Billy —
Mister Butch — in Zanesville, Ohio, in 1945. Here I also learned
to appreciate the thrill of a small-mouthed bass taken on a fly and
to detest the routine and paper work of the Army.

Several months before I was discharged, brother Mak died of
heart disease. Lacking a place in New York to return to and
having an unusual opportunity to continue the practice in heart
disease, I made my move to Miami Beach in 1946. And here you
will find me.

My social, political, or religious convictions? Mister, you can
have all that and the best old fashioned Faye can mix whenever
you apply in person at 2929 North Bay Road. Come and see us!

EMMANUEL KURLAND

HOME ADDRESS: 35 Lodge Rd., West Newton, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Singer, Stoneman & Kurland, 31 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 22, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Benjamin Kurland, Rose
Schwartz.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. cum” laude, 1925; LL.B. 1928.
marriep: Bess Rabinovitz, Nov. 4, 1933, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Robert
Jay, Dec. 12, 1936; Roger David, Nov. 11, 1943.
occupaTION: Lawyer.
THE struggle for survival at the Law School, followed by a
brief glimpse of the fabulous twenties, was hardly adequate
preparation for what next happened. I don’t suppose the cath-
artic called the “crash” and the subsequent agony were enjoyed
by anyone, but I still experience a sinking sensation when I
think of the early thirties and the bleak outlook they presented
to a young lawyer. That did not prevent my following the
usual instincts and pattern, I got married —and was fortunate
in my choice.

Building a practice during those years was a slow and arduous
business, but in 1939 I made another happy choice. I formed a
partnership that has been a most satisfactory association in every
way and has made steady progress from its inception,

Over the years, time and some personal acquaintance with

[ 570]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

misfortune have brought about a re-assessment of values. Family,
religion, the community and “causes” have assumed new impor-
tance, due in large measure, I have no doubt, to the universal
parental desire to make available to our children a better heritage
and a better life than was our lot.

In retrospect, it seems incredible that our generation and the

eneration which preceded it could not even recognize world-
shaking forces in motion — much less avert the resulting catas-
trophes that have overtaken us twice in our lifetime. It is even
more fantastic that there are still so many who have failed or
refused to learn from these tragic events. But I’m optimistic
and have a measure of faith—TI believe our children will have
a better world, perhaps because they must.

SAMUEL KURLAND

HOME apprEss: 36 E. Devonia Ave., Mount Vernon, N. Y.
oFFice appress: Labor Zionist Organization of America, 45 E. 17th St,
New York, N. Y.

BorN: Feb. 25, 1904, Kostopol, Russia. parents: Charles Kurland, Fannie
Bella Becker.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1925, A.M.
1926; PH.D. 1929.
marrieD: Mildred E. White, July 15, 1932, Boston, Mass. cHitprEN: Jona-
than Joshua, Jan. 11, 1939; Daniel Judah, Dec. 25, 1939, Rachel, July
25, 1948.
MEMBER OF: Jewish Publication Society; Mediaeval Academy of America
(research associate); Labor Zionist Organization of America.
PUBLICATIONS: Biluiat, New York, 1937; Cooperative Palestine, New York,
1947.
I SPENT the first four years after graduation acquiring the A.M.
and Ph.D. degrees in Semitic languages and literature at Harvard.
Just as I was pondering the question: what now? —I was gen-
erously handed a four-year scholarship. I started work on the
extension of my Ph.D. thesis into a man-sized tome. Before
several months had passed, however, I found myself in charge
of the classification and cataloguing of a large collection of
Hebrew books then acquired by Widener Library. In time this
collection grew to 25,000 volumes. I spent the major portion of

1929-30 getting this work to a point where I could leave it long

[571]

HARVARD CLASS OF I92 5

enough to go abroad for a year. I spent 1930-31 reading Hebrew
and Arabic manuscripts in the libraries of Paris, Berlin, London,
Oxford, Munich and Vienna. I complemented that with a good
taste of the life and liquors of each country. That year a Phj
Beta Kappa key was good for a 15-mark loan from a pawn.
broker on Friedrichstrasse. I topped the year off with a two-
month tramping tour of Palestine.

Upon my return from abroad I resumed work on the Hebrew
Collection at Widener. On July 15, 1932, I married Mildred FE.
White of the Radcliffe class of 1927. Until the expiration of my
fellowship in 1933 I was kept busy with the Hebrew Collection
at the expense of my work on my own project which was ex-
tended to three volumes as a result of my research abroad.

Then came a year or so of free-lance lecturing. And again
my work on those tomes was reduced to the pace of an invalid
snail.

Finally, I bestirred myself and got an instructorship in Jewish

history and philosophy which had just been established in the
Graduate School of Boston University by a committee of civic-
and education-minded Jews of Boston. This position I held for
seven years.
. During the war registration at the University fell off con-
siderably. I shared the general feeling of restlessness. Since my
field did not fit into any of the specialist categories required by
the armed forces, I enrolled with the USO-JWB. I served as
USO director first in New Orleans and then Newport. I set
out to bring education to the men and came out a ping-pong
and pool player of near championship calibre.

At the war’s end I threw myself completely into Zionist
work. I became director of the Labor Zionist Palestine Infor-
mation Bureau in New York. As part of my work I wrote a book
Cooperative Palestine which was favorably received by labor and
codperative circles. I had always done a great deal of youth and
leadership training work for the various Zionist youth move-
ments on a voluntary basis and had become the guide and adviser
to hundreds of young people, primarily students of the several
colleges and universities in the New England area. My home was
a center of youth activity. I was more than fully repaid in terms
of the stimulation and challenge offered by keen young people

L572]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

living in a fast moving world. I have never given up this phase
of my work.

The final stages of the battle for the Jewish State were most
absorbing. The entire family spent March to June of 1949 in
Israel. Upon our return I took office as the director of education
for the Labor Zionist Organization of America in New York,
and received an appointment as research associate with the Med-
iaeval Academy of America. Those volumes will yet see the
light of day!

The years 1925-1950 represent a quarter of a century of real
achievement, for all their quietude —a bright and happy house-
hold, intense gratification as a teacher and leader of young people
who has given much of himself to and learned a lot from them,
and for having some modest share in the hard purposeful battle
for the establishment of the Jewish state. And, lest we forget,
those volumes will yet see the light of day.

And now I ama youth of forty-six — hair sprinkled with gray,
but all there. My boys manage to exploit every Jast ounce of
athletic adiposity. Sometimes it’s downright tiring!

Where do I stand as to politics, the world? With all good
people wherever they may be who strive for freedom and democ-
racy together. Mine is the slow educational course — and this
tortoise is plodding and persistent. So, another lecture, another
pamphlet, another book — and the new better world is on its way.

FREDERICK REGINALD LACK

HOME Appress: RF.D. #3, Ridgefield, Conn.

OFFICE appress: Western Electric Co., Inc., 120 Broadway, New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: July 18, 1895, Eastbourne, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREE: 8.B. IN BE. COM. ENGIN. magna cum laude,
1925.

occupation: Engineering and administration.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: First lieutenant, Signal Corps, A.E.F., 1917-19.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Director, Army-Navy Electronics Production
Agency, Washington, D. C., 1942-43.

OFFICES HELD: President, Armed Forces Communication Association, 1949,
Harvard Engineering Society, 1946-47, member Advisory Committee,
Brooklyn Home for Aged Men; member Board of Overseers Committee,
to Visit the Department of Engineering Sciences, Harvard College.

[573]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Pequot Yacht Club of Southport,
Connecticut; Cosmos Club, Washington, D. C.; Institute of Radi

o En-
gineers (fellow); American Institute of Electrical Engineers (fellow).

FRANCIS WILLING LaFARGE

OFFICE ADDRESS: 61 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 10, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: Christopher Grant La-
Farge, Florence Bayard Lockwood.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; M.B.A., 1928,

marRIED: Helen S. Rust, Feb. 9, 1929 (divorced 1938); Ruth Potter, Aug.
5, 1940 (divorced 1945); Loraine Grover, July 20, 1946. CHILDREN:
Francis Willing, Jr, Jan. 31, 1930; Diane, Oct. 20, 1931; Jonathan,
Oct. 15, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Christopher LaFarge, ’20; Oliver LaFarge, ’

occupation: Partner, Clark, Dodge & Company.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT POSTS: Foreign economic expert, State Department.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Capital Administration, Ltd., 1937-46; direc-
tor, Broad Street Sales Corporation, 1941~46, Sherman Products Com-
pany, since 1949, Russian Economic Institute, 1942-45.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Downtown Harvard Club;
Council on Foreign Relations; Foreign Policy Association; Lake Wara-
maug Country Club (treasurer and governor); New York Society of
Security Analysts; Analysts Club; Lunch Club; American Statistical
Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in the Commercial and Financial Chronicle
and the Analysts Journal.

24.

I EMERGED from the Harvard Business Schoo! at midyears in
1928 to start work as a bond trader for the American National
Company in the New York office. This company was one of the
early casualties of 1929-32, October, 1930, to be exact. I enjoyed
the relaxation of unemployment until March, 1931, when [I en-
tered the ivory tower of the Tri-Continental Corporation and
its affiliated investment companies. There I remained for exactly
fifteen years. Before long I discovered that I was their market
analyst and that was my chief occupation in all those years,
despite some complimentary but non-lucrative titles which came
my way. In March, 1946, I joined Clark, Dodge & Company as a
general factotum, became a partner at the beginning of 1949,
and continue as such, This move resulted in a very marked change
as it gave me the opportunity to travel around the country

[574]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

meeting our numerous correspondents. I am only sorry that
the opportunity had not come sooner as it has meant seeing a
good deal of our country and meeting a great many people of
all types and varieties. This observation includes trips to Boston.

I derive a very moderate pleasure from being a New Yorker
who was born in New York. I get a great deal more out of a
very simple “farm” in South Kent, Connecticut. It looks as if
the job of fixing it up will never be finished, which is fine because
of the great relaxation which comes from working with your
hands when you earn your living by attempting to work your
brain. I imagine this is why I infinitely prefer flyfishing to
shooting, although I enjoy both.

Having begun to study Russia in 1927 and having kept it up
steadily from then on, I enjoyed a brief period in the early 1940's
as an expert on the subject —a brief period, because it was not
long before almost everyone became an expert on Russia.

My family life has been hectic a good part of the way. At
least, 1 think I learned a good deal from each of my misadven-
tures. I am sure that that is why I am going down the home
stretch with such a lasting and delightful companion.

FRANK SHEDD LALLY

HOME ADDRESS: 215 Montgomery Ave., Haverford, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Aluminum Company of America, 123 S. Broad St., Philadel-
phia, Pa.

BORN: Sept. 10, 1896, Boston, Mass. parents: John James Lally, Cecelia Ann
Shedd.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1925 (24).

marrieD: Elizabeth Helen Hale, Sept. 3, 1925, Cleveland, Ohio.

occupPaTIoNn: District representative, Aluminum Foil Division.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Flying cadet, U. S. Army Flying Corps, Novem-
ber, r917-September, 1918; student flight officer, U. S. Navy Flying
Corps, September, 1918-January, 1919.

MEMBER oF: Merion Golf Club; Baltimore Country Club; Country Club of
Virginia.

MAURICE JOSEPH LANGSAM

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 140-10 Franklin Ave., Flushing, N. Y.
BORN: March 26, 1902, New York, N. Y. Parents: Edward Langsam, Rose
Ejichner.

[575]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1024. DEGREES: A.B., 1925, M.D. (Boston Univ.), 1928,
MARRIED: Augusta Maksik, Nov. 20, 1931, New York, N. Y. cHmpren: Har-

vey Steven, Sept. 5, 1932; Barry William and Lawrence Edward (twins),
June 5, 1935.
occupation: Orthopedic surgeon.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association, Queens County Medical So-
ciety.

pustications: “Adolescent Osteochondritis of the Symphysis Pubis,” The
Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery, July, 1934.

AFTER graduating, I spent four years at Boston University Medi-
cal School. I shall never forget those years. 1 worked hard bur
had lots of fun too. Following my graduation from medical school,
I interned at the Boston City Hospital where I was fortunate
enough to meet Dr. Frederic Cotton who did much to influence
the decision pertaining to my future specialty, namely orthopedics.
He got me an orthopedic appointment in New York and during
this appointment I met Dr. Leo Mayer, a prominent orthopedic
surgeon who was also very helpful in molding my career.

In 1931 I met my wife and, after a courtship of three weeks,
we were married on November 2oth of that year. On September
5, 1932, my first son, Harvey Steven, was born.

In 1933 I was really on my own and opened my first office in
Flushing. In my first month in my new practice I made $24 and
my rent was $175. Alas! Alas! However, as I was the only ortho-
pedist in the community, I suddenly clicked and pretty much had
my way for approximately fifteen years. In 1935 my good wife
presented me with a set of twin boys. With three hungry lads to
feed I had to keep my nose to the grindstone more than ever.
This I did and during the war years even more so. Although I
would like to have joined Uncle Sam’s armed forces I was not
able to do so because of an asthmatic condition as well as a severe
allergy. However, I did my best to serve the home front and also
devoted much time to examining many Army draftees.

After several rather hectic years I decided, in 1947, that I was
not as young as I used to be and took on an associate to assist me.
By doing this it was my hope to have more free time to spend on
the continuation of my scientific and research problems — one of
my main ambitions. During my years of practice I have been as-
sociated with the Hospital for Joint Diseases (thirteen years),

[576]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

New York Hospital, Cornell Clinic (five years), and Flushing
Hospital (seventeen years), At the present time I am chief of
orthopedics at the Flushing Hospital Clinic.

I consider my life to date a full one. I have enjoyed every min-
ute of my practice as well as my duties as father and husband.
Although most days were busy ones I did have time to devote to
some of my hobbies, stamp collecting and fishing in Maine where
I spend my summer vacations with my family, My boys are now
really grown up. The first, Harvey, will be ready to enter college
this fall, and the twins will begin their second year of high school.
Harvey, the eldest, is an aviator, with 250 hours of flying time.
Barry, the elder twin by a few minutes, is an artist and Lawrence,
the other twin, is a bookworm with a sense of humor, believe
it or not.

RUSSELL CARPENTER LARCOM

HOME ADDRESS: 12 Patton Pl., Tuscaloosa, Als.

OFFICE appress: University of Alabama, University, Ala.

BORN: July 7, 1903, Beverly, Mass. parents: George Francis Larcom, Sarah
K. Jones.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREES: ‘A.B. 1925; M.B.A. 1928; PH.D. (Johns
Hopkins Univ.), 1937.

MarrieD: Ruth A. King, Sept. 6, 1934, Gambier, Ohio, cup: Victoria A.,
March 30, 1936.

occuPaTION: Professor of finance, University of Alabama.

OFFICES HELD: Professor of finance, University of Alabama, since 1945.

MEMBER OF: Pi Gamma Mu; Alpha Kappa Psi; American Economic Associa-
tion, Southern Economic Association; American Finance Association.

PuBLications: The Delaware Corporation, Johns Hopkins Press, 1937, The
Financial Effects of Taxation, University of Alabama Press, 1946.

CARL THEODORE LARSON

HOME aporEss: 713 Henry St., Ann Arbor, Mich.

OFFICE appress: College of Architecture and Design, University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Mich.

BORN: Jan. 6, 1903, Kansas City, Mo. PARENTS: Peter Larson, Bettie Swenson.

PREPARED AT: Westport High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1925; M.ARCH.,

1929.
[577]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

MARRIED: Marjorie Worthington MacNaught, April 24, 1930, Naples, Ialy.

CHILDREN: Ronal Worthington, July 11, 1933; Dana Woodford, June 5,
1936.

OCCUPATION: Professor of architecture.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: In charge of programming housing for war
workers in metropolitan Washington, Administrator’s Office, National
Housing Agency, 1942-43; technical consultant, Senate Military Affairs

Committee (on proposed legislation to establish a National Science
Foundation), 1944-45.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in Architectural Forum, Architectural Record, Sur-

vey Graphic, Scientific Monthly, etc., Planning for Productivity (with
K. Lonberg-Holm), Industrial Relations Institute, 1940.

PRESUMABLY a Twenty-fifth Anniversary should be something
of a landmark. In a rough way I suppose it is but as I sit here in
my living room on a snowy Thanksgiving afternoon wondering
why it has been such a painful effort to bring myself to the task of
filling out the Class questionnaire, I find myself looking back at
the past twenty-five years as a period of transition rather than
accomplishment. It is simply a span of time during which I’ve
been discarding old standards and acquiring new hopes and goals.
My own interests are still largely centered in trying to define
the shape of things to come. The past, I feel, has little significance
except as preparation for the emerging world of tomorrow. This
is of course just another way of saying that in a dynamic society
the process of education must be continuous and never-ending.
As an educator, I confess that I grow increasingly suspicious of
the validity of much of what I have been taught to be true, and I
try to teach my own students to take the same questioning attitude
towards architecture and life, all in the hope that they will con-
tinue to learn, unlearn, and relearn for themselves after I sign off.
Lawrence Frank in Society as the Patient is very fond of an
observation which the president of Edinburgh University made
in his inaugural address: ‘The history of human intelligence is a
record, not so much of the progressive discovery of truth as of
our gradual emancipation from error.” As.I think back on the
days at Harvard, I realize that this is what Lowes and Kittredge
and Briggs and the others were trying to teach us. Without being
fully aware of the process I guess I did absorb some of their
philosophy. ‘To them I am eternally grateful, not for any facts of

knowledge but for a technique of learning. Facts are a perishable

[578 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

commodity but the questioning attitude, which they had in abun-
dance, secms always to grow in importance.

My own life since 1925 is easily summed up: a stretch of study
in the Graduate School of Design intermingled with work in
architectural offices, followed by a vear of travel through Europe
and North Africa on a Harvard fellow ship, then some long tours
of duty as an architectural magazine editor in New York (first
with the Architectural Record, later with the Architectural
Forum), alternating with work in various government agencies in
Washington and with a private building company in Columbus
which was attempting to produce an aluminum prefabricated
house. Generally I have had a modestly comfortable existence

even during the lean years of the depression,

It seems a circuitous career that I have followed, yet I think
it has led unerringly to my present activity. Teaching is what
I have long wanted to do, and the practical experience in the
building field has been only a necessary prelude. Here at Michigan
Iam doubly fortunate, for teaching is combined with opportuni-
ties for research. The university provides a truly stimulating en-
vironment.

I am very happily married. My wife is patient and properly
understanding; to me she becomes more beautiful with each pass-
ing year. Our two sons have long since adopted the questioning
attitude, this imparts a dynamic quality to the parental relation-
ship.

Even if our own generation muffs its responsibilities I have no
qualms about the future. The more contact I have with the on-
coming generation the greater becomes my confidence in its
ability to bring into existence the bright and shiny world of to-
morrow promised by science. The students at Michigan are a
superb lot; I rather suspect they still are at Harvard too.

MAYNARD LOCKE LAWRENCE

HOME apprEss: 20 Raymond Rd., Manchester, Conn.

OFFICE appress: Cheney Brothers, 146 Hartford Rd., Manchester, Conn.

BORN: Dec. 21, 1903, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Frank Maynard Lawrence,
Florence Adeline Locke.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREE: A.B., 1925 (26),

[579 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Marairp: Sistine Gnazzo, July 23, 1933, Avon, Conn, CHILDREN: Sue,
1940; Frank Maynard, July 26, 1945.

occupation: Textile superintendent.

MEMBER OF: Society for Advancement of Management.

Aug. 23,

THE way I have spent my life since graduation has definitely re.
sulted in no great accumulation of riches, but at least I find myself
happy and more or less resigned to a very normal existence.

My travelling has been confined to wanderings up and down
the eastern seaboard and through the Middle West, while 1 was
trying to determine why various companies have not produced
as fast and furiously as some of the stockholders might desire. |
probably should have spent some time checking up on myself as
it has taken six goads to force me to write this mem.

My hobbies are conspicuous by their absence, unless a rather
impressive collection of phonograph records encompassing all the
1920-1930 hot jazz albums, plus a rather prolific number of sym-
phonies and concertos can be called a hobby.

Socially, not way up, but not quite at the bottom level.

Politically, I have voted only once but I have a very firm con-
viction that most of the members are still smugly considering
themselves Republicans but wondering what it is all about.

Religious convictions are probably beginning to sneak up on
me as my conscience is getting the better of me and I probably
shall join some church before I hit the fifty mark.

 

ROBERT NEAL LEATH

HOME ADDRESS: 7312 Tampa Ave., Reseda, Calif.

OFFIce appress: Foreign Broadcast Information Service, Reseda, Calif.

Born: Feb. 6, 1904, Birmingham, Ala. parents: Josiah Leath, Roberta Taylor
Davidson.

PREPARED AT: Los Angeles High School, Los Angeles, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922, 1924-1926. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1925 (26).

MarRiED: Rosalind Ruth Shepard, Nov. 9, 1933, Beverly Hills, Calif. (di-
vorced 1944); Madge Clare Paine, Dec. 2, 1944, London, England.
cup: Paulette Clare, Dec. 8, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Editor.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Foreign Broadcast Information Service, U. S.
Government, foreign affairs analyst; editor.

PUBLICATIONS: Various publications of various lengths, fiction and non-
fiction.

[ 580 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WRITING as a profession was my principal occupation until
just after the United States became involved in World War II.
In June, 1942, I received an appointment to the Foreign Broad-
cast Informaton Service, a federal agency which has operated
under several different departments and several slightly different
names. I have continued to be so employed ever since. In Jan-
uary, 1943, 1 was transferred to England, remained there for
nearly four years, and there met and married my present charm-
ing wife. Our daughter, no doubt, will be at least a candidate
for Youngest Child of the Class.

CHARLES LE BOUTILLIER, JR.

HOME ApDpRESS: Stonewood, Brooklandville, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cannon Shoe Co., Lafayette Ave., Baltimore, Md.

BORN: July 19, 1903, Tewksbury, Mass. parents: Charles Louis Boutillier,
Katherine Josephine Tompkins.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

margiep: Anne Pugh, Nov. 19, 1940, Brooklandville, Md. cumpren: Francis,
Feb. 5, 1943; Katherine, Dec. 18, 1944; Geoffrey, Sept. 20, 1947.

occuPATION: Director of advertising division, Cannon Shoe Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Volunteer Port Security Force, U. S. Coast
Guard. .

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Baltimore Chapter, American Marketing
Association, 1948-49.

MEMBER OF: American Marketing Association; Baltimore Marketing Asso-
ciation; Baltimore Museum of Art; advisory board, Association of
Commerce magazine (Baltimore).

IN 1925 I was convinced that I wanted a career in architecture
and so for the next two years following graduation from the
College, I attended the Graduate School of Architecture at
Harvard. I transferred to M.I-T. in my third year where I had
better opportunity to devote myself, full time, to design and not
be hampered by many things in which I had little or no interest.
‘That was a very happy decision.

In 1928 I set out for New York in pursuit of a career in archi-
tecture. At first it was awful— working for months on quasi-
classical details for so-called public buildings. Happily that did
not last too long for shortly after this inauspicious start I was
lucky enough to become associated with a firm which specialized

[ 581 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

in modern design — which included everything from a chair to
a building. While in that office, I became aware of the signi-
ficance of business and industrial design. By the merest chance,
I had an ideal opportunity to rationalize about this, when, con-
temporaneous with the market crash in 1929, I was awarded the
Guy Lowell Travelling Fellowship in Architecture, and conse-
quently went abroad to think the whole thing over.

I went to Spain, the land of El Greco for whom I had always
cherished a terrific admiration. No wonder, then, that I found
myself in Toledo, painting with almost a demoniac frenzy, whilst
I sought answers to those questions which plagued me inces-
santly. Gradually I felt myself becoming more and more con-
vinced that I found my answers in a living art, which was, para-
doxically in our time at least, expressed best in the dominating
fields of business and economics rather than in the humanities.
Therefore, when I had reached the last day of the Fiesta of San
Fermin in Pamplona (and those of you who have read The Sun
Also Rises will know what I mean), I felt that I had accomplished
the purpose of my mission and that the objective of my fellowship
had been achieved. Straightaway I came home to go to work at
the earliest opportunity in the field of business and industrial art.

This has led me to furniture, motion picture scenic design,
display, and finally advertising. I would say that currently my
main interest lies in the subject of marketing by art in business.

Since 1932 I have lived in Baltimore and I have learned to
love Maryland. Here, with my wife, our three children, dogs,
woods, garden, and all those things that go with living in the
country, I consider myself blessed and more than lucky. These
twenty-five years have been more than kind to me and I should
be lacking in appreciation if I did not take this opportunity to
acknowledge the debts owed to Harvard and those associated
with it who have contributed to my good fortune while I humbly
and earnestly thank God for these years—-they have exceeded
my fondest hopes of a quarter of a century ago.

+ STEPHEN VAN PRAAG LEE

BorN: Nov. 2, 1904, Yonkers, N. Y. parents: Louis Franklin Lee, Selma
Van Praag.

[ 582]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

UNMARRIED.

piep: April 27, 1931, San Marino, Calif.

FATHER: Louis Franklin Lee, 271 Madison Ave., New York, N. Y.
STEPHEN VAN PRAAG LEE matriculated at Brown Uni-
versity in 1921 and in the fall of 1923 transferred to Harvard,
graduating with our Class. During his senior year he was a mem~-
ber of the track squad.

Late in 1925 Lee was discovered to be suffering from tubercu-
losis. He moved to Colorado Springs early in 1926 and to Cali-
fornia a year later. During his illness he became interested in book
collecting. His knowledge and judgment of fine and rare books
made him known to book collectors throughout the United States
and Europe. His enthusiasm and love for his subject was second
only to his love of people. His patience, sympathy, and under-
standing grew even in illness.

JONATHAN NORTON LEONARD

HOME apprEss: 46 E. 80th St., New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Time, Inc., 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y.

BorN: May 25, 1903, Somerville, Mass. paRENTs: Jonathan Leonard, ’96,
Melanie Elisabeth Norton.

PREPARED AT: Taft School, Watertown, Conn.; Sandwich High School,
Sandwich, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

marrieD: Maria Alzamora, 1933, New York, N. Y. cup: Jonathan Alza-
mora, Feb. 9, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Writer; currently science editor of Time Magazine.

DURING most of my professional life I was a free-lance writer,
covering a good part of the field of professional writing. In
November, 1943, I joined Time magazine, where I am at present
as science editor.

CHARLES MARTIN LERER

HOME ADDRESS: 33 Tremont St., Maynard, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: 74 Main St., Maynard, Mass.; 185 Devonshire St., Boston,
Mass.

BorN: Aug. 1, 1903, Worcester, Mass. parents: Samuel Lerer, Mary Eliza-
beth Gruber.

[ 583 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

PREPARED AT: Maynard High School, Maynard, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. cum? laude, 1925; LL.B 1929.

marrieD: Ida E. Lehto, April 26, 1936, Greenville, N. H.

OCCUPATION: Attorney. .

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member, Advisory Board, Selective Service;
member, Office of Price Administration.

oFFices HELD: Director, The Fashion Shop of Maynard, Inc.; director, Tots
& Teens, Inc. Dover, N. H.; director, Maynard Rotary Club; mem-
ber Town Counsel, Town of Maynard.

MEMBER OF: Maynard Grange; Maynard Lodge of Elks; Charles A. Welch
Lodge, AF. & F.M.; Rotary Club; Magdalene Chapter 28, O.ES.;
Boston Lafayette Lodge of Perfection; Giles Fonda Yates Council, P.
of J., Mount Oliver Chapter of Rose Croix, Massachusetts Consistory;
Aleppo Temple; Middlesex Bar Association; City Solicitors & Town
Counsels Association.

ALL at once I find middle age upon me, and sometimes I wonder
whether it isn’t old age.

HENRY PETER LESBURT

HOME ADDRESS: 190 Washington St., Lynn, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 14 Central Ave., Lynn, Mass.
BORN: June 25, 1904, Lynn, Mass. parents: Peter Paul Lesburt, Antonia A.

Litwin.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1925. .

MarRiED: Monica A. Cook, July 10, 1933, Providence, R. I. cumtpren: Gloria
M., May 8, 1934; Henry Peter, Jr., Dec. 19, 1941; Rosalind A., Oct. 11,
1943.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

MOST of the past twenty-five years I have spent in the study and

practice of law. I have handled cases of wide diversity. The net

result has been a rich experience but a lean remuneration, At

most times the former has exceeded the latter.

Generally speaking the average lawyer is apt to be cynical. I
am no exception although I have had this philosophy prior to my
law career. During my undergraduate days I wrangled over the
question of the depravity of man and today I still adhere to the
belief that basically the human being is a selfish person in all his
projected entities. Any newspaper headline will bear this out.

However, | have found a lot of fun in life. 1 have been my own
boss except for the war years when regimentation was a necessity.

[ 584]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The New England North Shore is a great place if you like to fish,
boat, lobster, and clam, and my family and I enjoy all of it.

THOMAS SUTTON LESTER

HOME ADDRESS: 13 Ohio St., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Eastern Gas & Fuel Associates, 250 Stuart St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: July 24, 1902, Needham, Mass. parents: Frederick William Lester,
Clarissa May Sutton.

PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: a.B. cum laude, 1925.

maRRIED: Mae M. Cabrel, Nov. 21, 1931, Braintree, Mass. crip: Richard
Frederick, June 3, 1937.

occupaTion: Senior accounting clerk.

THE events of my life during the last twenty-five years exem-

plify the famous Shakespearean injunction:

. fling away ambition:
By that : sin ‘fell the angels; how can man, then,
The i image of his Maker, hope to win by it?’

This is not to say that I have turned a cold shoulder to oppor-
tunities. I simply imply that my life has been so enjoyable that
I have never worried about those advancements, promotions,
and distinctions which occupy the thoughts and plans of many
people.

To be specific— after a year of commercial skirmishing, I
settled down to work for Eastern Gas & Fuel Associates (it was
called Massachusetts Gas Companies in 1926) in the department
of accounting and auditing. My studies at Harvard had not
prepared me for a position of this sort. In fact, academic records
will show that during four years of college I investigated branches
of learning ranging from geology to Greek but ignored the
science of economics and all studies thereunto pertaining. How-
ever, am evening course in accounting acquainted me with all I
needed to know about my work and now, after nearly twenty-
five years, I am profitably and steadily employed, with prospects
of work for as long as I shall need it.

Being an amiable sort of bookworm I discovered that office
routines and responsibilities did not fill my life, Accordingly,
sometime in 1927 or 1928, I made a contract with the late Boston

[585 ]

ST trap pe SNE ACP SER A=

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Evening Transcript. The book editor, the late Edwin F, Edgett,
also a Harvard man, was very kind and intermittently, unti]
the demise of the Transcript, 1 reviewed books for his pages, ]
usually turned out a mere two or three hundred words aboy
a new book, occasionally producing several times that number
to make a “feature” review, which appeared under my name
and brought in extra dollars.

Late in the summer of 1945 I was asked to take on an English
class for the evening division of the College of Liberal Arts of
Northeastern University. The course was freshman English, a
kind of English A, with emphasis on the cultivating of skills in
reading and writing. This course I conducted during 1945-46,
At the end of that period, the authorities of Northeastern, having
discovered that 1 knew practically nothing about freshman
English, punished me by handing me over to the mercies of a
second-year class in English literature. And that subject I have
managed to keep under my control ever since. It’s one of those
impossible survey courses which aim to provide a comprehensive
knowledge of a branch of study within eight or nine months.
Those of my classmates who took the Harvard course on English
literature under Bliss Perry will remember that it was a joy
and a delight. My course, too, is a joy and delight —— to me! My
students courteously endure my ministrations and then, with
sighs of relief, depart to better things. In extenuation I must
assert that my course, which covers approximately the same
ground as English 41, meets only once a week instead of three
times and that my problem is not so much to cover adequately
one thousand years of literary development as to make sure that
a few famous names are not entirely forgotten. But it’s great fun.

Another project of similar kind presented itself a year ago.
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts, through its Division 0
University Extension, was preparing a correspondence course In
the literature of the western world, from Homer down to the
present time. Would I compose the written lectures to accom-
pany assignments? A friend of mine, another Harvard man

(these Harvard men insinuate themselves into everything! ) had

begun the work, but after the first eight assignments had it

rendered the enterprise, It was my task to begin where he le
off and to create diverting and beguiling little essays on mediaeva

[ 586 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and modern authors for an unknown and unseen public. I am
still engaged in this undertaking.

And so twenty-five years have come to an end. If I could re-
member what I was like in 1925, I could no doubt provide in-
reresting comparisons. All I can recollect is that at the end of
my four years at Harvard I was eager to earn some money. I
have been doing that ever since, and I have discovered that a
steady income from accounting is not hard to acquire and that
teaching and writing about literature, the companionship of my
family circle and of a good friend or two, and membership in
the Episcopal Church have made up a life pleasantly filled with
quiet activity. May it go on for another twenty-five years!

ALEXANDER LEVIN

HOME ADDRESS: 9437 Shore Rd., Brooklyn, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 61 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y.

porn: Dec. 24, 1903, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Isaac Levin, Ida Meisel.

PREPARED AT: Boys High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: S.B., 1925; LL.B., 1928(29).

MARRIED: Rose Kerschman, June 10, 1945, Brooklyn, N. Y. cHitpRen: Ida
Jane, March 4, 1947; Steven I, Aug. 12, 1949.

occuPATION: Attorney.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member registrants advisory board, Selective
Service System.

HAVING spent a great deal of time in my undergraduate days
thinking and imagining about a glorious future, I find that my
dreams have not all come true. Life seems to have gone by
rather fleetingly —and too fast. I have, however, always done
things in a leisurely manner including that of being married
comparatively recently, acquiring and raising a family. I prob-
ably have the distinction (without merit, of course) of having
One of the youngest sons in our Class. This has made me very
happy for some day my son may enter Harvard—and if I am
ucky, I may be around to glory in it.

y life has not been distinguished, nor eventful, but I have
und it good. Practising law has been quite pleasant and I have
“sn able to enjoy a comfortable existence (my requirements
“ing modest).

he friends that I made at college I still retain —I am a hap-

[ 587 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

pier man for this. Much of the knowledge I acquired at
may have disappeared, but the ability to think has not.

Reflecting on our world of the 1920's, which led to the une
happy depression of the 1930's, and contrasting it with our
really troublesome 1940 decade, I see a future of promising eco.
nomic aspects. Our capitalistic structure is being strengthened
for it is my belief that in order to survive, capitalism cannot
stand other depressions and must take care of the needs of jtg
workers as they grow older — and the pension plans now being
forced upon business leaders will, in the long run, turn out to be
a great blessing.

Now I have been too serious, so on to joy and fellowship!
I'll see you all at the Twenty-fifth — and the 'Fiftieth, I hope!

College

MAURICE LEVINSKY

LAST KNOWN ApprEss: 9 Oxford St., Portland, Maine.

BorN: Aug. 18, 1903, Portland, Maine. parENTs: Philip Samuel Levinsky,
Sarah Goldman.

prepare AT: Portland High School, Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925.

occupation: Mercantile business.

LEVINSKY has been carried as a “lost”? man on our records since
November, 1943.

AARON LEVY

HOME apprEss: Wakefield Boulevard, Winsted, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 26 Elm St., Winsted, Conn.

BORN: Sept. 6, 1904, Jackson, Tenn, PARENTS: Abraham Levy,
berg.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B 1925(24)5
1931.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Physician. f

MILITARY OR NAVAL rEcorD: Served in Royal Army Medical Corps, in
(3% years in India); commissioned lieutenant; discharged as ©4P a

ree
AFTER leaving Harvard I worked and knocked about for ch
years. I entered Tufts Medical School in 1927 ane © I
M.D. in 1931. After two and a half years of internship,

[ 588 ]

Annie Blom-

mop. (Tufts Coll.),

our years

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in Winsted, a town of about 10,000 people, more industrial than
agricultural. Except for a period of four years during the war I
have led the life of an average country doctor.

Now, at the age of forty-five years, I find myself still unmar-
ried, and still possessed of very few convictions, social, political
or religious. Far in front of all other convictions is my belief in
the desirability of a good and free public school education, a
school system untouched by social, political, or religious preju-
dices and yet providing for ethical and moral instruction.

Most of my travelling has been a result of the war. The high-
lights were: the long zig-zag trip from England around the Cape
of Good Hope to India, with six weeks of sleeping in a hammock,
under the stars, without lights; a month spent in Kashmir, and
another month spent in Darjeeling in view of Mount Everest. It
was at Darjeeling one night that I saw a green moon, which would
lend a little validity to the claim of the cheese-makers. Two years
ago I spent a month motoring to California and back, and one
year ago I spent another month in eastern Canada. On the last
trip I spent ten days cycling around Nova Scotia — 550 miles in
ten days.

REGINALD LEVY

ADDRESS: 220 Walton Blvd., West Palm Beach, Fla.

BORN: July 2, 1902, Canton, Miss. parents: David Levy, Rosa Kuhn.
PREPARED AT: Morristown School for Boys, Morristown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

JOSEPH L, LEWIS

HOME ADpRESS: 496 Waverley Oaks Rd., Waltham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 751 Main St., Waltham, Mass.

BORN: May 12, 1904, Boston, Mass. pareNTS: Louis Labovitz, Lena Lopato.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B. midgna Cu? laude, 1925 (24);
M.D., 1929.

Marnigp: Ruth E. London, July 6, 1930, Attleboro, Mass. cHiuo: Martha L.,
July 9, 1941,

©ccupation: Physician, specializing in pediatrics.

OFFices HELD: Trustee, Waltham Public Library; chief of pediatric staff,
Waltham Hospital; consultant in pediatrics, Walter E. Fernald School,
Waverley, Mass., assistant in pediatrics, Harvard Medical School;

[ 589]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

assistant, Children’s Medical Service, Massachusetts General Hospita]
Boston; director, Waltham Rotary Club. ’

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Pediatrics; American Board of Pedi.
atrics; New England Pediatric Society; New England Society o¢
Psychiatry; American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical
Society; Phi Delta Epsilon Medical Fraternity; Masons; Harvarg
Faculty Club.

AFTER graduation from Harvard College, magna cum laude in
English and much impressed with the belles-lettres of man, |
spent four full, exciting, and a good deal more involved years at
Harvard Medical School, becoming impressed with the mechan-
ism of man. And so, just in case it should help you win your
fortune on the reigning radio quiz program, or if your grand-
children should ask you, speak right up — the number of bones
in the human body is two hundred and six. Be grateful for this
information; it took me four years to acquire it.

After due hospital internships and residencies, I found that the
comparatively new field of pediatrics was my line of least re-
sistance and greatest love. I was fortunate in being able to re-
ceive a major part of my pediatric training on a Harvard teaching
service, the Children’s Medical Division at the Massachusetts
General Hospital, where I am now on the staff. As the years
have progressed, I find that a question frequently asked but
never adequately answered is, “Why does anyone go into pedi-
atrics?” The name does not begin to imply all the ramifications
of this specialty, including such impacts as sisters and cousins,
uncles and aunts, and yea, even fond grandmothers. I suppose
and hope the answer resolves itself to a simple love of children.

Pediatrics is my first hobby as well as profession; and of all
its aspects, the one that has given me the greatest satisfaction
through the years has been the preaching of a physical truth
that is of simply unbelievable significance in American family life.
Because of its importance, I venture to offer this thought even
in this Class Report. It is very simple, and constitutes the humane
approach to the age-old problem of child feeding. Most children
just “stop eating” at approximately sixteen months of age, until
six or seven or eight years of age. These latter years are the
glorious ones in which, having started again to gorge themselves
with food, so many little girls temporarily acquire what Joh

[590]

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Mason Brown (Harvard 1923) appetizingly describes as “the

-<tline of 2 baked apple. Of course, some children— the ex-
ve ions _— insist on proving the rule by gorging themselves even
sing the early years we mentioned; and they spoil life for other
children. Teach this fact of growing up to parents; give them
the reason if you wish — during these years children normally

row slowly, use their calories for energy and not for growth —

and we, aS members of the Class of ’25 can help to metamorphose
into happier ones the lives of countless little children and their
troubled relatives. In these days, with each field in medicine
making claims for public support, I refer this cause to Gardner
Cowles and other ‘Twenty-fivers in communications, for trans-
mission to the general public.

If one may claim books as a hobby, then I admit to it. My
own library is a salmagundi, including epics ranging from Horatio
Alger to an autographed autobiography by an old patient,
Shirley Temple, an American historical entity which I am certain
I stand unique in the Class ever to have read. As a trustee of
the busy public library in Waltham, I have enjoyed the oppor-
tunity to help plan and organize the use of library facilities for
a good-sized community.

In practising pediatrics, it is always a fresh comfort to come
home and live it. For this, my close family life has provided
a happy and comely structure.

JAMES ALLAN LIND

HOME apprEss: 859 Burr Ave., Winnetka, Ill.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Boyden & McGrath, 69 W. Washington St., Chicago, Ill.
BORN: Nov, 23, rgo1, Butte, Mont. ParENTS: Michael Christian Lind, Etta
Regina Murray.
PREPARED AT: Butte High School, Butte, Mont.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925: LL.B. 1928.
MARRIED: Mary Coe Simpson, July 22, 1933, Pilgrim, Mich. cartpren: Molly,
0 Feb, 26, 1936; Sally, March 29, 1938.
Curation: Lawyer.

LOUR whole life may flash before you in an instant when you
from a great height but it comes back more slowly when you

even to reach for it in the back of your mind. In reaching, how-
% you find unexpected pieces of it here and there.

[sor]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

The short predepression interlude after law school comes b
to me most sharply in my recollection of the opening night ack
at Sky Harbor. I was in the law department of the aviation ”
pany that built Sky Harbor as a club for people who would
rather fly than play g olf. The party _was a medley of the twenties
the night lights of the planes, the crisscrossing beacons, the MUsic
of the Russian night club. It opened and closed in the tremulou,
period in the spring of 1929 when we knew that the sky had
fallen but not how far. ’
I married in ’33 and I can still recall walking home from Mont.
omery Ward’s, from the law department there, through the near
north side of Chicago with gardenias for my wife. Gardenias sold
that year on the street corners of Chicago for a dime.
We moved to Hubbard Woods in Winnetka just before our
second daughter was born. Out there we started around the clock
again as parents do: sand beaches, kindergarten, ice skates, half-

remembered books, linoleum block prints, summer camp, dancing

school.
One of the flash backs at Montgomery Ward’s is of the cata-

logue with two front covers. Half the pages were printed upside
down and the two halves back to back so that both covers would
be front covers. A symbol of a certain topsy-turviness that was
not confined to Ward’s but has spread through the world until it
is difficult to tell which side of anything is which.

Not long ago I left Ward’s to join Preston Boyden and George
McGrath in general practice.

Time in retrospect is that elastic thing which shrinks to nothing
or stretches to boredom. It is more than twenty-five years since
I entered Harvard and there saw my first New England autumn,
but when I took the Class letter out of the mail box in Hubbard
Woods on a late October day, I could see the color of the ivy 99
Stoughton Hall.

+ CHARLES FREDERICK LINGHAM

BORN: June 20, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: Frederick Job Lingham,
Lucinda Pike.

prepareD AT: Lockport High School, Lockport, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: AB., 1925.

[ 592 ]

Lucia

 

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

, Mary Louise Merritt, Aug. 15, 1931, Lockport, N. Y :
ED! : ’ port, IN. XY. CHILDREN:
MMe an French, Feb. 5, 19353 Frederick Charles, Aug. 3, 1938.

. Feb. 26, 1949, en route to Lockport, N. Y.

“w: Mrs. Charles F. Lingham, 296 Lincoln Ave., Lockport, N. Y.

CH ARLES FREDERICK LINGHAM prepared for Harvard at

the Lockport (New York) High School. In Cambridge four years

as an undergraduate with the Class, he received his A.B. degree in
1925: After leaving college, he returned to Lockport where he
became associated with his father in the flour milling business at
the Federal Mill, Inc. For some time he served as treasurer, but
at the time of his death, he was the mill’s vice-president.

His wife and two children survived him.

SIDNEY LITTER

HOME ADDRESS: 84 Sutherland Rd., Brighton, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 73 Lremont St., Boston, Mass.
sorn: Aug. 31, 1904, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Jacob Simon Litter, Helen

Goldberger.
PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: S.B., 1925; LL.B., 1928.
marrigp: Estelle Newman, Dec. 22, 1935, Brookline, Mass.
HARVARD BROTHER: Julius Litter, ’35.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

THERE has been nothing of general interest or out of the ordi-
nary in my life. After leaving law school I worked in a law office
for a year or two and then opened my own office in Boston,
where, except for two short interludes when I was in government
service, I have been in general practice ever since.

LELAND AARON LITTLEFIELD

HOME ADDRESS: 215 Brattle St., Cambridge, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 51 Brattle St., Cambridge, Mass.
BORN: Oct. 19, 1899, Ogunquit, Maine. parents: Aaron Herbert Littlefield,
me Washington Thorne.
me ARED aT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

RS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREES: S.B., 1925; M.D. CM. (McGill Univ.),

1931.

MARRIED: Alice J, Sangster, Oct. 26, 1935, Sherbrooke, Pa. cHILDREN: Alice

Eleanor, May 23, 1938; Leland Richard, Jan. 31, 1941.
[ 593]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

occupation: Medicine.

MILITARY OR NavaL RECORD: Massachusetts National Guard, 1934-39;
ant, Medical Corps, U. S. Navy, 1942~46; promoted lieuteng
mander and commander; active duty, Boston Navy Yard an d
School of Communications; ship duty in Pacific Theatre, Philip
Okinawa operations.

OFFICES HELD: Staff member, Mount Auburn Hospital, Cambridge M
courtesy staff member, Boston Lying-In Hospital. 1 OMaSS.5

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Cambridge Medica] I
ment Society; Harvard Club of Boston; Boston Orthopedic Club

lieuten.
nt Com.
Harvarg
Pine ang

Mprove-
IN THE fall of 1925 I journeyed to that promised land jp the
southern part of the United States, namely Florida, to reap a for.
tune out of the wastes of water and mud which at that time were
being sold for beautiful home sites — sidewalks and all. Well, it
was very grand for a time and then the bubble broke and home
I came. A grand time was had but that was all. The next fall
found me in Montreal entering McGill as a freshman in medicine.
This was a grand and glorious adventure and my six years spent
in Canada were ones never to be forgotten. Returning to Cam-
bridge, I entered the Boston Lying-In Hospital as house officer
and following this, I began the practice of medicine on Brattle
Street.

Soon after I entered practice, I became associated with various
activities, namely the Massachusetts National Guard as lieutenant
in the medical department, surgeon to the Harvard Athletic As-
sociation, insurance and industrial medical work, all of which !
enjoyed very much.

In a few short years the war clouds gathered and in 1942 !
applied for and was given a commission as lieutenant commander
in the United States Naval Reserve and was assigned to active
duty at the Boston Navy Yard. My next assignment was the
Harvard School of Communications, where I stayed until J was
assigned to ship duty in the Pacific. I was discharged from active

duty in 1946 and immediately returned to private practice.

Our church is the First Congregational Church of Cambridge
which I try to attend as often as possible, which I am sorry
say is not very often, much to the displeasure of my family. do

As for hobbies — well there are many things I should like 7 ‘e
but time will not permit and I presume if I don’t find time beto

it
long that that thing called age will have something to say about J

[594]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

oo. However I do like to follow the footsteps of Izaak Walton
ad each spring I make Canada on a fishing trip, Some say that
olf is the doctor's game and so to keep up with the crowd, I
ay a few holes in the summer — “when the weather is cool.”
Gy — there you are and here am I looking forward to June, 1950.

a

WILLIAM DUDLEY LIVINGSTON

HOME ADDRESS: 72 Five Mile River Rd., Darien, Conn.

orrice apprEss: Coverdale & Colpitts, 120 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

gorn: Dec. 15, 1903, Lexington, Ky. parents: John Griswold Livingston,
Clara Dudley.

prePARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921~I925. DEGREE: $.B, IN E. ENGIN,, 1925.

marriep: Jane Edson, July 5, 1930, Sewickley, Pa. (divorced 1938); Bertha
Whitridge Smith, April 24, 1942, Baltimore, Md. cumpren: William
Dudley, Jr., April 5, 1933; Ann Whitridge, April 2, 1943; Joan Murray,
Dec. 5, 1945.

occuPATION: Consulting engineering,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant commander, U. S. Naval Reserve;
sent to Brooklyn Navy Yard on fire control installations, 1942; sent to
Leyte Gulf as ordnance superintendent at repair base, 1945.

MEMBER OF: Downtown Harvard Lunch Club; New York and Southern
Connecticut Figure Skating Clubs; Tokeneke Club; William Clancy
Gordon Chowder and Marching Club; Informal Fraternal Order of Five
Mile River Rats.

ENOUGH said. Let more fluent pens hold sway. But—on
further thought —. It was exciting to have been at Roosevelt
Field when Lindbergh took off in 1927, and it was a haphazard
Temark made asa result of no sleep that night which Jed to moving
from the waterworks business in New York to electric power in
Pittsburgh.
_ Itwasa gay life for three years as one of “Mrs. Mac’s bad boys”
in a boarding house run by an Irish lady whose heart was bigger
than the house. And it was good sport sculling on the calm cliff-
bordered Allegheny where the wakes from stern-wheelers were
Possibility for sport but dangerous if not anticipated, Converting
“n engineer into a salesman was trying, but there was reward in
2d nde a a eer Te'unow the men and metho
in . It was interesting to now the met ods
Steel and glass making, coal and limestone mining (one lime-

[595 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

stone mine had vaulted chambers the proportions of Sr, Peter’,
and many others, including rendering (that’s stronger than a
slaughterhouse).

It was normal expectancy to marry, move to the suburh of
Sewickley, and become a proud father. It was fun Starting ama
teur hockey again in Pittsburgh via one very amateur team, If
Was entertaining to spend the Ballet Russe in the Schenley },,
with Dorati while Kurtz conducted the first half and with Kurtz
while Dorati conducted the second half. It had seemed that 4
flood would be fun too; rowboats around houses and streets had
always been appealing in the rotogravure, but people actual]
climbing into boats at second-story window level and the while
asking for offers on the piano in the living room — that was
something else again, as was getting an inundated power station
back into service. It was a fortunate chance to fly the first sleeper
plane west on United, and it was inspiring to climb in the high
Sierras and to see the fleet come in under the Golden Gate Bridge
for Navy Day in 1937.

Family life in Sewickley was pleasant — the youngster tramp-
ing the woods in leaves and snow and scrambling over ice floes
on the river by the time he was three — very pleasant, while it
lasted. Then came reorientation in New York, with new experi-

ences in utility finance, old and new friends, a new hobby in
figure skating, and a new wife on the horizon.

The new wife and the war arrived simultaneously. For nearly
three years in Brooklyn Navy Yard it was an intense and chal-
lenging ordeal day and night, mastering the intricacies of gunnery

and fire control, and getting the ships out on schedule with equip-

ment ready to shoot and hit. It was something of a relief to reach the

Philippines and build up the ordnance facilities at a large repair base

that was just getting into operation when V-J Day came. It was

a restful cruise back — and through Golden Gate for Navy Day:

1945 — with a desire never again to become involved with the

mechanics of anything more complex than a canoe.

It was a scramble finding a place to live, my boy back with -
and two little girls added, and also starting on a new bu
career in consulting engineering. But it was fortunate to be 4 :
to settle eventually in a quiet corner of Darien near the waters

[ 596 ]

?

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

nd it is gratifying to be working again with the men and organi-
; ‘on of industry and transportation.

a he imminent anniversary brings little feeling of complacent
antiquity such as might have been anticipated twenty-five years
ago. Rather, there is the hope that what years there may be to
come will unfold as full a life as did those past, and that it will
be as stimulating — but less rigorous.

HAMILTON pe FOREST LOCKWOOD, JR.

yome apprEss: 380 Marlborough St., Boston 15, Mass.

‘OFFICE ADDRESS: State Street Research and Management Co., 140 Federal St.,
Boston, Mass.

gorn: Jan. 28, 1903, Boston, Mass. parents: Hamilton de Forest Lockwood,
Maria Bond Wheelwright.

prRePaRED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; M.B.A., 1927.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Investment analyst.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, A.U.S., March 9, 1942; promoted major,
Aug. 4, 1942, lieutenant colonel, May 31, 1944; assigned to Statistical
Control, Headquarters A-A.F., Washington, D. C., March 9, 1942—April

10, 1943; assigned Budget and Fiscal, Washington, D. C., April 10, 1943-
Dec. 10, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, South End House Association, since 1940 (excluding
war years).

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Somerset Club; Ski Club; Hochge-
birge; Massachusetts Fish and Game Association.

AFTER graduation from the Business School in 1927, I started to
learn the textile business, my father being the treasurer of two
Cotton mills. In 1929 Samuel Insull, in the course of building
his utility empire, bought the mills for their water power and
father retired from active business. The outlook in textiles not
‘ppearing too bright, I obtained a job with the State Street Re-
Search and Management Company, an investment management
tm. I joined them in May, just in time to be more than an in-
'erested witness of the final phases of the bull market and its
Collapse; and, with the exception of the war, I have been with

€m ever since,

he war proved an interesting interlude — the battle of the

“Ntagon during the day and the enjoyment of old and new

[597]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

friends and acquaintances during off hours. T was Particular]
lucky, as I am still a bachelor, in sharing winter quarters jp,
Georgetown with two families and summer quarters near the
Cathedral with a group of friends whose wives had gone to cooler
climes. As a result I formed a number of close friendships that

happily have continued to endure. .

While interested in most everything outdoors, my chief hobbies
besides dabbling in water colors, have been gunning for upland
birds and waterfowl and fishing, the latter preferably with q fly.
Since the war, I have become interested in the program of the
Massachusetts Fish and Game Association, a state-wide agency
working to improve hunting and fishing. In the past I have spent’
most of my time in the field harassing my feathered or finny
friends and in the future, besides continuing their pursuit, I hope
to do more work along conservation lines and build up a bigger
balance on that side of the ledger.

' JOHN DAVIS LODGE

HOME apprEss: Easton Road, Westport, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 125, House Office Bldg., House of Representatives,
Washington, D, C.
BORN: Oct. 20, 1903, Washington, D. C. parents: George Cabot Lodge, ’95,
Matilda Elizabeth Frelinghuysen Davis.
PREPARED AT: Ecole Gory, Paris; Evans School, Mesa, Ariz.; St. Albans,
Washington, D. C.; Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925, DEGREES: A.B., 1925; LL.B. 1929(31).
MARRIED: Francesca Braggiotti, July 6, 1929, Boston, Mass. cHipreN: Lily
_ de Pourtalés, April 12, 1930; Beatrice Anna Cabot, May 2, 1938.
HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr., ’24. .
occupation: United States Representative from Fourth Congressional Dis
trict (Fairfield County), Connecticut. ,
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II, active duty with Navy,
and one-half years (including twenty months overseas); public 1¢)
tions officer to Admiral H. K. Hewitt, Sicilian operation; naval his-
torian, Salerno operation; landed in southern France; served as liaison
officer between French and American fleets; decorated Chevalier 8
French Legion of Honor, awarded Croix de Guerre with palm.
OFFICES HELD: United States Representative from Fourth Congressi0
District, Conn., 1947-49, 1949-51.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; National Press Club;
Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars.

[ 598 ]

three
ela-

nal

American

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

it WAS Mark Twain who said, “Tf I had more time I would

write you 4 shorter letter. It is difficult to compress twenty-

five years of activity into a few sentences, All of us have lived

through twenty-five stirring and strenuous years. Our lives have
been shaped by the historical developments of the last quarter-
century. Certainly these great events did much to determine my
resent occupation.

My life since graduation has been interesting and varied.
Against a happy family background I have been a lawyer, an
actor, and after serving three and a half years in the Navy —a
Congressman.

Following my studies at the Harvard Law School, I practised
law in New York for several years.

After leaving the law I acted in a number of films in Hollywood,
Paris, London, and Rome. Among others, I played opposite
Katharine Hepburn, Shirley Temple, Marlene Dietrich, Elissa
Landi, Viviane Romance, Edwige Feuillere, Assia Noris, Antoi-
nette Collier, Dorothy Mackail, Margaret Lockwood, and my own
wife. While in California I also played in Shakespeare’s King John
at the Pasadena Community Playhouse, and in Max Reinhardt’s
production of Shakespeare’s A Midsummer Night’s Dream in the
Hollywood Bow] and in the San Francisco Opera House. In Eu-
rope I appeared in nine films in England, three in France in French,
and two in Italy in Italian. Thus was I able to observe the gather-
ing clouds of conflict during those tumultuous prewar years.

My last film was a French one and was entitled From May erling
to Sarajevo. In this film I played the part of the Archduke Francis
Ferdinand of Austria whose assassination in 1914 precipitated
World War I. By a curious and disturbing coincidence we were
shooting the scenes of the assassination on the eve of World War
I. F ollowing the outbreak of hostilities, I brought my family
back to the United States. While awaiting active duty in the

avy, I appeared in a number of stage plays, in summer stock and
on Broadway, The last play in which I appeared was the Pulitzer
Prize winner Watch on the Rhine.

fter my separation from the Navy, I turned to other channels
of endeavor. So it was that, after a few months of studying eco-
nomics and current problems, I decided to enter the field of poli-
Hes. Tr seemed to me obvious that the threat to freedom was by

[ 599 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929$

no means disposed of and that the essential wartime challenge had
survived the war’s end. I was convinced that there is no sharp
dividing line between war and peace — that wars are but exten-
sions of peacetime conflicts and that the real conflict, now that
the war was over, was in the field of public affairs.

I am now serving my second term in the House of Representa-
tives. I am grateful to the people of Fairfield County, Connecticut,
for this opportunity for service. .

The experiences which came my way during the time between
Law School and public life are of great value to me in my present
occupation. Although training in the law is not essential to law-
making, surely it is helpful.

My years as an actor in which, bearing in mind Hamlet’s pre-
cepts in his speech to the players, I attempted “to hold as ’twere a
mirror up to nature,” are of unique assistance now that I have
transferred my activities to the political stage.

During those years in law, in the films, in the theatre, in the
Navy, and in politics, I saw a great deal of the world and of the
people who inhabit it. I lived with my fellow-man in widely
different segments of society and under a great variety of condi-
tions. The most rewarding aspect of all this rich and diverse ex-
perience has been the friendships and personal associations which
it produced. It was my good fortune that through it all ran the
thread of close family relationships which give life its continuity,
its warmth, and its meaning.

Such hobbies as I have time for are usually family affairs: swim-
ming, sunbathing, sailing, occasional gardening, and walks in the
woods. [also enjoy a game of tennis when the opportunity occurs.
Favorite indoor hobbies are reading, writing, music, and lively
conversation. At the present moment one of our daughters is a
junior at Wellesley, the other a student at the Potomac School in
Washington.

As the years have gone by and I have looked back on the time
which I spent at Harvard, it has seemed to me increasingly clear
that the real purpose of education is to enable one to recognize the
true challenge of life and prepare one to meet it. The challenge
presents itself to each of us in a different form. And yet, as we
reach the half-way point in the turbulent 2oth Century, it is for
us all the fateful challenge with which the western world, and in

[ 600 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

particular the United- States, is faced. We Americans can be
heartened by the knowledge that our opportunities for useful
service, for dynamic leadership, are equal to these grave responsi-
bilities. :

DONALD PRESCOTT LOKER

HOME AppRESS: 14 Williamsburg Lane, Rolling Hills, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: French Sardine Co., Terminal Island, Calif.

Born: Aug. 8, 1902, Natick, Mass. parents: Albee Edward Loker, Elizabeth
Olyott.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.; Huntington School, Boston,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

MARRIED: Katherine Ann Bogdanovich, June 12, 1940, Skowhegan, Maine.

occupation: Director public and industrial relations.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Deck officer, executive officer, captain, anti-
submarine service, Atlantic and Eastern Theatre, 1942-43; combat officer,
Fifth Amphibious Force, South Pacific, 1943-45; attended graduate
Japanese language school, Harvard University, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Fishery Products Committee, National Canners
Association, Tariff and Trade Agreements Commission of California;
Fish Canners Association.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California; Explorers Club of New
York; Army and Navy Club of Washington, D. C.

PUBLICATIONS: Japanese Fishery Commission reports, Department of Interior,
U. S. Government.

MY REFLECTIONS on the past twenty-five years cannot fail
to be weak and unimpressive utterances, for I feel unqualified for
such a task at the present time.

My thoughts are still sighted on the far horizons and being
blessed with an understanding wife, good health, and a moderate
amount of success, I take for granted that it will be some time
before I relish the flavor of a thorough contemplation of the past.
Analysis, however, is a horse of a different color —and in that
guise I would like to offer the following paragraphs.

I find that even as the kaleidoscope of scientific, mechanical,
and custom changes become more rapid in this swelling world —
the basic precepts and teachings of our fathers become more solid
and concrete.

During the late twenties and thirties I was deeply immersed
in the theatre and motion picture worlds, both as an action star

[ 6o1 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

under the pseudonym of Don Terry on both stage and screen and
as an infrequent producer in the motion picture field.

This was the golden age of Hollywood when productions
costing well over one to two million became an every month
occurrence and in the rapid growth of this big money industry,
a natural expansiveness and prodigality of living would be expected
to follow, That it did so, however, in such a minor degree served
notice on the world that a resurgence was building for a wiser
use of money, a more balanced conduction of domestic living and
a halting, but seeking, appreciation of religious teachings. And
I say the foregoing advisedly, and in the face of normal occurring
but well publicized Hollywood divorces.

During the war years much was written and spoken as regards
the careless morals of folks at home and perhaps our forces over-
seas, but what pleased educators and religious teachers I inter-
rogated was how comparatively little there was to write or talk
about. Balanced against the supreme efforts of our nation’s
people during the war the moral tragedies were surprisingly i in-
frequent.

The postwar period reflects this past and the young men and
women who spent their childhood in war are proving that this
background during their adolescence has tempered them to an
unusual excellence of understanding and a driving force for edu-
cational advantages. Men and women of less than normal years
are proving themselves in science, government, politics, religion,
and business.

It is a most happy sight to a person of greater age and in talking
to these younger men and women you invariably find that they
do have sound, basic ideas of morality, religion, and ethics and
seem to know just where they are going.

This substantially proves my leading statement and indicates,
quite shamefully for us, that this generation is considerably su-
perior to ours.

As to my personal activities during the last twenty-five years,
my work has been all-consuming, even to the exclusion of vaca-
tion periods and, in behalf of our own companies and the in-
dustry, keeps me frequently on the move from California to
Washington, D. C., to Mexico City and even to Tokyo, Japan.

Meeting classmates has been surprisingly rare. Maybe the fish-

{ 602 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing industry is an unusual business, but I did see my old room-
mate, Ed Lowry, in the Washington Statler and had a long and
most enjoyable visit with Larry Bunker, a most able aide to Gen-
eral Douglas MacArthur, when I conferred with the Supreme
Commander in Tokyo, as a member of the United States Fishery
Commission.

Hobbies: are hunting and fishing, if, as, and when I can get
to them and I would call myself a liberal Republican, and a liberal
religionist — with the privilege of individual expression in wor-
ship or voting as the most important rights I possess, and which
I exercise with complete independence.

JOSEPH LORD

ADDRESS: 1301 Sixth Ave., New York 19, N. Y.

BORN: May 26, 1903, Boston, Mass. parENTS: Sidney Archer Lord, ‘or, Anne
Outram Sturgis.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924.

OccUPATION: Mercantile business.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Lord did not return a questionnaire.

EDWARD GEORGE LOWRY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Sweet Hollow Road, West Hills, Huntington, Long Island,
N. Y.

OFFIcE appREss: General Reinsurance Corp., go John St., New York 7, N. Y.

BORN: March 5, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: Edward George Lowry,
Elizabeth Lahey.

PREPARED AT: Woodberry Forest School, Woodberry Forest, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1925; 3.a. (Oxford
Univ.), 1928; t1.8. (Columbia Univ.), 1929.

MARRIED: Ruth Driver, Aug. 23, 1928, Milton, Mass. cHitpren: Ruth Eliza-
beth, April 16, 1930; Edward George, 3d, Feb. 13, 1932.

HARVARD SON: Edward George Lowry, 3d, ’53.

occupation: President, General Reinsurance Corporation and North Star
Reinsurance Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Law associate, Hale & Dorr, Boston, 1929-32; member, Re-
construction Finance Corporation, Law Division, Washington, 1932-33;
special assistant to the Secretary of the Treasury, Washington, 1933-343
vice-president and general counsel, Maryland Casualty Company, Bal-

[ 603 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

timore, 1934-43; treasurer, E. R. Squibb and Sons, New York, 1943-465
director, United Drill and Tool Corporation, Chicago, Dorr Company,
New York; trustee, Bowery Savings Bank, New York, Pomfret School,

Pomfret, Conn.
MEMBER OF: Union Club and Down Town Association of New York,
Maryland Club, Baltimore; Hartford Club, Hartford.

I SPENT part of the first year after graduation in the Pacific
Northwest jerking the hind end of a chain out of the head chain-
man’s hand. Next came a few months in Paris as a newspaper
reporter. A Rhodes Scholarship then took me to England and the
next two years were given over to the study of law at Balliol Col-
lege, Oxford, from which I got a degree in 1928. I was married
that summer to Ruth Driver in Milton, Massachusetts, and passed
the following year at Columbia Law School from which I gradu-
ated in the spring of 1929. I got a job (luckily) in Boston with
Hale & Dorr just before the best of all possible worlds sprang a
leak. During our Boston sojourn both our children were born,
exhibiting in those early days a refreshing lack of concern for the
world’s knottier problems — an attitude of mind which they have
happily and successfully maintained ever since.

In 1932 I went to Washington and did law work for the R-F.C.,
mainly bank reorganizations, and later went over to the ‘Treasury
as special assistant to the Secretary. The price of gold was a burn-
ing issue in those days, and current financial talk on the same sub-
ject raises nostalgic memories. The trouble is that all the answers
seemed clearer then than they do now.

In 1934 the Lowrys moved to Baltimore and bought a run-
down farm which kept them broke and happy, while bread and
cheese came in from work first as vice-president and general
counsel of Maryland Casualty Company and later as its executive
vice-president. After approximately nine years of this pleasant
existence, temptation in the form of New York raised its head and
in 1943 I found myself there bag and baggage as treasurer of E. R.
Squibb and Sons, a far cry from the insurance business. The virus
of nine years in that profession, however, was not easily elimi-
nated and in 1946 I went back:to it as president of the General
Reinsurance Corporation and North Star Reinsurance Corpora-

tion, a job at which, with its not inconsiderable problems, I am
still working.

[ 604 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

During this whole busy period our two children have been
growing up and one of them is now a junior at Vassar and the
other a freshman at Harvard. If from time to time I forget it
myself, I am constantly reminded through their own maturing
views that the world is still wonderful — and quite possibly a bet-
ter one than we were looking at twenty-five years ago — and if
from time to time doubts of this happy conclusion cross my mind
a dispassionate second thought suggests that the fault lies in an
aging digestion and not in the facts.

GEORGE P. LUDLAM

HOME ADDRESS: 112 Ninth St. Garden City, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREss: Advertising Council, Inc., 25 W. 45th St., New York, N. Y.

Born: April 16, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: Frank Ludlam, Amy
Roberts.

PREPARED AT: Allen-Stevenson School, New York, N. Y.; Phillips Academy,
Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

MarrieD: Kathleen Kieffer, Oct. 15, 1943, Hollywood, Calif. camp: Stephen,
April 25, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Kennedy Roberts Ludlam, °33.

occuPaTION: Non-profit public service advertising; vice-president, Adver-
tusng Council.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Chief, Domestic Radio Bureau, Office of War
Information.

OFFICES HELD: Scout commissioner, 1933-39, member board of governors,
1933-47, Manhattan Council, Boy Scouts of America; member national
council, Boy Scouts of America, 1935-42.

MEMBER OF: Fencers’ Club, New York (past); Harvard Club of New York,
Amateur Ski Club, New York; Dorset Field Club; Sons of the Revolu-
tion, New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Radio scripts.

JUST before graduation, I was invited by the father of a room-
mate to teach English and history to lethargic sophomores at
M.I1.T.; and for a year I did that, while also doing social work at
Denison House, a small struggling settlement, now gone to its
reward, in the Syrian-Chinese section of Boston’s South End. In
the spring of 1926 the Denison House work expanded and I was
asked to give it my full time. My resignation from the academic
world was pleasantly received by my patron, who was a wise and
tolerant person, notably sympathetic to youth, but who certainly

[ 605 ]

TFPI seer" Merete aR RaN PSII: FEEL PROTON fF A

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 19295

(well, one of us, anyway), and puttering about our houses. th
we enjoy every minute of our three lives and look to the nese
twenty-five years with curiosity and hope, if not with confidence
that we refuse to be too greatly disturbed by the implications of
the welfare state, the Russians, or the hydrogen bomb; that Ww
agree rather with the philosophy of that character of the firs
world war — Mr. Chips, I think it was — who remarked durin
an air raid, “If it is fate that we are soon to be interrupted, let us

at least be found employing ourselves in something useful,”

JOSEPH FITZGERALD LULEY

HOME AND OFFicE ADDRESS: Lucas Point, Old Greenwich, Conn,

BoRN: Sept. 8, 1902, Fort Wayne, Ind. parents: Anthony Bernard Luley,
Margaret Fitzgerald.

PREPARED AT: Central Catholic High School, Fort Wayne, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; LL.B., 1928.

MaraieD: Cornelia Eggeman, Dec. 13, 1926, Cambridge, Mass. cHmpren:
Sharon E., Nov. 22, 1927; Cyrus, 1931.

ARTHUR GEORGE LYNCH

HOME ApDpRESS: 97 Locust St., Garden City, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Lead Co., 99 Hudson St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 7, 1904, Newton Lower Falls, Mass. PARENTS: Roland Leigh
Lynch, Josephine Delaney.

PREPARED AT: Wellesley High School, Wellesley, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Cornelia Anne Brody, Jan. 1, 1934, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Arlanne Patricia, March 14, 1935; Kathleen Claire, May 9, 1938:

occupation: Chemist; sales service.

MEMBER OF: The Society of Rheology.

FOR MY first year out of college, I went to Puerto Rico to try
my hand at teaching. That cured me. I returned to the States and
took a position as chemist with Devoe & Reynolds. I worked in
Brooklyn, Newark, and Brooklyn again for several years. I ol
joyed Greenwich Village for some time and lasted on the job unt
1932. The effects of that “Depression” (dreamed up by the Dem-
ocrats, of course) caught up with me. I returned to work 2 yet
later.

On January 1, 1934, 1 married Cornelia Anne Brody. The next

[ 608 ]

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

six or seven years were spent in starting a family and moving furni-
rure from Manhattan to Brooklyn to Newark, New Jersey, to
Cranford, New Jersey. In tg40 we were “called” to Blue Grass
Country due to Devoe & Reynold’s consolidation of research and
development laboratories at Louisville.

] left Louisville and joined the Titanium Pigment Corporation
as chemist in technical service — moving to Garden City, Long
Island. My business time is now spent in promoting the sale of the
Brightest and Whitest Pigment known to man.

My travelling is confined to service trips to the Midwest and
Southwest. This is, of course, in addition to daily commuting on
the Long Island Railroad which is, in itself, quite an experience.

My political convictions are more or less based on the Socialist
platform of 1920, Democratic 1932 version, or Republican 1960
type. The ineptitude of Republican leadership over the past
twenty-five years has made me a confirmed New Dealer — in spite
of the lunatic fringe of the Democrats. This applies to national
elections — in local affairs, I am a most independent voter.

Golf, contract bridge (preferably duplicate), and bowling are
my primary hobbies. The time required for commuting cuts
deeply into any time for golf practice — this makes staying in the
low 80’s a tough struggle. My religious convictions are unchanged.

CHARLES ARTHUR LYNCH

HOME ADDRESS: 260 Point St., Providence 3, R. I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Classics Department, Brown University, Providence 12, R. I.

Born: May 4, 1903, Providence, R. I. PARENTS: Charles Peter Lynch, Louise
Isabella Glover.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Providence, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923; 1924-1926, DEGREES: A.B., 1925 (26); a.m. (Brown
Univ.), 1927; a.m. (Harvard Univ.), 1931; PH.D. (ibid.), 1936.

MARRIED: Bernadette Pelletier, April 2, 1923, Cambridge, Mass. cHILDREN:
Charles Arthur Peter, Jan. 31, 1924 (m. Diane Fletcher, April 3, 1948);
Jerome Benedict, March 6, 1931; Patricia Anne, July 31, 1940.

OccurATION: Teacher,

ware GOVERNMENT posts: Adviser to V-12 students; work with the

PA

°FFICES HELD: President, Brown Faculty Club, Rhode Island Branch of the
New England Classical Association, Brown Philological Club; assistant
Secretary, American School of Classical Studies at Athens,

[ 609 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

MEMBER OF: American Philological Association; Linguistic Society ;
America; New England Classical Association. of
PUBLICATIONS: Atticles and reviews in American Journal of Pbilolo
Classical Philology, Classical Journal, Language, Bulletin of the Ae,
ciation of American Colleges, Providence Journal; text and translation
of the Latin Epigrams of Saint Thomas More, with Leicester Bradner
(in preparation).

I HAVE thought so often (not selfishly, I hope) about this life of

mine that it surprises me to find the task of autobiography

difficult.
Citizen, student, husband, father, Harvard graduate (for a Year
less than the Class of ’25), teacher of truths discovered in remote
antiquity, I would happily, if my tasks were done, undertake the
whole business over again.
Although I am not blind to change (sold under the trade-name
“progress”), still I am a traditionalist both by religion (Roman
Catholic) and by profession (Latin and Greek). I believe that
from century to century the novelties (they are conspicuous) in
man’s estate are infinitely less important for human harmony and
understanding than the everlasting similarities (they lie unseen).
I believe that the essence of education is perspective. This

thought is my pedagogical theme-song. .

I am convinced that analogy, treacherous though it be, is often
he best approach to problems of importance.

My weakness is procrastination. My strength I am still modestly
aiting for someone to point out to me.

Textual criticism and the history of language are my favorite
nolarly fields. Laissez-faire is my domestic policy (I may have
erdone this a bit). My hobby is the leisurely but devoted manual
e of a very old, small country house in which we usually live
m June to September at Plum Beach, Saunderstown, Rhode

nd — and welcome to you.

PRESCOTT CLIFFTON MABON

: apbRESS: 14 Martling Ave., Pleasantville, N. Y.

z aporess; American Telephone & Telegraph Co. 19§ Broadway
few York, N. Y.

April 5, 1905, Tarrytown, N. Y. parents: Arthur Fred
izabeth Prescott Noyes.

sp at: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

[ 610]

erick Mabon,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

gg IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B, magna cum laude, 1925.

yEA qv: Wilifred Lucile Morris White, Feb. 11, 1928, Utica, N. Y. cun-
Me REN? Susan Prescott, June 29, 1930; David White, Aug. 29, 1935.
occuPATION: Assistant to the president, American Telephone & Telegraph

Company. . ;
oFFICES HELD: Information manager, 1940-44, assistant vice-president, 1944-49,
assistant to the president, since 1949, American Telephone & Telegraph

Company-
NO MEDALS, no masterpieces, no millions — but this exhibit is
jucky as to family (good), commutes more than three hours a day
(not good), enjoys job (good), and feels faint about taxes (odd if
he didn’t). I used to think myself “liberal” and hope the mental
arteries haven’t hardened yet (something is always becoming in-
teresting that previously wasn’t), but much that once seemed
pleasingly left now rings forbiddingly right. ‘To date I do not
own a television set, and do not want one. Religion — yes. 1 think
this touches all topics except travel: haven’t travelled outside of
the United States for nearly fifteen years, but am now trying to
save up so offspring can do so and send me some postcards.

THOMAS DABNEY MABRY

appress: Stockbridge, Mass.

BorN: July 22, 1903, Clarksville, Tenn. parents: “Thomas Dabney Mabry,
Nellie Barnes Runyon.

PREPARED AT: Clarksville High School, Clarksville, Tenn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1925; A.M. (Vander-
bilt Univ.), 1931.

OccuPATION: Journalism.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Mabry did not return a questionnaire.

EDWARD JOHN McCARTHY

HOME AppREss: 86 Belmont St., Somerville, Mass.

CFFICE AppREss: Massachusetts Department of Public Works, too Nashua
St. Boston, Mass.

BORN: March 12, 1902, Somerville, Mass. parents: John M. McCarthy,
Nora Buckley.

PREPARED AT; Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

Y

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-192¢, DEGREE! A.By 1925.
v 9 925

NMagricp,

*

[611 J

’ iene Commins a a a EPR AM AIRE A on oo teats pana eo ae

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Anthony McCarthy, ’22.
occupation: Civil engineer.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Army, 1942-43.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Engineering Societies of N
England. ew
AFTER graduation I entered the employment of the Massachy
setts Department of Public Works where I have been concermed
with the construction of highways and bridges. At the present

time, I am serving as highway engineer endeavoring to contribute

my share to the relief of traffic congestion in the City of Boston
and the Commonwealth in general.

HENRY ANDREW McCASHIN _
HOME ADDRESS: 256 Kimball Ave., Westfield, N. J.
OFFICE appress: Macy’s, Herald Sq. 1, New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Aug. 1, 1903, Boston, Mass. parents: William Henry McCashin,
Louise Leffingwell Leavitt.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. C72 laude, 1925; M.B.A., 1928,

MARRIED: Elizabeth Inskip Wye, Nov. 26, 1938, New York, N. Y. curren:
Andrew Wye, Nov. 10, 1940; Gray Leavitt, Feb. 26, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Scientific management, currently attached to the controller's
office on inventory shortage reduction.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, New York Chapter, Society for the Advancement
of Management, 1943-45; member planning council, Office Manage-
ment Division, American Management Association, since 1943; mem-

ber, commercial arbitration panel, American Arbitration Association,
since 1943.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Jersey; Community Players of West-
field, New Jersey. |

uBLicaTions: Thirteen Ways to Decrease Office Expense, American Man-
agement Association; chapter concerning New York City Department
of Sanitation in Better Government for a Better City, Citizen's Budget

Commission, Inc.
RECALL a final bull session with some cronies just prior
ammencement in which we each stated our expected annual
nings by our Twenty-fifth Reunion. Curiously we did not
cuss other important plans such as marriage, expected number
~hildren, or how or where we were going to achieve our earn
s goal. Well, I haven’t reached earnings expectations but I am
ried to a Radcliffe graduate who is a professional short story
er, and have two boys, one of whom would like to be mat

[ 612 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ager and the other a right guard on the Harvard team. The boys’
randfather, great uncle, and both uncles are Harvard graduates.

g We have a house in Westfield, New Jersey (a residential town

about twenty miles commuting distance from New York City),
where I practise my hobbies of amateur photography, gardening,
and Siamese cats. Bridge has taken the place of chess as a recrea-
tion. We spend our summer vacations at the seashore at Laval-
lette, New Jersey, where the whole family enjoys swimming —
my favorite sport. And I have completed twenty years with
Macy’s in New York City which Id barely heard of in 1925.

At Harvard I had prepared for a subsequent medical school
course leading to the practice of psychiatry. Because of my finan-
cial situation I was forced to change my plans and enter business
After a trip to Europe in the summer of 1925 and a few months as
store manager for the A & P, I decided to attend Harvard Business
School from which I received an M.B.A. in 1928. After fourteen
months with McCreery’s Department Store I transferred to Macy’s.

My career there has been solid rather than spectacular. I have
covered a rather wide range of management and control activities
as a staff executive, such as design, control and purchasing of
printed forms, preparation of Systems and Methods manuals, de-
termination of suitable office equipment and machines and the
preparation of their specifications, and departmental reorganiza-

tions leading to elimination of undue expense and more efficient
operation. One of the major changes of this type was the adoption
of so-called “Country Club Billing” which has subsequently been
installed by many department stores throughout the country.
During the war years I helped administer price ceilings and
Tationing in Macy’s in accordance with O.P.A. and War Produc-
tion Board directives. Currently I am assigned to the inventory
Control department. Here I am reviewing and revising total store
systems in order to tighten them so as to reduce the inventory
shortage without an undue increase in operating expense.

or six months in 1949 I was lent by Macy’s on a part-time basis
to the Citizen’s Budget Commission, Inc. Mayor O'Dwyer who
Was, and still is, faced with the largest New York City budget in
history and dwindling revenues, invited the Citizen’s Budget Com-
neaon to undertake a survey in order to eliminate waste and

nefliciency in five city agencies, 1.€. police, fire, sanitation, correc-

[ 613 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

tion and public works. Although New York City government has
been investigated several times in the past, this management type
survey was the first in the city’s history. I enjoyed this assignment
because of the opportunity to apply the principles of scientific
management to the operations of a major municipality. We on the
survey optimistically expect some long-range improvements in the
management of New York and of other cities as a result of our
report. Following this, ] was a member of a special committee
invited to Albany by Comptroller Moore, early in 1949, to discuss
certain aspects of the New York City and State fiscal relations.

None of us, of course, knows what the future holds, but I am
disturbed about the threat to individual freedom in this country
posed by the growth in power of Big Government and Big
Church. I hope the American people will recognize these twin
but separate dangers in time to hold them in check.

HAROLD ANTHONY McELROY

HOME ADDRESS: 146 Watson Rd., Belmont, Mass.

OFFIcE appRESS: Hood Rubber Co., 270 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 20, 1904, Allston, Mass. parents: John Edward McElroy, Mar-
garet Slavin.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

marriED: Geraldine O’Brien, June 30, 1932, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Harold Anthony, March 27, 1933; Eugene J. April 19, 1935; Peter,
March 9, 1938; Ellen, Feb. 9, 1945.

occuPATION: Salesman, Hood Rubber Company; treasurer, Arlington Shoe
Corporation.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Coast Guard Temporary Reserve, 1942-44.

MEMBER OF: Catholic Alumni Society of Boston; Arlington Chamber of
Commerce; Arlington Lions Club; Knights of Columbus.

THE twenty-four years since graduation have been a delightful
blur which covers a depression, marriage, family life, war uncer-
tainties, and then more family life. Only yesterday I was involved
in many discussions of babies’ formulas, while today college prep-
arations are engrossing my conversation.

Business has been my chief source of interest and with the
exception of a year in New York City, most of it has been in

Boston and vicinity.
So far as hobbies are concerned, mine have chiefly been those of

[ 614 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

outh. I have had a long and strenuous training in mending man

broken toys, taping broken bats, and paying for neighbors’ broken
windows. Cub Scout work, Catholic Youth Organization work,
and various community projects at one time or another have been
my chief source of interest. Summers on the Cape have been, and
I hope will continue to be, an important part of my life. Religious
convictions are unchanged but my politics are wavering. The
progress of new deals, fair deals, give-away programs, and present-
day philosophy of something for nothing, is getting more and
more confusing.

NEIL HOSLER McELROY

HOME ADDRESS: 3478 Vista Terr., Cincinnati 8, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Procter & Gamble, Gwynne Bldg., Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

BORN: Oct. 30, 1904, Berea, Ohio. parents: Malcolm Ross McElroy, Susan
Harriet Hosler.

PREPARED AT: Withrow High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: AB., 1925.

marriep: Mary Camilla Fry, June 29, 1929, Cincinnati, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Nancy Sue, Dec. 8, 1935; Barbara Ellen, Dec. 20, 1937; Malcolm Neil,
Aug. 16, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Paul Kinney McElroy, ’20; Malcolm Lowell McElroy,
"23.

OCCUPATION: President, Procter & Gamble.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Club of Cincinnati, 1942, Citizens’ De-
velopment Association, 1946-47, regional vice-president, Associated
Harvard Clubs, 1946-49; member, Harvard Fund Council, since 1946,
member Board of Directors, Cincinnati Branch of Federal Reserve
Bank; member Executive Committee, Cincinnati Summer Opera; mem-
ber Board of Trustees, Hillsdale School; chairman Executive Com-
mittee, Citizens’ Development Association, 1948-49; trustee, Cincinnati
Institute of Fine Arts.

MEMBER OF: Commonwealth Club; Commercial Club; Queen City Club;
University Club; Camargo Club; Cincinnati Country Club.

MY BUSINESS life since graduation has been confined to one
company — the one with which I am now associated. It was a
favorable stroke of fortune that my feet should have been guided
towards the portals of the company which should offer what ap-
parently was a kind of business activity and opportunity for which
I was reasonably well-fitted.

[ 615 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

I had had a conviction that I would work for a couple of years
and then return to Harvard Business School. My application had
been accepted at the Business School, but, as I suppose often hap-
pens, I concluded, when the decision finally had to be made, to
continue my business life without the help of Harvard Business
School training. Whether this was a wise decision I suppose can
never be determined.

For several months in 1930, Mrs. McElroy and I lived at Tyne-
mouth, England, while I applied myself to a new business which ~
my company had acquired. This English operation has required
intermittent European travel ever since. Also, of course, the
attempt to understand conditions affecting the sale and manufac-
turing of soap and shortening products has taken me over most of
the United States. |

I think I know pretty well, now, the company which has pro-
vided me with a business career, and I think I can best summarize
the pleasure of the association by saying that I have learned, with
great satisfaction, that a group of fine people at all levels of opera-
tion in a large business can be a hard-hitting unit in the interest of
a business, without sacrificing one iota of the fundamental decen-
cies that produce the best in human relationships.

I have been equally fortunate in my family life. My wife has
been most understanding of conditions in my life that would
hardly have been of her own choosing — particularly my absence
from home in the course of my work. Also, she has been an excel-
lent mother to our three children, who are growing up healthy
and strong. We both get great satisfaction from them and only
regret that their years with us are going past so rapidly.

My “outside activities” have been numerous. These activities
have been partly civic, partly cultural, and partly Harvard. Since
our company is one of two or three leading companies in our
community, it is looked to to provide participation in many of the
local activities). My own work of this kind has included the
strictly civic activities of the Citizens’ Development Committee,
which aims to try to work with city and county officials for the
better physical development of the Cincinnati area, and the musi-
cal activities which have been characteristic of Cincinnati ever
since its “Saengerfests” were incorporated into the May Festivals
some seventy-five years ago. My work for Harvard has been on

[ 616 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a modest scale, although there have been some encouraging results
of the work in which I participated.

Since I have no great facility in the use of the English language,
Til let this stand as my rather factual report of what, in one way,
seems to be a very great number of years since 1925, whereas, in
another sense, the years seem to have passed with jet-like speed.

++ ELDRIDGE JOHNSON MacEWAN

BORN: Oct. 9, 1900, Hatboro, Pa. parents: Edward Karcher MacEwan,
Caroline Sutton Fenimore.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Garden City, Long Island, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1927.

MARRIED: Margaret D. Mink, May 8, 1928, Rensselaer, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Eldridge Johnson, Jr., June 20, 1929; James Edward, July 2, 1934.

prep: March 22, 1941, Bryn Mawr, Pa.

ELDRIDGE JOHNSON MacEWAN entered Harvard from St.
Paul’s School, Garden City, Long Island, New York and remained
with the Class for three and one-half years. He reported in 1935
that he was engaged as secretary-treasurer of Fisher, Hand &
Company, Inc. In 1940 he gave the name of his company as
Fisher, MacEwan & Company, Inc.

| FREDERICK THOMAS McGILL, JR.
HOME ADpRESS: 274 Old Short Hills Rd., Short Hills, N. J.

OFFICE AppRESS: Newark College of Arts and Sciences, Rutgers University,
40 Rector St., Newark, N. J.

Born: May 6, 1904, Newton Highlands, Mass. parents: Frederick Thomas
McGill, Flora Maria Stoddard.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; A.M., 1928.

MaRRIED: Virginia Louise Frederick, Aug. 29, 1931, Chesham, N. H.
CHILDREN: Janet Virginia, May 23, 1935 (died Aug. 11, 1948); Jean Stod-
dard (adopted), Dec. 4, 1936; Susan Frederick (adopted), Nov. 23, 1942
(died Nov. 19, 1943); David Linwood (adopted), Nov. 16, 1943.

occupation: Associate professor of English.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association; National Council of Teachers
of English; Thoreau Society; American Association of University Pro-
fessors.

PusLications: Articles in The Christian Register and The New England
Quarterly; book in preparation on the life and work of William
Ellery Channing, 2d, Concord poet and friend of Emerson and Thoreau.

[617 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

THE outline of my life is simple. After graduation I worked for
two years in the “morgue” of the Boston Herald-Traveler, then
felt like studying again and went back for my Master’s at Harvard.
The next fall I got my first teaching job, and I still have ict. The
only interruption was during the war when I was on leave of ab-
sence and spent four years in Boston and travelling over the coun-
try as executive director of the Unitarian Laymen’s League and
the United Unitarian Appeal.

In 1931 I was married to Virginia Frederick, Radcliffe ’27. Un-
til the war we lived in Brooklyn Heights which is my favorite
section of my favorite city. (Sometime we may go back to an old
house on Columbia Heights with all the lights of the East River
and Lower Manhattan blinking outside our living room.) For a
while Virginia worked with me in Newark, she as dean of women,
I as dean of men, and our professional life was practically our home
life too. Then the first baby came and Virginia left Newark. But
she has been teaching and lecturing off and on ever since.

In spite of war and rationing we had four happy years living in
Wellesley Hills while I carried on my work in Boston. Now we
are back in New Jersey, and having tried city and suburb we are
living in an ex-farmhouse at the edge of the woods and sometimes
find deer looking in our windows.

We usually spend our summers in the two southern corners of
New Hampshire: at Chesham, near Mt. Monadnock, and at the
Isles of Shoals.

Family? Two adopted children, very much ours because we
picked them out. Travels? Europe, 1924, 1934. We were going
every ten years but in 1944 most Americans in Europe wanted to
be at home. Hobbies? I don’t find much time for them but when
I retire I shal] paint pictures and write light verse. As for convic-
tions, I have a few, but I don’t think any one political party or any
one church has all the truth. So I vote as an independent, and
belong to the Unitarian Church where I am encouraged to write
my own creed.

Henry Thoreau said, “A man is rich in proportion to the num-
ber of things which he can afford to let alone.” Well, I haven’t let
alone as many things as he did because I chose to have a wife and
a family; and even if I had wished to adopt the standard of living
of a woodchuck I couldn’t have asked my family to do it. But I

[ 618 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

am an admirer of Henry and I try to simplify my life, not an easy
ambition to achieve. I aim at doing a passable job for my family
and for my students, and very little else gets attention. Maybe it’s
a lack of vitamins but I go about unhurried just as if life were
going on forever. Here I’m just getting around to working seri-
ously for my doctorate and they spring a Twenty-fifth Anniver-
sary on me. I'll have the degree by my Fiftieth, if I live.

EUGENE FRANCIS McGILLEN

ADDRESS: 120 York St., New Haven, Conn.

BORN: Sept. 6, 1899, Brookline, Mass. parents: Owen McGillen, Anna Fitz-
patrick. :

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924.

OCCUPATION: Mercantile business.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
McGillen did not return a questionnaire.

PHILIP LINWOOD McLAUGHLIN

HOME ADDRESS: 49 Awixa Ave., Bay Shore, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 733 Sunrise Highway, Lynbrook, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 14, 1900, Boston, Mass. parents: Fred Linwood McLaughlin,
Frances Lavinia Eaton.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921~1926. DEGREES: S.B. IN C. ENGIN., 1926; S.M. IN SAN. AND
MUN. ENGIN., 1927.

MarRRiep: Arlee Edwards Greene, Jan. 23, 1927, Ancon, Canal Zone (di-
vorced 1942); Raye Florence Ellis, February, 1943, Providence, R. I.
cuitp: Phylis Linwood, June 22, 1944.

OccuPATION: Vice-president and general manager, Long Island Water Cor-
poration.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War I: private, S.A.T.C. World War
II: lieutenant, lieutenant commander and commander, Civil Engineer
Corps., U. S. Naval Reserve, 1942-46; indoctrination, U. S. Naval
Training Center, Camp Allen, Norfolk, Va, 1942; assistant public
works officer, U. S. Naval Training Center, Camp Endicott, Davisville,
R. 1; chief sanitary engineer for superintending civil engineer, Area

_ VI, Bureau of Yards and Docks, San Francisco, Calif. 1943-45, Areas
I, Il, & UT, Bureau of Yards and Docks, New York, N. Y., 1946;
liaison officer for director, Atlantic division, Bureau of Yards and
Docks, New York, N. Y., 1945-46; permanent commission as com-

[619 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

mander; received commendation for meritorious performance from
chief, Bureau of Yards and Docks, Navy Department.

OFFICES HELD: Superintendent of filtration plants, Panama Canal, C. Z., 1926-
27; Chemist-in-charge, filtration plant at Cambridge, Mass. 1928;
assistant sanitary engineer, Federal Water Service Company, New
York, N. Y., 1928-31; chief sanitary engineer, Ohio Water Service
Company, Illinois Water Service Company, and West Virginia Water
Service Company, 1931-36, West Virginia Water Service Company,
1936-42; vice-president, general manager, member board of directors,
and chairman of executive committee, Long Island Water Corporation,
since July, 1946, registered professional engineer, Ohio arfd West
Virginia.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Civil Engineers, American Water Works
Association; Military Order of Foreign Wars of the U. S. (veteran
companion).

PusLications: Author of several papers on water treatment and purification
published in water works magazines; developer of method for deter-
mination of CaCO, equilibrium point for use in prevention of corrosion
in ferrous pipe in water distribution systems described in Water
Quality and Treatment, manual of American Water Works Associa-
tion, 1st edition, 2nd printing.

AT THE time I studied to be an engineer at Harvard I was sure

that my talent and disposition lay in that field. Now, in answering

your questionnaire, I am attempting belatedly to enter the field of
literary composition. My efforts assure me that I was indeed cut
out to be an engineer, not an author.

As I put my past and present briefly on paper, it will no doubt
be dull to the reader, but I can report that it has been interesting
tome. For twenty years after graduation I followed the profession
of sanitary engineering. My first position was in the Canal Zone
where I lived for eighteen months. My work subsequently took
me to many sections of the United States, from Massachusetts to
California. Four years ago I assumed the management of a public
utility in the New York area and its many problems of operation
— budgets, financing, public relations, labor relations and en-
gineering and construction problems — have turned out to be
highly absorbing and satisfying.

My hobbies, photography, golf, and boating, receive as much
of my spare time as possible. My latest hobby, boating, has re-
versed the usual procedure in that it seems to have adopted me.
My war years in the Navy found me stationed on the East and
West Coasts. As many a good Navy man will admit, Navy work

[{ 620 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

was frequently done ashore. Perhaps it was in compensation for
my lack of sea duty that, when I was released from active service
to accept my present position, I purchased a waterfront home on
Long Island and later a modest boat. For crew, my wife, Raye,
and our five-year-old daughter, Phylis, readily volunteer their
services. So now I brush up on navigation in the winter and spend
most of my available time in good weather boating and fishing in
Long Island waters.

My classmates and I have seen many momentous events take
place in the world during the past twenty-five years. I have drawn
from these events a deepening belief in the free, two-party politi-
cal system of the government of the United States. Also, I have
observed in men generally, as well as in governments, higher ethi-
cal concepts in those with religious standards and belief in the
dignity and rights of the individual. Like so many of us today,
I am beginning to feel a growing apprehension of man’s ability to
use his tremendous scientific advancements wisely and not to his
destruction. That these achievements may bring benefit and hap-
piness to all in the future is my hope.

DONALD DUNCAN MacMILLAN

’ HOME ADDRESS: 28 Fenno Rd., Newton Center, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Hickok Mfg. Co., 52 Chauncy St. Boston, Mass.
BORN: Dec. 31, 1902, Boston, Mass, parents: Ronald MacMillan, Catherine
Lee.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE! A.B. 1925,
MARRIED: Frances Julia Canty, June 27, 1931, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Nancy Lee, April 8, 1932; Donald Joseph, July 26, 1938.
occuPATION: New England representative, Hickok Manufacturing Com-
pany, Rochester, N. Y.

TWENTY-FIVE years ago — graduation — quest of a job —
finally got one — salesman, Hickok Manufacturing Company,
Rochester, New York — travel, hotels, upper berths and busses —
go, go — Florida and Georgia — saved some money — met a
broker — came the depression — lost the money — transferred to
New England — married to Frances Canty — business bad —
travel, travel, day coach now, stopping at Y — ulcers and X-rays
— Nancy Lee born (now a freshman at Wellesley) — business

[ 621]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

picking up — bought a home — Donald Joseph born (now in
sixth grade and one day I hope will attend Harvard) — more
ulcers — milk diet and gelusil — came the second World War —
business go boom — go, go, back to hotels and pullmans —- coming
along now — contributing to Harvard Fund — no offices — no
clubs — no honors — no brokers — no ulcers — still with the
Hickok Company — recreation Cape Cod in the summer and a
rocking chair in the winter — a simple life being Dad to a happy
family.

JOHN HOOVER McPHERSON °

HOME apprEss: 47 Brook St., Scituate, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Briggs-Maroney Co., Inc., 85 Paris St., Everett, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 17, 1902, Medford, Mass. PARENTS: Charles | Winthrop Mc-
Pherson, Annie Louise Hoover.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.

marrieD: Grace B. Kay, April 30, 1927, Medford, Mass. cuitpreN: John
Donald, April 9, 1928; Dorothy Ann, Aug. 19, 1931.

occuPaATION: Purchasing agent.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Plymouth County Republican Club; chairman, Fi-
nance Committee of Scituate; member Town Republican Committee.

FOR nine years after graduation I worked for the Western Elec-
tric Company in Chicago and Boston. In 1934, a victim of the
depression, I left them and sold insurance for the Metropolitan
Life for a few years. Just prior to the war I started at Fore River
for Bethlehem Steel on production work, and from there I trans-
ferred to the Hingham Shipyard and handled sales and transfers
of surplus materials, working with the Navy as a representative of
Bethlehem Steel. After V-J Day, tired of burying a dead horse, I
accepted a position as purchasing agent for the Briggs-Maroney
Company, and spend my days buying raw materials for the manu-
facture of paints and being advertising manager and other things
for the same company.

Shortly before the war I moved to Scituate and have since be-
come interested in town affairs and in local Republican politics.
I am at present chairman of Scituate’s finance committee which is
a job entailing a lot of work and a lot of satisfaction and no emolu-
ments. I have also been interested in furthering the career of State

{ 622 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Representative Nathaniel Tilden and was treasurer of his campaign
committee in his recent attempt to become Congressman — an
unsuccessful attempt.

Between these two activities and educating my two children,
one at Tufts and the other at Lasell College, I keep busy and con-
tented although not rich. Like many of my classmates I worry
about the direction in which our country is headed politically but
don’t know what to do about it except try to elect a few Repub-
licans,

FRANCIS McTIERNAN

HOME ADDRESS: gor S. W. Fifth St., Miami, Fla.

BORN: June 14, 1897, New York, N. Y. parents: Patrick McTiernan, Mar-
garet Quinn.

PREPARED: ‘Tutorially.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1925; LL.B., 1928.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Retired.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served briefly in Army, World War II (sub-
sequently released to handle government contract matters for Sperry
Gyroscope Company).

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Coral Gables American Legion;
West Miami Lions Club.

NOTHING makes one realize more forcibly how quickly time
rolls along than an attempt to recount the years. Well, I find my-
self retired now, and making my permanent home in Miami. After
graduating from law school in 1928, I became associated with a
large financial law firm in New York City where I remained for
the next sixteen years. I lived in the city in the winter and about
forty miles out on the south shore of Long Island during the
summer and most of the spring and fall.

My hobbies generally were sailing, golfing, tennis, and fishing,
but especially cruising in the waters around Long Island and lower
New England. I have always been fond of travel, having spent
almost a year on a Sailing vessel travelling through the Pacific be-
fore going to college, and having also worked my way over to
Germany with a group of college boys on the SS George Wash-
ington during the summer of 1922, the time of the disastrous
German inflation. Summers when I did not spend my vacation

[ 623 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

cruising in local waters I indulged my penchant for travelling.
During the years since 1928 I have been several times to Europe,
several times through the West, to Mexico, Canada, and the West
Indies, and through the South.

Life was pleasant enough under these conditions and certainly
by most standards adequate, but I guess I have the soul of a dilet-
tante for I chafed at the restriction and arduousness of financial
law practice, as well as at the confinement and forced routine of
existence in a vast congested city. It was not more than four or
five years after graduation from law school that I began to lay
plans for a better arrangement of life.

I had become familiar with the Florida scene on my winter vaca-
tions and it seemed to me that what I wanted lay in that direction.
So in 1935 I entered whole-heartedly into the field of security and
real estate investment, and began to acquire Florida property
whenever possible. By 1946 I was ready to pull up my roots. In
1947 I retired from the practice of the law and moved to Miami
where my activities are limited to overseeing my property and
investments.

My aim has been accomplished and I have what I wanted,
namely a leisurely existence in an almost perfect climate, with
beautiful surroundings. My hobbies are still fishing, golfing, sail-
ing, and travel, but mostly I enjoy my year-round cabana on Key
Biscayne where I swim in the warm blue water practically every
day of the year. Looking southward along the beach, with hun-
dreds of palm trees crowding to its edge, as it gently curves out to
the old Cape Florida lighthouse, one feels peaceful and contented
and the troubles of the world seem far away.

FRANCIS LITTLEFIELD MAHADY

HOME ADDRESS: 133 Otis St., Hingham, Mass.

OFFice ApprEss: E, F. Mahady Co., 857 Boylston St., Boston 16, Mass.

Born: March 4, 1902, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Edward Francis Mahady,
Alice Gertrude Littlefield.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

Maggiep: Loulette Mosier, June 1, 1943.

occupATION: Merchant.

[ 624 ]

ttt nammas

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Inducted Sept. 16, 1940; first lieutenant, 211th
Coast Artillery, served with anti-aircraft (First Corps Cadets); trans-
ferred from Camp Hulen, Texas, to Office of the Surgeon General,
Washington, D. C., Oct. 10, 1941; promoted major, separated Aug.
20, 1945.

OFFICES vain: President, E. F, Mahady Company, 1934.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York; Army and Navy
Club, Washington, D. C.; Rotary Club; Union Boat Club; Hingham
Yacht Club. .

THIS is the first autobiography I have had occasion to write.

Since I have not bitten any dogs or done anything else noteworthy,

it seems too bad to deplete the Class treasury with this printing.

With the exception of five years in the Army, I have toiled the
past quarter-century for the E. F. Mahaday Company, a surgical
supply firm founded by my father. He patiently trained me until
he passed on in 1934. My principal ambition, besides being helpful
to our physician and hospital customers, has been to develop an
organization which will run itself. Compensation of all employees
(we prefer to call them “associates”) varies directly with the
efficiency and success of the company. Public opinion within the
working force has largely replaced the usual arrangements for
maintaining discipline. I am not sure that this is an industrial
panacea, but I do enjoy working for the contentment and financial
improvement of a hundred carefully selected men and women of
good will.

My avocation since R.O.T.C. days has been military training in
the National Guard. First I enjoyed eleven years as a horse soldier
in Boston’s Battery “A.” In 1940 mine was one of the first group
of regiments called into active service. However, after a year in
Texas my civilian background caught up with me, causing my
transfer to Washington. My next four years in the office of the
Surgeon General were spent in uniform but were not my idea of
military action.

While in the Army I had the good fortune to marry Loulette
Mosier, a talented musician from Neuchatel, Switzerland. We are
living happily ever after.

JOHN LEE MAHIN

ADDRESS: 5554 Zelzah Ave., Encino, Calif.
BORN: Aug. 23, 1902, Evanston, Ill. parents: John Lee Mahin, Julia Snitzler.

[ 625 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924.

MmarRIED: Nancy Hume Derr, June 25, 1926, Greenwich, Conn, CHILDREN:
Graham Eugene Lee, Oct. 20, 1927; Michael John, Jan. 16, 1929.

occuPaTION: Motion pictures.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Mahin did not return a questionnaire.

\

JOHN JOSIAH MAISEL

HOME aApprEss: 53 Tudor Pl. Buffalo, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 860 W. Ferry St., Buffalo, N. Y.

BORN; Sept. 11, 1904, Buffalo, N. Y. parents: Louis Maisel, Sophia Beck.

PREPARED AT: Lafayette High School, Buffalo, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1925; M.D. (Univ. of
Chicago), 1930.

MARRIED: Ida Rubenstein, Dec. 29, 1929, Chicago, Ill. cumpren: Joan Carolyn,
April 26, 1934; Alice Jo, April 19, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Sidney Beck Maisel, ’27; Sherman Joseph Maisel, "39.

occupation: Doctor of medicine.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered active duty as major, Aug. 13, 1942;
assigned to Western Flying Training Command, Regional Hospital,
Lake Field, Ariz, August, 1942-October, 1944; served as chief of
radiology and chief of medicine and as consultant for ten airfields in
Arizona and New Mexico; assigned to 121st evacuation hospital as
chief of medicine, October-December, 1944; attached to Third Army,
European Theatre of Operations, December, 1944; active during Battle
of Germany; near Linz, Austria on V-E Day; deployed to the United
States for thirty days leave and then Pacific Duty; assigned to Brooke
General Hospital, San Antonio, Texas after V-J Day; promoted to
lieutenant colonel. Returned to inactive duty, March 1, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in medicine, University of Buffalo, since 1939;
assistant physician, Buffalo General Hospital, since 1949; trustee and
vice-president, Temple Beth Zion, 1946-49.

MEMBER OF: American College of Physicians; Buffalo Academy of Medicine;
Harvard Club of Buffalo.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in various medical journals.

ALTHOUGH well aware that I am not alone in procrastinating
with respect to the writing of this report, nevertheless I have be-
gun to wonder whether or not I have developed a psychological
block for this task. Even the Class committee’s promise that it
would not be broadcast did not stimulate me sufficiently to begin
writing, Only the fact that I have had my photograph taken and

[ 626 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

forwarded to Cambridge and the thought that it would appear on
a blank page leads me to the summary of these last twenty-five
years. Perhaps the subconscious feeling that they are not all they
might have been has deterred me from doing so previously, but if
this be true it must be in the subconscious, for consciously I feel
that I have done a pretty fair job. Furthermore I still walk into a
library wanting to acquire all the knowledge contained therein,
and I hope, therefore, that the next twenty-five will see the fulfill-
ment of many ambitions.

A few nights ago I had the pleasure of hearing President Conant
discuss two-year colleges which he believes would be desirable for
many students, and I have long thought that a strong case could
also be made out for a similar short period of professional training
for perhaps a majority of doctors. The saga of my career can be
used as an example. For one who has his roots deep in Buffalo, I
have spent a comparatively short time in my native city. Chrono-
logically, I give my history. Since my field of concentration at
Harvard was economics, I spent my first year after graduation at
the University of Buffalo acquiring the necessary premedical
sciences. Then to the University of Chicago for four years of
medicine returning to the Buffalo General Hospital. In 1932 I be-
came a fellow in medicine at the Mayo Clinic and in 1935 a resident
in radiology at the New York Hospital. In 1936 I finally began
the practice of internal medicine in my home city and after the
usual slow start, I became what may be called a busy and successful
doctor. Having just reached that point in my career, I enlisted in
the Army in April, 1942. My Army service is cited above and in
January, 1946, I again began to minister to civilian needs. Now
four years later, I am again in that category of a busy doctor. It
hardly seems conceivable, yet twenty-five years after my gradua-
tion from college, economically I have been self-sustaining during
only eight years of my life and from a medical viewpoint I have
been of value to society only a few more years. It appears to me
that I am going to be obliged to exceed the average life expectancy
in order to repay my debt to my parents and to society for the
investment they have made in my education. Since my story is by
no means an isolated one, there is, I believe, much food for
thought concerning this whole problem.

However, lest the above be misconstrued, let me hasten to add

[ 627 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

that my years have been extremely enjoyable ones. I have derived
tremendous pleasure and satisfaction from my profession and even
in this relatively short space of time, I believe that I have contrib-
uted considerably if not sufficiently to human welfare.

My personal life too has been one of great joy. I was married
while still in medical school and as can be judged my wife has
always encouraged my desire for further study. My two daughters
are a constant source of delight. The elder is within one year of
college and now that Harvard is practically co-educational, I am
hoping that she will matriculate there (Radcliffe). ‘The younger
enters high school next year and I entertain the same hope for her.
We all have been very closely knit, perhaps more so because of our
war experiences and until 1 went overseas, we were vagabonds
together. At one time, within one month the girls were enrolled
in three schools — one each in Arizona, Texas, and Louisiana.
They learned to make good rapid adjustments which I am sure
will aid them in the future. Without meaning to wave the flag, I
would say that I have never regretted the war interlude and I know
that it was necessary for me to be at peace with myself.

The committee has requested information on hobbies, travels,
etc., and despite a very busy professional schedule, I seem to have
enough time to indulge in the usual recreations with no great em-
phasis on any one. After becoming too sedentary and possibly old
to play poor tennis, I began to play poor golf and since the war
have given that up. Reading, scientific and otherwise, occupies a
large share of my leisure. Bridge is still my favorite game. Photog-
raphy at times gets special attention, and travel is always a subject
for discussion in my family. I have managed to steal away in the
past several years for trips to Europe, Mexico, Guatemala, and a
number to California — always with my wife and occasionally
with my daughters.

These twenty-five years have been good and happy ones and I
am exceedingly grateful to the fates that have decreed it thus.

When I sat down to write this report, I thought I would treat
my subject matter in a humorous vein. Now as I read it over [am
astounded to discover that I have written quite a serious treatise.
Oh well — doctors are not supposed to be funny!

[ 628 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MONTGOMERY MAJOR
HOME AppREss: 123 N. Humphrey Ave. Oak Park, Ill.

OFFICE apprEss: The Pullman Co., Merchandise Mart, Chicago, Ill.

BORN: Feb. 2, 1903, Chicago, Ill. parents: Charles Lee Major, Harriet Kar-
rick Montgomery.

PREPARED AT: New Trier High School, Kenilworth, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

MarRiED: Maria Elizabeth MacSherry, June 13, 1928, Wilmette, Ill. (di-
vorced 1935); Agnes Charlotte Pederson, April 17, 1943, Chicago, Il.
CHILDREN: Charles Montgomery, July 26, 1930; Karrick Lee, March 9,

1946.
OCCUPATION: Statistics for state taxes, Pullman Company.

FACED by the apparently inescapable necessity of composing a
biographical sketch of sorts, since the chairman of the Class Report
Committee has a persistence that merits rewarding, I find it diffi-
cult to determine what to say.

Leaving Harvard in 1923 (ill-health), I became, while conva-
lescing, so interested in the intricate processes of living that I for-
got to return—the processes of living still intrigue me after
twenty-five years, and I have been much too busy observing them
to concentrate upon the usual objective of making money.

In the quarter-century which has passed so swiftly that many of
its events seem but the happenings of yesterday, my incurable in-
stinct for change and my insatiable curiosity about the unknown
have led me down many varied trails. Dissatisfied with the re-
ligious dogma of my day (“Shall They Go To Sunday School?”
Forum magazine, 1928), in company with a friend who later
served the Theosophical messiah Krishnamurti as private secretary,
I dabbled rather deeply in the so-called esoteric philosophies and
societies from Spiritualism to various orders of the Magi. In the
course of my investigations I learned many interesting and totally
unprofitable arts — I can still cast a horoscope — and encountered
amid much charlatanism certain definite phenomena which remain
to this day unexplainable by any logical system of reasoning. But
the definite lesson that I did learn, in keeping my sanity where
others lost theirs, was that the Road to En-Dor is no more the
answer to our modern problems than it was to Saul’s.

While I plowed thus from extreme to extreme through the
Upanishads and the Book of Mormon (not to mention the Grim-

[ 629 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

moire of Honorius III, the Grand Arcane of Eliphias Levi, and the
Magick of Aleicester Crowley), I managed to find time (I do not
know how) for a few more practical digressions. I worked for a
community newspaper; edited books for Albert Whitman & Com-
pany, even compiling a book of recitations in The Entertainment
Speaker, 1927; wrote institutional advertising for Sears, Roebuck
& Company; edited in succession two trade magazines; served as
reader for Willett, Clark & Colby. In the last capacity I voted for
the publication of a novel by an obscure Lutheran minister —a
naive story with the Corelli touch, which became mildly famous
as The Magnificent Obsession.

Somewhere amid these preoccupations I found time to look up,
take a second look, and then marry my next-door neighbor. We
were very happy for a time, but the star of my esoteric interests
was on the wane while hers was ever waxing, so we parted. She
continued on her road to destiny, becoming an astrologer of some
note in California — the paradise of occultism.

Then came the war, and eyesight combined with age to reject
me from the armed services. Rejections being in order, I rejected
further service with the religious book house where I was em-
ployed. The quirk of circumstances decreed (I shall never know
why) that I, an editorial man, should find an accounting post in
the tax bureau of the Pullman Company, where I have since re-
mained firmly lodged.

What I have written remains largely unpublished, for I shall not
dignify chance contributions in literary magazines and stray ar-
ticles in business publications as published opera. There is some
question as to whether the fault lies in the writing or in the author,
for I confess that my interest in a work turns to indifference
swiftly once a composition is completed.

My hobbies remain unaltered through the years. Although not
now active in research, I am still curious about the recondite; my
library of military and naval history grows with every year, as
does my collection of the editions and biographies of Francois
Villon. But my own unfinished manuscript upon his life and works
gathers dust; perchance some day I shall summon energy enough
to complete it and finish as well my translation of his poems en
jargon et jobelin.

Aside from these diversions, I play chess; and fate has insisted

[ 630 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

that once again I become an editor in publishing the semi-monthly
“Chess Life,” official organ of the United States Chess Federation.
More recently (who says an old dog cannot learn new tricks?) I
have begun to compose chess problems and endgame studies, a
fascinating diversion without the least commercial value — if there
was money in it, I would probably not be interested.

In 1943 I married for the second time, more in leisure; and this
time “lived happily ever after” may be written as the postscript to
the wedding.

So, what is success? If it be the piling up of worldly goods or
the blazoning of a name across the universe as some insist, then
write me down as a failure. But if success lies in the art of living,
unruffied by existence, then I claim my share. The only man
whom I could ever envy would be Joyce Kilmer’s Martin “who
did not make, but was success.” Hic finis fandi.

THEODORE HERZL MALMUD

HOME ADDRESS: 672 E. roth St., Brooklyn 30, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: County Courthouse, Bronx 51, N. Y.

BorN: April 7, 1904, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Nathan Malmud, Annie
Milstein.

PREPARED AT: Brooklyn Boys High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B. 1925(24)3 LL.B, 1928,

MarRIED: Ethel Segall, Jan. 1, 1932, Jamaica, N. Y. copren: Elizabeth
Rachel, June 30, 1936; Thomas Jonathan, April 7, 1939.

occupation: Under-sheriff of the City of New York; lawyer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Under-sheriff in charge of enforcement of
federal ceiling prices of foods at wholesale levels of distribution in
City of New York.

MEMBER OF: B'nai B’rith; Town Hall Club; New York State Sheriffs’ Asso-
ciation; Association of the Bar of the City of New York.

HEAVEN help me! Or should I rather call on Freud? How else
will this narrative reflect me, my family, and my convictions? My
conviction, for example, that my education and the beginnings of
my own understanding of human relationships started long after
I graduated from Law School and after I married. The process of
education was considerably accelerated after the birth of my
daughter and then of my son. I began to be aware that pre-existing
attitudes and patterns inexorably controlled thought and action.
But it is difficult to recognize the repressed dynamos of emotion

[ 631 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

JOSEPH MANDELL

HOME ADDRESS: 503 Beacon St., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 420 Boylston St., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 1, 1900, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Harry Mandell, Rose Rosenberg.

PREPARED AT: Berkeley Preparatory School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREES: S.B. 1925; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.),
1928.

marrieD: Pearl Bornstein, March 21, 1928, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Stephen Allen, March 4, 1933; Merle Judith, Sept. 24, 1934.

OccUPATION: Business executive; floor covering distributor.

MEMBER OF: Roberts Health Club, Temple Israel Brotherhood. ,

WITH the days passing quickly as they have a habit of doing, |
find that our Twenty-fifth is rapidly approaching, and I am called
upon to review the past quarter-century. How speedily it has
passed in retrospect as I reflect—a form of day dreaming which
I have not indulged in for many a year.

As I turn the clock back, I recall my first two years after gradu-
ation as a Manhattan resident. These years included marriage, the
stock market fiasco of ’29 (in which I was somewhat embroiled),
and the fact that I was then being groomed for the sales executive
end of the carpet manufacturing business. I began from the bot-
tom — in the mill — and advanced to the position of sales executive
in New York. This was a very enjoyable period, as it gave me
plenty of opportunity to travel and visit almost every State in the
Union, except for a few in the far West. The experience which
this afforded me was both invaluable and enlightening. However,
I wearied of life in the “Big City,” and returned to Boston in 1930,
setting up my own company. I shall never forget those depression
years! My son, Stephen, was born on March 4, 1933, the day of
the bank holiday — what an eventful beginning.

Business and my family (Steve — ready for freshman class of
1950, and Merle, fifteen) seemed to occupy the ensuing years, and
a routine of pleasant life followed. Summer vacations, winter holi-
days in the South, the usual plays, Saturday night symphony,
music festivals in the Berkshires, and the years rolled right along.

The next period is one that I would gladly blot out as fast as
I write it, for although 1 know that the written word is an indel-
ible blot, perhaps actually putting it down at this time will help
eradicate some of the bitterness of that period. I spent six weeks

[ 636 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in Mexico in the summer of ’43, contracted a germ while there
(food poisoning diagnosis), and as a result was totally paralyzed
and bedridden for two long years plus. Time was no longer the
essence of life — it had little meaning from a hospital bed. Except
for a faithful and truly wonderful wife, I would have no words to
write for this edition. She not only carried on the business during
those war torn years, but ran a hospital in our home as well.

After a slow recuperation, I am pleased to say that I am active
again. It is often difficult to recapture the old enthusiasms, but J
look to the future with a spirit of optimism.

SHERRY MANGAN

HOME ADDRESS: % Hottinguer & Cie., 38 rue de Provence, Paris 9, France.

BORN: June 27, 1904, Lynn, Mass. parents: John Joseph Mangan, Mary Ellen
Sherry.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1925.

LLOYD ONDERDONK VERNON MANN

HOME ADDRESS: 106 E, 85th St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kenneth Ives & Co., 11 E. 47th St.. New York, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 8, 1902, Onogue, Long Island, N. Y. pARENTs: Samuel Vernon
Mann, ’95, Helen Wagstaff Colgate.

PREPARED AT: St, Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Foster, April 4, 1929; Mary Cogan, Sept. 6, 1940. cHIL-
DREN: Mariana Vernon, May 1, 1930 (m. Peter Smith, June, 1949);
Nancy Lloyd Vernon, Feb. 17, 1932.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Colgate Vernon Mann, °24.

occuPATION: Writer; real estate.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served in U. S. Naval Reserve, March, 1942~
December, 1944; duty in Pacific, at home, and at Naval War College.

PUBLICATIONS: Various magazine articles.

GEORGE WILBURN BURTON MANNING

HOME Appress: Pirineos $49, Mexico, D. F.

OFFice appress: Melchor Ocampo 154, Mexico, D, F,

BorN: Dec. 14, 1901, Chicago, Ill. parents: Stephen Edgar Manning, Eliza-
beth Wilburn Burton.

PREPARED AT: E| Paso High School, El Paso, Texas,

[ 637 ]

“ye caren

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922, 1923-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925,

MARRIED: Frances Epler, Nov. 9, 1930, New Orleans, La. cHitpren: George
Wilburn Burton, Jr. Aug. 17, 1931; Marcia Jo, Sept. 8, 1933.

OccUPATION: President, Cia. Hulera Goodyear-Oxo, S. A.

oFFices HELD: Office manager, Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, San
Juan, Puerto Rico, 1929-30; treasurer, Goodyear Tire & Rubber Com-
pany of Chile, 1930-32, Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company de Mexico,
S. A., 1932-38; general manager, Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company
of Mexico, S. A., 1938-43; president, Cia. Hulera Goodyear-Oxo, S. A,,
since 1943; vice-president and director, Mexican Road Association,
1949; national director, Mexican Automobile Club, 1949; member board
of trustees, Mexican School Building Committee, 1949; member finance
committee, Monterrey Institute of Technology, 1949; director, Ameri-
can Society of Mexico, 1946-49. .

MEMBER OF: Bankers Club; University Club; Country Club; American Club;
American Chamber of Commerce; Mexican Chamber of Commerce;
Harvard Club de Mexico.

PRACTICALLY all my life since graduation has been spent, with
the exception of brief visits to the States, in Latin American coun-
tries. Consequently, I have had little contact with the College or
with classmates.

After travelling in several foreign countries, I am now fairly
well established in Mexico City where I am president of Good-
year-Oxo, an affiliate of the Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company,
Akron, Ohio, and the largest tire manufacturer in Mexico.

Both my children were born in foreign countries, both are now
attending schools in the States, so my wife and I rattle around in
our home except during the summer and Christmas holidays.
George, Jr., is at Phillips Exeter Academy where he graduates next
June and he expects to enter Harvard in the fall. He made his
football E last year as defensive quarterback. Marcia Jo is at
Walnut Hill, Natick, Massachusetts, and plans to go to Smith Col-
lege in 1951. 1 hear she has invited half her class to visit us in
Acapulco next summer, so we shall probably have some lively
times swimming, fishing, water skiing, sailing, etc. The altitude of
Mexico City is not conducive to strenuous exercise so I have given
up tennis and now confine myself to swimming in Cuernavaca and
deep sea fishing in Acapulco. I can recommend both highly.

I am still a Republican although not very sanguine about the
future of the party. I was raised a Baptist and presume I still am
one although my religious convictions are a little on the hazy side.

[ 638 }

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My present plans are to return to the States in June, attend the
graduation of George, Jr., at Exeter, and then, if time will permit,
attend the 25th Class Reunion with my family before returning to
Mexico.

JOHN FREDERICK MANNING

HOME apprEss: 8 Garrison St., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 307, 185 Franklin St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 6, 1903, Fitchburg, Mass, parents: John Manning, Mary Sullivan.

PREPARED AT: Cushing Academy, Ashburnham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922, 1923-1926. DEGREES: A.B. cuz laude, 1925 (26);
LL.B. (Boston Coll. Law School), 1935.

MaRRIED: France Bernard, June 20, 1928, Cambridge, Mass. (divorced 1939);
Harriet Anderson, 1940, Vermont. cuttpreN: Maureen, March 13, 1929;
Richard Frederick, Sept. 16, 1930; Louise, Nov. 1, 1932. -

HARVARD SON: Richard Frederick Manning, ’53.

OCCUPATION: Accountant.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Cost Accountants.

A FEW days after graduation I went to work for the New Eng-
land Telephone and Telegraph Company, an operating subsidiary
of A. T. & T. This was not a carefully planned venture because I
was at heart a railroad man. It was evident, even in 1926, that the
railroads, because of a combination of regulation and poor man-
agement, were slowly strangling. So primarily as a matter of
bread and butter I became a telephone man, and of all things an
accountant, Since then it has come to pass that they call me the
chief accountant.

I think I was reasonably fortunate in my unplanned choice of a
life work. I got into a growing, well-managed business in an essen-
tial service. Since I couldn’t be my own boss, I think I met with a
first-class employer. Of course, there are some contrary considera-
tions but the most important of these is the setting in which a
business is trying to operate today. Our so-called “liberals”
government and elsewhere want to destroy business. Their first
step is to deny owners of business a fair return on their investment.
These forces are slowly destroying business by taxation and by
regulation and by fostering predatory labor unions whose motto
is “more for less.”

I think every Harvard man in the world should bow his head in
shame for the fact that the arch-priest who released this tide of

[ 639 ]

a i

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

so-called “liberalism” on our nation was one of us. Need I point
out that the destruction and dissipation of capital for which he is
mainly responsible are destroying a type of institution, one of
which he called Alma Mater.

Surely it is not too late to do something about it. Would it not
be appropriate for Harvard men to lead a “cold war” in the United
States against Communism and state socialism? Let us “contain”
government at home as we are trying to contain Communism
abroad. Let us stop the growth of government by drying up its
lifeblood, taxation. Let’s put the government employees and plan-
ners to work planning how to make their own living instead of
planning how to live off the product of our toil. One out of every
eight employed persons in the United States today is an employee
of government, federal, state, or local, and the vast majority are
parasites. Stop it by balancing the federal budget and halting the

increase in federal taxes!

+ JAMES JAY MAPES

BoRN: Oct. 3, 1902, New Rochelle, N. ¥. Parents: Victor Mapes, Anna
Louise Horke.

PREPARED AT: Santa Barbara School, Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

UNMARRIED.

piep: Aug. 9, 1925, Paris, France.

JAMES JAY MAPES entered the Class of 1925 from the Santa
Barbara School. His father was well known as a playwright, and
a great-aunt, Mary Mapes Dodge, is remembered as the author of
Hans Brinker, or the Silver Skates.

Mapes immediately became active in college affairs. He became
well known and popular with his Class, and formed many firm
friendships. He was prominent on the golf and hockey teams.
In his sophomore year he was elected to the Porcellian Club.

Aside from his personal talents, his particular abilities lay in
golf and riding, in both of which he was extremely proficient.
He played on the University golf team, and was manager of the
team in 1923. Foxhunting was a favorite sport and often he rode
with the Myopia and other hunts near Boston.

In June of graduation year he went abroad with his family,

[ 640 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

intending to enter Oxford in the fall. In the first week of July
he arrived in Paris from London, taking the channel boat. It was
cold, rainy weather, and the night of his arrival he complained
of acold. He left early and the next day he had developed pneu-
monia, He died in the American Hospital in Paris.

HAROLD STANLEY MARCUS

HOME ADpREss: 1 Nonesuch Rd., Dallas 14, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Neiman-Marcus Co., Dallas, Texas.

BoRN: April 20, 1905, Dallas, Texas. parents: Herbert Marcus, Minnie
Lichtenstein.

PREPARED AT: Forest Avenue High School, Dallas, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

marRieD: Mary Cantrell, Nov. 7, 1932, Dallas, Texas. cumtpren: Jerrie

(daughter), Sept. 2, 1936, Richard and Wendy (twins), Oct. 2, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Edward Sidney Marcus, ’30; Lawrence Eliot Marcus, ’38.

OCCUPATION: Retail merchant,

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chief of clothing section, War Production
Board, January—June, 1942.

OFFICES HELD: President, Dallas Symphony Orchestra, 1948-49; chairman of
board, American Retail Federation, 1948-51; executive vice-president,
Neiman-Marcus Company.

MEMBER OF: Lakewood Country Club; Columbian Club; Harvard Club of
Dallas; Harvard Club of New York; Harmonie Club of New York;

Grolier Club of New York.
pusLications: Articles in Fortune, Atlantic Monthly, Reader's Digest, and

Look Magazine.
AT THE time of graduation I made a firm resolve to work very
hard for twenty-five years and retire from business in 1950. I have
worked hard, all right, but I find that I have accumulated so many
responsibilities that I'll have to defer my plans for retirement for
another twenty-five years.

I spent a year at the Business School following graduation, but
left at the conclusion of the term to enter my father’s business,
which was then in a process of physical expansion. I entered
Neiman-Marcus Company in the summer of 1926, determined to
apply everything I had learned in one year at the Harvard Business
School to the operation of a fashion retailing establishment. I soon
found that banking and statistics were not nearly as important as
a knowledge of people and fashion trends. My education, how-
ever, must have been pretty good, for two years later when our

[ 641 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

business was reorganized I was able to take on additional responsi-
bilities of an important nature. In 1928 I became executive vice-
president of Neiman-Marcus, a position I still hold.

In 1932 I married Mary Cantrell of Benton, Illinois, and St.
Louis. In 1936 we had our first child, a girl, Jerrie, and in 1938 we
hit the jackpot with boy and girl twins, Richard and Wendy.

As a result of an interest in printing acquired in Dr. Winship’s
seminar course at the Harvard Library, I established the Book Club
of Texas, an organization dedicated to publishing books relative to
Texas in a typographical format of distinction. We published
seven volumes before my own business life became so pressing that
I was forced to abandon the club. My interests in typographical
history have continued and my own library has been built to a
great extent around that field.

Retailing is a time-demanding and consuming field of endeavor,
second only to medicine in my “opinion. It leaves little free leisure
time with which to pursue other interests. I’ve been able to steal
a few hours occasionally to do some magazine writing. In Novem-
ber, 1940, I wrote a piece for Fortune on the effect of the fall of
France on the United States fashion industry, entitled, “America
is in Fashion.” In 1948 I wrote “Fashion Is My Business” for the
Atlantic Monthly, which was subsequently reprinted in the Read-
ers Digest in February, 1949. In June, 1949, I contributed an
article to Look discussing the manner in which fashion evolved,
“Parable of the Barrels.” I have a number of other projects in
contemplation which I hope to find time to complete in the com-
ing year.

In business I have held positions in the various retail trade or-
ganizations. I was a director in the National Retail Dry Goods
Association and am a trustee of the American Retail Federation.
I am currently chairman of the board of trustees of that organiza-
tion.

Outside of retailing I have found great interest in art, in music,
and in education. I ama trustee of the Dallas Museum of Fine Arts,
a director of the American Federation of Arts, a director and past
president of the Dallas Symphony Orchestra, and a member of the
National Citizens Commission for the Public Schools.

Following the outbreak of the war I was called to Washington
to the War Production Board to create and administer conserva-

[ 642 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion measures in the field of men’s and women’s apparel. As chief
of the clothing section of W.P.B., I was the author of the Con-
servation Order L-85 which regulated the length and shape of
women’s dresses. In June, 1942, my work was completed and my
three brothers had gone into service, so I was forced to return to
the administration of my own business.

In retailing I have found a great outlet for my interests, the
opportunity for frequent trips to both coasts and to foreign lands.
I was awarded the Tobe Award for Distinguished Service to
American Retailing in 1945, and received the Chevalier of the
French Legion of Honor in 1949.

Politically I am a liberal, although that term has become some-
what shop-worn in recent years. I am a firm believer in the thesis
that business men must take an active interest in politics or else be
willing to pay the price for bad government.

Now at the age of forty-five, I find myself somewhat surprised
that I am preparing to celebrate my twenty-fifth anniversary of
graduation from Harvard College. Time has moved very fast for
me, fortune has been on my side so far, life has been good.

MORRIS MARDEN

HOME ADDRESS: 403 E. Carlisle Ave. Milwaukee 11, Wis.

OFFICE apprEess: University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee 3, Wis.

BORN: Feb. 12, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: Abram Marden, Fannie Beatrice
Lieberman.

PREPARED AT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. Magna cum laude, 1925; A.M.,
1927; PH.D., 1928.

MmarRiepD: Miriam L. Goldman, Sept. 11, 1932, Newton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Albert, Nov. 18, 1934; Philip, June 7, 1937.

OCCUPATION: Professor of mathematics.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in mathematics, Harvard University, 1925-27; na-
tional research fellow, University of Wisconsin, Princeton University,
Federal Technical University in Zurich, Switzerland, and the Sorbonne,
Paris, 1928-30; assistant professor of mathematics, 1930439, associate
professor, 1939-46, professor, since 1946, University of Wisconsin;
senior fellow, Brown University Graduate School of Mechanics, sum-
mers of 1943 and 1944; chief mathematician, Control Instrument Com-
pany, Brooklyn, N. Y., April-September, 1945; assistant editor, Bulletin
of the American Mathematical Society, 1942-45; chairman, Wisconsin
Section, Mathematical Association of America, 1944-45; reviewer,

[ 643 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925
Mathematical Reviews, since 1941; mathematics consultant for Mc-

Culloch Aviation Company, 1943-44, Allis Chalmers Company, since
1948.

MEMBER oF: American Mathematical Society; Mathematical Association of
America; American Association of University Professors; Sigma Xi;
Phi Beta Kappa; Chaos Club of Chicago, American Association for
the Advancement of Science (fellow); Harvard Club of Milwaukee.

PUBLICATIONS: The Geometry of the Zeros of a Polynomial in a Complex
Variable, (vol. TH in the Mathematical Surveys series), American
Mathematical Society, October, 1949; twenty-two articles appearing in:
Bulletin of the American Mathematical Society, Transactions of the
American Mathematical Society, American Journal of Mathematics,
Duke Mathematics Journal, American Mathematical Monthly, Proceed-
ings of National Academy of Sciences; numerous reviews in Mathe-
matical Reviews, American Mathematical Monthly, Zentralblatt fir
Mathematik.

MY LIFE since graduation seems to divide roughly into three
periods. The first of these, 1925-30, was devoted to further edu-
cation, formal and otherwise.

I belonged to the small group of our classmates who, as our
Commencement was approaching, had decided that they had not
had enough. In the fall of 1925 1 began an appointment as instruc-
tor of mathematics at Harvard and at the same time entered the
Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Under the able guidance
of “Joe” Walsh, now Perkins Professor of Mathematics, I com-
pleted my work for the doctorate in June, 1928.

In May of that year I was granted a National Research Council
Fellowship. This award is made contingent to one’s receiving a
Ph.D. By June, however, I was so broke that I had to arrange to
begin my fellowship the day after becoming a Ph.D. In my haste
to depart from Cambridge to the scene of my fellowship activity
I completely forgot to call for my Ph.D. diploma. After several
months the Graduate Office sent it to me, so neatly wrapped that
I hated to unpack it. It was not until June, 1948, in the presence
of my family, that I finally opened the package. Even though by
that time my Latin had become too rusty to read the document in
detail, I could sigh with relief at the proof that I had not been a
bogus Ph.D. during the previous twenty years.

My fellowship took me to Wisconsin, Princeton, Zurich, Paris,
and some points in between. While this travel was primarily to
give me scientific contacts with persons and ideas, I tried not en-

[ 644 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tirely to neglect the non-scientific side of life. I remember par-
ticularly in Paris the dinner and concert date on Thursday eve-
nings with a young French mathematician of my age. We began
those evenings early with dinner, each week at a different res-
taurant, trying out the foods of the different provinces of France.
After two hours of dinner we rode the subways to the concert hall.
Since the dinner invariably included two or three bottles of wine
appropriate to our food, our talk, which had begun with a digni-
fied pianissimo, usually reached fortissimo levels by the time we
neared the concert hall.

The second period, 1930-38, were the years of acquisition of
those things which every man desires: a job, a family, and a home.

Upon my return from Europe in 1930, I accepted an appoint-
ment as assistant professor of mathematics in the Milwaukee Ex-
tension Division of the University of Wisconsin. This branch of
the university, located in the civic center of Milwaukee, caters to
students who for financial or other reasons are unable to study
upon the main campus of the University at Madison. The fact
that many have been students of outstanding ability has given me
a sense of the worth-whileness of being at this outpost of learning
in the heart of Milwaukee.

In September, 1932, I married Miriam Goldman, a graduate of
Jackson and Simmons Colleges. Our first son, Albert, arrived in
November, 1934, while we were still living in a small downtown
apartment. When we had evidence that our family was to increase
again we began to build a house for our home-to-be, on a lot two
blocks from Lake Michigan. In June, 1937, our second son, Philip,
arrived and during the following month our house was ready for
occupancy.

The third period, 1939 to present, was one of growth and ac-
tivity in many directions.

Our university branch in Milwaukee grew considerably during
that time. When I first came here only freshman and sophomore
classes were taught. Recently we began to teach advanced courses
leading to a master of science degree in certain fields. The enroll-
ment, which was less than 500 in 1930, jumped to 3000 in 1946 and
now has settled down to a permanent figure of 2000.

My scientific interests were continued, if not increased during
this period. In the field of my doctorate work this activity cul-

[ 645 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

minated in my writing the book, the title of which is given above.
In addition the war brought me in contact with applied mathe-
matics which in turn made possible my present service to local
industry as a mathematical consultant. These were also the years
in which I received my promotions to an associate professorship
and to a full professorship.

While our house did not change materially during this period,
our garden was a scene of continual joy and activity. We built
this garden upon a lot which was formerly a railroad right-of-way
and thus originally devoid of all plant life except weeds, This
garden has become my principal hobby. I have learned to know
intimately every tree, shrub, and flowering plant growing there.

Last but not least our family has grown. My wife has become
more than ever active in the affairs of the community. My son
Albert, at fifteen, already stands an inch higher than I and his
brother Philip, at thirteen, is taller than his mother. Albert, who
is a sophomore at the Whitefish Bay High School, hopes to
achieve such a strong record as a student and flutist that he will
gain admission to Harvard in 1952. Philip, who is a seventh-
grader at the Richards Elementary School, has not as yet disclosed
his ambitions, but I would not be surprised if he went knocking at
Harvard’s doors in 1955.

CHARLES CLIFTON MARKS

HOME appREss: 24 Appleton St., Boston 16, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Retail Credit Co., 31 St. James Ave., Boston 16, Mass.

BorN: March 8, 1904, Island Pond, Vt. parents: Sewell Everett Marks,
Lucy Emery.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1925. DEGREE: $.B., 1925.

marrieD: Mildred Matlack, Nov. 1, 1926, Marshfield, Mass. cuitp: Charles
Clifton, Jr., June 24, 1927. cranpcuitp: Nancy Jean Marks, Nov. 11,
1948.

occupation: Reporter.

SINCE the summer of 1925 I have been with the Retail Credit

Company at Boston and Salem, Massachusetts. Essentially our

business consists of providing underwriting reports to insurance

companies, to assist them in selecting and classifying their risks.

The company operates throughout the United States and Canada

[ 646 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and will be well-known to classmates in the insurance business. It’s
a lively and interesting occupation that gives a sense of service.

For twenty-three years I have had a pretty and understanding
wife who has a natural talent for home-making; so, naturally, I am
a home-loving man. I have a fine grown-up son who has already
established his own family, and his little Nancy Jean, one year old,
and bubbling over with life and fun, is the daily delight of all of
us. I enjoy reading and this winter my wife and I have joined one
of the “Great Books” groups which meets fortnightly at the Bos-
ton Public Library, and about which we are most enthusiastic. It’s
an idea which is bound to grow. If you haven’t become interested
already it’s well worth looking into.

GUILLERMO SEBASTIAN MARQUES

HOME AND OFFICE ADpREss: Arecibo, Puerto Rico.

BORN: March ro, 1904, Arecibo, Puerto Rico. PARENTS: Guillermo Marqués-
Arbona, Monserrate Mufioz-Vasquez.

PREPARED AT: Arecibo High School, Arecibo, Puerto Rico.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: S.B., 1925; M.D. 1920.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Weingarmer, Feb. 3, 1930, Bethlehem, Pa. cmp:
Guillermo Sebastian, 2d, April 19, 1931.

OccuPATION: Doctor in medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Medical inspector, State Insurance Fund, since 19423 radiolo-
gist, Arecibo District Hospital, since 1944; visiting radiologist, Clinica
San Miguel, since 1947.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club; Casino Espafiol de Arecibo; Arecibo Country
Club; Asociaciédn Médica de Puerto Rico; Asociacion Médica del Dis-
trito de Arecibo; Asociacién de Radidlogos de Puerto Rico.

AFTER graduation and an uneventful summer vacation, I entered
the Medical School, together with a handful of classmates. The
four years were crowded with work and fun, despondency and
elation, disappointment and hopefulness, and finally I emerged a
full-fledged M.D. One year’s internship at the Sacred Heart Hos-
pital in Allentown, Pennsylvania, completed my training, and
after meeting and marrying the girl, I sailed for my native coun-
try. The summer of 1930 was spent resting, and preparing for the
Board Exams, which I took during the fall of that same year. A
start in my home town during the dark, depression days, was not
auspicious and I moved to a nearby town, where I practised medi-
cine until an unfortunate automobile accident resulted in a frac-

[ 647 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

tured skull, and in an intense desire to return to my home town. It
also encouraged me to choose a specialty which obviated the need
of long rides over bad roads, at odd hours, day and night. I chose
radiology, an extremely interesting field, which had the additional
advantage of zero mortality,

In 1936 I went up for the Tercentenary, and attended the Class
Reunion. I had the pleasure of meeting old classmates, and of
remembering past experiences. In 1943 I went West, to the Mayo
Clinic, for a check-up after the removal of a malignant tumor.

Since 1935 I have been interested in agriculture, having come
into possession of a good farm, in which I grow mostly sugar cane.
My tribulations as a gentleman-farmer have been many, but gradu-
ally I have acquired some experience, and at present I find it a
pleasant relief after a long day interpreting “shadows of increased
density.”

As to hobbies, collection of classical records has been the main
one. At present I am in a state of confusion, bewildered with the
LP and the light-weight 45 r.p.m., which has caused an interrup-
tion in my collecting habits until the horizon clears up. Pipe col-
lecting is another hobby, and so far I have been successful: all my
pipes are in good working condition.

It is unfortunate that I cannot close this account with claims of
remarkable successes and of great triumphs. But as I look back
upon the past years, I realize that my life has been a quiet, useful
one, devoted to my family, to my work, to my friends, and to the
community, and I feel the satisfaction of having done my duty to
the best of my abilities.

JOHN MARSHALL

HOME appress: 45 Christopher St. New York 14, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREss: Rockefeller Foundation, 49 W. 49th St., New York 20, N. Y.

BORN: June 10, 1903, Portland, Maine. parents: Leonard Dudley Marshall,
Carrie Louise Clark.

PREPARED AT: Portland High School, Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B, Summa cum laude, 1925; A.M., 1928.

marriep: Mary Crandon Gardner, June 9, 1928, Portland, Maine. cuprEN:
Mary Elizabeth, March 29, 1935, Anne, Nov. 14, 1939.

occupation: Associate director for the humanities, Rockefeller Foundation.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Consultant, Office of War Information.

[ 648 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: The Athenaeum, London.
pusLicaTions: Publication by Learned Societies, American Council of
Learned Societies, Washington, 1931.

FROM 1925 to 1933, I remained in Cambridge, teaching at Har-
vard and Radcliffe, first as an assistant in English, and then as an
instructor and tutor, at the same time going on with graduate
work. Gradually, however, more and more of my time went into
administrative work, first as executive secretary of the Mediaeval
Academy of America (from 1926 on) and Jater also as a member
of the staff of the American Council of Learned Societies, the
national research council for humanistic studies. In 1932 I was
asked by the General Education Board of New York (the first
foundation established by John D. Rockefeller) to take part in a
study of higher education in the United States.

On June first, 1933, I went to New York as assistant director
for the humanities both in the General Education Board and in the
Rockefeller Foundation. In my work for the Board, I had a part
in its effort to encourage the development of a more adequate
general education in the United States in secondary schools and
the early years of college. In the Foundation, I was concerned
with the support and encouragement of work in the humanities
both in the United States and abroad.

Essentially, it is the business of an officer of the Foundation to
investigate opportunities that come to it for spending its funds as
wisely and effectively as possible towards “the wellbeing of man-
kind throughout the world.” This work has proved progressively
engrossing over the seventeen years J have been at it. It began,
even before the war, to take me increasingly abroad, with the
result, for example, that I saw the Munich crisis from London. As
the end of the war approached, I was a member of a group of
Foundation officers who returned to Europe in the autumn of
1944, this time with the result that I had a taste of V1’s and V2’s in
London, and was in Paris during the Battle of the Bulge, probably
one of the first Americans to return to France on civilian papers.
I also had the distinction of returning to the United States in
February, 1945, on one of the slowest convoys on record, twenty-
five days at sea from Glasgow to New York.

This same work took me in the autumn of 1945 to all the At-
lantic countries of Europe, again as one of their first civilian visitors

[ 649 ]

ee REY IP EERE

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

from the United States, giving me an opportunity to see the initial
stages of their recovery, particularly in their cultural and intellec-
tual life. In 1946 I attended the meeting in London at which a
constitution was agreed on for the United Nations Educational,
Scientific, and Cultural Organization (Unesco) and in subsequent
years attended all the General Conferences of Unesco as observer
for the Foundation. In the spring of 1947, I was lent to Unesco for
a five-week period, to help in the establishment of its plans for
encouraging the international award of fellowships. The Third
General Conference of Unesco at Beirut, Lebanon, gave me a first
chance of seeing something of the Near East, including visits to
Syria and Turkey. In the spring of 1950, I expect to return to the
Near East, with visits scheduled for Egypt, Iran, Iraq, and if pos-
sible, Israel, before attending the Fifth General Conference of
Unesco at Florence.

After ten years of country life in Connecticut and Westchester
(where gardening through the war years was a somewhat neces-
sitous hobby) my family is again established in New York City,
with my daughters, Maylie (Mary Elizabeth), fifteen, and Anne,
ten, both going to the Fieldston School, in preparation, they hope,
for following their mother at Radcliffe.

FRANK MARTIN

HOME appress: 13 Greene St., Somerville 43, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

BORN: July 26, 1904, Taunton, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph A. Martin, Mary Cote
Ormonde.

PREPARED AT: Taunton High School, Taunton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921~1923, 1924-1926. DEGREE: S.B., 1925 (26).

MarRieD: Mary Elizabeth Gill, 1942, Somerville, Mass. crupREN: Nancy
Elizabeth, Nov. 24, 1945; Susan Marie, Jan. 15, 1948; Frank Leonard,
Dec. 14, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Joseph Martin, ’21; Ernest Martin, ’29.

occupation: Head of Spanish and Italian Department, Somerville High
School.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Drafted Oct. 2, 1942; permanently stationed at
Fort Jackson, S. C., except for nine weeks in Administration School,
Fort Washington, Md.; discharged as technical sergeant, Aug. 18, 1945.

opricrs HEID: President, Somerville Teachers Union, A.F.L., 1939-42,
Somerville School Employees Credit Union, since 1946.

mMemuer or: University Club; Elks.

[ 650 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER graduation I went to Honduras and Panama for four years
as a banana farmer with the United Fruit Company. Company
politics made leaving there seem attractive.

In 1932 I was appointed teacher of Spanish at Somerville High
School. From then until 1942 nothing exciting occurred except
for living life to the full — mostly financially. Marriage and war
service made 1942 my big year. Military service was uneventful
for the brass decided early that I would make a better trainer than
a fighter. The one red-letter event was an unauthorized parachute
jump that fortunately for me and everyone involved ended well.
Incidentally, Ed McCarthy, ’25, and I went into the service to-
gether as rookies. —

After discharge in 1945, it became a matter of picking up old
threads and raising a family. Asa teacher I decided early that there
must be some compensation for not paying high income taxes.
For me that became a matter of concentrating on and enjoying the
simple things of life. In my mind teaching is not a “third sex”
affair. There is real satisfaction in watching boys and girls develop
into young men and women and feeling that one has had a small
unforgotten part in that development. When I became depart-
ment head in 1946, it was easier to try methods and ideas that had
been crystallizing in my mind for years. One catalyst in those
ideas is the sobering realization that my own youngsters, two and
four, can quite casually out-think the Old Man. From my experi-
ence as an educator I must own to a sinking feeling that for the
average youngster we have moved too far from the three R’s and
given him smatterings with no depth. He gets a diploma but is
unable to think or speak clearly and has no desire to do anything
about it.

I have one claim, until refuted, to distinction — the youngest

Class son, born December 14, 1949. What will Harvard be like
when his turn comes and will Harvard father and Harvard uncles
be a stronger factor then?

My hobbies are chess, bridge, and woodworking. The last-
mentioned also affords exercise in fast thinking to explain the util-
ity of the end product. It is restful to smell sawdust and shape a
clean piece of wood, forgetting that there are such things as atom
bombs and Communists. Having an artist wife proves both ad-

[ 651 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

vantage and handicap. She helps design things, then never is
completely satisfied with the results.

In retrospect the past twenty-five years call to mind but one
regret —that the depression of the thirties picked our century
rather than someone else’s.

CHARLES MARX, JR.

BorN: April 19, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: Charles Marx, Melvina
Mayer.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREE: 8.B. cum laude, 1925.

UNMARRIED,

prep: Feb. 5, 1927, New York, N. Y.

CHARLES MARX, JR., spent his first college year at the Uni-
versity of Virginia. Transferring to Harvard the next year, he
joined the Class of 1925, in which he ranked as a superior student.
He was a member of the track squad for the year 1922 to 1923,
and played in the Instrumental Clubs during 1923 to 1924. He
was graduated in 1925 with an S.B. degree, cum laude.

His interest in book collecting and his love of literature, which
he had developed as an undergraduate, continued. He added X=
tensively to his library, specializing i in books on printing and i in
rare editions. After a year in the factoring business he became
associated with the Pynson Printers. He was very happy in this
type of work.

His professors, friends, and associates acknowledged his abilities
which gave promise of a life of real achievement. After his sud-
den death a group of friends contributed to a fund in his memory,
with which have been purchased art journals now in the Fogg
Museum Library. These journals contain a book plate bearing
his name.

+k CHARLES COFFIN MASON

BORN: June 11, 1903, Chicago, Ill. parents: Francis Payne Mason, Ermen-
garde Arvilla Coffin.

PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1921-1925, DEGREE: 8.B. 1925.

UN MARRIED.

[ 652]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis van Wyck Mason, ’24.
prep: Aug. 13, 1931, South Hadley, Mass.
BROTHER: F, van Wyck Mason, 920 St. Paul St., Baltimore 2, Md.

SINCE his paternal grandfather was American Consul-General in
Berlin and Paris, Charles Coffin Mason was brought up in the
French language to the age of six and crossed the ocean many
times. Because of his travels, his early education was somewhat
disjointed, and his later schooling was further interrupted by the
war. At the age of fifteen he joined the Red Cross. He saw
service in France and Italy, and returned to the United States in
July, 1919, with the rank of sergeant major.

After his return he prepared for Harvard at the Berkshire
School. While at college he went out for freshman football and
took part in several other sports, but his chief imterest was the
Gun Club, of which he served as president during 1924-25. He
placed third in the Intercollegiate Rifle Meet of 1924. He was
a member of K Company of the Seventh Regiment, New York
City.

After graduation, Mason went to New York and there he
entered the service of the Edison Company. He remained with
them until the winter of 1930 when he resigned to take a trip
around the world. Upon his return he undertook fiction writing
and had several stories published. He was beginning to make a
name for himself when his death occurred.

HARDING TREMAIN MASON

ApprEss: The New Yorker, 25 W. 43rd St., New York 18, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 19, 1903, Brooklyn, N. Y. PARENTS: Francis Mason, Helen Tre-
main Martin.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924.

MarrigD: Evelyn Henry Stoppani, Dec. 12, 1933, New York, N. Y. ca:
Rodney Tremain, July 8, 1936.

OCCUPATION: Journalism.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files
Harding Mason did not return a questionnaire,

[ 653]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

SAUL SELIG MASON

HOME AppRESS: 54 Nightingale St. Dorchester, Mass.

Born: Dec. 22, 1903, Boston, Mass. parents: Joseph Bernard Mason, Sarah
Romberg.

PREPARED AT: Waltham High School, Waltham, Mass.; Dorchester High
School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1927; DEGREE: AB. 1925(27).

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Oscar Malcolm Mason, ’24; Henry Romberg Mason, 39.

MY WORKING life after graduation lasted less than six years
when critical illness struck. Then began what seemed an endless
vicious cycle of agonizing pain, operating tables, orthopedic beds,
wheel chairs, distress, delirium, dilations, diets, and dressings — till
finally, a heart attack and collapse. Released from the hospital last
May, I’m trying to return to some sort of gainful activity.

JACOB MEYER MASTER

HOME appREss: 311 Avenue O, Brooklyn 30, N. Y.

orFice appress: U. S. Court House, Foley Sq., New York 9, N. Y.

BORN: July 25, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: Isaac Israel Master, Fania
Hendler.

PREPARED AT: Norwich Free Academy, Norwich, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 19253 A.M., 1927.

MarrigD: Ethe] Frances Kaufman, March 2, 1929, New York, N. Y. cut
pren: Alan Harold, Sept. 11, 1931; Eva Louise, Nov. 30, 1937.

HARVARD SON: Alan Harold Master, ’52.

occupation: U.S. Probation and Parole Officer.

MeMbBeR or: American Society of Public Administration.

PUBLIcATIONS: Contributor, Federal Probation and The Prison World, Vol.
I], Probation, Attorney General’s Survey of Release Procedures (U. S.
Department of Justice), Vol. III, President’s Conference on Home
Building and Home Ownership Reports; editorials to various detective
magazines, series of articles for Holyoke Publishing Company.

ALFRED ARTHUR MEADOWS

HOME appaxgss: Palm Harbor, Fla.

orvicz appress: Clearwater High School, Clearwater, Fla.

porn: Dec. 8, 1902, Ocala, Fla. parents: Harry Meadows, Annie Esther
Paine.

paeparep AT: Emory University, Atlanta, Ga.

[654]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREE: $.B., 1925.

marriepD: Mary Ellen Floding, June 1, 1929, Lake Wales, Fla. compren:
Jack, June 17, 1935; Dick, June 11, 1939.

occupation: Teacher of printing and journalism.

MEMBER OF: Clearwater Masonic Lodge; Dunedin Chamber of Commerce.

ABRAHAM LINCOLN MEKELBURG

HOME ADDREss: 146 Pitman St., Fall River, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: A. Horvitz, Inc., 1465 Pleasant St. Fall River, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 10, 1904, Chelsea, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Mekelburg, Julia
Strauss.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1930.

marrigeD: Pearl Horvitz, Jan. 14, 1937, Brookline, Mass. cup: Edward
Charles, Dec. 24, 1942.

occupPaTION: Retail furniture business; part-time law practice.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Fall River; Fall River Bar Association.

I AM just an obscure and peaceful citizen trying to emanate a bit

of sanity in a topsy-turvy world.

Family: One son destined for Harvard, Class of 1965, I hope.

Travels: Extremely modest.

Hobbies: Keeping clients out of jail and keeping the wolf from
the door.

Politics: Back to the Republicans.

Religious convictions: I cannot be convicted of being religious.

The following pages I donate to those of greater accomplishments.

ARTHUR MENDEL

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 66 E. 80th St., New York 21, N. Y.

BORN: June 6, 1905, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Philip Mendel, Gertrude New-
man,

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1921-1925, DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1925,

MARRIED: Elsa Wissell, Aug. 23, 1934, Ossining. N. Y.

occupaTion: Musician, editor, teacher, writer.

OFFIcEs HELD: Literary editor, 1930-38, G. Schirmer, Inc.; music critic,
1930-33, Ihe Nation; conductor, since 1936, The Cantata Singers;
editor, Associated Music Publishers, Inc. 1941-47, American Mfusico-
logical Society, 1941-44; teacher, Dalcroze and Diller-Quaile Schools,
since 1938; president, Dalcroze School of Music, since 1947; lecturer,
Columbia University, 1949; Guggenheim Fellow, 1949-50.

[655]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

MEMBER oF: American Musicological Society; International Society for
General Semantics.

PusBLicaTions: Translator, Hindemith, The Craft of Mustcal Composition,
Einstein, Mozart, His Character and His Works, editor, The Bach
Reader, The Christmas Story, by Heinrich Schiitz, The St. John Pas-
sion, by J. S. Bach; writer of numerous articles on musical and musico-
logical subjects in Musical Quarterly, Saturday Review of Literature,
etc.; work in progress: book on the music of Bach in performance.

ARTHUR MENKEN

HOME ADDRESS: 4 Park Ave. Bronxville, N. Y. .

orFice appress: U.S. Department of State, 35 W. 45th St.. New York 19, N. Y.

BorN: Dec. 13, 1903, New York, N. Y. Parents: S. Stanwood Menken,
Gretchen von Briesen.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921~1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

marrieD: Carol Littig, June 20, 1942, San Diego, Calif. cumpren: Eric,
May 2, 1947; Laura, March 22, 1949.

occupation: Industry liaison representative, Office of Internal Information.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain and major, U.S. Marine Corps Reserve
Aviation; served as naval aviator and later as technical representative in
Office of Strategic Services, Marine Corps duty in California and Pacific
Theatre (Hawaii, Guadalcanal, and Espiritu Santo), O.S.S. + duty in
France.

OFFICES HELD: President, Adventurers Club of New York, ro50.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Explorers Club; Adventurers
Club, Overseas Press Club; Royal Geographical Society (fellow); Sons
of the American Revolution.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous press dispatches, broadcasts, and newsreel stories;
several documentary films, mostly released by Paramount Pictures.

MY TWENTY-FIVE years since leaving Harvard have been full
and fascinating. To condense the story is not easy. After gradu-
ation, I tried to follow my family’s wishes and studied law at
Harvard and Fordham. This pursuit was entirely too sedentary
for my liking at that time. I wanted excitement and adventure,
and went out to get it. Thus my first love became aviation. |
took up flying and wound up with a transport pilot’s license.
This enabled me to operate for a while as a second pilot with
KLM, covering all their European routes, I bought my own plane
and used it in barnstorming operations. An ambitious project to
fly it to Europe terminated ignominiously in the waters of Long

[ 656]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Island Sound. After that, I joined the Marine Corps Reserve and
used military equipment.

During this period I made several trips to Europe, spent a sum-
mer vacation in Costa Rica working for United Fruit, and another
summer visiting the Near East. On this last trip, I succeeded in
reaching Petra, the rose-colored city of temples and amphitheatres
carved out of the solid mountains of Arabia Petraea. In 1930 I
served as photographer on an expedition to the headwaters of the
Orinoco. We made the first accurate survey of the area for the
American Geographical Society. I became the first to photograph
the stone-age Guaharibo Indians, who live in the remotest jungles
of Venezuela. This trip was arduous with its combination of heat
and rain and insects.

Returning to New York, I looked for work in the newsreel
field. Oddly enough, I found it in the revolving door of the
Harvard Club. There I bumped into John Begg and he introduced
me at Pathe News, where he was working. Four interesting years
followed. I became a newsreel director, and handled the coverage
of all the big flights of that era. They sent me around the world
with a camera crew on the Evmpress of Britain. At home in New
York, I covered everything from baby parades to beauty contests,
even staging a blimp stunt of picking up mail from the top of the
Empire State Building and delivering it to a liner bound for
Europe.

After working for a time at RKO in Hollywood, I equipped
myself with a newsreel camera and started shooting pictures my-
self. I made documentaries of all kinds. In 1936 the New England
Zoological Society’s Expedition headed by Gloria Hollister took
me to British Guiana. There we scored another geographical
first by aerial exploration of the great waterfall region in the
remote interior.

Later that year I served as cameraman on the Hubbard-Ingalls
Expedition to Barotseland on the Upper Zambesi. Africa was
fascinating, and I filmed all types of big game at close range.
When this work ended at Victoria Falls, a cable from Paramount
sent me off by air to Cairo. Here I was nearly killed by riot guns

during the Egyptian Nationalist uprisings. Returning to the
States, a diet of strike and flood coverage gave me my fill of
excitement. I was covering Suffolk Downs in Boston when the

[ 657 ]

_. . | Pe

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Photography from the air produced better pictures than on the
ground. Nightly bombings by “Washing-Machine Charlie” added
sleepless nights to the exciting days. Malaria caught up with me
and I flew out to Espiritu Santo. I returned to Guadalcanal to do
a story on Major Joe Foss and his Marine flyers, and while I was
there, the last of the Japs capitulated. We moved out, and the
Army took over. I went back to California as Troop Commander
on the President Polk. After a year in the States, I transferred to
the Office of Strategic Services and took their intensive training
in Washington. They sent me by air to England, and on to France
shortly after D-Day. I was Administrative Officer of a unit en-
gaced in passing agents through the German lines. We were at
Chartres when General Leclerc’s tanks rambled through towards
Paris. This I had to see. After a career of following retreating
armies, I wanted to see Paris liberated, and I did.

Part of my work there consisted of going into the heart of the
city ahead of the American Army, and getting the Free French to
remove the barricades so that our tanks could roll through. The
German surrender at the Prefecture was a historic sight. Later,
however, some Germans were still holed up in the Chamber of
Deputies. From the Place de la Concorde, I saw them hurl mortar
shells at a French tank that went out to tell them of the capitu-
lation. As the first American most Parisians had seen, I had a
wonderful reception. They made me give a speech from the steps
of Sacré Coeur. Two days later came the victory parade down
the Champs-Elysees. Then the shooting started. I tried unsuc-
cessfully to locate some of the culprits in this battle of rooftops.
Meantime, the Germans had also returned to bomb the city. I
was within a hundred yards of some of the explosions which, alas,
demolished the central wine market in a bright blue flame.

I went up to Rheims and came back to Paris to be re-assigned
to a black radio operation. This sent nightly programs beamed at
Germany in German. We pretended to be a group of disaffected
Germans opposed to the Nazis, It made an exciting soap opera.
As news editor, I believe I operated the only completely inde-
pendent and uncensored news program on the allied side. When
this operation finally terminated, I came back to the States on the

Queen Mary.
We wanted to live in California, and there I worked for an

[ 660 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

advertising agency, and later for Schenley and Cresta Blanca
wines. We produced a beautiful commercial film on their wine
production. Later, I was western sales manager. When this sales
organization was disbanded, I came back to New York and joined
the Department of State.

Here my work as Industry Liaison Officer in the Division of
International Motion Pictures has proved fascinating. It involves
bringing in all the privately produced films in the country and
obtaining the good ones for the overseas program which reaches
115 million people abroad. This work parallels on film the work
of the Voice of America.

Since the war, we have welcomed our two children into the
family. Eric is now three years old, and Laura is one. They are
healthy and cheerful, and are a very real compensation for the
earlier days of constant change and thrills and action.

At forty-six, I am looking forward to giving them the best
life possible, and hope that it won’t involve dodging as much
ammunition as I have had to see flying through the air towards
innocent people.

ALFRED THADDEUS MERIAN

HOME ApprEss: “Beech Hill Farm,” Wayne, Maine; 35 Avenue du Léman,
Lausanne, Switzerland; Chalet Gentiana, Gstaad, Switzerland.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 42 Broadway, New York 4, N. Y.

BORN: March 6, 1903, Leysin, Switzerland. parents: Alfred Walter Merian,
Annie Forrester Hyatt.

PREPARED AT: Collége cantonal, Aubonne, Switzerland: Williston Academy,
Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MarRieD: Ethel Ruth Margaret Kerr-Baulch, March 27, 1940, Las Vegas,
Nev.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Dumur Merian, '27 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Finance.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Field Artillery Reserve, 1925-39; Office of
Strategic Services, during World War II.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Second Congressional District, Maine Republican
Finance Committee, 1949-50.

MEMBER oF: Asylum Lodge, Wayne; Grange, Wayne; Harvard Club of
Boston; Harvard Club of New York; Milicary-Naval Club of New York;
Architectural League of New York; Downtown Harvard Lunch Club;
Swiss Society of New York; University Glee Club of New York; Union
League of New York; Abbaye de l'Arc, Lausanne.

[ 661 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

IN THE last twenty-five years my life has been, while not spec-
tacular, at least moderately varied. Like many other young men
in the twittery twenties, I didn’t rightly know what I wanted to
do upon graduation and so, after a leisurely trip to Europe, I hesi-
tated between finance and architecture. Eventually I decided on
the latter and returned to Harvard for two years’ study at the
School of Architecture. I subsequently worked as an architect,
mostly in New York but also in Philadelphia and Maine, till the
depression of the early thirties knocked the props out from under
the building business and left me jobless. Tired of waiting for the
elusive “just around the corner” revival which never seemed to
materialize, I packed a few duds in a knapsack and took myself off
on a year’s trip “on the cheap” through Latin America.

Upon my return, finding that things architectural were still in
the doldrums, I went on active duty with the United States Army
in which I'd held a reserve commission since 1925, serving in sev-
eral Civilian Conservation Corps camps in Pennsylvania and up-
state New York. After this quasi-military episode I took another
trip to Europe and, on getting back, I reversed my decision of ten
years’ earlier by going to work in Wall Street; I’ve been in finance
ever since then, on my own since 1940, my specialty being “stock
options.”

The nature of my business is such that I have to be in my New
York office but occasionally, so my wife and I are able to spend
most of our time together, either at our country place in Maine or,
since the end of the war, in our Swiss homes. At present our rou-
tine is to spend the spring, summer, and fall in the States, and the
winter in Switzerland. It’s a pleasant and satisfactory set-up and
allows me plenty of time for my primary hobby, which is operat-
ing architecturally on our own homes, and also for my lesser
hobbies such as tennis, skiing, and recently, an active interest in
Republican politics.

SAMSON MERRIAM

HOME aAppress: 152 E. o4th St., New York 28, N. Y.

orvice apowess: 37 Wall St, New York 5, N. Y.

soan: Nov. 23, 1902, New Haven, Conn. parents: Samuel Bruce Merriam,
Anna Molstein,

prepared AT: Hillhouse High School, New Haven, Conn.

{ 662

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: 8.B., 1925; LL.B. (Yale Univ.), 1927.
MarRigeD: Rita Eileen London, March 18, 1937, New York, N. Y.
occuPaTION: Lawyer.

I ATTENDED Yale Law School and after graduation became a
member of the New York Bar, engaging in the general practice of
law with special emphasis on banking, finance, and public con-

struction.
I met a nice Barnard graduate and soon I was a benedict with

the accompanying blessings and responsibilities.
On the whole, life has been very gentle with me.

JAMES FRY MERSEREAU

HOME ADDRESS: 5058 Lowell St., N.W., Washington, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Foster Wheeler Corp., 165 Broadway, New York, N. Y.;
827 Tower Bldg., Washington, D. C.

BoRN: Oct. 30, 1904, Harrisburg, Pa. parents: James Barr Mersereau, Anna
Catherine Fry.

PREPARED AT: Harrisburg Academy, Harrisburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 1925; LL.B., 1928.

MARRIED; Mildred Ann Gill, Aug. 1, 1929, Falmouth, Mass. cH1LpREN: James
Gill, Oct. 11, 1930; Ann Chenoweth, Jan. 27, 1933; Susan Barret, Oct.
3> 1935-

OCCUPATION: Washington and South American representative, Foster
Wheeler Corporation,

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Assistant general counsel, Export-Import Bank
of Washington, Washington, D. C.

OFFICES HELD: General attorney, Mitten Bank and Trust Company, 1929-40;
general counsel, Mitten Bank Securities Corporaton, 1931-40; limited
partner, Chapman and Hamilton, 1940-41; assistant general counsel,
Export-Import Bank of Washington, 1941-45; vice-president, Pullman
Standard Car Manufacturing Corporation, Brazil, 1945-46; representa-
tive, Foster Wheeler Corporation, Washington and South America,
since 1946; director, Corporacion Boliviana de Fomento, 1943-45; Cor-
poracion Ecuatoriana de Fomento, 1942-45.

MEMBER OF: University Club, Washington, D. C.; Bay Head Yacht Club,
Bay Head, N. J.; Circulo de la Union, La Paz, Bolivia.

IN 1928, following graduation from Harvard Law School, I went
to Philadelphia, where I practised corporation and banking law
until 1941 when I became associated with the Export-Import Bank
of Washington as assistant general counsel. During the war years
I was assigned by the government to negotiate contracts abroad,
including the purchase of the Cuban sugar crop, and went on a

[ 663 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

number of missions to South America and the Caribbean area in
connection with the organization of development corporations
and the furtherance of government economic policy. In 1945 I
joined the Pullman Standard Car Manufacturing Company and
established temporary residence in Rio de Janeiro where we re-
mained until 1946. Since 1946 I have been with the Foster Wheeler
Corporation, principally in the development of petroleum refinery
projects in South America and the maintenance of some of our
Washington contacts. I have been more or less a steady commuter
between my home in Washington and New York and the South
American countries.

My frequent trips abroad have made it somewhat difficult for
my family and have limited my recreational hobbies. However,
with my son, who is also a private pilot, I have found relaxation in
flying our small plane around the country and am something of a
private flying enthusiast.

My work, albeit exacting and occasionally exhausting, has been
interesting for me and has frequently produced gratifyingly con-
structive results. It has required some knowledge of social, eco-
nomic and political conditions and has convinced me of the neces-
sity for a conservative balance in our present-day thinking. To
journey about three times each year from the cold thin air of the
altiplano of Bolivia to the hot, humid jungles of Ecuador and
Colombia, and then to the somewhat startling ambiente of our
nation’s capital has required a certain physical as well as mental
elasticity. Somehow I have managed to survive.

GEORGE KENT MIDDLETON

HOME appress: 858 N. Orange Grove Ave., Hollywood 46, Calif.

OFFICE appREss: Broadway Dept. Store, Inc., go1 S$. Broadway, Los Angeles
Calif,

BORN: Jan. 31, 1903, Yonkers, N. Y. parents: Edmund Smith Middleton,
"Bs, Sara Belle Kent.

PREPARED AT: Yonkers High School, Yonkers, N. Y.

YPARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925, DEGREE: A.B, cum laude, 1925.

MagaieD: Margaret Naomi Smola, Aug. 12, 1939, Glendale, Calif. cto:
Margaret Sally, Jan. 7, 1948.

occupation: Retail accountant on control staff, Broadway Department
Store, Inc.

Member of: Harvard Club of Southern California.

[ 664 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WALTER JULIUS MILDE

HOME ADDRESS: 2465 Arlington Rd., Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jones, Day, Cockley & Reavis, 1759 Union Commerce
Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio.

BORN: Feb. 5, 1904, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Paul Harman Milde, Clara
Otilia Schweitzer. —

PREPARED AT: Lakewood High School, Lakewood, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1925; LL.B.
cum laude, 1928.

marriep: Gertrude J. Thompson, Feb. 8, 1930, Rosebank, Staten Island,
N. Y.. cuitpren: Paul Arthur, Oct. 29, 1931; Walter Lyall, July 26,
1934; Gordon Thompson, March 7, 1941.

HARVARD SON: Paul Arthur Milde, ’53.

OccUPATION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Alberton Corporation, Cleveland Arcade Company,
North Electric Manufacturing Company, William Whitman Company,
Inc.; trustee and secretary, General Charities Foundation, president,
Harvard Club of Cleveland; regional vice-president, Associated Har-
vard Clubs.

MEMBER OF: Cleveland, Ohio State and American Bar Associations; The
Country Club, Brookline; Cleveland Skating Club.

A PRACTISING lawyer should not attempt to give an “ac-
count” of his life. His labors, worries, triumphs — and his failures
— are for the account of others. When lawsuits remain recorded
only in out-dated volumes and financial transactions are forgotten
by all but company historians, he may of an evening, and with
propriety, entertain a younger generation by an account of his
participation. Until then much of what has moved him mightily
in life can be noted only by “Attorney for” or “Of Counsel.”

So it is that I can report only that after Law School (there is
surely only one which needs no other designation), I returned to
Cleveland and started practising with Tolles, Hogsett & Ginn and
have continued with the firm and its successor, Jones, Day, Cock-
ley & Reavis, ever since. Ina large firm it is customary to become
a specialist but I have avoided that classification except possibly in
the fields of public utility rate litigation and general corporate law.
Needless to say, in these particular fields there has been much
burning of the midnight oil in what to date has been essentially a
rear-guard action against Big Government.

Incidentally, one of my “points of view” is that we of our gen-
eration are continuing to be gravely derelict in character “and

[ 665 ]

TT TER CURE HRRORRRSErORRUTTE NNER CH 6 ——

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

patriotism accepting —as we secretly do— increasing central
control of all human affairs as inevitable. Our present hypnotic
state of mind on this trend seems to me fully as dangerous to our
Western concept of the dignity and worth of the individual man
as our past and future foreign enemies. Nor do I believe that we
can dispel this hypnosis by merely talking about the material
benefits of free enterprise. The real issues are moral and intel-
lectual, not material.

That such issues will be properly resolved I find I have little
doubt, by an acid test— what I see ahead for my boys. My
charming wife has produced three fine boys and apart from acci-
dent — war or otherwise — I believe they will lead fully as satis-
factory, happy, and productive lives as we have — perhaps more
so. The eldest is already at Harvard and the other two say —
“Harvard, of course!”

LEFFERTS MILLARD, III

HOME aAppress: 400 E. 56th St.. New York 22, N. Y.

oFFice appress: Sardik Food Products Corp., Shirley, Ind.

Born: April 11, 1902, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Lefferts Millard, 2d, Mae-
belle Wright.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: $.B., 1925(26).

Marriep: Charlotte Wellington, July 25, 1942, Worcester, Mass. cHILp:
Charlotte Wellington, May 30, 1944.

OCCUPATION: President, Sardik Food Products Corporation.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Special food assignments by plane, Office of
Strategic Services.

MEMBER oF: A few national merchandising and production organizations.

THIS indeed is a difficult life account to write and cover. Since
graduation I have been in the real estate business as broker, pro-
moter, and personal representative of individuals. I have covered
most of the country in this field.

Several marital problems solved themselves over a period, and
with them, developed the peace and solace of a splendid family

roup.

My political feelings are Republican and my faith, Episcopal.
I have travelled the States, Afcxico, and the West Indies. My
hobby, if any, is aviation.

[ 666 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In 1936 I entered the food field in dehydration, and later went
into canning. Lately, I succeeded in becoming the head of the
corporation. However, as a result of the present administration,
the corporation is going through a reorganization, which I trust
will be successful.

BERNARD MILLER

HOME ADDRESS: 12 E, 86th St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Weingarten & Co., 551 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 27, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: Simon Miller, Carrie
Bretzfelder.

PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1925.

MaRRIED: Theresa Woolner, April 24, 1930, New York, N. Y.

occupation: Stock broker; member, New York Stock Exchange.

MY LIFE since graduation, except for the sharp changes brought
by marriage, has been uneventful, but pleasant. Since I am in Wall
Street, I have experienced drastic fluctuations in my income, usu-
ally in an undesired direction. Because of faulty eyesight, neither
the Army nor the Navy was enthusiastic about, or even receptive
to, using my services in the war. I have always lived in New York
City but have a small cottage in Bethel, Connecticut, around which
my wife and I dig, plant, prune, and cut grass, and within which
I perform as amateur chef. Politically, beginning with Al Smith
in 1928, my presidential choices have an unbroken record of de-
feat. I am getting discouraged.

FREDERICK WAGNER MILLER

HOME AppREss: 141-18 77th Ave., Kew Garden Hills, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bourjois, Inc., 35 W. 34th St. New York 1, N. Y.

BorN: Nov. 1, 1904, Lynn, Mass. parents: Fred Miller, Hilda Martha
Wagner.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1925; M.B.A. 1927.
MaRRIED: Doryce H. Van Sciver, April 17, 1935, Lynn, Mass. cHrLpren:
Doryce Diane, Aug. 27, 19373 Perry Van Sciver, Nov. 22, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Perry Miller, °32.

OccuPATION: Mercantile business.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer and controller, Bourjois, Inc.; treasurer, Barbara
Gould, Inc., and other affiliate companies,

[ 667 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

MEMBER OF: Controllers Institute; National Association of Cost Accountants;
Labor Relations Institute.

FROM college I went on to the Harvard Business School for two
years. After that I was an instructor in accounting at the Business
School for about fifteen months. I liked teaching and the collec-
tion of business cases, but I was firmly convinced that a teacher of
business should have business experience.

So I left my old New England habitats for New York. There it
was public accounting, first with Deloette, Plender & Griffiths, and
Jater with Arthur Andersen & Company. This work took me all
over the United States, except for the Pacific Coast. Between
some of the trips I managed to take the necessary examinations
and earned my C.P.A. from the State of New York.

Then came a change of scenery — Rochester, New York, and
the Finger Lake country, as beautiful as any part of Europe, so I
am told. Here I became assistant treasurer of Bourjois, Inc. After
three years, the office was moved to New York. First, it was ac-
counting; then came taxes; during the war, labor and personnel
relations; and more recently budget and production.

My hobbies used to be squash and tennis, but now that I am so
“feeble,” I only play tennis with my daughter and son. Even then,
we practise for the most part on a handball court. The secret is
you don’t have to walk after the balls so often! This won’t last
long. They are getting too good for their “old man.” :

For the most part, I’ve turned to gardening, golf, and dancing.
Occasionally, I enjoy “murdering” some classical music on our
piano; but that is seldom. With two children practising and
radios, etc., to interfere, I don’t get much of a chance.

As to art— about all I can do is pose for my daughter. She
wants to know what a bent arm looks like sidewards, or a bent
knee. So I pose, while she sketches. I’m afraid that’s the nearest
I'll come to art.

Frankly, I can hardly believe that twenty-five years have gone
by; that we are more than twice as old as when we graduated! I
do have a few gray hairs, and don’t have quite the vigor of 1925.

However, I think it is so important to remain young in spirit and
idcas. No matter what our intentions many of us have a tendency
to become more and more inflexible in our ideas, our pursuits, our
opinions, and our way of life. I think we tend to get pessimistic

[ 668 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

about the state of the world, the system of free enterprise, the
trend in labor strength, the government debt, the unbalanced
budget, and what not. I think it is so necessary to keep a high
degree of tolerance and understanding. We need to keep some of
that optimism and enthusiasm of youth. It is so easy to lose all of it!

These are some of my ideals. I only hope I can live up to them!

HAROLD DORR MILLER

HOME ADDRESS: 189 Circle Drive, Plandome, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 45 Park Pl, New York, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 3, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: Frank Hayden Miller, Cora
Louise Dorr.

PREPARED AT: Flushing High School, Flushing, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. Cum laude, 1925.

MARRIED: Veronica Ohm, Sept. 7, 1938, New York, N. Y. cumpren: Arthur
H., June 5, 1940; Jeannette, Dec. 4, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Chemical and paper business.

MEMBER OF; Harvard Club of New York; North Hempstead Country Club;
Appalachian Mountain Club.

I WENT to work for B. F. Drakenfeld & Company, Inc., after
graduation and am working for them at present. This company
manufactures ceramic colors and chemicals and imports special
papers. I have been secretary of the company for the past few
years and the work is chiefly sales work.

I went to England on business in 1938 and met Veronica Ohm
of Stockton, California, who is now Mrs. Miller.

My chief hobbies are keeping up with the two children and
playing golf and mountain climbing on a very moderate scale. I
have been up some of the Teton mountains and did some sight-
seeing in the Yosemite Valley in California last summer. I expect
to see a few of the Swiss mountains from the foothills this spring,

MILTON LEONARD MILLER

HOME appress: 1743 Franklin Canyon Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 337 S. Beverly Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.

BORN: Feb. 12, 1904, McKeesport, Pa. parents: Wolf Miller, Sarah Speer.
PREPARED AT: Norwin High School, Irwin, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 1925; M.D. cur laude, 1929.
MarRiED: Bernice Saul, May 6, 1938, Chicago, Ill. crip: Jeffrey, Nov. 1, 1947.
OCCUPATION: Psychiatrist and psychoanalyst.

[ 669 ]

at ietenhiereeeteetneer nana ee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered active service as major, Army Air
Force Medical Corps; chief, NP Service, Santa Ana Army Air Base,
July-September, 1943, Army Air Force Replacement Center #1, At-
lantic City, N. J., September-February, 1944; psychiatrist and in-
structor, Don Cesar Convalescent Hospital and Psychiatric Training
School, Pass-a-Grille, Fla, February-September, 1944; chief, psychiatric
service, Convalescent Hospital, Miami Beach, etc., September—Oct. 15,
1944; feleased from active duty as lieutenant colonel, 1946.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Consultant for Selective Service, State of
Illinois, 1941-42.

OFFICES HELD: Rockefeller Fellow, Neurology, National Hospital, Queens
Square, London, 1934-35; assistant, Department of Psychiatry and
Neurology, Cornell Medical School, 1935-36; associate, Department of
Criminology and Jurisprudence, University of Hlinois Medical School,
1937-39; staff member, Institute for Psychoanalysis, Chicago, 1939-42;
training psychoanalyst, Los Angeles Institute for Psychoanalysis, No-
vember, 1946; vice-president, Los Angeles Psychoanalytic Society,
1948-49.

MEMBER OF: Alpha Omega Alpha (honorary medical society); Boylston
Medical Society; American Association for Advancement of Science;
American Psychosomatic Society; American Psychoanalytic Associa-
tion; Los Angeles Psychoanalytic Society; American Medical Associa-
tion (fellow); American Psychiatric Association (fellow); Chicago
Institute of Medicine (fellow).

PUBLICATIONS: Psychiatric, psychoanalytic, and psychosomatic articles in:
American Journal of Psychiatry; Psychoanalytic Quarterly; Psychoso-
matic Medicine; American Journal of Physiology; Archives of Neu-
rology & Psychiatry; Hygeia; Family News Letter; American Journal
of Orthopsychiatry; Revista de Psicoanalysis; California G@ Western
Medicine; Bulletin of the Menninger Clinic; International Journal of
Allergy; book reviews in above publications; contributor to: Studies in
Psychosomatic Medicine, Ronald Press, New York, 1949.

AFTER completing the course at Harvard Medical School I in-
terned in medicine at the Massachusetts General Hospital. It was
there that I became interested in the large number of cases of
neuroses and psychosomatic disorders that are factors in the dis-
eases of modern man. The next few years were occupied with
training in neurology, psychiatry, and psychoanalysis at Baltimore,
London, New York, and Chicago. I was fortunate in having en-
tered the psychoanalytic field at a time when research was being
centered on the psychological aspects of psychosomatic diseases,
and for several years was a member of the staff of the Chicago
Institute for Psychoanalysis where pioneering work was being
done in this branch of medicine.

[ 670 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The war caused an interruption of this work, for me, and made
it necessary to apply my knowledge to the variety of emotional
problems seen by every psychiatrist in uniform. There was an
opportunity to convey psychiatric knowledge to medical col-
leagues and to assist in diagnosis and treatment of war neuroses,
problems of readjustment, etc.

It was no surprise, upon returning to civilian life (this time to
settle in Southern California), to find that psychoanalysis and
psychiatry were going through another evolution. These scientific
fields were now receiving nationwide interest. The need for re-
search and teaching became greater. In the past fifteen years the
psychodynamic point of view on psychiatric problems has been
making major contributions. For example, the attitude of pedia-
tricians towards the treatment of infants has radically changed;
the recognition of the biological and emotional needs of the infant
has altered previously strict attitudes in regard to feeding and
training schedules. Medical schools are beginning to make psy-
chiatry a leading subject of instruction. Knowledge of the un-
conscious psychological factors creating chronic emotional tension
associated with prolonged physiological responses eventually lead-
ing to pathological changes in the tissues is a concept now accepted
by the well-trained physician. The need for studying the applica-
tion of the psychodynamic point of view to brief methods of
psychiatric treatment has become more urgent.

At present, in addition to private practice a good part of my
time is taken up in the teaching and training of psychiatrists who
wish to become psychoanalysts.

Perhaps the future major contribution of psychiatry will lie in
the preventive field, and in the codperation of psychiatry with
social sciences. Certainly there is a critical need for learning how
to handle aggression in individual development, as well as collec-
tively,

Investigation of the constructive forces of man’s nature could, if
successfully applied, lead to reduction of the inner tensions and
feelings of insecurity so current in modern civilization. Living in
Southern California, with its rapid expansion and frontier psychol-
ogy, one cannot help but observe the constructive drives as well
as the tensions that interfere with them.

[ 671 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

NORMAN MILLER

HOME ADDRESS: 822 Washington Ave. Tyrone, Pa.

OFFICE apprEss: Tyrone Public Schools, Superintendent’s Office, Tyrone,
Pa.
Born: Nov. 8, 1900, Three Springs, Pa. parents: Jacob Robert Miller,

Minnie Corbin.

PREPARED AT: Antis Township High School, Bellwood, Pa.; Altoona High
School, Altoona, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: S.B., 19253 ED.M., 1928; ED.D. (New
York Univ.), 1946.

MarrieD: Catherine Hirning, Aug. 10, 1935. CHILDREN: Virginia Louise,
Dec. 14, 1938; William Norman, Dec. 24, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Homer Miller, '26.

occuPATION: School superintendent.

OFFICES HELD: President, Lion’s Club in Berlin, Pa., 1939, Tyrone Rotary
Club, 1943-44, Blair County Schoolmen’s Association, 1946-47; direc-
tor, Tyrone Chamber of Commerce, 1940-49, Tyrone Red Cross,
1940-49; superintendent, First Methodist Church School, 1948-49;
vice-president, Pennsylvania Study Council, 1948-49; district layman,
First Methodist Church, Altoona Conference Area, 1949.

MEMBER OF: American Association of School Administrators; Association
of District Superintendents of Pennsylvania; National Education Asso-
ciation; Pennsylvania State Education Association; Rho Chapter, Phi
Delta Kappa; Lay Board of Activities of the Methodist Church, Cen-
tral Pennsylvania, Masons; Jaffa Temple, A.A.O.N.MS., Altoona.

AFTER graduating from Harvard College I taught two years near
my home town of Bellwood, returning to the Harvard Graduate
School to complete my Master’s degree in educational administra-
tion. Upon the completion of the Master’s degree I accepted the
supervisory principalship of the Antis Township Schools in Bell-
wood, where I had attended a one-room school for a period of
eight years and a three-year rural high school. During my four
years in Antis Township seventeen one-room schools of the dis-
trict were consolidated into one large building.

I enjoyed teaching and definitely decided to continue my life
work in the administrative field of education. During a leave of
absence, granted by the Antis Township School Board, I attended
Stanford University and Columbia University Teachers College.
Many of my summer vacations were spent in travelling (visiting
nearly every state in the Union and Canada) and attending sum-
mer sessions at the Pennsylvania State College, Harvard Graduate

[ 672]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

School of Education, University of Chicago, University of South-
ern California, Columbia University, and New York University,
where I completed the requirements for the Doctor's degree in
educational administration.

In 1934 I accepted the supervising principalship of the Stony-
creek Township Schools in Somerset County. At the end of my
first year in this position I] married Miss Catherine Hirning of
Chicago. We have two children, Virginia and Bill, who are now
attending the elementary schools in Tyrone. It is my fondest hope
that Bill may some day be enrolled at Harvard College.

While I was supervising principal of Stonycreek Schools and
Berlin-Brothersvalley Schools, from 1934 to 1939, the schools were
completely reorganized. I entered my present position as super-
intendent of Tyrone Public Schools in 1939. Through the codp-
eration of the Tyrone Board of Education and school employees,
an enriched program of education was developed which included
vocational education, vocational home economics, instrumental
music, kindergarten, dental and health services, driver education,
visual education, homebound and home instruction, guidance and
special services for retarded and gifted children, and a school-
community recreational program.

For relaxation I enjoy bowling, golfing, walking, gardening, and
collecting interesting poems. I have also become interested in
learning to play the piano within the past year.

Having been engaged in the field of public school education for
a quarter of a century, I have become more tolerant of class
groups, races, and different religious sects.

Although born and reared as 2 Methodist, I see the need of
church denominations working together. I do not see how Chris-
tianity can become very effective unless the churches of all de-
nominations can submerge their differences and formalities and
recognize the need of unity in building a better society. ‘This does
not imply the elimination of denominations but rather the integra-
tion of the purposes of the church.

Tam a little concerned about our political situation. I favor the
two-party system and our form of government. Our federal gov-
ernment is being controlled too much by labor bosses and domi-
nated by certain pressure groups. Vote-getting seems to be the
dominant desire in our party system, An appeal is made to farm-

[ 673 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

ers, or labor groups, at the expense of other groups in society. I
am fully convinced of the need for free enterprise, with adequate
control. There is a need of a happy balance between federal con-
trol over the lives of the people and individual enterprise and
personal freedom.

OTTO MILLER, JR.

aporEss: M{illand Farms, R.F.D. 6, Napoleon, Ohio.

porN: Sept. 11, 1902, Cleveland, Ohio. PARENTS: Otto Miller, Elizabeth Clark
Tyler.

PREPARED aT: Taft School, Watertown, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. Cu77 laude, 1925.

MaRRiED: Irene F. Duffy, Sept. 12, 1923, Lorain, Ohio (divorced 1934). CHIL-
DREN: Mary Elisabeth, June 16, 1924; Otto, 3d, Dec. 15, 1925; Joan Irene,
July 1, 1927.

occupation: Agriculture.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Otto
Miller did not return a questionnaire.

PAUL ANDREW MILLER

HOME ApprEss: 428 First St., SE. Minot, N. Dak.

OFFIce ADpREss: Minot City Schools, Minot, N. Dak.

Born: Jan. 30, 1897, Harbor, Ohio. parents: George Andrew Miller, Mary
Hoffmeister.

PREPARED AT: Leetonia High School, Leetonia, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924. DEGREES: A.B. (Valparaiso Univ.), 1918; Bo.
(ibid.); a.m. (Univ. of North Dakota), 1930.

marniep: M. Beatrice Melby, March 26, 1922, Grand Forks, N. Dak. cxm-
peEN: Betty June, June 12, 1923; Margaret Jean, April 22, 1925 (m.
Arthur M. Hovde, Aug. 24, 1945); Ann Louise, Aug. 14, 1927 (m.
Donald M. Beals, June 28, 1948); Paul Melby, Jan. 7, 1929; Patricia
Jo, June 5, 1931; Katherine Marie, Oct. 2, 1935. GRANDCHILD: Girl, child
of Donald and Ann Beals, July 12, 1949.

HARVARD SON: Paul Melby Miller, ’so.

OCCUPATION: Superintendent of city schools.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: U.S. Shipping Board, 19:8; War Manpower
Commission, 1942-44; County War Bond Chairman, 1942-44.

orrices HED: President, North Dakota Educational Conference, 1949-503
commander, DeMolay Commandery K.T., 1949-50; high priest, Cando
Chapter R.A.M., 1938-39; secretary, Bathgate Lodge AF. & AM
1920-23, Minot Ratary Club, since 1948.

[ 674]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: National Society for the Study of Education; National Col-
legiate Players; Phi Delta Kappa, Pi Gamma Mu.
PUBLICATIONS: Newspaper articles relating to local problems in education.

THE task of looking back through twenty-five years to reflect
those things significant in one’s life is not as simple as it may seem,
even though the record is as sharp and sure as if carved in stone.
I doubt that any quarter-century has made as many profound
changes, or has shaken and threatened as many accepted founda-
tions, as the one just finished. Just as the river moves unrelent-
lessly onward to the sea, so life moves as irresistibly towards some
unknown goal, rising with fury and vengeance when held in
check, but eventually inundating vast areas with devastation and
destruction. Could man but know the channel and guide the
course, to what Elysian fields we might come!

As one watches a tributary of this river passing through our
schools, finding its place in the turbulent sea of society, he must,
of necessity, question many things. The veritas of life is change.
If society today is a reflection of education yesterday, then we
must have more concern in the direction and guidance of the river
or chaos must result.

In recognizing the necessity of change, one can hardly be ortho-
dox in one’s beliefs whether they relate to education, politics, or
religion. This does not preclude what might be termed funda-
mental verities, but does imply eternal vigilance lest we overlook
the real values for immediate pleasures, The bluebird is, indeed,
elusive.

Even though the business of living is exacting, it is not without
compensations. There is satisfaction in feeling that work has been
well done. Consistent progress, even though slow, should be an
indication. However, if teachers had to rely entirely on the pay
envelope for their satisfaction, I’m afraid schools would be many
times poorer than they are. Incidentally, my work, both pre- and
post-Harvard, has been teaching.

I went to Harvard with a wife, a six-week-old daughter, and
little more than enough to meet the term bills —a venture in it-
self. It has never been regretted — neither the wife, the daughter,
nor Harvard! Five more children have joined the family since that
time, including one son who is now completing, satisfactorily I
hope, his Harvard course. Six children and a teacher's pay does

[ 675 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

not produce a bank account. Nor do I believe a bank account
could produce the genuine happiness that has resulted from my
work and particularly from my family.

Hobbies, as one generally thinks of them, are out! Cost is al-
ways a factor. Thev have consisted largely in just doing — gar-
dening and crafts — things that occupy the hands but which leave
the mind free for thought and reflection.

What would I change? Let's just repeat “Ah, my beloved, fill
the cup that clears today of past regret and future fears.”

RALPH GEORGE MILLER

AppREss: % American Consulate General, St. John’s, Newfoundland, Canada.

Born: Oct. 6, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: Ralph Eugene Miller, Mil-
dred Garette.

PREPARED AT: Browning School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

marrigD: Celeste Crosby, April 28, 1929, Warrenton, Va.; Marie Therese
Degenfeld, Aug. 25, 1932. cuitp: Amarilice, May 21, 1933.

occuPaTION: Foreign service.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Ralph Miller did not return a questionnaire.

FRANCIS NEEDHAM MILLETT

HOME appress: 89 Mystic Valley Parkway, Winchester, Mass.

OFFice ADDRESS: % Goodbody & Co., 115 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

Born: May 11, 1904, Beverly, Mass. parents: Edward Lord Millett, Martha
Chapman.

PREPARED AT: Beverly High School, Beverly, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925(26).

maraieD: Deborah Wood, April 16, 1927, Concord, Mass. CHILDREN: Joan
Standish, Dec. 17, 1929; Francis Needham, Jr. March 29, 1932; Win-
throp Wood, Feb. 2, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Rea Millett, Harvard Law School ’25.

occupATION: Security analyst and investment counsel.

orrices HELD: Vice-president and director, Fidelity Fund, Inc.; treasurer,
Anderson & Millett, Inc.

memseR oF: Harvard Club of Eastern Middlesex; New York Society of
Security Analysts, Association of Harvard Chemists.

A QUARTER of a century sounds like a long time but I find it is
hardly enough to raise and educare a family. Much of our time

[ 676 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and energy is required for this most enjoyable purpose. First
comes the flower and then the fruit. Our eldest is a very lovel
young lady of twenty who is in her junior year at Colby College.
Then we have two young gentlemen, we hope, one about to enter
Harvard perhaps, and the other just starting his school career.

After I attended Harvard Business School and said “I do,” Cam-
bridge seemed like a convenient place to reside. But we soon tired
of chaperoning undergraduate club dances where, despite all ef-
forts, love will find a way, so we selected Winchester as the best
place for a young family and have never regretted it. It is a trul
beautiful spot with excellent schools and wonderful friends. Deb-
orah, particularly, has entered into community affairs and seems
always to be doing something helpful for others.

In my chosen field of statistics, economics, and investment man-
agement, there has been a great deal of pleasure and satisfaction in
conducting the investment affairs of several institutions and indi-
viduals safely through depressions to this government-sponsored
brand of prosperity. It has been a source of inspiring contacts and
many friends. As is probably the case in all fields, there have been
some strange bedfellows with even stranger ethics but we should
be thankful that they are not many. As head statistician of
Tucker, Anthony & Company, a State Street investment house of
some substance, I had the rough experience of observing the al-
ternate joy and sorrow of those who believed that trees would
grow to heaven in the late booming 1920’s. As a result, I then
organized with an associate, a managed mutual investment fund,
Fidelity Fund, Inc., which presented an opportunity to utilize
some of the teachings of the Harvard Business School, so tried and
true that they brought the fund through the early depressive
1930's without loss of principal. It is gratifying that two classmates
of ’25 are now associated with this institution. This experience led
to the formation of an investment counsel service and field re-
search in which I am now engaged.

During World War II, upon finding that my place must be at
home instead of in the service, I tried to do my part by scheduling
and directing the production of much needed tools for guns, tanks,
airplanes, and also the atomic bomb “Manhattan Project” in the
order in which they were most urgently needed. There was some
consolation in hearing of many instances where the results of these

[ 677 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

endeavors were effective on the battle fronts within a matter of a
relatively few hours after dispatch from the plant. To make this
complete, mention should be made of service in the Governor’s
army, Massachusetts State Guard, with the guard duty, inspections,
maneuvers, parades, drills, range work, and membership on the
championship rifle team. To keep up with my chosen profession
during the war period was a bit strenuous.

And now that the reminiscing is over, we look forward again to
our weekends in New Hampshire, hours at the beach, on the golf
course, and fishing, along with some quite regular bridge games.
What the future holds who can foretell except that the govern-
ment will become an increasingly greater factor in the daily lives
of all of us as our natural resources become dissipated and more
management of our economy becomes essential. Private enterprise,
to continue indefinitely, must get rid of the buccaneers and provide
full employment for all because that is what less desirable systems
are promising. It seems to me that Republicans should determine
systematically what the average American expects from his gov-
ernment. However, an investment analyst should not delve in
politics as his work is to interpret conditions as they are and to act
accordingly.

So, in our little ocean, Deborah and I have kept our sails up,
sometimes full, and sometimes reefed, through good weather and
bad, with our present course to raise and educate our youngsters to
the best of our abilities. So far, we have enjoyed it.

ROBERT DODDS MILLIKEN

HOME apprEss: North Dighton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mount Hope Finishing Co., North Dighton, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 10, 1904, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Knowles Milliken, ‘96,
Carrie Emma Dodds.

PREPARED AT: Moses Brown School, Providence, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.

marrigp: Jean Montgomery Thomas, Sept. 10, 1932, Taunton, Mass. CHIL-
DREN: Joan Thomas, Sept. 13, 1946; John Knowles, Dec. 13, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Assistant treasurer.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Clubs of Boston, New York, Fall River and Taunton;
Wamsutta Club, New Bedford; Edgartown Yacht Club.

WITHIN the week my wife and I have sat through our first foot-
ball game of the season (Dartmouth). The seemingly hopeless

[ 678 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

state of the Harvard team reminded me that I might better spend
some of my spare time writing this requested epistle. So far as |
am concerned, the present rules governing football make it into a
glorified hockey game anyway.

Immediately after graduation I spent two months seeing our
own country from coast to coast. I have never regretted this jaunt
— only that I have not had the opportunity to do it again. It was
both recreational and educational. I have felt that it broadened
my perspective more than any other one thing, including trips to
Europe in 1929 and 1932.

I came back from my trip to settle down with the Mount Hope
Finishing Company which my father started in tgo1. I had been
in various departments parts of each summer since I was thirteen
years old. I had barely settled down to work when we found it
advisable for my mother to go south for her health. I was selected
from the four of us children to go with her. I lived in Asheville,
North Carolina, for the following year and tried to keep myself
busy with a real estate firm. The experience was good from some
angles but I was convinced I wanted no more of it. I came back
to the finishing business where I have been ever since.

Finishing is an interesting business and is kept so from day to
day by roughly one hundred customers who seem to take it as
their duty to offer suggestions for improving on accepted methods
for bleaching or dyeing cotton and rayon piece goods, or simply
complain that our work is inferior, even though they were happy
to accept exactly the same thing the day before. My brother and
I have both grown up in the business. He became interested in the
manufacturing end and I grew up with the finances and selling ~
organization. We have both been very fortunate in having our
father (J. K. Milliken, ’96) active in the business all of these years.
Now the three of us are trying to prove that a textile business can
still be operated successfully in the North.

In 1932 I married a girl I had known slightly for some years.
My sisters and she had played and gone to school together through
youth, Our marriage has been a happy one. We did not have chil-
dren of our own until three years ago, but during many of our
earlier years together we more or less brought up three young
children left by my elder sister when she died. One of them,
W. G. Hughes, Jr., is now a junior at Harvard and doing a much

[ 679 ]

. . 4S \ enue ? |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

better job than his uncle did. Now that we have a girl and a boy
of our own Jean and I have got to stay young. My chief ambition
right now is to live to see them either through college or married.

I have done considerable shooting (upland game and ducks) and
fresh water fishing in all the years. I believe this has been the main
factor in keeping me in apparently good condition without much
of a “pot,” but it has not prevented some thinning on the top ¢ of
my head.

Speaking of politics I hope that some day I shall have an oppor-
tunity to vote for some public servants who will promise (and do
it) to reduce government expenditures to a realistic level. I am
sick and tired of having Uncle Sam support all the bums not only
in this country but now in all the world too.

My business takes me to New York and Boston nearly every
week and I have enjoyed running into classmates and others of the
Harvard family at the Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York.

“i MORRISON MILLS

BORN: Jan. 13, 1903, Calumet, Mich. parents: Albert Beekman Mills, Eu-
phemia Morrison. - ;

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1025.

MarriED: Katherine Geiger, Sept. 26, 1936, Milwaukee, Wis. cHtLp: Kathe-
rine Mayhew, April 21, 1940. -

DIED: Sept. 25, 1940, Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia, Pa.

MORRISON MILLS prepared for Harvard at Milton Academy.

During his undergraduate days at Harvard, his name was included

on the rosters of the Geological Club, Republican Club, Hasty

Pudding Club-Institute of 1770, S. K. Club and A. D, Club. For

many years after leaving Cambridge, he was engaged in the manu-

facture of construction equipment with the Chain Belt Company

of Milwaukee. He was eastern district manager of this company

at the time of his death. His wife and a daughter survived him.

Our classmate, Josiah H. Child, writes of him:

“I came to know Morry well at school when he was monitor
of Forbes House. In the deliberations of the monitors, his judg-
ment, fair-mindedness, and independent viewpoint marked him as
a leader in his class. At college he became a fast friend and a most
charming companion. His sense of humor and zest for life made

[ 680 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

many friends for him. He was the sort of person who could get
along and be loved by people from all walks of life. His virtues
were numerous, but outstanding among them were humor, com-
plete lack of snobbishness, and humility.

“I saw him but rarely after college, for he worked hard and con-
scientiously, but I have a distinct recollection of our last convivial
meal together when he was in Boston on business. We took up
where we had left off several years before and we laughed and
laughed. I shall always miss him and so will many of his class-
mates.”

RANLET MINER

HOME AppREss: 2 Argyle St., Rochester 7, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Pfaudler Co., rooo West Ave., Rochester 3, N. Y.

BORN: Dec, 12, 1902, Rochester, N. Y. PARENTS: Edward Griffith Miner,
Helen Branscombe Ranlet.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

marRiep: Anne Hubbard Lindsay, June 14, 1930, Rochester, N. Y. (di-
vorced 1941). CHILDREN: Anne Lindsay, March 24, 1931; Ranlet, Jr.,
June 4, 1935.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, treasurer, and director, The Pfaudler Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: First lieutenant, Army Air Corps, April, 1942;
attended Officers Training School, Miami Beach, Fla. April-July, 1942;
attended Basic Training School, Miami Beach, July, 1942-Apmil, 1943;
duty in special products division, Air Corps, Pentagon, April-December,
19433 assistant to chief of staff, Air Transport Command, Natal, Brazil,
December, 1943-April, 1945; retired as captain.

OFFICES HELD: Delegate to Republican National Convention, 1936; director,
Pfaudler Werke A.G., Germany, since 1936, Enamelled Metal Prod-
ucts Ltd., London, England, since 1936, Rochester Civic Music As-
sociation, 1932-41, Convalescent Hospital for Children, since 1937,
Rochester General Hospital, since 1935; trustee, Rochester Chamber of
Commerce, 1933-49; director and treasurer, Monroe County League
for Planned Parenthood, 1934-38; chairman, Industrial Division, Roch-

- ester Community Chest, 1936-42.

MEMBER oF: Genesee Valley Club; Pulpit Harbor Yacht Club; Harvard

Club of New York; Harvard Club of Rochester.

FAIR Harvard is indeed an exacting mistress. You graduate with
the pious hope and belief that you have written your last theme,
essay, and thesis. But no, twenty-five years later your peace of
mind is shattered by the demand for an autobiography.

[ 681 ]

"THe er merooue seramnnrqumserummnstineiacymey-nteeneomesteitncimyern, Sener inte —

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

So be it. Although my most brilliant literary endeavors were
funncled into English A, I shall attempt once more to recapture
my Classic style of twenty-nine years ago.

Life, on the whole, has been pleasant and gracious throughout
those years. I was born in Rochester, New York, continue to live
there and, barring global wars, shall probably die there. I am at
heart a city mouse. It is a pleasant city, large enough for a diversity
of interests and small enough to escape the tensions and frenzied
tempo of a large metropolis — a good place to live in and in which
to bring up your children.

After graduation, I spent two years in the Harvard Law School.
This developed in me a mild repugnance for the law as a profes-
sion. The Law School, in turn, felt even more strongly about me,
and we parted company pleasantly but firmly.

That summer I attended the University of Heidelberg (Ger-
many) Summer School. The intellectual fare was light, but the
beer delicious. In the fall I started work with the Rochester Gas &

Electric Corporation. I spent three profitable years there learning
the fundamentals of business and in 1931 moved to The Pfaudler
Company of Rochester. There I have remained happily for nine-
teen years, and I am now a director, vice-president, and treasurer.
It is a comparatively small company but has many of the ramifica-
tions of a large business. We have factories in Scotland and Ger-
many, a separate sales company on the West Coast and sell all over
the world. Consequently, I have been able to enjoy a considerable |
amount of travelling. As postwar examples, I can highly recom-
mend the Berkeley Hotel in London, the new R.M.S. Mauretania,
the trout fishing in Loch Leven and, particularly, the hospitality
of your classmate, Jamie Bonbright in Paris.

The war was for me a period of mixed boredom, frustration,
hard work, and about five per cent excitement. I joined the Air
Corps in April, 1942, as a first lieutenant. To my utter amazement,
six weeks of training at the Officers Training School at Miami
Beach put me into a state of physical condition comparable to
Heinie Dunker during his freshman year. This, of course, was a
temporary state. Thereafter, I spent ten months in administrative
work in Florida, ten months with General Trubee Davison’s Spe-
cial Projects outfit in the Pentagon and fifteen months with the
Air Transport Command in Brazil, flying around from French

[ 682 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Guiana to Rio and to Ascension Island, with occasional jungle
stop-overs. I retired as a captain. Nobody shot at me in anger.
Since the war days I have continued my normal life. My
daughter, Anne, graduated last June from Miss Porter’s School at
Farmington. She is now at Bennett Junior College at Millbrook,
New York. My son, Ranny, is a second former at St. Mark’s. His
next move we hope will be Harvard College. I am able to enjoy
a reasonable amount of trout fishing and a glorious three weeks’
vacation at North Haven, Maine, each summer. I am content.

JAY HUGH MONTGOMERY

HOME ADDRESS: 30 High St., Camden, Maine.

OFFICE ADDREss: Allen Insurance Agency, 11 Main St., Camden, Maine.

BORN: Oct. 15, 1902, Camden, Maine. parents: Charles Oscar Montgomery,
Myra Knight.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Helen Malissa Greene, Sept. 17, 1925, Adams, N. Y. CHILDREN:
David Hugh, June 17, 1928; Philip Herrick, Jan. 12, 1933.

HARVARD SON: David Hugh Montgomery, ’so.

OCCUPATION: President and treasurer, Allen Insurance Agency, general in-
surance and real estate.

OFFICES HELD: President and treasurer, Allen Insurance Agency, since 19353
director, Camden National Bank, since 1928, Maine State Chamber of
Commerce, 1949, New England Council, 1936-45; assistant treasurer,
Penobscot Bay Ice Company, since 1947, Dr. D. P. Ordway Plaster
Company, 1928-32; president, United Camden Charities, Inc. since
1941, Camden-Rockport Chamber of Commerce, 1938, Camden Com-
munity Hospital, 1934-39; treasurer, Camden Yacht Club, since 1944,
Megunticook Golf Club, since 1945, Maine Real Estate Association,
two terms, Tyrrell’s Hygienic Institute, Inc., of New York City, 1932-
33; member, advisory committee, State of Maine Publicity Bureau,
Since 1941 (director prior to 1941).

MEMBER OF: Camden Rotary Club; Camden Yacht Club; Megunticook
Golf Club; Camden Outing Club; Rockport Boat Club.

IN LOOKING back over the past twenty-five years I find that
they have rolled together one after another and that through them
all I have had a happy and contented life. What could be finer
than this? Our marriage has been a happy one, our two boys nor-
mal, honest, and satisfactory. There has always been enough of
worldly goods so that we have been able to escape from the hum-

[ 683 ]

en
‘TNFR NPC PPS IR octane etifee ti cama OREN fy 1 pone ten

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

drum daily life as occasion warranted. And on top of all this we
have always been busy. My motto has always been “work hard
while you’re working, play hard while you’re playing, watch,
listen and learn while you are enjoying relaxation.” But enough of
philosophizing.

I met Helen Greene, my wife, while in college, completed my
college work in three and a half years, and started work in the
family business in February, 1925. That June I returned for grad-
uation, started building our first home in the same month, and on
September 17, 1925, was married. Our house was completed
Christmas Day and we continued living in it until 1932. David
Hugh, our first son, was born June 17, 1928, in Camden, Maine.
Between December, 1930, and June, 1931, both my mother and
father passed away, which was my family’s first sadness.

After that I sold my interest in the family business and accepted
the position of treasurer in a New York mail order company,
similar to my former work. We moved to West Englewood, New
Jersey, where I entered the commuting grind. Our second son,
Philip Herrick, was born on January 12, 1933. One winter of
commuting plus the realization that I did not like working for a
large corporation removed the glamour of the city and city life.
Therefore, the return to Camden, Maine. Everyone was happy,
and the experience was more than worth while for it had removed,
once and for all, the desire for the big city and the dissatisfaction
with a small town. The yen for the unknown had been satisfied.

On July 1, 1935, 1 purchased the George E, Allen Agency in
this town which dealt in general insurance and real estate. It was
an old, respected business which had been in existence for over
fifty years. I incorporated same and changed the name to Allen
Insurance Agency. Since this fortunate purchase I have been most
happy, and modestly successful. The business has increased and
has absorbed most of my time and thought.

Located down east on beautiful Penobscot Bay, Camden is a
town of some four thousand with five woolen mills, shipbuilding,
yacht building and repairing, and an interesting and friendly sum-
mer colony. It is a slow but soundly growing Maine community
where older people come to retire, where younger people who
love the outdoors come to work, and where many of the best-
known names in the country come to play. These people are all

[ 684 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my friends. Many have bought from me, many insure through
me. ] am sure they all respect and trust me.

Again, what more could we ask? A home on Penobscot Bay,
my office faces the harbor, behind the town the only mountains
on the Atlantic mainland. Three miles back, a sparkling lake five
miles long. Two minutes from home to office, seven to my lake
cottage. A lunch hour in summer means a swim as well. Moon-
light sails, weekend cruises through the Penobscot Bay and further
east, OF canoeing or water skiing on the lake, friends from nearly
every state in the Union and many foreign countries. It’s fun, it’s
invigorating, it’s educational. Our travel has been limited to a
month a year: West Indies cruises, Florida, California, Canada,
and the United States in general.

Lastly, our elder son, David, is graduating from Harvard on this
Twenty-fifth Reunion. |

- DONALD HUMPHREY MOONEY

ADDRESS:: 31 Safford St., Quincy 71, Mass.

BORN: July 7, 1903, Everett, Mass. parents: Rodney Thomas Mooney,
Lilian Eva Humphrey.

PREPARED AT: Everett High School, Everett, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: S.B. IN C. ENG., 1925.

marRieD: Hilda Knowles, Sept. 4, 1925, Chicago, Ill. camp: Rodney T.,
Aug. 30, 1926.

OccuPATION: Mercantile business.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Mooney did not return a questionnaire,

JOHN MASON MOORE

HOME ADDRESS: 395 Wyoming Ave., Kingston, Pa.

OFFICE ADpREss: Wilkes-Barre Publishing Co. Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

BorN: April 19, 1903, Kingston, Pa. parents: Guy Walter Moore, Esther
Parry.

PREPARED AT: Wyoming Seminary, Kingston, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; M.B.A.. 1928,

MARRIED: Ernestine Thatcher, Sept. 7, 1928, Monument Beach, Mass. (di-
vorced 1941). ciitp: John Mason, Jr, March 12, 1933.

OCCUPATION: Newspaper advertising.

[ 685 ]

J
peat se stniltnanndstnitanetinieiienensa disnensssianinnanei. i <naliliiananaananianeitate ae etas sags

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

oFFices HELD: Secretary, Harvard Club of Wilkes-Barre, 1927-40, 1945-49;
control center instructor, civilian defense, 1942-44; vice-commodore,
Harvey's Lake Boat Club, 1946. ;

MEMBER OF: Kingston Lodge, 395 F. & A.M.; Caldwell Consistory; Irem
Temple; Board of Management, Y.M.C.A.; Wilkes-Barre Advertising
Club; Harvey’s Lake Boat Club; Irem Temple Country Club.

LOOKING back, my life has not been one filled with earth-shak-
ing events, but it has lived up to the hopes and expectations of the
one most concerned and I suppose that is what really counts,

Following the year of 1925, I learned a little about banking and
spent a short period in Europe. From 1926 through 1928, I en-
deavored to confuse my mind further with the highly involved
case studies then purveyed by the Business School across the
Charles.

After winding up a six-year period in Cambridge with the ex-
pected two degrees, I entered the lists of matrimony, from which
I emerged twelve years later with some scars and with a son who
more than compensates for any feeling of dissatisfaction that
might have arisen otherwise from my one unsuccessful venture.

My opportunities for travel have not been too extensive so, even
though in travel lies one of my greatest pleasures, it is more an
anticipated one than one which so far has come to fruition. Since
returning from Europe in 1926 I have not wandered further than
Nova Scotia, Chicago, and Bermuda, with many peregrinations to
points within a triangle bounded by those three extremities. I have
worn off a good section of my nose on the proverbial grindstone
and believe it will be possible for me to end my principal efforts
towards making a living within the next ten years — perhaps even
less. With this in mind I am interested in travel literature to al-
most any point. It is my hope to spend several months, at least,
each year investigating spots I have long wanted to see.

My chief hobby has been sailing and boating in general, which
intrigues me constantly from the time the ice goes out until late
October.

My religious convictions have in no way changed, perhaps be-
cause I haven't worked very hard at them.

Politically, I hear distressing rumors of much Communistic
teaching on the part of present-day instructors in my alma mater.
With a son, who with luck and my prayers may become a four-

[ 686 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

year citizen of Cambridge in another year, I might be more wor-
ried than I am. I am sure I can recall several that were “offside” in
other matters when we were there, but I have not heard that our
entire crop was blighted as a result. If anything, we learned to
sort what we wanted from what seemed crass and purposeless. I
believe the present generation can do at least as well.

JORGE MANUEL MORALES

ADDRESS: 420 Ochoa Bldg., San Juan, Puerto Rico.

BorN: April 23, 1902, Aguas Buenas, Puerto Rico. PaRENTs: José Eladio
Morales, Gloria Diaz.

PREPARED AT: High School of University of Puerto Rico.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: S.B., 1925 (24)3 LL.B. 1927 (28).

MarRRIED: Concepci6n Gonzales-Cordova, July 6, 1932. cHiLp: Jorge,
April 22, 1933.

occupation: Lawyer.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Morales did not return a questionnaire,

CLIFFORD PHELPS MOREHOUSE

HOME appress: Cherry Street, Katonah, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 14 E.. qist St., New York 17, N. Y.

BorN: April 18, 1904, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: Frederic Cook Morehouse,
Lilias Macon. _

PREPARED AT: Riverside High School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREES: A.B., 1925 (26); a.M. (Marquette Univ.),

. 1937; LL.D. (Nashotah House), 1948.

MARRIED: Ellen Louise Smith, March 16, 1927. CHILDREN: Ellen Louise, Aug.
30, 1930; Lilias Macon, Jan. 1, 1933; Frederic Cook, July 28, 1937.
OCCUPATION: Editor, Tbe Living Church; vice-president, Morehouse-Gor-

ham Company, book publishers.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Second lieutenant F.A.-Res., R.O.T.C., Harvard,
1925-32; active duty wich Marine Corps Reserve, 1943-45; commissioned
first lieutenant, January, 1943, Captain, 1944; assistant editor, Marine
Corps Gazette, Washington, 1943; historical officer, 1944-45; assistant
G-3 (historical), Fleet Marine Force Pacific; assistant G-3 (historical),
V Amphibious Corps; participated in Peleliv and Iwo Jima campaigns;
received letter of commendation from Major General Harry Schmidt,
Presidential Unit Citation, and King's Medal (British),

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, Trinity Church, New York; trustee, Church
Literature Foundation, Cathedral of Se. John the Divine; member
standing committee, Diocese of New York; deputy ta General Con-

[ 687 ]

TRCN RARE REIRR TURLEY A

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925 .

vention, Episcopal Church, 1934-49; delegate, Federal Council and
World Council of Churches; member Federal Council, Department of
International Justice and Goodwill.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Waccabuc Country Club; Ameri-
can Legion; Church Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Wartime Pilgrimage, 1942; Origins of Episcopal Church
Press, 1942; Outline Life of Christ (with Bishop Wilson), 1947; his-
torical monographs for U. S. Marine Corps.

MY LIFE has been built around my church, my country, my

family, and my friends, and it has been (and is) a good one. I

don’t think ’'d change it much if I had it to live over again, except

to avoid some of the obvious mistakes — which weren’t so ob-

vious at the ume. .

Upon graduation I returned to Milwaukee where I had been
born and brought up, and became managing editor of The Living
Church, of which my father had been editor since 1900. I suc-
ceeded him as editor when he died in 1932. As my grandfather
had been in the same line (as editor of The Young Churchman and
founder of the Morehouse-Gorham Company), my young son,
when ten or eleven, was led to observe that “sometimes he thought
when he grew up he’d continue the family tradition and some-
times he thought maybe he’d better go out and make some money
for the family.” Time will show which he decides to do.

In 1927 I married Ellen Smith, childhood playmate, and gradu-
ate of Wells in 1924. Both of us like to travel and we did a good
bit of it before the war: Arizona, California, and many other parts
of the United States; Bermuda, Mexico, Britain, France, Denmark,
and Sweden. But as the children grew older they became harder
to leave and more expensive to take along, so our travels have been
more limited in recent years.

My activities as a religious journalist naturally led to many con-
tacts as a layman in the Episcopal Church, and in interdenomina-
tional activities. I was elected to the General Convention of the
Episcopal Church for the first time in 1934 and have represented
either Milwaukee or New York in every General Convention since
that time, serving also on many commissions and committees. I
represented the Episcopal Church at the World Conference on
Faith and Order in Edinburgh in 1937, the North American
Ecumenical Conference in Toronto in 1941, and the first Assembly
of the World Council of Churches in Amsterdam in 1948.

[ 688 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I took my Master’s degree in journalism by attending late after-
noon classes at Marquette University. My only distinction there
was writing a Master’s thesis for a Jesuit university on the Epis-
copal Church press. I guess I startled them into granting the
degree. a

Early in the war (April, 1942) I flew the Atlantic in an RAF
bomber to represent the American Church press at the enthrone-
ment of Archbishop Temple of Canterbury. I remained in war-
time England for three months studying religious and social con-
ditions there, as a guest of the Ministry of Information.

After my return to the United States, I tried to get into the
Army, Navy, or Marine Corps, but was told I was too old and
couldn’t see well enough to make the grade. I finally talked the
commandant of the Marine Corps into giving me a waiver on my
eyes and was commissioned first lieutenant and assigned to the
Marine Corps Gazette in Washington, on the theory that I might
release an able-bodied Marine for fighting. It took me over a year
and a considerable amount of politicking to get an overseas assign-
ment, but I finally went out into the Pacific as a combat historical
officer. In that capacity I visited every Marine division (six of
them, scattered from Hawaii to the Russell and Solomon Islands)
to check historical records, and served in two landing operations.

The main things I learned from the Marine Corps were: to keep
my eyes open and my mouth shut; to shinny up and down a rope
cargo net like a scared rat; to call a floor “deck,” a wall “stan-
chion,” and a toilet a “head”; and other things that had to be for-
gotten promptly on return to civilian life and church activities.
Incidentally, while editing the Gazette instead of The Living
Church I invariably threw generals off their stride by inadvert-

ently addressing them as “bishop.”

During the war I lived in Arlington, Virginia, and my family
remained there while I was overseas. After the war we moved to
Katonah, New York, where we bought a 150-year-old house and
from where I commute daily to New York City.

I’m still living with my original wife, and intend to do so “’til
death do us part,” which I trust will be for many years. (We want
to collect some of that old age and social security benefit that has
been withheld from so many pay checks.) We have three fine
children. Louise, nineteen, is a sophomore at Ripon College,

[ 689 ]

vs
peiniaanatiinenebineenreiten tata tan en me eee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Ripon, Wisconsin; Lilias, seventeen, is a senior at National Cathe-
dral School, Washington, D. C.; and Frederic, twelve, is in junior
high at Katonah.

One other experience is perhaps worth noting. While in Europe
in the summer and fall of 1948 I visited Czechoslovakia and Hun-
gary to study the church situation, I was probably the last Amer-
ican journalist to interview Cardinal Mindszenty before his arrest
and imprisonment, and the only one (except John Gunther) to
interview the Communist leader, Rakosi, who caused his arrest.

Yes, I plan to go to Cambridge for my Twenty-fifth Reunion,
and to bring the whole family. I trust the occasion will prove
more auspicious than the Harvard-Yale game we saw last fall.

IRA VICTOR MORRIS

HOME ADDRESS: 124 E. 57th St. New York, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 11, 1903, Chicago, Ill. parents: Ira Nelson Morris, Constance
Lily Rothschild.

prepareD at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

mMarriep: Edita de Toll, 1925, Paris, France. cHitp: Ivan, Nov. 29, 1925.

HARVARD SoN: Ivan Morris, "46.

occupation: Author.

MEMBER OF: PEN Club, (New York Center).

PUBLICATIONS: Covering Two Years, Reynal & Hitchcock, 1930; Marching
Orders, Macmillan, 1938, Liberty Street, Harpers, 1945; The Tree
Within, Doubleday, 1948.

LONG before leaving Harvard I knew that I wanted to write, but
what, where, and, indeed, why, I knew only years afterwards. A
period of newspaper work in Washington, D. C., was followed by
jobs in three different publishing houses, in New York and Lon-
don. Having balanced on the springboards of literature for about
five years, I dove into the sea of words through which I have been
doing the double overhand ever since.

My first two novels gained what is known as stccés d’estime,
but with the third [ hit a jackpot of sorts. Liberty Street was a
Literary Guild selection, and movie rights were later sold to
M.G.M. [ have since published a fourth novel, laid in wartime
France, and am now engaged on a long saga dealing with the rise
and decline of a Chicago industrial dynasty, LeBaron Barker, ’26,

[ 690 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of Doubleday, my publisher, is probably wondering right now
when it finally will be finished.

In between novel writing, I have done several dozen short
stories (five of these were reprinted in the Best Short Stories
anthologies), have travelled far and wide on five continents, and
have succeeded in remaining married to my first wife, a rare
achievement indeed. Perhaps the fact that Edita Morris also is a
writer is partially responsible. I have one son and one cat, and |
play a fairly decent game of chess, favoring the Queen’s gambit
opening.

While I find that my typewriter works equally well in almost
any climate, I prefer making it click in the neighborhood of Paris,
where we own a house and a really remarkable cook called Ma-
dame Sebastien. I should designate myself as an almost completely
happy man. I hope that the majority of our Class can say as much.

LAWRENCE MORRIS

HOME ADDRESS: 117 E. 72nd St., New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE appREss: Hawkins, Delafield & Wood, 67 Wall St., New York 5, N. ¥.

BoRN: April 29, 1903, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: Dave Hennen Morris, ’96,
Alice Vanderbilt Shepard.

PREPARED AT: Browning School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.),
1928,

UNMARRIED, .

HARVARD BROTHER: Dave Hennen Morris, Jr., 21.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Cue Publishing Co., Inc.; director and secretary,
The Foram Corporation, director and general counsel, Universal Trad-
ing Corporation; formerly director, vice-president, and general coun-
sel, China Defense Supplies, Inc.

MEMBER oF: New York County, New York City, New York State, and
American Bar Associations; Union Club; Harvard Club of New York;
City Mid-day Club, Metropolitan Club of Washington.

I TRAVELLED in Europe during the four summers of 1925
through 1928, my eastward termini being Marienburg, Krakow,
and Budapest. This was happily effected first in a second-hand
five horsepower Citroen and then in a new six horsepower Renault
which I rented during the winter to a Sorbonne student. I studied
at Dijon University during one July. In the intervening winters

[ 691 ]

pettiness tnaamaiainsnnintssniattll —nailieerianiniineneiatinat eg.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

a trustee and treasurer of the Madison Avenue Presbyterian
Church. I hope for more unity and less sectarianism although I
recognize how very far away all of us are from “putting on
Christ,” as St. Paul would say. Only to the extent that we become
like Him do we in spirit also become like one another. “Things
equal to the same thing are equal to each other.” I am a trustee of
the New York City Mission Society, a non-denominational so-
ciety which has churches, lay workers, and coéperative church
enterprises in poor sections of this rich city of so many pagans.

My profession has made for me most of the relationships out-
lined above. The law has been called a “seamless web” and a
“jealous mistress”: it is both. In September, 1928, I started my
clerkship with the old firm of Hawkins, Delafield & Longfellow
and in July, 1934, became a partner. In 1945 the firm became
Hawkins, Delafield & Wood. I am an office lawyer: personal,
business, and corporate clients; wills, estates, and trusts; taxation,
executor and trustee; director, adviser, or counsel of various cor-
porations. My most unusual work has been representing certain
Chinese interests, both government and private. During the war
I spent nearly half my time in Washington helping with the
Chinese lend-lease administration. I have made deep friendships
with some of my Chinese associates, one of the most satisfying
by-products of my law practice.

I count myself a liberal—a conservative one. I try to throw
my weight to the left when the ship in which I happen to be is
listing to the right and to the right when it is down on the left.
I count beauty, truth, and goodness as not outmoded but I try to
welcome each new expression of them. Three things I fear: big-
ness, power, cruelty. Openmindedness, understanding, sympathy,
kindness, friendship, love — these things I count above any price.
They are in all of us yet we do not communicate them so we do
not develop them. When we do, our miseries stop. Such com-
munication is man’s chief end: two-way communication, between
God and man, between man and fellow-man.

WILLIAM ARCHIBALD MORRISON

HoME apowess: 178 Morgan Sc., Holyoke, Mass.
orice, aporess: Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co. 1295 State St,
Springficld, Mass.

[ 694 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

porN: Oct. 22, 1903, Holyoke, Mass. parents: William Morrison, Agnes
McCullough.

PREPARED AT: Williston Seminary, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: 8.B., 1925 (26).

marriep: Adelle W. Goodyear, Aug. 25, 1928, Norwich, Conn. cHILpREN:
William Austin, Sept. 1, 1930; Thomas Andrew, Jan. 15, 1934; Emily
Adelle, April 8, 1936.

occuPATION: Associate editor, Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Com-
pany.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, infantry, Massachusetts State Guard.

JOHN BREWSTER MORTON

HOME ADDRESS: 455 Franklin St., Buffalo 2, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 345 Delaware Ave., Buffalo, N. Y.

BoRN: Feb. 20, 1902, Melbourne, Australia. parents: James Morton, Clara
Louise Brewster.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

MARRIED: Solveig Indahl, May 28, 1926, New York, N. Y.

occupation: Advertising account manager and writer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Voluntary duty as a civilian with Coast Guard
and air raid organizations.

I DIDN’T take undergraduate work at Harvard seriously enough
to stay in college beyond a second year and I’ve never thought
very much whether I regretted that lost opportunity. Luckily for
me, I had a generous father who made it possible for me to pursue
my interest in French language and literature. While my ex-
classmates were winding up their affairs at Cambridge, I was
taking fancy but fairly meaningless Certificates of Studies at the
University of Grenoble. This fairly expensive and also fascinating
extension of my preparation for a career has since served me to no
strictly practical purpose. I still get books in from France, corre-
spond with an increasing number of men in and out of politics
(fellows who are the Gallic equivalent of the “man in the street”),
and exchange old French letters with some of them, the older the
better since as a hobby I collect material revealing the postal
history of Paris. Incidentally, this is a pretty good way of getting
views of the political events and social changes that have shaped a
nation’s history through the years.

In my first job I worked for a year or more on the floor of the
Putnam bookstore in New York. Then, having picked up a smat-

[ 695 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

tering of advertising in the publishing offices upstairs, I went into
agency copywriting. Since then my progress has been unsteady
and also fairly unrapid, but pretty much in one direction. As many
of my classmates know, this is a business that bounces you without
notice from machine tools, say, to soap to gasoline to shotguns,
which may or may not be more interesting in theory than pushing
one line continually but which at least has suited me fine up to the
present.

My wife, Solveig, a sort of offshoot of Norway, is a lovely and
understanding person who has, just now, a gripe that will surely
create added Jebensraum for us and our cat, George. She wants a
“loom room” in which to practise unhampered the craft of weav-
ing, which has seized her imagination of late. And by the way,
Harvard wives who have not tried it may like to know that weav-
ing is first-rate exercise — it has all the virtues of those mechanical
bicycles that stand still and also satisfies one’s instinct to create
articles of utility and beauty. Verb sap.

It is idle to speculate on what might have been had I worked a
little harder in Kittredge’s course and in beginning Greek, which
a dog of an adviser induced me to take in my second year. One
may say that things would have been different but what is differ-
ence worth in itself: the way I see it the big thing 1s to be alive and
to have each day new situations to face as best one can.

LUTHER WRIGHT MOTT, JR.

HOME AppREss: 73 W. Schuyler St, Oswego, N. Y.

OFFICE apprEess: Oswego County Savings Bank, Oswego, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 7, 1903, Oswego, N. Y. parents: Luther Wright Mott, Ruth
Wolsey Johnson.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark's School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924.

Margie: Elizabeth Bailey Young, March q, 1933, Elmira, N. Y. cHiLpReN:
Luther Wright, 3d, Dec. 25, 1933 (died Aug. 22, 1942); Bailey, March
23, 1937; Nancy, June 2, 1945.

occupation: Banking.

oFsices HELD: Treasurer, Oswego Yacht Club, Chamber of Commerce,
Oswego Historical Society; chairman, Oswego County Committee for
National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, assessor, City of Oswego;
president, Oswego City Republican Club.

member ov: Fortnighter Club.

[ 696 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I HAVE tried to carry on in a small way the family name and
reputation acquired a hundred years ago in Oswego. Since 1942
when my two children were stricken with polio, one of whom
died and the other made an invalid, our travels have been mainly
back and forth from hospitals. Children’s Hospital in Boston has
helped us the most. For recreation, golf in the summer and bow]-
ing in the. winter. I have dabbled a little now and then in local
politics, so far successfully. During the war, with a daughter at
home in an iron lung, my problems kept me in Oswego and my
activities were confined to draft board, chairman of civilian de-
fense, and administrator of war transportation.

_ CHARLES FREDERICK MULLER

HOME. aDpRESS: 615 S. Serrano, Los Angeles 5, Calif.

OFFICE aDpRrEss: Lockheed Aircraft Corp., Burbank, Calif.

BORN: June 15, 1901, Paris, France. parents: Charles Frederick Muller,
Margaret Brown Whittaker. .

PREPARED AT; William Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.,; Moran
School, Seattle, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923.

UNMARRIED. :

OccUPATION: Aircraft machinist.

I HAVE succeeded in being ‘ ‘jack of all trades” and “master ot
none.” So I am enjoying life as it comes along.

FREDERIC ALLEN MULLONEY

HOME ADDRESS: 5 Loring Rd., Winthrop 52, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Tucker, Anthony & Co., 74 State St., Boston 7, Mass.

BORN: July 1, 1902, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Thomas Anthony Mulloney,
Margaret Agnes Schaefer.

PREPARED AT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE; A.B., 1925(26).

UNMARRIED. .

OCCUPATION: Financial statistician.

MEMBER OF: American Numismatic Association; Correspondence Chess
League of America; Mediaeval Academy of America.

AFTER a rather long adjustment period, I found myself in the
statistical department "of Tucker, Anthony & Company where I
have remained for the past twenty years, struggling to understand

[ 697 ]

. etait ieee cetera .

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

and cope with the vagaries of the securities market and the prob-
lem of investment. Incidentally, I began my statistical labors
under classmate Francis N. Mullett, for whom I entertain the
warmest regard.

I am resigned to a state of single blessedness. The beautifully
engrossed parchment adoring the wall of my room informs all
and sundry that I am a bachelor of arts, but the gentle art of mak-
ing love appears to have been omitted from the curriculum.

As for hobbies, I am strictly an indoor man. I have never lost
my taste for reading and am an enthusiastic player of correspond-
ence chess.

Religiously, I have remained steadfast in the Catholic faith of
my forebears. Politically, I have changed from an admirer of the
New Deal to an ultra-conservative. I don’t object to being called
reactionary. Reaction is often salutary. If you kick a corpse you
will get no reaction but if you kick a live man he will kick you
back. We need more reaction against the noisy, empty, little
“liberals” (totally intolerant, at heart) who threw away the peace
and who still have a sneaking admiration for the Russian tyranny.
I believe, firmly, in the right of private property as indispensable
to liberty and believe that the state should defend that right from
encroachment both of the right and of the left. The Welfare
State is just a pretty name for the Servile State.

With the advance in medical science, many of us may hope to
see our Fiftieth Reunion. Au revoir!

GEORGE SALTONSTALL MUMFORD, JR.

HOME appress: Pegan Lane, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 30 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Dec. 23, 1901, Chestnut Hill, Mass. parents: George Saltonstall |
Mumford, '87, Isabella Mason Lee.

prepareD At; Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. Cum laude, 1925.

Marnie: Alice Herrick, June 23, 1925, Milton, Mass. cutpren: Alice Her-
rick, Sept. 22, 1926, George Saltonstall, 3d, Nov. 13, 1938, Robert
Herrick, May 31, 1931 (died Aug. 19, 1946); James P., June 17, 1935.

ttanvarn son: George Saltonstall Mumford, 3d, ‘so.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, assistant treasurer, and clerk, Scott & Williams,

Inc.

[ 698 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Alternate member, Advisory Panel, New
England Division, War Manpower Commission.
oFrFices HELD: Clerk of corporation and director, American Felt Company,
director and member of executive committee, Scott & Williams, Inc.;
trustee and member of executive committee, Central Aguirre Sugar
Company; director, David Green Company, Reed Prentice Corpora-
tion, New Hampshire Manufacturers Association; treasurer, Florence
Crittenton League of Compassion; trustee, Farm and Trades School,
Boys Camps, Inc.; member executive committee, Boston Tuberculosis
Association; member of corporation, Northeastern University, Chil-
drens Medical Center. .
MEMBER OF: Newcomen Society of England; Harvard Club of Boston,
Somerset Club; Union Club.
IF I were to attempt to write an autobiography, it would have to
give much more space to the times in which I have lived rather
than to the life I personally have led. Certainly the progress of
events since 1900 has been at such a rate as to force the hardest
cynic among us to “hang onto his hat.” The majority of us com-
menced our days of grace at the end of the Victorian Era and
enjoyed to a major or minor extent the brief reversion of the
twenties following the successful effort “to make the world safe
for democracy.” At least this effort was sufficiently successful to
make the problem of what kind of democracy was made safe for
the world a major factor in our lives to date.

In a now almost forgotten era, I can remember my father’s
speaking of the growing political implications connected with
those “who think the world owes them a living.” All in one gen-
eration the philosophy of “go west, young man” has been largely
supplanted by the picture puzzle of planned economy inevitably

shadowed by the welfare state.

__ Life seemed secure indeed to me on graduation. It was not until
the early thirties that I was rudely awakened by panics, failures,
bank closings, and bread lines. The impact of these events on me
personally made me wake up to the fact that life doesn’t stay the
same and that changes can be rapid and devastating.

Since that time I have had several associations: investment and
commercial banking, investment counsel and, since 1941, manu-
facturing. I have travelled a bit abroad and extensively in Puerto
Rico and southern United States, contacting people of every type
and position in life. No man can be certain that his certainties will
stand the test of time. But to me there is no substitute, no panacea

[ 699 ]

OM

ee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

for the thing that made America great. ‘That is free enterprise, call
it capitalism if you like. We are progressing in social relations but
not yet have we reached enlightenment sufficient for man in gen-
eral to work his “damnedest” for the benefit of all in the state with-
out pecuniary incentive. There are many wonderful individuals
who strive only because of the love for their profession but not
man in general who must have incentive, the incentive of personal
gain for himself and his family: capitalism. Failing this, he must
have the incentive of fear to insure performance: communism,
fascism, or dictatorship. My experience of the past twenty-five
years convinces me that between capitalism and communism there
can be nothing practical: socialism.
Through generations of hard experience the excesses of the cave
man were gradually brought under control. So, too, I firmly
believe that through hard and often painful experience the exces-
sive zeal of the social planners will eventually reflect the certainty
that democracy without recognition of free enterprise is an
empty shell. a
Turning from the rugged side, we have had much 3 joy in our
family and country life, shadowed by the accident which befell
our son, Bob. But we have wonderful memories of years in which
he took so active a part. I have been most fortunate in indulging:
my fondness for shooting and fishing with frequent trips to Canada
and Cape Cod. I hope to go in for it even more seriously as time
goes on. My family has been tolerant and encouraging towards
my gardening activities.
By the time this goes to press our son George will be a married
man, and so it goes in answer to the kindly inquiry of an old friend
in Leicester, England: “How is everyone at home that matters?”

DAVID HOADLEY MUNROE

AppRESS: 36 W. 6oth St., New York 23, N. Y.
BORN: Nov. 27, 1902, New York, N. Y¥. PARENTS: Vernon Munroe, ’96,

Sally Sprague Cook.
PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926.

MarRigD: Elizabeth Lee Grinnell (Abbott), June 30, 1934, New York, N, Y.
cHitp: Peter Lee, Feb. 6, 1939.
OCCUPATION: Letters.

[ 700 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Munroe did not return a questionnaire.

EDWARD JOSEPH MURPHY

HOME ADDRESS: 1224 Highman St. Pittsburgh 5, Pa.

oFFicE apprEss: U.S. Bureau of Mines, 4800 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa.

BORN: Jan. 24, 1899, Belt, Mont. parents: Edward Murphy, Bridget Hunt.

PREPARED AT: North Central High School, Spokane, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREE: S$.B. IN IND. CHEM., 1925.

MARRIED: Margaret Florence Carney, Sept. 3, 1929, Somerville, Mass. cHt-
DREN: Edward Joseph, July 17, 1930; Paul Francis, April 22, 1934; Louise

_Hunt, June 5, 1940; David Lawrence, Dec. 4, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Chemist.

PUBLICATIONS: Effects of Carbonaceous Blasting Accessories on the Gaseous
Products from Explosives (with J. E. Holtz); Effects of Sheaths on the
Gaseous Products from Explosives, 1 and 11 (with Rowles, Holtz, and
Denues); A Comparison of the Poisonous Gases Emitted by Permissible
Explosive in Bichle Gage and Coal Mine Tests (with Tiffany and
Hanna).

MY FIRST job after graduation was with Lever Brothers Soap
wompany | in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Four months later I got

a job with the U. S. Bureau of Mines in Pittsburgh, and I have
been here ever since.

After working four years, I felt that I was making enough
‘money to support a wife, and so we were married in September,
1929. Our eldest son, Edward, was born in Somerville, Massachu-
setts, in 1930. The other three were born in Pittsburgh.

Our married life has been no different from that of thousands of
other families who come under the classification of average people.
Papa works hard to earn enough money to support the family,
Mamma works even harder, without the benefit of a maid, to make
a home and keep it a going concern. Both work together to rear
and educate the children. We have been fortunate in that we have
had no serious illnesses, that is, they have all been curable. We
have, of course, experienced most of the children’s diseases and
have had probably more than the usual number of broken bones,
tonsillectomies, etc. In one week one summer, we had a broken
arm, a tonsillectomy, and a case of whooping cough.

For a few years after our marriage, when our family was still
small, we made annual trips to Boston in a car of the jalopy variety.

[701 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

As the number of our family increased, there was less money avail-
able for such things and the vacation trips stopped altogether.
Now, my vacation is spent at home and I use the time to work on
the house or in the garden.

We have belonged to that great army of people who rent prop-
erty and we have lived in nearly every section of Pittsburgh.
During World War II we were twice evicted because the houses
we were renting were sold. Shortly after the end of the war, there
were no houses or apartments for rent, particularly to people with
four children. So we had to buy a house. Buying a house with
very little money for a down payment is no small feat, but we did
manage to buy a big, old frame house in 1946. All my spare time
is spent in an attempt to renovate it.

My hobby is growing a garden, both flowers and vegetables.
Our garden is large enough to keep us supplied with fresh vege-
tables in the summer and a surplus for canning for the winter.

None of my three sons will be able to go to Harvard. The high
tuition and the high cost of living precludes any such possibility.
Edward is a sophomore at the University of Pittsburgh and hopes
to go to Harvard Law School. I hope and expect to send the other
three to local colleges.

I have looked back over the past twenty-five years in an attempt
to find an outstanding accomplishment to embellish this Report.
Alas, I can’t seem to find one. My chief claim to success appears
to be in rearing and educating a family which nowadays is said to
be large. However, I have no complaint with my station in life. I
have a fine family, a job I like, a feeling of security in my job, and
at retirement age, I shall have a pension which I have been paying
for through the years.

JAMES SMILEY MURPHY

aporess: Quartermaster Corps, U.S. Army, Washington, D. C.

porn: Sept. 26, 1904, Brookline, Mass. parents: James Smilcy, Rosanna Rock.

preparep AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

Maraizp: Jean Grabow, March 12, 1928, Pawtucket, R. I. critpren: Jean
Claire, Feb. 2, 1929: James Smiley, Jr, Oct. 31, 1931; Lois Searle, Sept. 8,
1933.

occupation: Military service.

[ 702 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
James Murphy did not return a questionnaire.

JOHN CAREY MURPHY

HOME ADDRESS: 1242 N. State St., Chicago, Til.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Watson & Boaler, Inc. 722 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.

BoRN: May 30, 1905, Danbury, Conn. parents: John Murphy, Margaret
Carey.

PREPARED AT: Danbury High School, Danbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Margaret Hambleton, July 2, 1936, Chicago, Ill.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis James Murphy, ’33.

OccUPATION: Vice-president and sales manager, Watson & Boaler, Inc.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned captain, A.US., May, 1942;
served as PX and special services officer, Fort Monroe, Va.; promoted
major; served as PX officer, Fort Meade, Md.; separated from service,
February, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Member advisory council, Chicago Plan.

MEMBER OF: Casino Club; Arts Club; Racquet Club; Harvard Club of
New York; A.LD.

AFTER two brief disillusioning experiences in winter stock com-
panies in 1925, I realized that the theatre was not the career to feed
me and took a job with the New York Telephone Company. This
proved stable but dull.

A chance in 1928 to work for a department store, James
McCreery, as a floorwalker seemed a welcome change of trade
which proved permanent. On November rst, 1929, Blooming-
dale’s made me a better offer which helped me through the de-
pression years. I was then.a buyer of fabrics. In 1933 Marshall
Field’s hired me in a similar capacity in Chicago. This was a
felicitous move because I found a wife, a native Chicagoan, and a
wonderful group of friends.

Though we had been absent from Chicago for four years, it
was natural for us to return here after the war. I decided, how-
ever, not to resume my former job but instead to join a group
who were reorganizing Watson & Boaler, a furniture and decorat-
ing firm of considerable repute and standing. I have remained
with them and look forward to a constantly broadening field of
activity in the firm and in the city.

[ 703 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

JOHN GORDON MURPHY

HOME ADDRESS: 10 Lancaster St. Cambridge 40, Mass.

OFFIice appress: Reconstruction Finance Corporation, 10 Post Office Sq.,
Boston 9, Mass.

BorN: Oct. 28, 1902, Somerville, Mass. PARENTS: John Thomas Murphy,
Mary Caroline Gordon.

prepareD aT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; LL.B. 1931.

marrieD: Helen Alice Card, Oct. 17, 1943, Haverhill, Mass. cHitp: John
Gordon, Jr., June 21, 1946.

OccUPATION: Assistant agency counsel, New England regional office, Re-
construction Finance Corporation.

AFTER graduation in 1925 I attended the Law School and re-
ceived my degree in 1931, after an interruption of several years.
I became a member of the Massachusetts Bar in 1931 and several
years later a member of the Federal Bar. I then engaged in the
private practice of law for several years until I became associated
with government service as an attorney for the Reconstruction
Finance Corporation in Boston, where I have remained since
1938.

My work normally has consisted for the most part of the
usual legal problems confronted in the financing of business enter-
prises in the New England states, either directly or in participation
with banks, where normal credit is not otherwise available to
industries in need of working capital. The war years, in addition,
presented a wide variety of projects assigned to RFC for ad-
ministration in connection with the acceleration of the war effort
and the legal problems became of a more diversified nature than
usually experienced in the strictly lending field.

Except for occasional official visits to Washington, my travel
has been limited to the present. However, I am looking forward
constantly to the day when opportunity will permit an extended
junket for my family and self,

CHARLES COUDERT NAST

Home appress: 95 Bronxville Rd. Bronxville, N. Y.
orrice appaess: DeWitt, Van Aken, Nast & Chapman, 420 Lexington Ave,
New York 17, N. Y.

[ 704 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BoRN: July 23, 1903, Tuxedo Park, N. Y. parents: Condé Nast, Jeanne
Clarisse Coudert.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925: DEGREES: A.B., 1925; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.),
1927.

MarRIED: Charlotte Brown, Dec. 6, 1928, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1933);
Juliet Houser, May 1, 1937, Indianapolis, Ind. camp: Peter C., March
22, 1930.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served in Massachusetts National Guard, 1923-
25, New York National Guard, 1927-37, 1940-46, 1947 to date; overseas
duty in Asiatic-Pacific theatre with 27th Division, March, 1942-Sep-

. tember, 1945, participated in Saipan and Okinawa campaigns and in
initial occupation of Japan; served as judge advocate and military gov-
ernment officer of the 27th Infantry Division, with commissions suc-
cessively as captain, major, and lieutenant colonel; discharged as
‘colonel, January, 1946; awarded Bronze Star at Saipan and Okinawa.

OFFICES HELD: Deputy attorney general, New York State, 1928-29; secretary,

. 1930, vice-chairman, board of directors, 1932, New York Young Re-
publican Club; member of board of directors, Condé Nast Publica-

. tions, Inc., Cue Publishing Company, Inc., and Dorland, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Racquet and Tennis Club; Out-
rigger Canoe Club, Honolulu; Military Order of Foreign Wars, Re-
serve Officers Association; National Guard Association; American Bar
. Association; Bar Association of the oy of New York; New York
_ County Lawyers Association.

AFTER my graduation from Harvard in 1925, I attended Colum-
bia Law School, graduating with the Class of 1927. At Columbia
[ joined the Psi U Fraternity and the Phi Delta Phi Legal Frater-
nity. I was admitted to the New York Bar in January, 1928, and
held office as deputy attorney general of New York State during
1928-29, prosecuting violations of the New York Banking Law.
In March, 1929, I became associated with the law firm of which I
am now a partner. I was married in December, 1928, and my son
Peter was born in March, 1930. That marriage ended in divorce
in 1933. In 1937 I remarried.

_ The twenty-five years since my graduation from Harvard have
been spent primarily in the practice of law, with two side avo-
cations, the National Guard and politics. I was active in Repub-
lican politics in New York City from 1925 to 1936, but dropped
out for reasons too involved to narrate here. The war took a large
slice out of my legal career, since I was inducted with the rosth
Field Artillery Regiment of the New York National Guard in

[705 ]

"TSHRPPE NT emrenERRURI enn URN RSAC nets aceRe hve i
3 oe TR em RE age OR NE MEE

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

October, 1940, and was not released from active duty until Jan-
uary, 1946. Prior to that time I had served in the 211th Anti-
Aircraft of Boston (First Corps Cadets) and the New York 7th
Regiment. I resumed my National Guard activities after the war
and was judge advocate of the gznd Infantry Division from April,
1947, until October 20, 1949, when I was designated division chief
of staff.

Prior to the war and during the time that I was at college, it
was my good fortune to be able to travel to Europe on a number
of occasions and to visit England, France, Germany, Switzerland,
Austria, and northern Spain. During the last war my travels took
me in an entirely different direction. I was stationed in three of
the larger Hawaiian Islands for different periods of time, and as
the war progressed, spent three months on Saipan, five months in
the New Hebrides Islands, six months on Okinawa, and six weeks
in Japan, in the Yokohama area. There were also other short
stop-overs at places like Kwajalein, Eniwetok, Ulithi, and Manila.
I hope to return to Hawaii some day, but the natives can have the
other places.

My return from Japan to the United States was a curious Odys-
sey. When I received orders to return to the United States, I was
given the privilege of choosing between air and water transporta-
tion. Since there was no air service, it looked as though I had four
to six weeks on a transport. However, one afternoon late in Sep-
tember, 1945, I drove down to the airport which served the occu-
pation forces near Yokohama and, through good fortune, was able
to thumb a ride by plane from Japan to Saipan and thence to
Kwajalein, Johnson Island, and Hickam Field in Honolulu. More
double talk at Hickam Field produced another plane ride to Fair-
field Airport outside of San Francisco. On my arrival in San Fran-
cisco I was quartered in the same hotel with a ferry pilot who was
headed in an easterly direction the following day in an empty C54.
He volunteered to take me with him without telling me for certain
where he would let me off. T'wo days later he dropped me in
Memphis, but stopped long enough to arrange for me to be taken
on to Indianapolis the next day. I was convinced that I had com-
pleted the longest air thumb ride on record until I was told about
a Marine who thumbed his way by air from Guam to Chicago and
back as far as Kwajalein before they caught up with him.

[ 706 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My son, Peter, entered Columbia College as a freshman this fall,
I am, of course, pleased that he was able to go to one of the two
universities from which I graduated, but I would have preferred it
if he had been accepted at Harvard. His marks were not distin-
guished, but they were better than mine when I was accepted at
Harvard. The failure of the University authorities to make reason-
able concessions in the case of sons of alumni is something which
I find difficult to understand. I read Dean Bender’s article in a
recent issue of the Alumni Bulletin with interest. At the time I
read it I agreed with everything he said, but it is apparent to me,
at least in the case of Peter, that the Admissions Committee was
paying little more than lip service to the policy set forth in Dean
Bender’s article. The failure of the Admissions Committee to ac-
cept Peter in the freshman class of 1953 has taken much of the
edge off my interest in the forthcoming reunion.

I assume that this account is intended to be something in the
nature of an autobiography. I note that in some of the examples
furnished to us, the writers indulged in considerable philosophic
writing. I shall not indulge in that pastime and conclude this
autobiography with a few remarks concerning my professional
activities. The law firm with which I have been associated in one
way or another since 1929 has represented, for the most part,
publishers of newspapers and magazines. It has been an interesting
practice, including a substantial amount of time devoted to the
defense of libel suits. I would hesitate to call the practice a spe-
cialized practice, but it is different from routine general practice
in many respects. Where it will lead from here is hard to say. I
plan to continue my service in the National Guard, but doubt that
I shall resume active participation in any political activity.

I have been able to keep fairly close contact with many of the
members of the Class of 1925 and some contact with many others.
To them and to those of my old friends whom I have not seen in
recent years, I send my best wishes and hope that I shall be able to
shake hands with them all at the Reunion.

SAMUEL ALEXANDER NEMZOFF

HOME ApprEss: 318 Tappan St., Brookline 46, Mass.
OFFICE ADpRESs: Temple Israel, Longwood Avenue at Plymouth Street,
Boston, Mass.

[707 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

BORN: Jan. 1, 1905, Kiev, Russia. PARENTS: Samuel Nemzoff, Zelda Leavitt.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: [921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925, ED.M., 1927.

MARRIED: Sophia Helene Marcovitz, Aug. 25, 1929, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Judith Ann, Oct. 2, 1938; Ruth Esther, Dec. 10, 1940.

occuPaATION: Education.

OFFICES HELD: President, Palestine Society, since 1932, Camp Yavneh, 1946-49.

MEMBER OF: National Education Association; National Council of Social
Studies; National Council of Jewish Education.

PUBLICATIONS: Several plays and Confirmation services for use in Jewish
religious schools.

FOLLOWING graduation from college, I spent some months
travelling in this country and Europe. After a year I returned to
the Harvard Graduate School of Education and chose teaching as
my career. Since then I have spent many busy and happy years
taking care of other people’s children.

In 1929 I returned to the Boston Latin School where I had pre-
pared for Harvard, as instructor in history. I have been there since
and have prepared many boys for Harvard, as well as for other
colleges. From 1927 to 1941 I served as director of extension ac-
tivities for the Bureau of Jewish Education of Boston and super-
vised the programs of several Sunday schools and twice-a-week
schools. For many of these years I was also lecturer in history and
pedagogy in the adult extension classes of the Hebrew Teachers’
College. -

As if J had not had enough of children during the winter months,
I undertook the directorship of Camp Chebacco, Essex, Massachu-
setts, for fifteen summers from 1930 to 1944. Camp Chebacco is a
camp for undernourished and underprivileged boys and is a con-
stituent organization of the Associated Jewish Philanthropies of
Boston.

In 1941 I gave up my affiliation with the Bureau of Jewish Edu-
cation to assume the position of educational director of Temple Is-
rac] of Boston, which has one of the largest religious schools in the
country. I have continued in this position to date. During six of
these eight years I had the privilege of working with Dr. Joshua
Loth Licbman, the rabbi of Temple Israel and author of Peace of
Mind, who was truly one of the great religious leaders of the times.

This is the story to date and I look forward to continuing my

{ 708 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

work in both secular and religious education in which 1 have found
so much satisfaction.

I became interested in the Zionist movement during my college
days and during these years out of college I have taken an active
part in this movement which led to the rebirth of Israel.

I took a sabbatical leave from 1936 to 1937 and spent a half-year
travelling in Europe and the Near East.. I then spent a half-year
doing graduate work in education at the University of Southern
California.

. My family life has been marked by the good fortune of a happy

marriage, blessed with two lovely daughters whose upbringing has

given me many good lessons in the theory and practice of peda-
gogy. I have given advice to a great many people on how to
bring up their children and I found that my own problems as
husband and father were of great practical value.
- I have been interested in religious education and in movements
for social betterment because I have based my whole philosophy
of life on prophetic Judaism which stresses the dignity and worth
of the human personality and the need for social justice as the
foundation stone on which a better world can be built for the sons
of men everywhere.

' RICHARD WILLIAM NEUBECKER

HOME ADDRESS: 4459 W. 228th St., Fairview Park 26, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1388 W. 7oth St., Cleveland 2, Ohio.

BORN: March 2, 1904, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Frederick William Neu-
becker, Anna Margaret Schweitzer.

PREPARED AT: West High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-I92§. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MarRieD: Mary Louise Steiner, June 9, 1929. cHmpren: Margaret Louise,
Jan. 4, 1931 (m. Richard Wardell Houser, Feb. 14, 1948); Helen Ann,
Dec.. 20, 1933. GRANDCHILD: Margaret M. L. Houser, Nov. 20, 1948.

OCCUPATION: President, Tower Candy Company.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Exchange Club of Fairview Park.

A FEW years ago an old Darkie customer of ours, who was then
ninety years of age, and who had hidden in the woods with his
master’s horse when Sherman made his famous march, said to me,
“I don’t have any money but I am still going to catch up with
Henry Ford.” As we come to our Twenty-fifth Reunion I can

[ 709 ]

Oe

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

appreciate this old fellow’s philosophy. It seems impossible that
the years have sped by so rapidly. I still like to feel that we are
only on the threshold, with a whole life before us.

However, I do enjoy a full active life in an average American
way. As president of a company small enough to involve me in
every phase, I never find my job dull. I love to fish. Lake Erie has
been very bountiful of late. Canadian waters, too, have given us
much pleasure during summer vacations. I like to bow] in league
competition — average about 180. I like to play poker — three-
cent limit. Like all good Americans, I worry about the political
and economic destiny of our nation, but do not let that worry
interfere with the enjoyment of my immediate work or pleasure.
Being secretary of the local Service Club and a member of the
Auxiliary Police keeps me active in community affairs. Trying to
keep up with a wife, two daughters, and a granddaughter takes up
what time is left. They complain it’s not enough. My one regret
—no sons for Harvard; my one hope—my daughter may do
better.

WILLIAM MENDEL NEWMAN

HOME AND OFFice ADDRESS: Apt. 16, 633-12th Ave. N., Seattle 2, Wash.

BORN: Jan. 31, 1902, Pierce City, Mo. parents: Milton Jacob Newman, Lenna
Mendel.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1925; A.M., 1926;
Docteur-¢s-Lettres (Toulouse), 1929.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Historian.

puBLICATIONS: Monographs on the history of France in the eleventh and
twelfth centuries.

I HAVE led a very quiet life devoted almost entirely to research
in history. The years from 1928 to 1937 were spent in France and
Belgium. During the war I did personnel work in a factory in
St. Louis, and in 1946 came to Seattle to live. My dream is to have
a small house out in the mountains or on some small island in
Puget Sound and there continue my writing.

[710]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN HOWARD NEWTON

apprESsS: 18 South St., Foxboro, Mass.

poRN: July 27, 1902, Foxboro, Mass, paRENTs: Howard Ervell Newton, Alice
Belle Carpenter.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREE: A.B. 1925 (26).

OCCUPATION: Insurance.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.

Newton did not return a questionnaire.

+ CLAUD NICHOLLS

BORN: Dec. 25, 1889, Grimsby, England. parents: Sampson Nicholls, Sarah
Louisa Donogue.

PREPARED AT: Arms Academy, Shelburne Falls, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MarriED: Muriel Louise Murray. cHitpren: Adelaide Leola; Deodore Mu-
rial; Claud; Benjamin Williams.

DIED: Dec. 29, 1933, Quincy, Mass.

wwow: Mrs. Muriel L. Nicholls, 411 Newport Ave., Quincy, Mass.

CLAUD NICHOLLS was one of the oldest members of the Class

of 1925 and entered Harvard after a more varied experience than

most of his classmates. The son of a minister, he received his early

schooling in Harwichport, Massachusetts, and at Arms Academy

in Shelburne Falls, and Burdett Business College in Boston. From

Ig10 to 1917 he was employed as a bookkeeper with a firm of

New England mill agents.

Four days before the United States entered the first World War
Nicholls enlisted in Troop A, 1st Separate Squadron Cavalry,
Massachusetts National Guard. This troop, known as the “Na-
tional Lancers,” is the organization which for many years has
served as the bodyguard of Massachusetts governors at Harvard
Commencements. In August, 1917, Troop A became Company A
of the 1roznd Machine Gun Battalion, 26th Division, American
Expeditionary Force. Nicholls left for France with the reor-
ganized battalion on September 22, 1917, and served continuously
overseas until April 6, 1919. He received his discharge April 29,
1919, at Camp Devens.

After the war he returned for two years to Lockwood, Greene
& Company, where he held the position of auditor in the traffic

[711]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

department. In 1921 he decided to resume his studies and, under
the guidance of the Federal Board for Vocational Training, en-
tered Harvard as a special student in arts and sciences. His work
was so creditable that in the following year he was transferred to
the College as a regular sophomore. Through most of his college
career he was forced to divide his energies between studies and
outside work, averaging during one year, at least, as much as six
hours of work daily in the traffic department of Lockwood,
Greene & Company. The death of his father midway through
Nicholls’ second year in Cambridge also brought added burdens to
him. But his characteristic determination carried him through all
these difficulties with credit.

After graduating with our Class, Nicholls worked for a year as
salesman for C. A. Vinal & Company of Boston, textile agents;
then for a short time as cashier of the General Motors Truck
Company of East Hartford, Connecticut. In 1927 he entered into
a partnership in Boston under the firm name of Nicholls & Dixey,
representing as sales agents three small textile mills. At the time of
our Sexennial he reported that conditions were so quiet in the
textile field that he was planning to turn his efforts elsewhere.

At the time of his death he was an accountant in the office of
the State Bank Examiner.

FESSENDEN ARENBERG NICHOLS

HOME apprEss: 69 Washington Ave., Suffern, N. Y.

oFFice appress: Christ Church of Ramapo, Suffern, N. Y.

BORN: June 27, 1903, West Roxbury, Mass. parents: Charles Fessenden
Nichols, Anna Jenetta Arenberg.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; B.D. (Episcopal Theological
School, Cambridge), 1929.

marrigp: Ethel Marjorie Jourdan, May 10, 1930, New York, N. Y. cum-
DREN: Marjorie Grace, 1930; Carolyn Jourdan, 1936, Catherine Palmer,
1944,

occupation: Ministry, Protestant Episcopal Church.

orrices HELD: Member, Clerical Board of Managers, St. Barnabas’ Hospital,
New York, N. Y., 1949; secretary, Ramapo Convocation, diocese of New
York, N. Y., 1945-49; president, Rockland County Ministers’ Associa-
tion.

Member or: Appalachian Mountain Club.

[712]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MY FIRST year after graduation was spent at Kent School where
I taught English. Next came one year at the great Union Theo-
logical Seminary in New York City, where I studied for the min-
istry under teachers like Scott, Bewer, Coffin and Fosdick. After
that I passed two equally happy years at “E.T.S.” in Cambridge.
I was ordained at the Cathedral of St. Paul in Boston on Ascension
Day in 1930.

Then followed church work in Oklahoma, New Jersey, and
New York. It was good for a Bostonian to see the West, in those
five years of domestic missionary duty, and it is my hope to go
west once again. Meanwhile we find plenty to do in the diocese of
New York.

My eldest daughter is a student in Barnard College, and the
other girls enjoy village life in Suffern, We liked the city, when
we were in New York, but all of us really have more happiness
now that we dwell in a country town.

The Church is alive, there’s likelihood of a building program in
1950, and there are plenty of human problems to keep the parson
“on his toes,” as he tries to help people and minister to them.

For hobbies I have a garden, attempt to play tennis now and
then, and manage to climb a mountain nearly every summer.

THADDEUS NICHOLS

HOME apprEss: Tower Hill, Wayland, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ford, Nichols & Todd, 112 State St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: April 16, 1904, Richmond Hill, N. Y. parents: Arthur Boylston
Nichols, ’91, Gertrude Fuller.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.; Gilman Coun-
try School, Roland Park, Md.; Cambridge High and Latin School, Cam-
bridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926, DEGREES: A.B. 1925(26); AM. 1928,

marrigD: Elizabeth Richardson, June 5, 1935, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
John Eliot, April 3, 1936; Frederick Thaddeus, March 6, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Arthur Boylston Nichols, Jr. ’21; Richard Frederick
Fuller Nichols, ’24.

OCCUPATION: Advertising.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve, January, 1943-
August, 1945; permanent rank as lieutenant commander in Naval Re-
serve (inactive).

A LONG time ago in English A they told us that the thing to do,
in writing, was to put down what there was to say about a subject,

[713]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

and then stop. Brevity is therefore natural in an account of my
life since graduation, which is not notable for great events or
accomplishment. On my mothers’ side, I was one of the eighth
generation of the family to go to Harvard. No doubt the other
seven generations knew what they were going to do after they
graduated. I didn’t. Returning from a trip to Europe that summer,
I began to take graduate courses in English and finally found my-
self with a Master’s degree in 1928. Meanwhile I had been assisting
in various English courses, and studying under Professor John
Livingston Lowes, the greatest teacher I have ever met, with the
intention of going on for a Ph.D. However, the desire for a change
of scene and occupation, temporary or otherwise, took me to
New York and into the advertising agency business, in which
vineyard I still labor. .

I transferred to a Boston agency in 1932, was promotion man-
ager of the Boston Transcript in 1939, and lived on Cape Cod as a
free-lance writer during 1941-42. Early in 1943 I was commis-
sioned as a lieutenant, U.S.N.R., and was on active duty in the con-
tinental U.S. until late in 1945, when I went on inactive duty and
resumed the profession of advertising in Boston.

I am most happily married, and the principal interests of my
wife and myself are our two fine sons. We live in a country town
outside Boston where I lived as a boy and where I hope to spend
the rest of my days. Like so many other people, I take the train to
town in the morning, go through various indescribable motions at
the office all day, and then take the train home again at night.

My favorite hobby is sitting in a duck blind on an icy marsh in
the month of December. I also like to sit under an apple tree in
the month of June and think about nothing very much. It wasn’t
so long ago that I walked over to sit under my neighbor’s apple
tree for a change and found T. S. Eliot sitting there. I consider it
due to a Harvard education that I was able to accept this fact with
no more astonishment than if it had been Catullus sitting there
instead.

THOMAS NICKERSON

HOME ADDRESS: 47 59 Kahala Ave., Honolulu 15, Hawaii.
OFFICE appress: University of Hawaii, Honolulu, Hawaii.

[714]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: June 30, 1902, Wellesley Hills, Mass. parents: Thomas Nickerson,
’99, Fanny Bates Hardy.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MarRiED: Lydia Avery Coonley, Dec. 17, 1930, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
David, Jan. 1, 1933; Stuart Coonley, Oct. 1, 1935.

occuPATION: Director, Office of Publications and Information, University o
Hawaii.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Administrative assistant, United Pueblos
Agency, U. S. Indian Service, Department of the Interior.

MEMBER OF: Honolulu Art Society; Honolulu Symphony Society; Friends
of the Library of Hawaii; Honolulu Academy of Science; American
Institute of Graphic Arts; College Public Relations Association; Inter-
national Association of Printing House Craftsmen.

PUBLICATIONS: Edited and published Letters from Honolulu by Mark Twain
and Familiar Hawaiian Birds, articles in The New Mexico Quarterly and
Paradise of the Pacific.

AFTER graduation I went around the world with Jimmy Whit-
tall, spending a few months in Europe after he returned home. In
1929, after attending Columbia Business School, I went to Hono-
lulu, one of the places we had visited. I returned to New York in
1930 and was married there. Since then we have made Honolulu
our home except for a war interlude.

My first job was research on the life of the founder of one of
the Island families. In 1935 I opened a book shop which I con-
ducted for six years. I was in Boston at the time of the Pearl Har-
bor attack. My family was with me and it seemed inexpedient, if
not physically impossible, to return to the Islands at that time. We
decided to spend the “duration” in the Southwest and went to
Albuquerque, New Mexico, where I entered the U. S. Indian Serv-
ice “for the duration plus six months” as administrative assistant to
the superintendent of the United Pueblos Agency.

We returned to Honolulu in 1946, where I joined the University
of Hawaii as director of the Office of Publications and Publicity.
My work has included the establishment of one of the country’s
newest university presses.

As I write, the future of the Islands looks none too bright. We
have entered the fifth month of a longshoremen’s strike which is
paralyzing our limited economy and affecting every phase of our
lives. Dividends are being passed, salaries are being slashed, busi-
nesses are going broke, “For Sale” signs are going up, and many

[715 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

people are thinking of leaving for the Mainland. The ILWU has
also organized the sugar and pineapple plantation workers, and,
since they can blockade the steamer tourist trade, they control a
labor monopoly of our three principal industries. Their leaders
have aroused class and race hatred in a community which has
prided itself on being a successful demonstration of a workable
and working melting pot. At the present writing, these Islands are
not a pleasant vantage point from which to view happenings else-
where in the world.

PHILIP CHARLES NILES

HOME appress: R.F.D., Armonk, N. Y.

OFFICE apoRESS: Philip C. Niles Co., 43 Cedar St., New York 5, N. Y.

BorN: May 13, 1905, Toronto, Ont. Canada. parents: Charles Blake Niles,
Mary Rachel Harris.

PREPARED AT: University of Toronto Schools, Toronto, Ont., Canada; Phil-
lips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H. ,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922. DEGREE: $.B. (Massachusetts Inst. of Technol-

ogy), 1925.
UN MARRIED.
OccuPATION: Industrial development.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: A.US., 1943-46.
WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Industrial simplification, Canadian government,

1 .
mEMben or: Harvard Club of New York; Whippoorwill Club, Canadian

Society.
UPON the completion of freshman year at Harvard, I transferred
to M.LT., graduating with the Class of 1925. Shortly after return-
ing home to Canada, circumstances brought me to New York for
an intended brief visit. This has been overstayed by twenty-five
years while twenty years ago an adopted home was built firmly
anchored on a rock not far from Armonk, New York. I have spent
much time in Canada in the intervening years and still remain a
Canadian in spite of some years in the United States Army. I have
observed and participated in an ever closer integration of the ideals
and objectives of these two countries. May this friendly and codp-
erative example be repeated elsewhere in the world.

[716]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

** JACOB VINCENT NISSENSON

BORN: Sept. 12, 1904, Montreal, P. Q., Canada. parents: Louis Nissenson,
Bella Rother.

PREPARED AT: Montreal High School, Montreal, P. Q., Canada.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921—1922.
piep: Aug. 16, 1922, St. Faustin, P. Q., Canada.
JACOB VINCENT NISSENSON’S name was the first to be
listed in the Class necrology. Death came to him as the result of a
drowning accident at Square Lake. He had been spending the
vacation following our freshman year in the Laurentian Mountains
and, on his return trip, had decided to stop off with friends. An
hour after his arrival the party went in swimming. Nissenson him-
self had been in the water only two or three minutes when he
suddenly sank from view. It was not until the next day that his
body was recovered.

Nissenson entered Harvard from the Montreal High School and
lived quietly during our freshman year at a private house on Wen-
dell Street, taking little part in Class activities.

FRANCIS ALOYSIUS NOLAN

HOME apprEss: 80 Washington Ave., Winthrop 52, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Copley Chemical Co., Everett 49, Mass.

BORN: May 1, 1896, Boston, Mass. parENTS: Florenz Nolan, Hannah Bulkley.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.; Berkeley School, Boston,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Chemical processing of alkalines, water conditioners, and rust
preventive compound.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War I: Ambulance Corps, A.E.F., 1917-
19; World War II: U.S. Coast Guard Reserve.

OFFICES HELD: Post commander, Post 54, American Legion, since 1926; vari-
ous offices in fraternal and social clubs.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society; Chemists Club; Community
Hospital; Bostonian Society; American Legion; Winthrop Yacht Club;
Newport Golf Club.

I HAVE just received the third “goad” from the committee and
since I still have federal and state tax returns to work on, I had
better get along with this report. After graduation from college,
I became associated with an explosives manufacturing company.

[717]

TT OT TE HEN TNE: Rr ETRY PERE RPRIIRE CAIN es Phin LT Om

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

That was a wonderful period, that first five years after college.
Business was booming, life was exciting, and taxes were low. The
Roaring Twenties. Prospects for the future seemed unlimited.

Then came the crash of 1929 and the bursting of the bubble.
The company I was with struggled along until 1931 and then in
contrast to the products which it manufactured, it quietly col-
lapsed with a dull thud. The next few years were uneventful. I
was associated with several companies and ventures which got
nowhere. It was a period that required considerable readjustment.

In 1936 I decided to be my own boss, as my experiences while
with large companies had not been pleasant. In that year I started
a small chemical processing company. This move I have never
regretted. By the time war came in 1941, my company was fairly
well established, and during the war years we were busy with
various phases of war production. Since the end of the war and
conversion we have been able to maintain fairly good production.

In the past few years my interest in sports has been mostly as a
spectator. This was brought about by a knee injury received while
skiing. I have spent considerable time, however, sailing a small
sloop along the North Shore. Travel has been confined to this
country and Canada and has been fairly wide. My interest in mu-
sic and the theatre has been satisfied by “Pops” and “Theatre
Guild” productions. Reading has been confined to weekly news
magazines and “best sellers,” nothing deep or heavy. I had short
but enlightening experience in local politics. My religious con-
victions have not changed since I was in college.

In looking back over the past twenty-five years, I think I rather
enjoyed what I have done and the way I have lived. My interests
have been broad and diversified rather than intensive. I have
learned a little about a lot of things. My life has not been too
complicated nor involved, and I have had lots of leisure time for
recreation and play. I have not attained big things, nor have I
aspired to them. I guess I would be classified as an “average man.”
On the whole I am quite well satisfied with things as they have
been.

JOHN PAUL NOLAN

HOME Appress: 72 Prospect St., Clinton, Mass.
orrice aporess: Alcohol Tax Unit, 1 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

[718]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

porn: March 28, 1898, Fitchburg, Mass. parents: Matthew Nolan, Fllen
Tobin.

PREPARED AT: Fitchburg High School, Fitchburg, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREE: S.B., 1925 (26).

MARRIED: Frances M. Heagney, Aug. 11, 1941, Clinton, Mass.

occupation: U. S. storekeeper and gauger-in-charge, Alcohol Tax Unit,
Bureau of Internal Revenue.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S.N.R.F., Dec. 4, 1917-Nov. 5, 1918.

MEMBER OF: Fitchburg Lodge #847; Elks.

SHORTLY after graduation I entered the government service.
The Bureau of Industrial Alcohol had an opening which called for
the supervision of the legitimate production of alcohol. After
repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment, a new department was set
up under the Bureau of Internal Revenue. The Alcohol Tax Unit
is a subdivision which regulates the distillation and rectification of
spiritous liquors. I have been assigned to various plants in Maine,
Vermont, and Massachusetts, and during that time I have seen some
very commendable products. J also have found that it can be pro-
duced much faster than it can be consumed.

Except for a few musical shows and concerts, I have about given
up singing. I do enjoy an occasional fishing trip and my golf
game is mediocre. However, I enjoy a fairly comfortable, if quiet,
life with my wife and our friends here in Clinton.

ALBERT NORRIS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Milton Academy, Milton 86, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1904, Jersey City, N. J. parents: Albert Norris, Mary Edith
Evans,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 1925 (26); A.Muy 1927.

MARRIED: Mary Louise Weiss, June 30, 1938, Red Wing, Minn. cHILDREN:
Mary Jane, March 3, 1940; Robert Holt, July 5, 1942; Emilie, Nov. 8,
1944.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Mathematics Department, Milton Academy; coach,
Milton Debating Team, Harvard Debating Team; publicity chairman,
Institute for Teachers of Mathematics.

MEMBER OF: National Council of Mathematics Teachers; New England
Speech Association.

pusLications: “An American Dub Plays in England” (American Lawn
Tennis).

THIS is the tale of a career resulting from an accident.
In the spring of 1925 I was all set to enter the Business School,

[719 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

so I feel that we must develop students who are willing and eager
to devote their abilities to public service.

PAUL LAWRENCE NORTON

HOME appress: Trapelo Road, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1101 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass.

Born: Nov. 7, 1903, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: John Henry Norton, Bridget
Mary O’Melia.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.; East Boston High School,
East Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREES: A.B. 1925 (26); M.D., 1930.

MarRieD: Margaret Hagerty, Sept. 8, 1935, Hudson, Mass. CHILDREN: Paul
Lawrence, Jr., Feb. 16, 1937; John Henry, March 16, 1938; Anne, Sept. 21,
1941; Martha, July 14, 1943; Catherine, Sept. 19, 19455 Thomas, Nov. 3,
1948.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Frederick Aloysius Norton, 18, Raymond John Norton,
"23.

occuPaTION: Orthopedic surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in orthopedic surgery, Harvard Medical School;
assistant visiting orthopedic surgeon, Massachusetts General Hospital;
chief, orthopedic service, Massachusetts Hospital School; orthopedist,
Lakeville State Sanatorium; consultant, Massachusetts Department of
Public Health — Crippled Children’s Services.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; American Medical Association;
American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons; American Board of Ortho-
pedic Surgery (Diplomate).

PUBLICATIONS: Several contributions to surgical journals.

IN THE spring of 1922 I was injured in an explosion in the Jeffer-
son Laboratory. The resulting fracture of the femur with numer-
ous and sundry complications kept me in the Massachusetts Gen-
eral Hospital for six months, As a result I finished out of course
in 1926. However, this experience decided my future.

I entered the Harvard Medical School in 1926 with the desire to
be an orthopedic surgeon. This ambition was realized eight years
later after I had spent two years in general surgery followed by
specialized training in orthopedic surgery at the Massachusetts
General and Children’s Hospitals. After a year of residency at
the Massachusetts General Hospital, I became a member of the
Orthopedic Staff and have been attached to it since then. I now
hold the rank of assistant visiting orthopedic surgeon.

In 1937 I became a diplomate of the American Board of Ortho-

[722]

——a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pedic Surgery and in 1939, a member of the American Academy
of Orthopedic Surgeons. Also in 1937, I became a consultant to
the State Department of Public Health on the Crippled Childrens’
Service. During the summer of 1939, I became orthopedist to the
Lakeville State Sanatorium in charge of infantile paralysis.

Since 1934 I have nailed down an “assistantship” in orthopedic
surgery at the Harvard Medical School. This past year saw my
sterling qualities recognized: after fourteen years in grade, I was
“elevated” to the rank of instructor with 70 raise in pay.

While an intern at Children’s Hospital, Boston, I met my wife,
then Margaret Hagerty. We have been singularly blessed with a
sizeable family which has been a source of happiness and expense
to both of us. They represent my investment in the future.

In 1948 I became chief of the orthopedic service at the Massa-
chusetts Hospital School devoted to the physical and educational
rehabilitation of crippled children. The work here has been ex-
tremely interesting and the multiplicity of complex problems has
been both staggering and challenging.

My chief outside interest has been in machine tools and, over a
period of years, I have gradually furnished a small machine shop
in my cellar. To this haven I retire where the noise I make can
drown out the ring of the telephone. I have served my town of
Lincoln as a member of the Board of Health and, now, as a mem-
ber of the town Finance Committee.

My professional life, while restricted to an exacting but interest-
ing specialty, has taught me tolerance for the opinions of others
with final judgment resting on performance. The years have gone
all too rapidly; there remains much to be done.

FRANCIS LAWRENCE ANTHONY NOWAK

ApprEss: Route 2, Box 160, Fort Pierce, Fla.

BORN: May 17, 1901, Chicopee Falls, Mass, Parents: Felix Edward Nowak,
Veronica Kacmarska.

PREPARED at: Chicopee High School, Chicopee, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924.

MarRRiED: Vannie Isadel Murray, Sept. 16, 1924, Portland, Maine.

occupation: Mercantile business.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Nowak did not return a questionnaire.

[723 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

*~ JOSEPH ANTHONY O’CONNOR

BorN: March 20, 1901, Roxbury, Mass. parents: John David O’Connor,
Mary Imelda Crowley.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

makrieD: Mary Louise Reynolds, Feb. 12, 1930, Jackson, Mich. CHILDREN:
Betsey Jane, March 12, 1931; Mary Louise, Aug. 14, 1934.

piep: March 14, 1948, Jackson, Mich.

motuer: Ars. John D. O'Connor, 26 Columbia St., Brookline 46, Mass.

JOSEPH ANTHONY O’CONNOR entered Harvard from the
Roxbury (Massachusetts) Latin School. He was a member of the
Freshman Crew Squad, and the Class Crew Squad in his sopho-
more year at Harvard. During his first three years as an under-
graduate, he was a member of the Social Service, serving for one
year on the Social Service Committee, Phillips Brooks House. His
club memberships included the Hasty Pudding Club-Institute of
1770, the Speakers’ Club and the Phoenix Club.

For a short period after leaving Cambridge, he was engaged in
the printing business with the Washington Press. He later re-
ported that he had moved to Jackson, Michigan, where he was
interested in the insurance business specializing in the aid of weak
insurance agencies. He had been a member of the Harvard Clubs
of Boston and New York as well as the Union Boat Club.

His wife and two daughters survived him.

FRANCIS FAY O'DONNELL

HOME ADDRESS: 43 Wannalancit St., Lowell, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 9 Central St., Lowell, Mass.

BorN: Oct. 18, 1900, Lowell, Mass. parents: Constantine O’Donnell, Kathe-
rine Fay.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B, 1925; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1928.

marrigep: Charlotte M. Green, Jan. 31, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Constantine O'Donnell, ’21 (deceased).

occupation: Lawyer and trustee.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Member Selective Service Board 87, Massachu-
setts; Lowell War Finance Committce.

orricks HELD: President, Harvard Club of Lowell, since 1947, Lowell Chamber
of Commerce, 1942-43, Gordon Supply Company, Cambridge, 1944-45,
International Institute, Lowell, since 1945; director and trustce, Central

[724]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Savings Bank, Billerica Trust Company, Lowell Community Club,
Council of Social Agencies.
MEMBER OF: Yorick Club; Owls Club; Harvard Club of Lowell; Rotary Club;

Selective Service Board 19, Massachusetts.

DURING the last twenty-two years I have been engaged in the
general practice of law at Lowell. For twelve years I was a mem-
ber of the firm of Trull, Wier & O’Donoghue. Since the dissolu-
tion of the firm I have maintained offices as an individual. |

Two trips to Europe have been the most extensive of my trav-
els. Frequently I spend short vacations in Canada.

In addition to law my principal interests are finance, beekeeping,
and education.

HERMAN JOHN OLT

HOME ADDRESS: 743 Ackerman Ave., Glen Rock, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 233 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.

‘porN: April 13, 1903, Dayton, Ohio. parents: Fred Olt, Laura Henrietta
Greve. :

PREPARED AT: Steele High School, Dayton, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Genevieve Frances Halloran, Feb. 12, 1941, Chicago, Tl. cumpren:
Jennifer, Sept. 19, 1943; John Herman, Aug. 11, 1945.

occupation: Certified public accountant; supervisor, tax department, Touche,
Niven, Bailey & Smart.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Chicago Control, Controllers Institute of America,
1940-41.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Accountants; New York State Society of
Certified Public Accountants; Controllers Institute of America, Harvard
Club of New Jersey.

IT IS hard to convince myself that half of the first half of the
century falls into this span of time since graduation. Time has no
right to go so swiftly when I have only started on my tasks.
There was the first problem — the choice of a place to start in
business. This was resolved by going to school — National Cash
Register Company’s school for office salesmen. That was followed
by assignments in sales offices and a return to Dayton in the gen-
eral sales office. The green field, however, appeared to be in a
newer profession, and public accountancy became my vocation
and avocation. Jt was necessary to become a certified public ac-
countant to have a hope for a professional future, and three years

[725]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

later Illinois granted me my certificate. Recently New York fol-
lowed suit.

There was a long interval — eleven years — when I left profes-
sional work to be an officer of a Chicago corporation — respon-
sible for records and financial affairs. There I spent the war years
fighting the battles of priorities, certifications, renegotiation and
taxes, trying to smooth the way for delivery of equipment wanted
by the legion of official alphabetic agencies all demanding prom-
ise of immediate attention.

In 1947 I returned to my professional work, primarily interested
in problems of income tax payers.

We were married early in 1941 and I started my conversion
from occupant of a single room in a large hotel to cliff dweller to
suburban home owner. The moves into and around suburbia were
marked by the arrivals of Jennifer in 1943 and John in 1945. The
assignment to the New York office carried us from the high shore.
overlooking Lake Michigan to New Jersey, and now no day seems
complete without the Erie, the Times and the Sun. There is a bit
of lawn — bald in spots — and some years, I am told, snow to the
knees — or more.

Travel was a requisite to carrying out the assignments of an
apprentice accountant, and the tier of states west of the Missis-
sippi river, plus Texas, mark the western limits of my world. Al-
though my eastward migration is barely behind me, I’m still look-
ing forward to seeing more of the West.

I wish I could be certain that the questing spirit, the crusade for
the right, the willingness to stake all on a calculated business risk
were dominant in my pattern of life. Projection into the future
of the rate of change we have witnessed in the last twenty years
brings a sense of foreboding. Only the keenest can distinguish the
shadowy outlines in the crystal ball of the future.

If the next quarter of the century holds for all of us more happy
and more fruitful years we shall have good reason to sing again the
Hymn of Thanksgiving — and the song will come from our hearts.

EUGENE O'NEILL

Home aporess: R.F.D. 1, Suffern, N.Y.
porn: Jan. 17, 1897, St. Louis, Mo. parents: John Joseph O'Neill, Katharine
Robertson.

[ 726 ]

’

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Grover O'Neill, ’16.

OCCUPATION: Investment adviser, Moody’s Investor’s Service, New York,
N. Y.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Bankers Club of America.

NOTHING of consequence to report. I have been with Moody’s
Investor's Service since August, 1925.

JAMES OTIS

HOME ADDRESS: 333 Hazel Ave., Glencoe, Il.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Edward Hines Lumber Co., 2431 S. Wolcott Ave., Chicago,
Ill.

BORN: Dec. 23, 1900, Chicago, Ill. parents: Ralph Chester Otis, Sarane Seeley.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Edwina Norris Love, June 9, 1928, Riverside, Ill. cumoren: Joan
Love, Nov. 28, 1929; James, Jr., July 8, 19313 Elliott Norris, Feb. 15, 1935.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ralph Chester Otis, Jr., ’25.

OCCUPATION: Sales work, Wood Fabrication Division, Edward Hines Lum.
ber Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant and lieutenant commander, VU. S.
Navy, Dec. 22, 1942—Nov. 27, 1945; indoctrination at Naval Air Station,
Quonset Point, R. I, class 6-42; welfare and recreation officer, Naval Air
Station, Ottumwa, Iowa, one year; detached duty at many air stations in
eastern U. S., two years.

LOOKING back over the extremely short span of the past twenty-
five years, most of us probably do not feel much different than in
June, 1925. We can still mix it up with the best of them and take
the knocks, However, it is somewhat perplexing that we weak-
ened sooner than expected.

After twenty-five years, we wonder how the world used to get
along. The other day I had occasion to try on one of my college
days’ best suits. On the inside pocket was the label “Fridolin’s” and
the date December 14th, 1923. How we managed I do not under-
stand. The material in that suit had shrunk more than a little.

Living today is getting soft for the boys. Have you noticed how
much weaker the Martinis are? Mavbe it is because they are pre-
pared with bottled 86 proof rather than our old quick mixture of

[727]

RN MIR ToT ERIC ESY Hn iW ereRMEAN INE SER os sec tt See mpg

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

190 proof with a little water and grape juice. What has happened
to our old “Body Builders,” the Orange Blossoms?

One change is most noticeable. The boys and girls in college
today are so young for their age. They seem barely out of the
infant stage. 1 know because I have a daughter who is a junior and
a son who is a freshman and another son who will enter college in
three years.

Joanie, our eldest, is a junior at the University of Illinois after
having spent her first two college years at Bennett Junior College,
Millbrook, New York. She is a member of the Kappa Kappa
Gamma Sorority (whatever that is) and really enjoys it. Jim, Jr,
is also in school, a freshman at Princeton (the humiliation of it
all). He is called “Papoose” there because he was the smallest line
man on the freshrnan football squad, 170 pounds. However, he did
a swell job, making first string and his numerals. Elliott (Bill, to
me) has three more years at New Trier High School. He is our
one remaining hope for an heir at Harvard.

My life during these intervening years has been more or less
static. I still live and work in Chicago and am still trying to amass
that first million. I was in the real estate business with Willoughby
& Company where I was in charge of the property management
division. In 1928 I was married to Edwina Love in Riverside,
Illinois, after which the younger generation began to appear. In
1942 I enlisted in the Navy and reported at the now famous Quon-
set Point Naval Air Station for indoctrination. After that boot
training, I had a year of duty at the Naval Air Station, Ottumwa,
Iowa. For the next two years I was attached to the Advance Base
Aviation Training Unit where I was on almost continuous de-
tached duty. I was in charge of a detachment of rated enlisted
men, all specialists in the various phases of the PB4Y-1 aircraft, the
Navy modification of the Army Liberator. We did not have any
overseas duty, but visited plenty of spots in the good old U.S.A.
that I have no yearning ever to visit again.

During those travels I ran into a couple of old friends and class-
mates, Willie Beal at Norfolk, Virginia, and George Wheelwright
at Patuxent River, Maryland. They had not changed much, but
enough so that they barely recognized me. It was certainly nice
to have seen them and I enjoyed the elbow exercises we indulged
in because I see altogether too few of our old playmates.

[728 ]

OCC

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After discharge from the Navy in 1945, I was with the Norris
Construction Company for a year until it liquidated and I have
since been with the Edward Hines Lumber Company of Chicago.

Oh yes! Hobbies. Trout fishing and all the incidental prepara-
tion that goes with it including tying all flies, rod building and
repairing, and, of course, many months of dreams and anticipation.
[also do as much bird hunting as possible, but this does not require
the time in preparation nor can you dream about that big one.

This effort of writing seems to have got me down. | am tired.
If it were not so far, I would go away.

RALPH CHESTER OTIS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 2350 Lincoln Park, W., Chicago 14, Ill.

OFFICE appress: P.M.A. Commodity Office, U.S.D.A., 623 Wabash Ave.,
Chicago 5, Ill.

BORN: June 9, 1902, Chicago, Ill. parents: Ralph Chester Otis, Sarane Sceley.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS EN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MarRiED: Claire Jensen, Nov. 14, 1929, Chicago, Ill, cHitpren: Ralph Chester,
3d, Aug. 20, 1930; John, March 19, 1933.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Otis, ’25.

occuPATION: Accountant and assistant chief of fiscal division.

SINCE leaving college my life has been anything but sensational.

I started out in the brokerage business and stuck it out until 1938

when the firm I was with decided to pull in its horns and close up

shop in Chicago. I followed suit in so far as the brokerage busi-

ness was concerned. It was at that time that I signed up with the

Commodity Credit Corporation, a government corporation en-

gaged chiefly in making grain loans to producers. This corpora-

tion has undergone several reorganizations and name changes (that

is, the operating end of the corporation) during the past eleven

and a half years, until now the operating end is known as the

P.M.A. Commodity Office. During that time I served variously as

a clerk, acting assistant director, assistant to the director, and

assistant chief of the fiscal division.

In 1929 I married Claire Jensen from Dwight, Illinois. We have
‘raised what we term two very fine boys, Ralph Chester, 3d, now
nineteen years old, and John, sixteen years old. Chet, as the elder
is called, graduated from the Chicago Latin School with the class

[ 729 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

of 1948. Upon graduating he enlisted for one year in the U. S.
Marine Corps, where his principal occupation was swimming the
breast stroke for the Memphis and Cherry Point swimming teams.
He is now attending Beloit College in Beloit, Wisconsin. He is
still continuing his swimming and so far has broken two pool rec-
ords for the breast stroke. My only hope is that his studies will be
on a par with his swimming so that he will be able to graduate
without difficulty with the Class of 1953. Jackie, as our younger
son is known, is a junior in high school at the Chicago Latin
School. This past fall, his second year on the varsity football
team, he made the backfield on the all-private school league second
team, just barely missing out on the first team. He also plays on
the varsity basketball and baseball teams. In addition he is a very
good swimmer and golfer. For the school year 1948-49 he was
awarded the trophy for the all-around athlete of the year. I only
wish he were as adept in his studies.

EDWARD JOHN OWEN

ApprEss: 1845 Asylum Ave. West Hartford, Conn.

BORN: Sept. 24, 1901, Springfield, Mass. parents: John Owen, Jennie Pease
Kowley.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

marrigD: Afuriel Castle, Hartford, Conn. cuito: John Castle.

occupation: Advertising.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.

Owen did not return a questionnaire.

RICHARD MEADE OWENS

HOME ApprEss: 201 Tranquil Ave., Charlotte, N.C.

OFFice Appaess: Monroe Calculating Machine Co., Inc., Charlotte, N.C.

BORN; Jan. 6, 1905, Augusta, Ga. parents: Stannard Bolling Owens, Mary
Meade Platt.

PREPARED aT: Academy of Richmond County, Augusta, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREFS: §.B. IN E. ENGIN., 1926; M.B.A., 1934.

Marwep: Lorraine Gilmer Stuck, June 1, 1935, Monroe, N. C. cuitp: Mary
Meade, Aug. 2, 1942.

occupaTION: Assistant branch manager, Monroe Calculating Machine Com-

pany, Inc.
[730]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Assistant district accountant, Charlotte District
Office of O.P.A.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity; Masons, Charlotte Engineers
Club; Charlotte Chapter, National Association of Cost Accountants.

I HAVE lived and enjoyed it.

* DEXTER SELDEN PAINE

BORN: June 23, 1902, Brookline, Mass. parents: William Dexter Paine,
Margaret Carey.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925 (26).

MaRRIED: Anna Hayden Dennen, June, 1931. caitp: William Dexter, 2d,

May 5, 1932.
piED: Nov. 3, 1932, Cambridge, Mass.
DEXTER SELDEN PAINE received his early education in the
- Brookline public schools and at the Sanford School, Redding
Ridge, Connecticut, and the Stone School in Boston.

At Harvard much of Paine’s activities centered around the Glee
_ Club, of which he was assistant manager from September to De-
cember, 1923, and manager from that time until June, 1925. Not
a little of the success of the Club during this period was due to his
devoted, energetic, and capable efforts on its behalf. While in
college he was also a member of the Pierian Sodality, the Styx
Club, and the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, and the freshman
track squad.

Immediately after graduation Paine joined the managerial staff
of Symphony Hall, remaining there for two years. In 1927 he was
appointed assistant to the cruise manager of Raymond & Whit-
comb Company. In the following year he left to join the staff of
the Copley-Plaza Hotel Corporation. In 1930 he entered upon
preparation for a career for which he was particularly well adapted
by ability and personality, that of helpful work among prisoners in
penal institutions. To this end he enrolled in the Episcopal Theo-
logical School and combined his studies there with graduate work
in sociology.

While studying at the Theological School, Paine served as assist-
ant to the Episcopal chaplain at the State Prison at Charlestown,
at the same time carrying out duties at the prison colony at Nor-
folk. In September, 1932, he was appointed chaplain. His death

[730]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

by accident in November of that same year cut short a record not
only of substantial accomplishments in his chosen work but of
even greater promise of achievements in the future.

HEBARD MILLER PAINE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 69 High Way, Chappaqua, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 25, 1903, Englewood, N. J. parents: Francis Brinley Hebard
Paine, Julia Wood Miller.

PREPARED AT: Milwaukee Country Day School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 19253 LL.B., 1928.

marrigep: Elizabeth Hinckley Seurgis, Oct. 3, 1936, Merrick, Long Island,
N. ¥Y. cumpren: Anita, June 22, 1937; Margaret, Oct. 15, 1940; Francis,
May 14, 1946.

WILLIAM ALEXANDRE PALLME

HOME apprEss: 49 Greenfield Ave., Bronxville 8, N. Y.

OFFICE apDoRESS: % Port of New York Authority, 111 Eighth Ave., New York
11, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 11, 1902, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Hermann Adolph Joseph
Pallmé, Sarah Crosett.

PREPARED AT: South Side High School, Rockville Centre, N. Y.

YEARS [N COLLEGE: 1021-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; LL.B., ‘1928.

marrieD: Helen Grace King, Feb. 22, 1930, New York, N. Y. cumpren:
William King, May 11, 1931 (died May 25, 1937); Robert Crosett, May
21, 1933; Lydia Jane, Sept. 13, 1940.

OccuPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned second lieutenant F.A. Res., 1925;
first lieutenant F.A. Res., 1927; commission lapsed, 1935.

MEMBER oF: New York County Lawyers Association; The Lawyers Club;
The University Club of New York.

MY LIFE since graduation has been tied, perhaps through acci-
dent, but in retrospect more likely through predilection and
choice, to that geographical area known as the Port of New York
District.

I did spend three additional years in Cambridge and Boston in
attendance at the Law School. During that time, in association
with Fred Packard (Professor F. C. Packard, ’23), I directed and
staged plays in scttlement houses. This work interested me from
the social and financial, as well as the dramatic angle and on return
to New York in 1928, the first job I obtained was as director of

[732]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

dramatic activities at the Recreation Rooms and Settlement House
on Chrystie Street on the lower East Side.

Almost simultaneously, I began work in an ancient but currently
little honored branch of the law, as a title examiner for Title Guar-
antee and Trust Company. This led to specialization in real estate
practice in the metropolitan area and that has remained technically
my specialty ever since. I gave up the long hours of the double
jobs after earning enough for a wedding ring and devoted most of
the allowed period of the honeymoon to locating a better law job.

I landed it as a neophyte in mortgage foreclosures and title
acquisitions with the firm of Stern & Ellenwood, but the depres-
sion hit the law in 1930 so that, for a miserable summer, I read the
Law Journal and ultimately spent three weeks among the unem-
ployed. The Bar Association’s employment agency routed me to
the offices of the Port of New York Authority, which was then
undertaking a series of condemnation proceedings under the Gen-
eral Condemnation Law of the State of New York. The pro-
cedure under this law had not been used in the courts of the First
Department in nearly fifty years. Austin Tobin (Holy Cross ’25),
now executive director of the Port Authority, and I blazed a trail
in fitting them into current practice and rapidly established our-
selves as experts in the novel field.

- As the scope of the Port Authority expanded, I had a part in
trail blazing in other fields, some of which concerned ordinarily
mundane real estate practice such as the development of a form of
industrial lease and operating agreement for the first tenants of the
huge and complex Port Authority Building, or the conduct
through my own office and in my own name of the secret acquisi-
tion campaign for the real property needed for the Lincoln
Tunnel.

Other portions of the work had a broader political and social
interest, however. For about two years I devoted myself pri-
marily to research and brief writing in the cases which established
the governmental nature and character of the Port Authority and
sustained the conception of the powers of this creation of the two
states of New York and New Jersey in their compact or treaty of
1920 which had been contended for from the first by Julius Henry
Cohen, then General Counsel of the Port Authority, who had been

the person most responsible for the creation of the ; agency. I took

[733]

Tanannnateebcewenaemmeiaanttli, Vs .

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

the private pseudonym of “the universal amicus” because of ac-
tivity in preparing intervening petitions and briefs in every case in
any of the courts of the nation which affected governmental pow-
ers of state or bi-state commissions or agencies. This was an in-
tensely interesting activity and all of us who were engaged in it
felt that we were rendering a true public service. Hours were
forgotten and we literally lived for the work alone.

So far as professional connection was concerned, I left the Port
Authority in 1935 to take charge of real estate work for the firm
of Proskauer, Rose & Paskus. I was associated with this firm for
ten years, engaged in every phase of real estate practice which
came into the office. My principal interest and only field of trial
work concerned value as that issue was tested in condemnation
proceedings, real property tax reviews, estate or corporate tax
proceedings or in other applications pertaining to real property.
The same issue, of course, is involved in every real estate transac-
tion and I entered the field of appraisal and placing of mortgage
loans and the negotiation of sale and lease back deals. During this
period I retained my interest in port development problems and
also studied housing problems, particularly with respect to pro-
spective legislation in the public and publicly financed housing
field. I became, and still am, a member of the Legislative Council
of the Citizens Housing and Planning Council. My public ad-
vocacy of housing legislation has, however, been limited to a
couple of talks in explanation of the W.E.T. or T.E.W. bills.

My personal clients—in the anomalous manner of this world
— presented to me problems which were largely outside of the
field of real estate law. Spurred by this and by a series of retainers
by the Port Authority for the supervision and conduct of con-
demnation proceedings, I embarked on my own in 1945. The Port
Authority work took most of my time and interest, and in 1948 I
rejoined the staff of the Port Authority with the title of “Attorney
in Charge of the Division of Real Estate Acquisitions and Dis-
posals.”

FREDERIC COURTLAND PALMER

HOME appress: “Dunstaffnage,” East Haddam, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: East Haddam, Conn,

[734]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

porN: March 18, 1901, Montville, Conn. parents: Frederic Courtland
Palmer, Mary MacAlpine Brennan.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.; Phillips Acad-
emy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; M.ARCH., 1931.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Architecture.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Palmer Memorial Association, since 1944; trustee,
Antiquarian and Landmarks Society of Connecticut, since 1944; treas-
urer, Society of the War of 1812 in Connecticut, since 1944; assistant
secretary general, General Society of the War of 1812, 1944-46.

MEMBER OF: Society of Colonial Wars; Society of the War of 1812; Founders
and Patriots of America.

PUBLICATIONS: Plan of the Abbey Church at Cluny, France, published by
K. J. Conant in Speculum; Restoration drawings and photographs of the
Buttolph-Williams House, Wethersfield, in The Antiquarian, etc.

WITHOUT any great enthusiasm, I left college with the prospect
of entering a then old, well-established and profitable family busi-
ness in one branch of which I had worked two of the summer
vacations as a laborer, learning its problems from the bottom up
in the best tradition. Feeling the need of specialized technical and
artistic training to be of the greatest value for the work expected
of me, I spent the year after graduation in Paris and other French
cities where the information I required was best available. This
excess of conscientiousness proved unnecessary, as on my return
to the States I found business was turning downward and the
powers that were no longer desired my sort of services. What
then seemed a very unfair and fatal blow to my prospects has, over
the years, turned out to be the most fortunate thing that could
have happened.

The opportunity to pursue actively my prime interest, which it
had appeared could be only an avocation, was now cleared of that
New Englandism, “duty and obligation” to the accident of birth.
I returned immediately to Cambridge and in December, ’26, en-
rolled in the School of Architecture then so suavely marshalled by
Dean Edgell. My studies in the fundamentals of design were by
no means wasted in this new start in life. Looking back on the
strenuous but very pleasant years in the school, I realize that my
insistence on the practical at the expense of the artistic, when at
school it is only a matter of a pretty picture, definitely retarded
my passage through the several established grades but there seemed

[735 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

of the opening of broadcasting from Connecticut College, New
London, and have appeared as guest or for interviews on special
subjects on several Connecticut stations recently. My interest in
theatrical production has flared up briefly now and again; I might
say with quite a lack of distinction. From Glee Club days, I con-
tinued singing lessons wherever I was, here or in Europe with
several famous teachers and coaches, till the war put an end toa
very satisfactory hobby, to which age is now doing what the war
didn’t. Life in the country would be but half lived without a gar-
den and I find that from small beginnings one does not resist the
temptation to add and add till there is so much under cultivation,
that it is impossible to care for it all.

As a result of my constant study of American architecture, I
am convinced that no one is yet in a position, and probably won't
be for another generation, to give an unqualified answer to any
specific problem therein. For that reason, I am striving by deed
and example to educate and interest all who will pause and listen,
to work for the restoration, preservation and understanding of our
colonial buildings, which constitute the only visible expression of

our traditions and accomplishments. In another hundred years |

these will be really appreciated for the priceless heritage they are.
The public must be made conscious of their real rarity and great
value as a public trust, and the supreme importance of their care-
ful and accurate restoration. It is an upstream battle, but my life-
long project is to prevent misguided enthusiasts from ruining our
colonial homes and churches with ignorant and selfish albeit well-
intentioned remodelling and repairs. To see that just one fine old
building is restored correctly is, to me, more satisfactory than
would be the building of twenty new ones. I am nevertheless
called upon to design everything from gas stations to cow barns,
and though my architectural practice is private, it is never dull.
As if we have not already sufficiently shown ourselves up for
the fools we are, our editors would like us to go further and expose
our social, political, and religious thoughts. Mine never were any
secret and aren’t now; the only trouble with them is no one else
could subscribe to them. I feel that the social obligation of every-
one would be discharged if each showed to others the considera-
tion they expect to have granted to themselves, with the further
constant thought of that neglected principle expressed by noblesse

[ 738 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

oblige. My political thoughts would probably be more incompre-
hensible and perhaps even reprehensible. Possibly under Profes-
sor MclIlvain 1 was too serious a student of the inception of the
Anglo-Saxon political system. It wasn’t democracy then and for
that matter it never has been. Certainly the government under
which we live is not, because true democracy — meaning equality
of rights, duties and privileges under law — presupposes the im-
possible — equal results from education and equal unselfishness,
things which, practically, are unattainable due to the natural men-
tal and moral inequality of humanity. Thought to its conclusion
I'd turn out an autocrat; but, administered with honesty, it seems
to me that a benevolent dictatorship could be the most efficient,
just, and least expensive government for mankind. However, like
its wasteful antithesis, democracy, dictatorship is equally prey to
that most unstable of elements— human nature. To clinch your
conviction that the writer is THE most unstable human, I’d need
only to try to expound my philosophy of life itself, but that is just
too far advanced, it’s so simple.

PHILIP PALMER

ApDpREss: 1 Common Lane, Scituate, Mass.

BORN: May 14, 1905, Pueblo, Colo. parents: Ezra W. Palmer, Artie Mae
Kelley. .

PREPARED AT: East Denver High School, East Denver, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; M.B.A., 1928.

MARRIED: Eleanor Blunt, May 30, 1933.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Philip Palmer did not return a questionnaire.

ALLEN RUSSELL PARKER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 2019 Eye St., N.W., Apt. 408, Washington 6, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Marks & Clerk, National Press Bldg., Washington 4, D. C.

BorN: Aug. 18, 1902, Newton, Mass. parents: Allen Russell Parker, Bessie
May Crocker.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926, DEGREE: A.B., 1925(26).

MarRiED: Edna May Borton, Sept. 15, 1928, South Orange, N. J. (divorced
1940); Katharine Deneale Grant, 1943, Miami, Fla. cump: Donald,
Sept. 23, 1931+

[739 ]

TT aE Ee mI OEE AEP RENEE RPI YIU perro ie ee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

OccUPATION: Foreign patent agent.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, D. C.

MY FIRST job of any consequence began in 1927 with the Barrett
Division of Allied Chemical & Dye Corporation when I was as-
signed the territory of New England for the sale of their heavy
chemicals. In 1929 I was transferred to the company’s home office
in New York City and I carried on there for about twelve years in
various capacities, including office management, direct sales, ad-
vertising, and sales promotion.

In 1941 I was given an opportunity to do something important
and worth while when the British government offered me a posi-
tion in Washington as a liaison officer between the British and U. 5.
governments in connection with the procurement and shipment
of lend-lease supplies. I continued in this capacity throughout the
war.

After finishing my work with the British government in 1945,
I was attached to the French government for several months in an
advisory capacity to expedite the movement of American supplies
to France after the liberation.

Upon completing my work with the French government, I was
retained by several chemical manufacturers in this country to open
up the postwar European markets. Consequently, I went to Eu-
rope in 1946, but at this point my health broke down and after a
long illness in England, I returned to the United States to con-
valesce.

In due course my health improved and I became interested in
foreign patent law. Early in 1947 I had the good fortune to be-
come associated with the well-known English firm of Marks &
Clerk, international patent attorneys. The work and associations
are much to my liking and I expect to continue in this field per-
manently. I have a quiet office in the National Press Building in
Washington, D. C., where governments and corporations no
longer kecp me under pressure. No trains, boats, or planes to
catch. Iam quite happy about the whole situation.

Although my personal philosophy was fluid for a long time, it
is now beginning to gel; however, I prefer to let my observations
remain pending for a while yet, at least so far as “printer’s ink” is
concerned,

[740]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT DALZELL PARKER

HOME ADDRESS: 477 Rock Rd., Glen Rock, N. J.

OFFICE ADDREss: Manufacturers Trust Co., 55 Broad St., New York 15, N. Y.

Born: Aug. 7, 1903, Detroit, Mich. parents: Richard Bentley Parker, Har-
riet Williams Dalzell.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922, 1923-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

marrieD: Doris Kinnicut Burbank, Feb, 22, 1934, Providence, R. I. cHiLpren:
Florence Eleanor, Oct. 6, 1934; Richard Burbank, Feb. 16, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Melville Parker, ’28.

occupation: Banking; commodity specialist.

OUR Class Secretary requests memoirs and reflections on our lives
and the age in which we have lived. That past tense “have lived”
makes me feel as though I were already well along in my eighties
-—and here I am looking forward to another twenty-five years (at
least) of modest usefulness. In fact, I rather fancy myself as one
of those slow-developing souls which, like a rare old French wine,
takes years to mature — or as my less charitable (but probably
more accurate) acquaintances put it, to “get a little sense drilled
into that thick head and grow up at last.”

Since graduation my life as son, husband, and father has been
the rather quiet and average affair of any metropolitan suburbanite
who shovels snow in winter, mows lawns or does light gardening
in summer, and paints or does odd jobs about the house and
grounds in spring and fall. My travelling has been pretty well
limited to a couple of hundred thousand miles on commuter trains,
plus occasional automobile trips, particularly around vacation
time. I have had no direct experience of being in the thick of the
great world-wide political and military storms of our times, having
been too young for the first World War and limited by my age
and family responsibilities to Civilian Defense and War Bond
Drives in World War II. As for hobbies, my enthusiasm for the
beauties of photography is restrained by the admonitions of my
efficient good wife, as well as by the expense of indulging it.

In the summer of 1925 I went to work near the bottom of the
ladder in a big New York bank, asa file clerk. Progress for a time
was rapid — though it seemed slow to me at the time. Then came
the big crash of 1929, and banking has “never been the same since.”
Like a number of others, I had the experience of being temporarily

[741 ]

" OP eNO ION mene) atin cnr et AA

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

unemployed during the Great Depression, from which I learned
much, Since then, progress of a material kind has been reasonably
comfortable — in spite of taxes — and I enjoy watching the chil-
dren grow.

My work as a banker has left me much the same optimistic pes-
simist that I was on graduation and has permitted direct verifica-.
tion on a number of occasions in both foreign and domestic fields
of what is doubtless commonly known, that most people want to
be honest all of the time, that most of us are honest most of the
time, but that when the pressure becomes great enough, any of us
will weaken — perhaps an everyday parallel on a small scale to
the emotional strains of the front line in battle. Of course, the
trick is to guess in advance who is going to weaken and when.
Some of us do pick the oddest moments to weaken!

I have been impressed with the difficulty of following that good
old motto “Veritas,” of finding the truth amid so much that is
partly true, especially when truth itself often seems to carry
aspects of relativity, rather than to be a simple absolute.

The strike weapon interests me. It can be thought of as develop-
ing first as an answer of desperate employees to too great power
with lack of social responsibility on the part of employers. Since
then, public opinion and the law makers have made employers
assume much greater responsibilities, until now the shoe is on the
other foot and industry-wide unions are in a position to kick
around not only employers, but the public in general. Emotions
run high, opinions are strong both pro and con. To my presum-
ably narrow banking mind, the fundamental principal of the strike
weapon is wrong, and lies in its being primarily a weapon, an
instrument to do damage, to destroy, rather than an instrument to
build, to create. So long as the process of production requires
people in more than one capacity — and our capitalistic society

requires a minimum of three, investor, manager, and worker — we |

shall have disagreement as to what proportion of the sales dollar
is to be received by each party. It does not follow, however, that
we should decide these relative percentages in proportion to the
ability of one group to damage another, the largest proportion
going to the group which can do the most damage, as often seems
to be the case now. Rather than this law of the jungle, I for one,
would like to see us at least try to sct up more intelligent rules of

[ 742 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the game by taking the trouble to do the admittedly complicated
task of accumulating data, holding public hearings, and working
out fairly narrow percentage ranges, industry by industry, per-
haps even area by area, based on say five-, ten-, or twenty-year
moving averages of past experience, and then to take a vote and
to see to it through the courts that all parties play according to
the rules of the game. |

Interesting analogies could be drawn in the field of international
relations. But all this, my hard-headed N.A.M. friends would say,
is at best very vague and at worst definitely socialistic if not down-
right Utopian. People seem to enjoy fighting — especially against
other people — and if the conflict results in greater strength to
the group as a whole and more rapid progress all round, as in
normal competition, it is all to the good, even though some indi-
vidual members suffer. But when the fighting is carried on in such
a manner or to such an extent that it begins to weaken or slow
down the entire group, it is time to use our heads more and our
emotions less — or at least so it seems to me — both in local and in
international affairs. Instead of this, our natural reaction appears
to be to do exactly the opposite, and the bigger the group of peo-
ple involved, the more emotional and child-like our reactions
become. As nations, we must somehow try harder to grow up,
even though it hurts our pride to do so.

Another contemporary development which interests me might-
ily, but about which I know practically nothing, is nuclear fission
and, according to the press, all the boundless promise and threat
it holds for the future of the human race. At the moment I see
little for the average individual to do about it but trust in God to
continue attracting our best brains, ability, and integrity to both
its rapid development and to its wise control.

MARION RYKOFF PARSONNET

AppREss: % Mrs. Victor Parsonnet, 39 Lincoln Park, Newark, N. J.

BORN: Feb, 21, 1905, Newark, N. J. parents: Victor Parsonnet, Augusta
Bella Levine.

PREPARED AT: Newark Academy, Newark, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924.

occupation: Letters.

[ 743 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Par.
sonnet did not return a questionnaire.

PAUL WHITIN PARSONS

HOME ADDRESS: 124 E. 8qth St, New York 28, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 26, 1905, Hempstead, Long Island, N. Y. Parents: Theophilus
Parsons, Florence Whitin.

preparED aT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. Cu laude, 1925; M.B.A. 1927.

occuPATION: Chemical engineer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

FOLLOWING graduation from the Business School in 1927, I
went to Cincinnati for U. S. Industrial Chemicals, and as sales
division manager left there in 1938 for the New York office. Since
leaving U.S.I. in 1943, I have worked on my own.

I made a two months’ trip abroad last summer visiting England,
France, Switzerland, Austria (including Vienna), and southern
Germany. I stayed two weeks in the south of France visiting my
parents. I play tennis, badminton (do not care for singles), a little
golf, and swim. Politics: Republican, and opposed to the welfare
state.

JOHN MARK PATEK

HOME ADDRESS: 434 Mt. Airy Drive, Rochester 12, N. Y.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Eastman Kodak Co., Rochester 4, N. Y.

Born: March 23, 1902, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: Mark Lincoln Patek,
Retta Shroder.

prepared AT: Milwaukee Country Day School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 1925; 8.B. (Michigan Coll. of
Mining and Technology), 1932; M.z. (ibid.), 1933.

marrieD: Doris Adelaide Davison, Oct. 6, 1940, Canandaigua, N. Y. cum-
DREN: John Mark, Jr., Feb. 24, 1943; James Warren, Aug. 27, 1945.

occupation: Assistant in charge, material standards department, Eastman
Kodak Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant and lieutenant commander, 1943-45,
Bureau of Ordnance, Washington, D, C. (in charge of development of
organic materials used in connection with naval ammunition).

Memarer or: Harvard Club of Rochester, American Chemical Society; Tech-
nical Association of Pulp and Paper Industry; American Society for
Quality Control; American Society of Lubricating Engineers.

[744]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PUBLICATIONS: Two technical publications of the American Institute of
Mining and Metallurgical Engineers; two articles in Mining and Metal-
lurgy.

AFTER graduation I took a job in an Arizona copper mine
where I was the only non-Mexican on a Mexican sampling gang.
I got my first taste of Latins and soon found myself in northern
Mexico as a junior engineer in a lead-silver mine. 1 was fired for
refusing to codperate with questionable practices of a new
manager who soon lost his job. Following this I returned to
Milwaukee.

I then spent two years selling mining machinery. In 1928 I
decided to take selected courses in mining engineering at the
Michigan College of Mining and Technology. The stock market
was booming and in 1929 I decided to get a job before it was too
late. I sailed for Bolivia as the big crash came in October, 1929.
For the next two years I worked out of La Paz, Bolivia, in the
exploration of mineral deposits for New York interests. My first
two months were spent on a Chilean volcano exploring a sulfur
deposit at 19,300 feet elevation. My last experience occurred when
I spent two months in the upper Amazon drainage, exploring a
gold deposit. There I came down with malaria which almost
ended my life and did end my stay in South America.

I returned to this country and to school where I picked up
several college degrees. Between 1933 and 1935 I did various odd
jobs of a consulting nature, one of which involved acting as expert
witness in mine subsidence damage cases against the U. S. Steel
Corporation. In the summer of 1935 I ran an ore dressing consult-
ing laboratory in Helena, Montana, until the earthquake finished
it. About that time I decided that mining was a boom industry of
the twenties but not of the thirties and took a position as lubricat-
ing engineer for a large paper manufacturing company. After
two years as lubricating engineer, I came to Eastman Kodak as
industrial engineer. In the twelve years following graduation, I
had never before remained in one place more than two years.

At the end of the third year in Rochester, I married a Rochester
girl, John Mark, Jr., was born the year the Navy called me to
active duty (1943) and that year we moved to Washington, D. C.
Our Navy baby, Jimmie, was born in Washington in 1945 and the
following year we all returned to Rochester. This spring we all

[745]

io SE aE PT BRS RAH PENT, St AZORES, tw

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

moved into a new house on a hillside where we have howling
winds and a beautiful view.

RICHARD PATTERSON

HOME ApprEss: Lawyers Hill, Elkridge 27, Md.

OFFICE apoRESS: % Davis & Hemphill, Elkridge 27, Md.

Born: Oct. 21, 1903, Brookline, Mass. parents: Charles Campbell Patterson,
Rebecca Elizabeth Warfield.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark's School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1925.

Marriep: Lillian de Rose Betts, May 17, 1930, New York, N. Y. cHmpren:
Richard Campbell, Jan. 20, 1931 (died Sept. 29, 1932); Charles Francis,
Dec. 7, 1938; Mildred and Herbert (twins), July 25, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Campbell Patterson, Jr., ’16,; Davidge Warfield
Patterson, 16 (deceased).

occupaTion: Manufacturing screw machine products (duties include draft-
ing, casting, pricing, expediting, etc.).

OFFices HELD: Secretary, Animal Welfare Society of Howard County, Inc,
since 1948, Lawyers Hill Improvement Association, since 1950; secretary
and treasurer, Elkridge Troop Committee, Boy Scouts of America, since
1949, chairman steering committee, P.T.A., Elkridge, since 1949; chair-
man special committee on by-laws, Elkridge Kindergarten, July-August,
1949; treasurer (interim), Maryland Animal Welfare Associations, Inc.,
since 1950,

MEMBER OF: Elkridge Assembly Rooms (president).

IT HAS taken us some years and some thousands of miles of travel
to get from Boston to Baltimore. Until I was axed in 1932, I was
working in New York. Thereafter, for just short of three years,
we husbanded our dwindling resources in Palma de Mallorca, in
the Balearics. The first flare-up presaging the civil war to come
did nothing to keep us longer, although our chief reasons for
returning were homesickness and rumors of better conditions at
home. We were in Baltimore City until the summer of 1938 when
we purchased our land and built our house.

I went to work for Davis & Hemphill, here in Elkridge, Feb-
ruary 1, 1940. With no knowledge, whether theoretical or prac-
tical, of mechanics of any sort, I was plunged into a firm engaged
in a rather intricate and highly specialized form of mechanics.
They were the first, however, who believed me when I said I
wanted to start over again, at the bottom.

The war made little difference. Hlours went from forty to sixty

[ 746]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a week, and the machines turned twenty-three instead of eight
hours a day. But the things that they made differed little or not
at all from those they had made before and have made since. The
same fittings that had been every electrician’s stock-in-trade be-
fore the war went into air and sea craft of every kind. Parts for
domestic oil burners turned up astonishingly with AAA priority,
and it was not until afterward that we knew they had been used
for jets. Binding posts for house radios were standard in great
quantities of signal equipment. Electromagnetic cores, coaxial
cable fittings, high pressure gauge equalizers, a mass of such things
were items of war production with little or no special adaptation.
Uncommonly few specific war items were among the five billion
(5,000,000,000) or so parts turned out by our little shop, with a
peak employment of about one hundred, during those years. But
those of our boys who were in it recognized Davis & Hemphill’s
products in every sector.

Our home has something short of six acres, about a half of it
woodland. Tending to it myself over the weekends leaves no other
hobbies available than cutting grass, raking leaves and sticks,
grubbing, digging, spraying, and weeding. Not that it is any
show place, but it does require a considerable measure of work
as a bare minimum. Since the war we have abandoned the effort
to have a vegetable garden as well, for the weeds always won out
in the end. So also one lone and lonely drake remains of a once
more extensive barnyard.

The saving in time has permitted us to become involved in the
sundry affairs of this very small community. Where there are
more things to be done than people to do them, no one who shows
a willingness to help with anything can well avoid being saddled
with much. But it is not unpleasant work, most of it, and we pride
ourselves that, if we are no great shakes in the world at large, we
have won the respect of some portion of our neighborhood.

Charles, known as Chipper, attends St. Paul’s School for Boys
in Mt. Washington, Baltimore, being in what they call the prepar-
atory form, one below the first. The twins, Herbert and Mildred,
are in the second grade of the Elkridge Public School. Thus we
ourselves at an unreasonably advanced age find it necessary again
to undergo the elementary curriculum. Two cockers, father and
son, and an aging but hearty alley-cat complete our household.

(747 ]

TOOT TR TE TE ee TTT eA Ua GNRIUSIE NIN: WR pins WA Sci iris Nn a Rea MO TM NE

a

 

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

And so we squat, my wife and I, rather small but reasonably
contented frogs in a very small puddle; and sometimes, when
things go right, and the children behave, and the dogs snooze
under the ancient oak out front, and the soft glow of a Maryland
sunset interlaces the woods, we would not change places (for the
moment) with the biggest bullfrog of them all.

WALTER THOMAS PATTISON

avpress: University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn.

BORN: Jan. 5, 1903, Chicago, Ill. parents: George Henry Pattison, Alice
McClure.

PREPARED AT: New Trier High School, Winnetka, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1925; A.M., 1926; PH.D,
1931.

MarRIED: Patricia Travis Calligan, June 21, 1927, Waltham, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Education.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Pat-
tison did not return a questionnaire.

GEORGE RUSSELL PAUL

HOME ADDRESS: 739 Country Way, North Scituate, Mass,

orFice aporess: Colonel Hunt Drive, Abington, Mass.

BORN: June 12, 1901, North Adams, Mass. parents: Willis George Paul,
Mabel Bulford.

PREPARED AT: North Adams High School, North Adams, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-192}.

MaraieD: Ethel Kinsman, July 14, 1925, Williamstown, Mass. (divorced
1937); Grace Stewart, 1942. CHILDREN: Russell Kinsman, Aug. 23, 1933;
Sally Ann, Oct. 25, 1936.

occupation: Architect.

PusLications: Work (non-written material) published in all American
magazines dealing with residentia] architecture, and several books,

SINCE leaving Harvard I have worked for several architectural
firms in Boston and New York, and since 1929 have had my own
practice. This has netted me a rather meager income and a small
amount of fame among those who don’t know my work too inti-
mately. Of those who do I don’t care to report here.

My hobbies consist of pursuing all the minor vices and the more
interesting of the major oncs, My social convictions I wouldn't

(748 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

want you to print, my political ones you couldn’t print, and my
religious ones are in the pre-formative stage.

ANTHONY NICHOLAS PAULIDES

ADDRESS: 59 Ingersoll Grove, Springfield 9, Mass.

BoRN: Oct. 10, 1898, Mughla, Turkey. parents: Nicholas Antony Paulides,
Maria Zambakis.

PREPARED AT: Gymnasium, Mytilin, Greece.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922, 1928-1929.

marriep: Ann A. Shopazian, Jan. 4, 1923, Connecticut. camp: Herbert
Bazil, May 20, 1924.

occuPATION: Mercantile business.

THE information printed above is taken from the Secretary’s files.

Paulides did not return a questionnaire.

AVERY SHERBURNE PEABODY

HOME ADpREss: 108 Mt. Vernon St., Boston 8, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bolton & Hicks Co., 46 S. Market St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 17, 1903, West Newton, Mass. PARENTS: Ellery Peabody, Harriet
Avery.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newtonville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

OCCUPATION: Bookkeeper.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Republican Club of Massachusetts.

FOR the first year and a half after graduation I was with the

Avery & Lowry Company, manufacturers of patent leather, at

43 South Street, Boston. I spent the next twelve years with the

Old Colony Trust Company and First National Bank in various

positions. ‘This was followed by a year at the Ashton Valve Com-

pany of Cambridge, and when the war came along I spent three

years with George Lawley & Son Corporation at Neponset as a

timekeeper and bookkeeper in the welding department.

Since the war I have had two temporary jobs with the Chil-
dren’s Medical Center Fund drive, another with the Red Cross
annual drive, a few months with the Cambridge Rubber Company,
and a short-lived experience in the antique business. Two years
ago I opened a second-hand book shop in the front room of my
former apartment at 124 Mt, Vernon Street. This June, after
working for the landlord, who jacked my rent as soon as I opened

[749 ]

a

HARVARD CLASS OF [925

the shop, I vacated the premises and liquidated my business at a
substantial loss,

As far as my personal convictions are concerned I am still ultra-
conservative (have taken some part in some of the many local
Republican Clubs) and a good Unitarian (but not a regular
church-goer) and lead a very quiet life.

CARL AUGUST PEARSON

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Chesapeake Beach, Md.

BorN: Aug. 13, 1899, Helsingborg, Sweden. parents: Nils August Pearson,
Ester Sofia Peterson.

PREPARED AT: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; A.M., 1930.

marrieD: Mildred Dahlgren, Aug. 19, 1925, Boston, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Olof Hjalmar Pearson, ’34.

occuPATION: Physicist.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT POSTS: Electronics Engineer, 1942-48, Naval Research
Laboratory.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers; American Academy of Arts and
Sciences.

WHEN I graduated, my financial assets were about nil. However,
I had an appointment to teach physics at Simmons College, Boston,
and in the meanwhile I had work as hand compositor at the Stetson
Press, Business was good and by working overtime the pay was
better than that for teaching. In August I took a few days vaca-
tion, during which I was married.

I had planned to teach in some preparatory school, but Dr.
Lyman sent me to Dr. L. L. Campbell at Simmons for an interview,
and the result was an appointment as instructor in physics. The
position proved interesting and also convenient for graduate work
at Harvard. Dr. Campbell was a great scholar and lecturer.
Whatever success I had as a physics teacher I owe to his guidance
and patience. By mid-year, 1930, I received my A.M. at Harvard
and by 1931 I was promoted to assistant professor of physics at
Simmons. I taught sophomore physics and for several years had
charge of this course for science majors. I was also given an
assignment to develop a course in physics for physical education
students at the Bouvé-Boston School of Physical Education, which
was affiliated with Simmons. I gave this course for ten years.

[750]

‘

a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

One of the most enjoyable years of our lives was 1931, when we
spent three summer months touring northern and western states
in a Model A Ford. We visited several national parks, camping out
in a small tent. We also visited a number of large universities.

While at Simmons, we lived in Dorchester and later in Milton
where we were active in Baptist churches. I also taught at the
Franklin Technical Institute evenings for a number of years. Dur-
ing several summers I assisted in research at the Massachusetts
Eye and Ear Infirmary sponsored by the Harvard Medical
School.

By 1942 administrative changes caused decreased enrollment in
the physics courses at Simmons and with the war on, I found a new
field of work at the Naval Reserve Laboratory in Washington. I
served as electronics engineer from 1942 until 1948 and as physicist
from 1948 to the present time. During the war I worked on
microwave radar. At present I am engaged on research projects
for the Optics Division. Since 1943 I have been stationed at the
Chesapeake Bay Annex of the Naval Research Laboratory where
the terrain is particularly suitable. for field experimentation in
connection with naval projects. Life by the waterfront is much
more pleasant during the hot summer months than it would be
in Washington, and we have been grateful for this assignment.
We live in government quarters on the bay.

As I look back over the past twenty-five years of life and
activity I realize that on the whole they have been very pleasant
years. I have had an opportunity to apply Specialized knowledge
received at Harvard both in teaching and in research. However,
the tempo of life in our generation has been rapid. We do not
go on weekend motor trips as much as we used to do in earlier
days. The roads are too crowded. Having experienced some

illness during the years, it seems to me that less complex living
with more out-of-door activity is to be desired. Our educational
programs are too intense. We try to accomplish so much in a
short time that, in the end, we produce less and quality is lacking.

THEODORE PEARSON

HOME ADDRESS: 215 E. 72nd St., New York 21, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 70 Broadway, New York 4, N. Y.

[751]

Ly

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

BoRN: July 7, 1903, Weston, Mass. parents: Henry Greenleaf Pearson, ’93,
Elizabeth Ware Winsor.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 19253 LL.B., 1928.

MarrieD: Louise Mott Sanford, Aug. 27, 1932, Tannersville, N. Y. cHipren:
Victoria Evans, July 16, 1934; Laura Louise, June 9, 1937; Theodore, Jr.,
Aug. 12, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Robert Winsor Pearson, °31; Henry Greenleaf Pearson,
Jr. 34

occupation: Lawyer; member of firm Rathbone, Perry, Kelley & Drye.

OFFICES HELD: Director and member executive committee, Metal Disintegrat-
ing Company, Inc., since 1945; director and treasurer, Onteora Club,
since 1937; director, vice-president, and counsel, Jacob A. Riis Neighbor-
hood Settlement, since 1944; director, United Neighborhood Houses,
Inc., since 1945; director and vice-president, 215 East 72nd Street Cor-
poration, since 1947.

MEMBER OF: Committee on Federal Legislation and Committee on Admis-
sions (past member), Association of the Bar of the City of New York;
New York State Bar Association; American Bar Association.

THE significant events (from my point of view) are those re-
corded above under “married” and “children,” plus the practice
of law since finishing law school. The process of living with
one’s own family I find both a pleasure and an active education,
shedding much light on an understanding of life in general and
one’s self in particular. Our home has been in Manhattan apart-
ments, with not too many moves. All three children go to day
schools in town.

The law may not be “the true embodiment of everything that’s
excellent” but its practice is indeed varied and absorbing. I have
been with the same firm since starting in; I spend most of my
time on tax and corporation law. The work has led to friends,
as have the non-bread-and-butter activities listed above. During
the war I became increasingly involved in the air warden service,
and from May, 1943, was zone commander of Zone B of the roth
precinct (the East Seventies from Fifth Avenue to the East
River). Daily contact with this complete cross-section of city
life gave me a profound respect for the amount of vigor it contains.

Politics has consisted of my being an involuntary Republican
on election day; church activities are practically zero; reading is
a rather complete daily dose of The New York Times. Hobbies
and avocations have suffered from lack of time and inclination,

[752 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

though there is some piano strumming for my own amusement
and the accompaniment of songful adults or the young (I com-
mend to you a self-selected slide trombone in the hands of a
nine-year-old boy). In the fall, winter, and spring we spend
most of our weekends at a small house in Sherman, Connecticut,
where our big occupation is the cooking, consuming, and clear-
ing up of meals. But for us as city-dwellers there are sky, wooded
hills, and grass at the door-step, and we all seem to love it.

WILLIAM BELA PECSOK

HOME ADDRESS: 10820 Carnegie Ave., Cleveland 6, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fidelity Bldg., Cleveland 14, Ohio.

BORN: May 10, 1903, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Paul Pecsok, Mary Nagy.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREES: S.B., 1925; LL.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Vera F. Sabow, Aug. 4, 1933, Youngstown, Ohio. cHmpREN: Paul-
ine, July 11, 1934; Thomas Peter, Jan. 25, 1938.

occuPATION: Private law practice.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Regional attorney, Office of Price Administra-

tion, 1942-45.
OFFICES HELD: Legal adviser to church and its afhliated organizations, mem-
ber Democratic executive committee, 1932-36.
MEMBER OF: Ohio and Cleveland Bar Associations; Council on World Af-
fairs; City Club; Citizen’s League; Masons.
AFTER graduation I continued at Harvard Law where it was
a privilege and pleasure to study under some more of Harvard’s
great teachers. I believe Harvard will remain great as long as it
manages to keep on its staff its customary number of unforget-
table, distinguished, and inspiring teachers and scholars. It was
tough and rough at the Law School. Except for the fact that
most men came there dangling Phi Beta Kappa keys (most of
which disappeared after the mid-term tests) it was my impres-
sion that the student body there did not, otherwise, measure up
to that at the College.

Everything looked promising for a while after I entered into
the private practice of the law in 1928. For a few years I took
an active part in politics. I happened to choose the Democrats
and for no particular reason except possibly because Professor
Taussig made me somewhat of a free-trader and because the
Democrats, who were long out of power in Cleveland, seemed

[ 753 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

much the cleaner party at the time. Then came the crash and
long years of deflation during which most of our worldly be-
longings, which were in real estate, melted away. Fortunately,
I was able to make a fairly good recovery by frugal living and
by eliminating just about everything from my budget but my
yearly payments to the 1925 endowment.

In 1933 I entered into a happy and very successful marriage
contract. We have two healthy and normal children, Pauline,
sixteen, and Tommy, twelve. I consider myself fortunate in
that my wife likes her home, is a marvelous cook, is satisfied
with keeping up with only some of the Joneses, and finally, but
not least, that I still thrill ac her proximity. We now find our
greatest enjoyment in taking family trips to different parts of
this great country of ours.

For the last three years of the war I interrupted my law prac-
tice to join the Office of Price Administration as regional attorney.
My principal assignment was to supervise price enforcement over
the petroleum and coal industries in Region V (Qhio, Michigan,
Indiana, Kentucky, West Virginia) in the performance of which
we easily led all other regions without ever being charged with
unfair procedures or tactics by anybody in the industry. O.P.A.,
of course, actually attempted to regulate every warp and woof
of our economic life. But situated as I was between the operating
staffs under me in the field and the policy-makers above me in
Washington, I often had tribulations of the mind and conscience
which might not have troubled me if I had not concentrated in
economics at Harvard. Verily, a fool is he who thinks that our
complex business life can be satisfactorily managed by govern-
ment, or that the sum total of the brains of a bureaucracy can
possibly equal the combined brain-power and initiative of mil-
lions of free and enterprising Americans.

Since I have already mentioned that I had been active in
Democratic politics to some extent, I shall make one more con-
fession —I worked for F.D.R.’s re-election in 1936, after I al-
rcady had some misgivings as to his stability. I venture to pre-
dict that F.D.R.’s advent will be regarded eventually as the be-
ginning of the eclipse of the great American middle class, Under
his reign there was provoked more than one phony Pearl Harbor
both in internal and foreign affairs. Our foreign affairs could

[754]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

not have been designed better to serve the purposes of Russia
and Communism, We now stand practically alone and literal]

blackmailed even by our friends, and shall probably be forced
to swallow our pride and solicit the help of our erstwhile recent
enemies, the Germans and the Japs, as our strongest outside de-
fenses. In our internal affairs the electorate has been corrupted
with bribes, deceived with enticing slogans, and subjected to an
increasing campaign to Europeanize this country. The social
welfare state, which had its beginnings and which ended so disas-
trously in Germany, is now being forced upon us. The tendency,
unfortunately, is to cater to, pamper, and encourage the multi-
plication of the unfit. Indeed, we might well heed the warning
of Mr. Justice Holmes who once wrote that socialism should not
ebe entitled to serious consideration “until it takes life in hand
and prevents the continuance of the unfit.” To continue much
longer or farther along the present road will result either in the
plundering of all who have a little more, or the emergence of a
military government, in which event personal and political liberty
will perish. One satisfaction that I can still derive from all this,
however, is that life will be exciting and challenging as long as
I live, and that the common sense of real Americans will resolve
all these problems. And now I can go home to enjoy my family
and be really happy that you will not have to send me “Goad
##6” demanding this Report.

CHARLES LAWRENCE PEIRSON

HOME ADDRESS: 62 Fairway Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.

OFFICE AppREsS: Russell, Berg & Co., 19 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 3, 1903, East Orange, N. J. parents: Abel Lawrence Peirson,
Mary Perkins Langmaid.

PREPARED AT: Montclair High School, Montclair, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: S.B., 1925; M.B.A., 1927.

MARRIED: Virginia Hoyt, Sept. 27, 1937, Marion, Mass. cuitpren: Patricia,
Nov. 10, 1938; Virginia, Jan. 30, 1940; Wendy, April 18, 1943; Marcia,
Dec. 13, 1946; Beverly, July 16, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Abel Lawrence Peirson, Jr., ’20.

OCCUPATION: Investment counsel.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered active service as lieutenant, U. S. Army,
December, 1942; stationed in Boston headquarters, First Service Com-
mand, December, ro42—April, 1945; assigned to Middle Pacific Com-

[755]

i 7 TP a aE a a TE TT Te NNN eM AR MR 07 crm Rieter Rees Tit nk PB RO ERROR TNE

HARVARD CLASS OF 192§
mand (Hq.), Oahu, Territory of Hawaii, July, 1945-January, 1946; sep-
arated as major, April, 1946.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; The Country Club, Brookline; Sep-
pican Club of Marion; Ski Club Hochgebirge.

AMY LIFE after graduation began pleasantly with a trip to Europe.
Then followed two years in the Business School and finally in
the fall of 1927, having put off work long enough, I started put-
ting my expensive university training to work, running errands
for a New York bank. It did not take me long to decide that
New York City was not for me and early in 1929 I went back
to Boston. I am still here and hope to remain.

My business career has all been in the financial end. At present
and for the major part I have been in that profession where you
try to help your clients hang on to as much of their money as.
possible in spite of Harry and his friends who want increasing
amounts of the stuff so that they can do for us more and more
of those things that we stupid citizens foolishly used to think
we could do better ourselves. It has been a tough battle and
current trends plus administration guidance makes me none too
optimistic. Nevertheless, I have a tremendous faith in our people
and feel sure that history will show that in the long run no
decisive problem is too difficult for this nation to solve. Pos-
sibly, in 1952, my record of never having voted for a winning
presidential candidate will be broken!

My domestic life for the past twenty-five years has been di-
vided up rather neatly, 50% as a bachelor and 50% as a benedict,
both of which periods I look back upon with pleasure. As for
the first period, I think I made a fair success of it and apparently
was content to continue. I have always been lucky, however; it
happened and in 1937 I was married.

At the time I gave no thought to the future of Harvard foot-
ball. Had I foreseen the present sad state of affairs I am not sure
I could have planned on any future assistance. At any rate, as
things have turned out I am not going to be able to help much;
our five children are all girls. Two will go to the Reunion and
the third, under the age limit, already thinks very little of the

name of Higgins.

My two most active hobbies have been golf and skiing. My
skiing started in 1930 when all addicts were considered crazy.

[756]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

At that time, possibly to get out of the clutches of Boston debu-
tantes, a few other bachelors and I began to spend most of our
weekends on deserted New Hampshire and Vermont hills. We
talked too much about the sport, I guess, and now look at it. I
sometimes wish we had kept quiet. The early years were won-
derful. I used to play a lot of golf in my school and college
days but later got away from it. Today, however, I am back
at it again enthusiastically and although yearly my game gets
worse, each spring I look forward hopefully to a year of im-
provement. Since January, 1948, I have had the honor of serv-
ing on the executive committee of the United States Golf Asso-
ciation, the governing body of golf. This has been an interesting
and refreshing experience.

BOIES PENROSE

HOME ADDRESS: Barbados Hill, Devon, Pa.

BoRN: Nov. 20, 1902, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Charles Bingham Penrose,
Katherine Drexel.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1925.

MarRiED: Frances Winslow Kemble, Dec. 21, 1925, Marblehead, Mass. (di-
vorced 1936); Helen Hunter (Dudley), April 18, 1945, New York, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Frances Drexel, Oct. 16, 1926; Charles Bingham Boies, Oct. 31,
1928.

HARVARD SON: Charles Bingham Boies Penrose, ’50.

occupation: Independent.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned 2nd lieutenant, Air Corps, April
13, 1942; transferred to Military Intelligence, Dec. 19, 1942; honorably
discharged, captain, Jan. 29, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Historical Society of Pennsylvania, since 1948;
member of the board, Zoological Society of Philadelphia, since 1938;
fellow, Royal Geographical Society, since 1932.

MEMBER OF: Philadelphia Club; Grolier Club of New York; Club of Odd

- Volumes, Boston.

PUBLICATIONS: The Sherleian Odyssey, London, 1938; Urbane Travellers,
Philadelphia, 1942; edited The Travels of Captain Robert Coverte,
Philadelphia, 1931.

I HAVE suffered too much from chronic dilettanteism and
equally chronic Anglomania to be able to write an Horatio
Alger success story. During the decade or more before the late
Armageddon I sought to satisfy both weaknesses by serving half

[757]

| | } |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

of each year as curator of prints and drawings at the Philadelphia
Museum of Art, and by living the other half in a Georgian
rectory in Somersetshire. The latter mode of existence was cer-
tainly the pleasanter of the two and I was able to flourish with
some success in a little make-believe world of the eighteenth
century. From this strangely artificial existence I made two
forays into public life: in 1936 and again in 1939 I ran on the
Republican ticket for Congress from the Fourth Pennsylvania
District. In the former election I partook of the sorrows of
poor Alf Landon; in the second, I almost got in. Whether the
human race is the poorer for my political defeats must remain
one of the unsolved riddles of history; in any case my experi-
ences dampened my ardor for further efforts in that direction.

Meanwhile, events in Europe had abruptly put an end to my
attempt to imitate Squire Allworthy’s way of life, and I soon
found myself hard at work with the William Allen White Com-
mittee, on street corners, in subway stations, and other unsavory
places. After we got into the war, I joined the Army and spent
most of 1942 exiled at various airfields in the dust bowl, where
I kept up my morale by reading Gibbon’s Decline and Fall. I
was later transferred to the Pentagon, where, with the exception
of a mission to Algiers in the fall of 1943, I fought the rest of
the war. My principal job therein was working on the British
order of battle for the Operations Division for which I was con-
sidered qualified as I had seen the changing of the Guard at
Buckingham Palace. 1 was discharged in January, 1945. Since
then I have remarried and have lived quietly outside Philadelphia,
with summers in England.

My chief extra-curricular interest of the past quarter-century
has been the history of travel and discovery in the Renaissance.
I have written two books on the subject, as well as various
articles, and I have assembled a fair number of volumes con-
nected with the field —although it would savor of ostentation
to call so heterogeneous a collection a library. During the past
three years I have been working away at my magnum opus,
which seems no nearer completion than when I started. How-
ever, this very feature gives me hope of having a constant
source of diversion in my declining years.

My principal Harvard connection in recent times has been my

[758]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

membership on the Visiting Committee for the University
Library.

RANDOLPH HIGHT PERRY

HOME ADDRESS: 6 High St., Ballardvale, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: S. S. Pierce Co., 133 Brookline Ave., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 3, 1905, Winthrop, Mass, parents: Edwin Elden Perry,’ 99, Sarah
Elizabeth Hight.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: IQ2I-192§. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Evelyn Margaret Elliott, June 11, 1935, Malone, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Evelyn Margaret, Oct. 7, 1936; Anne Elizabeth, May 25, 1939, Ruth
Watson and Patricia Elliott (twins), March 8, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Norris Perry, ’37.

occupation: Label buyer (buyer of labels, containers, and other packaging
material used on S. S. Pierce private brands).

WHAT IT have ever really done for Harvard is very obscure,

but there isn’t the slightest question in my mind as to how

much Harvard has done for me. Next to my wife, it is the
factor affording deepest satisfaction.

Through my father, I got to know some phases of Harvard
quite early. I have walked from the Allston station to the
stadium, prior to the Cambridge tunnel, and trembled over the
wooden bridge that preceded the Larz Anderson. I remember
seeing Coy of Yale kick two field goals once, and win for them
by 8 to o; but what is more, I remember seeing Haughton’s men
defeat Michigan by 27 to 7 (I believe it was) and, if I remember
rightly, we used the second team in the second half! Sic transit —.

I was privileged in 1924 to attend that 25th Reunion as a son,
and that is one reason for looking forward eagerly to this June.
They gave us children a wonderful time. I hope we can do as
well, although it appalls me to think that we are now as old as
they seemed then. .

After graduation I followed my late father’s example and
began commuting from Andover to Boston. In this manner I
have travelled about 360,000 miles—so far. After eight years
with the Walworth Company, I went to work for S. S. Pierce
Company in May, 1933, and, in a very real sense, have enjoyed
continuous employment with them ever since. Not being a pol-
icy-maker, perhaps I may be permitted to suggest that this com-

[759]

titel SN NR NR Re Re sige cess pct ie

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

pany seems to have applied the spirit of Harvard in the grocery
business. In employee relations, customer service, and quality
maintenance, they are indeed “the herald of light and the giver
of love.”

After a delay of ten years, I was married in 1935, and since
then life has truly unfolded. We have four daughters, a home in
the country, and have time and inclination to enjoy each other
and a sizable group of friendly neighbors in this rather cozy
and companionable neighborhood. Gardening, and cutting and
hauling hard wood for the kitchen range take the place of golf
and tennis. All of the family is active in the local Congregational
church. We have in the village an original sort of discussion
group, now in its sixth season, and embracing many political
faiths, types of vocation, background, etc. Meeting at least
every two weeks, we are discovering that all are Americans,
and have much in common, despite widely divergent political
and social theories. For myself, I have never voted for anyone
but a Republican for anything up to now; nor have I different
plans for the future.

For the glimpses at excellence which we were all afforded,
during the years between our first obtaining of the Bursar’s card
in the long line at Memorial Hall, and the Baccalaureate service
under Bishop Lawrence, I am profoundly grateful. Perhaps
someday I shall exhume the talent, and really put it to work.
Perhaps someday some grandsons — !

MAYNARD PETKUN

HOME aporess: 135 Kirkstall Rd. Newtonville 60, Mass.

orice aporess: Allen Furniture Co., 2 Robert St., Roslindale 31, Mass.

BorN: Oct. 23, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: James Petkun, Jennie Rosenthal.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925, DEGREES: 8.8. cum laude, 1925; LL.B., 1928.

mazairep: Muriel Billow, Dec. 24, 1944, Boston, Mass. cHitpreN: Robert L.,
Jan. 19, 1946, David S., April 20, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Bertram Allen Petkun, '28.

occupation: Retail furniture merchant; president, Allen Furniture Company.

Memnea or; Moses Michacl Hays Lodge A.F. & A.M.

MY LIFE since college and law school has been about equally
divided between the practice of law and the retailing of furniture.

[ 760 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I practised law in the city of Boston from 1928 to 1939, when I
went into the retail furniture business with one of my brothers.

CHARLES PARSONS PETTUS, JR.

HOME appress: 118 N. Bemiston Ave., Clayton 5, Mo.

OFFICE appREss: A. G. Edwards & Sons, 8015 Forsyth St., Clayton 5, Mo.

BORN: Oct. 20, 1903, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Charles Parsons Pettus, Georgia
Austin Wright.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923. DEGREES: A.B. (Washington Univ., Mo.), 1926;
s.M. (Harvard Univ.), 1931.

MARRIED: Stella Robertson Cartwright, June 12, 1937, St. Louis, Mo, cuz:
Georgia Cartwright (adopted), September, 1949.

occupATION: Stock broker.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Mechanical Engineers; Tau Beta Pi; Pi Mu
Epsilon.

FREDERICK GODDARD PIERCE

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Riverview Terr., Springfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: N.E.T. & T. Co., 295 Worthington St., Springfield, Mass.

BORN: March 21, 1904, Worcester, Mass. parents: Harry Lincoln Pierce,
Grace Goddard.

PREPARED AT: High School, Shrewsbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Graham, Oct. 27, 1928, Pawtucket, R. I. camp: Graham
Towle, July 22, 1930.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harrison Hanson Pierce, ’30.

occupation: Division commercial supervisor.

OFFICES HELD: Director, C. C. Lowell Company, Inc., Worcester, Mass., 1940;
vice-chairman, Districts Division, Boston Community Fund, 1937-38.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Connecticut Valley; University Club; Ex-

change Club; Springfield Sportsman’s Club, Inc.

DIRECTLY after graduation I entered the employ of the New
England Telephone and Telegraph Company in the Commercial
Department. The association with this company has been a very
pleasant one from my viewpoint. Activities in the business have
had to do with business office operations and our contacts with
the public. For most of the time I have been located in Provi-
dence, Rhode Island, Boston and Springfield, Massachusetts.

For the past nineteen years our greatest pleasure has been our
son, who is now a sophomore at Colby College in Waterville,

[ 761 ]

ee ET RTS Hee RRR ERP ME HrIE i teresa AL eT NRT, Rey

XY

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Maine. He had four years at Wilbraham Academy before college.
I was somewhat disappointed when he came to me in May, 1948,
and told me he wanted to go to Colby rather than to Harvard,
but I felt that the decision should be his and not mine. He ts
very enthusiastic about his courses, which are tending towards
a major in business administration, his fraternity (Phi Delta
Theta), and a very attractive coed in his class.

My hobbies are fly fishing for trout and bird shooting. I have
plenty of opportunities for both in western Massachusetts and
spend an occasional vacation in the fall fishing at Pleasant Island,
Maine.

As the years roll by, I am concerned with the increasing de-
pendence of our country and the world on government. It ap-
pears to me that the trend towards socialism must be changed
before we get to a point from which we cannot retreat. We have
the problem of teaching people the wisdom of some of the time-
honored virtues of thrift, industry, self-reliance, initiative, and
generosity, rather than always appearing to give somebody some-
thing for nothing. I think this is too much to expect politicians
to do until they find that such a course is popular. We probably
must look for results from the training received in the home,
schools, and churches, with particular emphasis on molding the
viewpoint of our youth.

BERNARD PINCUS

ADDRESS: 6020 St. Charles Ave., New Orleans, La.

BORN: June 6, 1904, Woodbine, N. J. Parents: Joseph William Pincus,
Elizabeth Lipman.

PREPARED AT: Morris High School, New York, N. Y.

‘ YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1926.

MARRIED: 1927, Atlantic City, N. J. CHILDREN: Andrew Lewis, July 14, 19305
Patricia Ann, May 4, 1932.

OCCUPATION: Mercantile business.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Pin-
cus did not return a questionnaire.

ALDEN STONE PINKHAM

HOME ADDRESS: 100 Meredith Circle, Milton, Mass,
OFFIcE Appress: National Cash Register Co., 151 Broad St., Providence, R. I.

[ 762 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Sept. 1, 1903, Wollaston, Mass. parents: Walter Samuel Pinkham, ’87,
Isabelle Southworth Foote.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE! A.B., 1925.

marrieD: Marie B. Arnold, June 25, 1925, Boston, Mass. (deceased); Mrs.
Florence N. (Mead) Reed, Feb. 15, 1932, Quincy, Mass. CHILDREN: Rosa-
mund S., Nov. 9, 1926 (m. Louis A. Tonry, June 15, 1946); Alice A.,
April 24, 1928 (m. Donald K. Grose, Feb. 11, 1947); Warren N. Reed
(stepchild), July 24, 1923 (m. Viola Carlson, April 21, 1946). GRAND-
CHILDREN: Susan P. Tonry, Dec. 27, 1948, Karen Grose, Nov. 14, 1947.

occuPATION: Manager, accounting machine sales in Rhode Island, National
Cash Register Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant S.C., U. S. Naval Re-
serve, May, 1942; initial duty at Naval Torpedo Station, Newport; east
coast co-ordinator in installing new Navy pay system, 1944 (covering
area from Key West and Corpus Christi to Argentia, Newfoundland);
senior assistant to District Supply Officer, First Naval District; commis-
sioned lieutenant commander, October, 1944, commander, December,
1945; returned to inactive duty, November, 1946.

MEMBER OF: Union Boat Club, Boston; Blue Hills Country Club; University
Club of Boston; National Association of Cost Accountants; National
Office Managers Association; Reserve Officers Association of the United
States.

IMMEDIATELY after my, marriage in June, 1925, I went to
Dayton, Ohio, to learn something of the cash register business.
I started in the office training school of the National Cash Register
Company on July 6th, 1925. About November rst, 1925, 1 was
sent to Washington, D. C., as a junior accounting machine sales-
man. Both my girls were born in Washington, D. C. A few
weeks after the birth of my second child, my wife was taken
ill and never recovered. In March, 1929, I returned to Boston
as a senior accounting machine salesman for the company. Soon
after that I met my present wife and as I look back I realize
how fortunate I was to find at the same time a devoted wife
and a mother for my children.

Early in 1942 I went in the Navy and my stepson, Warren,
enlisted in the Army. As the war ended, I was stationed in
Boston. For a few weeks my family was together again, Then
Warren was married; two months later Rosamund was married,
and Alice was married the following winter. Now my wife and
I are by ourselves, but when the children come to see us on
Sundays and holidays, we have six children and two grand-
children.

[ 763 ]

te

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

I now drive to Providence, Rhode Island, every day as the
company gave me the job of Accounting Machine Manager for
Rhode Island when I returned to civilian life late in 1946.

I still play a little squash in the winter and golf every Sunday
when the weather permits. I vote Republican and occasionall
go to hear Dr. Pomeroy at the Unitarian church in Milton. My
wife and I have had a few wonderful trips together and now,
with our family grown, we are looking forward to the day
when we can spend a good part of our time travelling all over
the world.

HENRY STANLEY PINKHAM °

HOME ADDRESS: 11 Copley St., Newton 58, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: R, M. Bradley & Co., Inc., 250 Boylston St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: Feb. 8, 1900, Dorchester, Mass. pareNTs: Henry Brown Pinkham,
Florence Louise Dunham. '

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.; Noble and Greenough
School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1923.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Real estate.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served with Battery “A,” rorst Field Artillery,
Massachusetts National Guard, 1930-36.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Civilian Air Raid Defense.

OFFICES HELD: Associated with Boston Council of Boy Scouts.

MEMBER OF: Union Boat Club, Boston; Beverly Yacht Club; Harvard Musi-
cal Association; Apollo Club, Boston.

AFTER leaving college, my first job was at the Wood Worsted
Mills in Lawrence, Massachusetts, where I undertook to lear
the wool business from the bottom up. However, in this instance,
I began on the top floor sorting wool from all the wool growing
sections of the world.

I remained at the mills about three and one-half years, follow-
ing the various processes of worsted manufacturing with the
hope that soon I would come back to Boston and get into the
wool trade. At this time there seemed to be no opening in Boston,
and, with the mills running on half-time, I decided to make a
change.

In May, 1928, I joined the staff of Hayes & Read, Boston real
estate brokers, and set out to make my fortune. The stock market

[ 764 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

crash soon slowed things up a bit, but we weathered it out and
in 1936, merged with R. M. Bradley & Company, Inc. I might
add that this company covers all branches of real estate, including
property management in several key cities of the United States,
ie. New York, Chicago, Duluth, Superior, Minneapolis, St.
Paul, Seattle, and Boston and its suburbs.

I seem to find time for several hobbies including gardening,
sailing, tennis, squash, skiing, and some choral singing.

HENRY ADAMS PLIMPTON

HOME ADDRESS: 35 Gammons Rd., Waban 68, Mass.

oFFIcE appress: Columbian National Life Insurance Co. 77 Franklin St,
Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Sept. 7, 1902, East Brookfield, Mass. parents: Henry Richardson
Plimpton, Edith Alden Hall.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Ida May Lane, June 30, 1938, Medford, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Actuary.

OFFICES HELD: Actuary, 1937-46, Vice-president and actuary, since 1946,
Columbian National Life Insurance Company.

MEMBER OF: Society of Actuaries, Mangus Club, Wellesley, Mass.,; Waban
Neighborhood Club.

AFTER graduation I considered further study at the Harvard
Business School, but decided instead to use my mathematical
training to become an actuary. The Society of Actuaries (for-
merly the Actuarial Society of America and the American In-
stitute of Actuaries) set a series of exams, the first part being
mathematics, the next part applying mathematics to contingencies
of life, and later parts covering the theory and practice of the
problems of life insurance.

I went to work in the actuarial department of the New Eng-
land Mutual Life Insurance Company in Boston and passed the
earlier exams, becoming an associate member of the society.

In 1937 I accepted the position of actuary for the Columbian
National Life Insurance Company of Boston. I became vice-
president of this company in 1946. Trying to keep up with the
changes in insurance practice and theory leaves little time for
hobbies or outside activities.

[765 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

MORRIS PLOSCOWE

HOME ADDRESS: 125 Riverside Drive, New York 24, N. Y.

OFFICE appress: Magistrates’ Courts, roo Centre St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 25, 1904, Minsk, Russia. PARENTS: Harry Ploscowe, Anna Bere-
zinsk.

PREPARED AT: Mfanual Training High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1925; LL.B., 1928,

marrieD: Zelma A. Friedman, July 1, 1931, New York, N. Y. cumpren:
Deborah Joan, Nov. 5, 1934; Bernard Lewis, Oct. 22, 1940.

occupation: City Magistrate (judge).

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Trained G.I.’s in criminal investigation work
for European area, University of Minnesota, 1944-45.

OFFICES HELD: City Magistrate, since 1945; chief clerk, Court of Special Ses-
sions, 1939-45; deputy commissioner of investigation, New York, N. Y,,
1938-39; consultant to various crime commissions and governmental
research organizations, 1930-38.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar; Citizens Committee on Children; Ameri-
can Prison Association; National Probation Association.

PuBLICATIONS: Crime and the Criminal Law, 1939; Report on Causes of Crime,
National Commission on Law Observance and Enforcement (Wicker-
sham Committee); Ten years of Sex Crime in New York City; numerous
articles on crime and related subjects in Journal of Criminal Law, Har-
vard Law Review, Yale, Michigan, and Georgetown Law Reviews, etc.

I AM still trying to decide whether crime does or does not pay.
Had I not entered Dean Pound’s office to inquire about a travel-
ling fellowship in my last year at Law School, I might have been
just another real estate lawyer. But I was intersted in crime and
Roscoe Pound awarded the fellowship to me for the study of
criminology and methods of administering the criminal law in
France, Germany, and Italy. I returned to this country in 1930
to find the Wickersham Commission struggling with Prohibition
and problems of crime. I became one of its consultants and
wrote two of its published reports. Thereafter, until 1937, life
was one research study after another for such organizations as
the Social Science Research Council, the Massachusetts Crime
Commission, the Committee on Government Statistics, the Liquor
Study Committee, the U. S. Census Bureau, the New Jersey
Juvenile Delinquency Commission, and the Boys’ Clubs of
America.

In 1938 I became Deputy Commissioner of Investigation of the
City of New York. This position took me into every facet of

[ 766 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

municipal government and administration. I was able to apply
some of the half-forgotten notions of municipal administration
which I learned from Professor Monro in Government 17. In
1939, as a result of one of LaGuardia’s brainstorms, | was ap-
pointed the chief administrative officer of the Court of Special
Sessions, one of New York City’s criminal courts. Although tied
to an administrative job, I still continue researching and fact-
finding in such areas as sex crime, juvenile delinquency, and re-
lief administration. In 1944 I answered an emergency call from
the University of Minnesota to help train G.L’s for criminal in-
vestigation work in the European area. Shortly after I came back
to New York, I became assistant to the Commissioner in the
Department of Welfare, as well as continuing my job in the
Court of Special Sessions. Mayor LaGuardia appointed me a
Magistrate in November, 1945. |

Now I am a judge, where formerly I was a researcher. | don’t
know which is worse, to write reports that gather dust on
library shelves or to file away individuals to gather dust in our
outmoded penal institutions. In any event, I am finding it more
difficult to administer justice in a great city, than to write about
it and tell others how it should be done. There are times when
I come home nights, look at myself in the mirror and say: “So
you wanted to be a judge.”

PARKER FRANCIS POND

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Crystal St., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., 200 Berkeley St.,
Boston, Mass.

BORN: May 10, 1904, Neponset, Mass. parents: Walter Rice Pond, Milla
Hartwell Temple.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

mMarRiED: Marion Jones, June 3, 1933, Albany, N. Y. cmp: Parker Francis,
Jr., Oct. 12, 1934.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Thomas Temple Pond, ’21; Hartwell Pond, °23.

occuPATION: Life insurance.

FOR the first year after graduation I worked in the printing
business in Providence. I then went to work for George Batch-
elder and Babe Felton, both in the Class of 1919, in the coal

[ 767] ,

HARVARD CLASS OF [925

business. During that particular period my friends and classmates
were doing very well for themselves in the financial business,
The lure was too much for me and I went into the investment
business on October 8, 1929. I must have been the shadow of
things to come as, three weeks later, they pulled the plug that
started the depression.

I have always felt grateful that I held my job during the
depression. I was still in the financial business when I got en-
gaged in February, 1933, and was married in June of that year.
Between February and June you will recall Mr. Roosevelt was
inaugurated and one of his first official acts was to close the
banks and, incidentally, the stock market.

In 1936 I went to work for a small finance company that
brought me into contact with the insurance business and in 1939
I joined up with an insurance company. In the spring of 1940
I was sent by this company to Nashville, Tennessee. That was
the reason I could not attend our Fifteenth Reunion. For three
months I had my family with me but for the next nine months
I stayed in Nashville while my family was in Newton. This long
absence from my family was just about the bitterest pill I have
ever had to swallow. On April 1, 1941, I went with the Group
Department of the John Hancock and have been very happy
in this field.

Many of our classmates who were in the armed forces had an
opportunity to see a lot of the world. Although the only uniform
I have worn was with Battery A of the National Guard, I have
had some interesting trips. Immediately after graduation I
worked my way to Europe feeding and watering cattle. I saw
quite a bit of Europe before coming home. Three years later I
went to Henley, England, with the Union Boat Club. This trip
was undoubtedly the highlight of my life as, on the boat coming
home, I met the girl I subsequently married.

My first trip for the Hancock was to Honolulu. I spent six
wecks there just before Pearl Harbor. It was fine seeing Pie
Austin and his wife there. There have been other interesting
trips that have taken me to various parts of this country. Just
this last June I had a very interesting visit with Walter Milde
in Cleveland,

In 1937 we bought a house in Newton Center near Crystal

[ 768 ]

| | ;

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Lake and we have lived there ever since. Near neighbors are
Bill Ripley and Nip Cordingley. Heinie Dunker lived just around
the corner for two years. We have become quite interested in
civic affairs having been mixed up in the annual Community
‘Chest drives and the various other drives as they came along.
During the war I was an air raid warden. My wife is on the
Ward 6 Republican Committee and in the last city election 1
was a precinct chairman. The one civic effort I got the most
kick from is the Improvement Association of which, at the
moment, I am the president. Last fall I had the job of being
chairman of the Halloween Committee for all Newton School
parties.

Politically, I have always voted Republican. However, lately
I am getting more and more disturbed at the inadequacy of the
Republican program and the apparent attitude that the Repub-
licans can run the New Deal better than the Democrats. By
the same token I am becoming very much interested in the
possibility of a Conservative Party that would be made up of
the Southern Democrats and Republicans. Such a coalition
could possibly reverse the trend of liberal spending that is going
on today. I am very much worried about the way things are
going now.
- Weekends and vacations we spend at the family camp at
Bloody Pond in the Plymouth woods. There is always something
needing fixing and I love to putter about the place. Otherwise
we live a typical suburban life with our son who is in Newton
High School. He should be ready to enter Harvard in the fall of

1952.

HALFORD JEWELL POPE

HOME ADDRESS: 2 Wakeman PI., Larchmont, N. Y.

OFFIcE AppRrEss: Union Carbide & Carbon Corp, 30 E. 42nd St., New York,
N.Y.

BORN: Aug. 24, 1903, Kansas City, Mo. PaRENTs: Horace Gersham Pope,
Aileen Jewell Pope.

PREPARED AT: Westport High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 1925; M.B.A, 1927.

MarRRIED: Lois Marshall, Sept. 28, 1929. Niagara Falls, N. Y. cepren: Lois
Anne, Oct. 31, 1932; James Marshall, Feb. 26, 1939.

[ 769 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

OCCUPATION: Accountant.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, since 1948; various offices in
Presbyterian Church and in Boy Scouts.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

I DON’T know that I would ever have got around to this write-
up if a sore throat had not required a day in bed, thus giving
the leisure time.

After graduation from Harvard Business School in 1927, I
spent six months travelling and working in Europe. A classmate
from Stanford and I bought a six-horsepower Renault in Paris,
For the next several months we toured in France, Italy, Austria,
and other countries. In Paris | obtained a job for two months
at the Bankers Trust branch. My future wife, Lois Marshall,
Wellesley ’27, arrived with her mother en route to Florence,
and we saw the town.

Upon return to New York in November, 1927, I worked at
Irving Trust Company, Ipswich Mills, and, in November, 1928,
started with Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation with whom
I have been ever since. .

After marriage in September, 1929, we lived in Cleveland,
New York, and from 1932 to 1941 in Birmingham, Alabama.
We found the South to be very pleasant and friendly. Our two
red-haired children were born in Birmingham. Grits, black-eyed
peas, and mustard greens became an integral part of our diet.

Upon transfer to the New York home office in December, 1941,
we located in Larchmont, New York, a suburb on Long Island
Sound in Westchester County. It was a welcome surprise to
find Ted Tuck and Allen Thompson of 1925 already living here.

War experience comprised fighting the battle of priorities, de-
veloping systems for accumulating the data necessary to obtain
and execute priority ratings.

A constant struggle is being engaged in to improve our sales
and plant accounting systems to achieve simplification and econo-
mies necessary in these days of high taxes and costs. After
working on “systems” for twenty-one years, I have yet to see
a perfect one. There is always something that can be devised
that will be better, which is what makes it interesting.

In retrospect, life since June, 1925, has been of relatively even
tenor, typically middle class in scope. However, now that taxes

[770 ]

~

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

take 30% or so of the national income with prospects of large
increases engineered by our Democratic Santa Clauses, prospects
for the more ascetic life, as in England, seem too close for com-
fort. I view with alarm but still with hope.

WILLIAM WOODS PORTER II

HOME AppREss: 244 S, Gramercy Pl., Los Angeles 4, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 21, 1904, Denver, Colo. parents: Miller Bennett Porter, ’97,
Bertha Day Bartram Bonsall.

PREPARED AT: East Denver High School, Denver, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude, 1925 (24); A.M.,
1925.

MarrieD: Lillian Lowther, Sept. 5, 1934, Beverly Hills, Calif. aazp: William
Woods, 3d, May 19, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Geologist.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Prepared estimates of oil and gas reserves of
California, Petroleum Administration for War.

OFFICES HELD: First chairman and organizer, Pacific Petroleum Chapter,
Petroleum Branch of American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical
Engineers in California, member national executive committee, Pe-
troleum Branch, A.I.MLE.

MEMBER OF: American Association of Petroleum Geologists; American In-
stitute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers; Seismological Society of
America (life member); Phi Delta Theta; University Club of Los
Angeles; Petroleum Club of Los Angeles.

PUBLICATIONS: Practical Geology of Oil, 1938; about twenty articles on
geology, oil economics, petroleum engineering, Central American
poisonous snakes, etc.

I SPENT the summer after graduation in Europe; then came to
California for a few months and shortly went to Mexico as a
geologist for the Standard Oil Company of Indiana. After two
years I returned to California as geologist for the Western Gulf
Oil Company until everything went to hell in 1931. Geological
exploration is expensive but pays off in the future, consequently
there was smal] demand for my services. I got through the de-
pression by such assorted enterprises as selling real estate and
insurance, working on wells I had previously located, making
animated cartoons and writing music for a movie, printing movies
at Paramount, and what-not until finally, doing geology in my
Spare time, I made a deal with somebody to drill and they got
some oil——not much, but it didn’t take much royalty in the

[771 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

early thirties to live. I have continued as an independent geologist
doing consulting work in California, Texas, and Canada (1938
and 1948-49), Costa Rica (1938), Philippines (1940), and South
America (1945). I have also acted as vice-president and director
of various companies for clients. Otherwise I am working on
projects of my own, some of which are O.K.

In our spare time we have been doing some building and are
gradually developing some land in the desert foothills of the
San Gabriel Mountains into what will soon be a comfortable
country place known as the Blue Shirt Ranch. My present pro-
gram is to spend more and more time there.

ALBERT WOOD POTTS

HOME ADDRESS: 1135 Michigan Ave., Evanston, Ill.

OFFICE ADDREss: Winston, Strawn, Shaw & Black, 38 S. Dearborn St., Chi-
cago 3, Ill.

BORN: Match 9, 1901, Pekin, Ill. parents: William Albert Potts, Ruth Wood
Pierce.

PREPARED AT: Township High School, Pekin, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREES: 8.B., 1925; J.D. (Northwestern Univ.),
1929.

Mannreo. Margaret Tilton Hack, Oct. 30, 1930, Evanston, Ill, crepren:
Albert Wood, Jr., June 27, 1932; Margaret Joan, Feb. 9, 1935.

occuPaTION: Attorney-at-law.

MEMBER OF: Phi Alpha Delta; University Club of Chicago; Mid-day Club;
Caxton Club; Chicago Law Institute; Chicago and American Bar Asso-
ciations.

IT SEEMS to me that my twenty-five years have been principally

devoted to an unspectacular practice of the law. They have

been exceedingly pleasant and interesting years, marked by what

I consider to be exceptional good fortune.

Very high among my events of good fortune I would put

my marriage in 1930 to Margaret T. Hack (Wellesley ’28).

Upon finishing law school in 1929 I began practice with my
father in downstate Illinois. In 1931 I became associated with

the law firm of Winston, Strawn & Shaw in Chicago, where I

have been ever since. I have held no public office, and while

my literary production is considerable, it is limited to day-to-
day legal requirements. I have found the practice of law en-
grossing, stimulating and rewarding, and it has afforded a great

(772 ]

rr

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

many very enjoyable and interesting experiences and associations,

My son will be ready for college in the fall of 1950, and with-
out parental urging he has chosen Harvard. Giving consideration
to all of the criticisms old and new, to the changes in the field
of education, and to the problems and circumstances of modern
living, I think he has selected the best of all colleges.

Referring particularly to some of the suggested topics I say
simply that the tenets of Congregationalism are still sufficient for
my purposes, and that I have been very much out of sympathy
with the philosophy which has dominated the political, social,
and economic thinking of the national administration which has
been in office during most of my professional life —a philosophy
which in my opinion can create only a society where the in-
dividual has little of either dignity or integrity.

My principal hobby consists of everything relating to books —
printing, binding, collecting, reading, etc. I suspect that my
interest is to some extent the result of former part-time employ-
ment in Widener.

Reviewing the happenings since graduation, I take this occa-
sion to recall the death on January 20, 1930, of Bill Sleeper, one
of my Stoughton Hall roommates. I mention it because I con-
tinued a close association with him and felt his death very keenly.
Some of my classmates will remember that Bill went on to Busi-
ness School, was an editor of the Business Review, and after
graduation became associated with the Royal Baking Powder
Company in its New York office. In the short time before his
death he had already established himself in the field of accounting
and showed tremendous promise. He was a great friend and
one of the finest gentlemen I have known.

+» ALEXANDER KYLE POWELL

BorN: Dec. 24, 1902, Fort Worth, Texas. parents: Thomas Jefferson Powell,
Julia Ellen Hogg.

PREPARED AT: Allen-Chalmers School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922.

MARRIED: Laura Louise Jones, June 18, 1929, El Paso, Texas.

piep: April 18, 1949, El Paso, Texas.

wivow: Mrs, Alexander Kyle Powell, 1820 Montana St., El Paso, Texas.

[773]

PORES ote

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

ALEXANDER KYLE POWELL entered Harvard after prepara-
tory studies at the Allen-Chalmers School. He remained with the
Class for just one year, returning to Texas for his health in June,
1922. During his freshman year, however, he was a member of the
Freshman Football Squad. He became associated with the E] Paso
Health Department in 1927, where he remained as statistician in
charge of vital statistics for the FE] Paso City-County Health Unit
until the time of his death. His wife survived him.

EDWARD ALEXANDER POWELL, III

HOME appress: Newtown Turnpike, Westport, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., 1 Madison Ave., New York,
N.Y.

BORN: May 14, 1903, Syracuse, N. Y. parENTs: Edward Alexander Powell,
Jessie Northrup.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

marriED: Muriel Damon, Oct. 11, 1926, New York, N. Y. cHmpren: Muriel
MacCammon, Oct. 21, 1928; Pamela Damon, March 9, 1931.

occuPaTION: Assistant manager of real estate sales and purchases, city mort-
gages, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.

AFTER receiving five pithy, pungent, and well-merited “Goads”
from our long-suffering and bedeviled Class Report chairman, I
am finally beaten down and succumb wearily to his pleadings
for a “good, full autobiography.”

Not that I have anything to conceal, or that I am especially
lackadaisical — merely that I have so little of real interest to
report. A year out of college I married; these days that is con-
sider rather “late in life.” At due intervals my good wife pro-
duced two children who turned out to be healthy (thank God)
and attractive (thank Fortune). Being ladies they could not be
candidates for admission to Harvard except under President
Conant’s concept of “joint education,” which appealed to them
not at all, So they went to a southern university where the male
undergraduates are removed, somewhat inconveniently at times,
seventy-five miles.

Now, “the job.” For twenty-one years I have been with my
present company, which entitles me to the exalted status of
veteran and where during the day I talk in terms of millions as

[774]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

casually as I discuss dimes at home. Despite the fact that there
is no great material wealth in prospect in the foreseeable future,
my employer provides me with a reasonably good living; more-
over his mahogany is solid, his money sound, and his luncheons
savory.

The home —aye, there’s the rub. Being in the real estate
business I, like the shoemaker’s child, have become virtually home-
less! As tenants with no particular desire for home ownership
we led a semi-bucolic and peaceful existence in what was for-
merly “the Connecticut countryside” until some three years ago,
when the blow struck: the owner wanted his house back so out
we went. With no unfurnished houses available, cliff dwellers
pouring out from the city, and property consequently selling at
the fantastic prices which reached their peak a year ago, we
moved our /ares and penates into storage and ourselves into a
“furnished winter rental,” which has been succeeded by several
others (fortunately our summers were taken care of). And let
me here go on record re certain suburban property owners:
the James boys, those tyros, could have profited greatly by study-
ing their technique! But to avoid acrimony and conclude this
section on a happier note: through all our peregrinations my
good helpmeet (what an intriguing word) bore up stoically and
took it like the good sport she is, a word I abhor but which is
the height of something-or-other to her. More power, and less
moving about, to her.

Perhaps my only real departure from Fairfield County ortho-

doxy has been along political lines. Yes, I must confess I deserted
the G.O.P. back a generation ago (or so it seems) and supported
the presidential candidacies of one of our fellow-alumni. Despite,
or possibly because of, the rather heated arguments of 90% of
my friends and business associates, I am unconvinced of the
error of my ways. Incidentally, I am vastly amused at the quaint
notion, subscribed to by a few of my very good and very con-
servative friends, that supporting Roosevelt, F. D., made one at
least a parlor pink, if not a card-bearing member of the Com-
munist party.

There, 1925, is my story in brief. It involves no extensive
travels, no war experiences, no brilliant civic achievements, no
exceptional business or artistic successes — no, not even a minor

[775]

aN

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

scandal rating a stick of type in the tabs. It hasn’t been a full
quarter-century but it has been a generally happy one. [I con-
sider myself fortunate.

One word of caution I would pass on to those returning in
June. An Eli friend, at his Twenty-fifth recently, hailed a class-
mate he hadn’t seen since graduation and was promptly intro-
duced to “Susie,” a pretty jeune fille standing by. Pausing after
a few moments of animated conversation, my friend leaned over
to his classmate and commented sotte voce on how attractive his
daughter was. “Daughter, hell,” roared the other. “That’s my
wife!”

JOHN EVERETT POWERS

HOME ADDRESS: 336 Hampshire Rd., Akron 13, Ohio.

oFFicE ADprEess: General Tire and Rubber Co., Akron, Ohio.

Born: Aug. 12, 1902, Worcester, Mass. PARENTS: John Joseph Powers, Mary
Frances O'Grady.

PREPARED AT: Worcester South High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

mMarRieD: Mary Jane Wiseman, June 23, 1931, Lancaster, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Barbara Ann, July 13, 1932; John Philip, March 30, 1940.

occupaTiON: Sales manager, Tire Division, General Tire and Rubber Com-
pany.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; New York Athletic Club; Portage
Country Club, Akron.

AFTER listening to the “vice-presidential buildup” of one of
the labor recruiters for a large rubber company, I entered an
executive training class in July, 1925, to learn the tire and rubber
business. The training was excellent but after five years of
being a number among 1,100 members of the sales organization,
I decided to try a smaller company.

This one was in financial difficulty but was in the process of
being reorganized and some of my Wall Street friends, gray-
bearded classmates, were sure there was a grand opportunity to
ride the rocket to success. Unfortunately, I was not an officer
or director. That group of worthies picked the bones clean and
I left before the remains went into Section 77B in 1934.

In the meantime I had taken unto myself a wife in the dark
days of 1931 and a year later our first child arrived. Before I

(776)

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

left my second employer I did what I believe every one of us
has wanted to do at some time in our business careers — told the
president what he could do with the job. I started with the
General Tire and Rubber Company on April 1, 1934, and next
month begins my seventeenth year with the company. I worked
first as special representative in New York, then assistant Eastern
Division manager and New York branch manager successively,
and next was sent out as special representative to the main offices
in Akron where I subsequently attained my post as sales manager
' of the Tire Division.

In 1940 my son arrived to complete what I naturally think is
the grandest family in the world.

The tire business is interesting, fast moving, and you meet all
sorts of people in every part of the country. Every year I take
part in sales meetings held in twenty-one major cities in the
country for our distributors. We talk to and visit with twelve
to fifteen thousand on this conference schedule and to use the
politicians’ cliché get “the grass roots” thinking on business,
politics, and about everything else.

It is my belief that Texas, where everything is bigger, better
and six inches longer, plus the West Coast, is where big business
will be done in the future. My favorite city is San Francisco
with Boston a close second.

My hobby is deep sea fishing. I gave up golf eighteen years
ago because I did not have time to play —now I am not old
enough to take it up again. I like pro football and we have had
the pro champions, the Cleveland Browns, to watch for a few
years. Cleveland usually has a good hockey and baseball team
so we have plenty of diversion out here. Another hobby is find-
ing good places and things to eat. I have quite a list of favorites
around the country which help make travelling more interesting.

My views on politics are, briefly: it doesn’t make much dif-
ference which party is doing it; the mistakes are the same — just
different people making them. The country stands just so much
and then the people bring about the change they want. It is
more obvious in various sections of the country and the national
reaction takes longer.

I got over the idea of being a millionaire early in business life.
Comfort, some of the luxuries, and security can be enjoyed with-

(777 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

out all those ciphers. A great family, our own home, educations
provided for, the assurance that at fifty-five I can get serious
about the deep sea fishing hobby — need I brag more?

My wish for the rest of the Class: that they have been as lucky
as I have been.

LAWRENCE HANSCOM POWNALL

HOME ADDRESS: 2711 Wycliffe Ave. S.W., Roanoke, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Viscose Corporation, Roanoke, Va.

BORN: June 10, 1905, Waltham, Mass. PARENTS: John Thomas Pownall,
Minnie Etta Hanscom.

PREPARED AT: Waltham High School, Waltham, Mass.

* YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.

marrieD: Grace Estelle Taylor, June 1, 1931, Sylvania, Ga. CHILDREN: Ann
Mims, Jan. 23, 1934; Margaret Emery, March 4, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Arthur Pownall, ’oz.

occupation: Chief plant chemist, American Viscose Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, 1944-4§, chairman, 1945-46, Virginia Blue
Ridge Section of the American Chemical Society.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Virginia Academy of Science;
American Association for the Advancement of Science; Southwestern
Virginia Engineers Club; Roanoke Appalachian Trail Club; Roanoke
Country Club; Roanoke Executives Club; Roanoke Rotary Club; Har-
vard Club of Virginia.

PUBLICATIONS: Job training program instruction book in the production of
ure fabric, 1944.

LOOKING back over the past twenty-five years, I find that
I can brag of few, if any, constructive accomplishments. I have
acquired a few material possessions and a mighty fine family to
prove that the twenty-five years have not been exactly wasted.
I have had a lot of fun, and I have managed to keep my health
and sanity.

I went to work at the Roanoke plant of the American Viscose
Corporation a month after graduation, and have been working
at the same plant ever since. After twenty-five years I feel that
I am just beginning to know a little something about rayon
manufacture, I started work as a chemist in the plant laboratory.
Fifteen years later I was still a chemist, but with considerably
increased responsibilities and the title of assistant plant chemist.

Then came the war, and I found mysclf thrust into manage-
ment positions. As an executive in an essential industry, I found

(778)

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

myself participating in all sorts of training courses, taking many
and teaching a few. I have taken extension courses at the Uni-
versity of Virginia and North Carolina State College, and spent
a month at Lake Placid at Allan Mogensen’s Work Simplification
Conference. Helping in the production of tire fabric is probably
my only specific, although meager, contribution to the war ef-
fort. I even helped write a book on the subject. In January, 1946,
I became a chemist again. I am now chief plant chemist, glorify-
ing in the title of technical superintendent.

I don’t seem to have acquired any permanent hobbies. Mountain
climbing, gardening, genealogy, bridge, and various competitive
sports have been indulged in intensively at times, with the com-
paratively inactive diversions of golf, bridge, and reading my
recreations at present. My wife and I took an active part in the
organization of the Roanoke Appalachian Trail Club and helped
clear and blaze some seventy miles of the trail through this sec-
tion of Virginia.

For fifteen of the past twenty-five years, I commuted daily
from a small farm at the foot of the mountains outside of Roanoke.
Having barely survived the depression, we thought it a good
idea at the time to have facilities for raising a little food on the
side. During the fifteen years we not only raised plenty of
food, but a couple of daughters, and had the satisfaction of
feeling very independent. Teen-age daughters and their need
for social contacts drove us back to town, and for the last two
years we have been more or less respectable citizens of Roanoke.
Some of the feeling of independence is gone, but in its place
I have more time for social and business contacts and civic clubs.
I no longer have the exercise of gardening and pruning fruit trees,
and have to substitute for this trying to hit a little white ball.

JOHN TEELE PRATT, JR.

HOME ApprEss: Glen Cove, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE appREss: Charles Pratt & Co., 26 Broadway, New York, N. Y,

BorN: Dec. 11, 1903, Greenwich, Conn. PARENTS: John Teele Pratt, Ruth
Sears Baker.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926.

[779]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

marriep: Nfary Christy Tiffany, Aug. 26, 1925, Dark Harbor, Maine (di-
vorced 1935); Elizabeth Woodward, Sept. 4, 1935. CHILDREN: Marie
Felicité, Aug. 8, 1926 (m. Kenneth Love, June 27, 1946); Ruth Baker, 2d,
Oct. 25, 1928, Mary Christy, April 2, 1930; John Teele, 3d, June 23, 1932.
GRANDCHILD: Mary Christy Love, March 18, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edwin Howard Baker Pratt, ’36.

OCCUPATION: Finance; partner, Charles Pratt & Company; special partner,
Harris, Upham & Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve,
April, 1942; served as commanding officer, U.S.S. SC 1025 and USS,
PC 1227, executive officer and commanding ofhcer, U.S.S. Thomas
(DE 102), and commanding officer, U.S.S. Douglas L. Howard (DE
138); promoted lieutenant commander, 1944; returned to inactive duty,
November, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Mount Vernon-Woodbury Mills, Inc., Baltimore,
Md., Chromium Corporation of America, New York, N. Y.; trustee,
Pratt Institute, Brooklyn; member board of directors, Nassau County
Chapter, American Red Cross; member standing committee, Groton
School.

MEMBER OF: Knickerbocker Club; Brook Club; Racquet and Tennis Club;
National Golf Club; Harvard Club of New York; New York Yacht
Club; Seawauhaka Corinthian Yacht Club; Turf and Field Club; Piping
Rock Club; Creek Club; Somerset Club of Boston; Tennis and Racquet
Club of Boston.

AFTER leaving college, I went to work with the Chromium
Corporation of America in New York, but was soon attracted
to Wall Street by the happenings of the late twenties. I purchased
a membership on the New York Stock Exchange early in 1930
and on January 1, 1931, became a general partner in the firm of
Post & Flagg. In 1938 I became a special partner and am now
similarly associated with Harris, Upham & Company with which
Post & Flagg was merged. At that time I also became a general
partner in Charles Pratt & Company which is engaged in the
management of family affairs. My interest in the Chromium
Corporation and other ventures has continued.

My Naval experience in the war was almost entirely in the
Atlantic— from Argentia to Capetown. The early part was
coastal convoy duty in my PC. The last two and one-half years
were spent in DE’s working with small carriers as anti-submarine
killer groups. We were fortunate enough to sink a few subs
during this period. Shortly after the Germans collapsed, I ap-
plied for inactive duty and was relicved of my command in

[ 780 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

August, 1945, at Pearl Harbor on the day the fighting with Japan
in the Pacific came to an end.

My hobbies are shooting and fishing and boating — ducks and
quail in fall and winter with salmon and broadbill swordfish in
the summer. My golf, always erratic, is very occasional now.

My wife and I live at Glen Cove the year around. We make
a good many trips away from home as the children are all just
about grown up. The eldest is about to present me with a second
grandchild as this is written.

A life-long Republican and conservative — not reactionary —
I look forward to the future with the hope that the fundamental
honesty and practical common sense of the majority of Ameri-
cans will prevail, before it is too late, over the selfish interests
of those alarmingly large groups now being toadied, coddled,
and periodically inflamed by the “planners” and wastrel spenders
presently in control of national affairs. A return to realistic
common sense on the part of this country would, I am sure, prove
the greatest single contribution towards the preservation of so-
called “Western Ideals.”

BENJAMIN STURGIS PRAY

HOME ADDRESS: 50 Hutchinson Rd. Arlington 74, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 24, 1904, Cambridge, Mass. parents: James Sturgis Pray, ’95,
Florence Mabel Nichols.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

-YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1925(26);
M.L.A., 1930.

OCCUPATION: Writer.

MEMBER OF: Poetry Society of America.

PUBLICATIONS: Several poems in newspapers and magazines.

DURING my college course I majored in the field of fine arts.
Then I did postgraduate work in the Harvard School of Land-
scape Architecture, This was followed by several years of work
in landscape architecture in the office of Olmstead Brothers,
Brookline, Massachusetts. In recent years my work has shifted
to the field of poetry. And I have had the interesting experience
of discovering that my college study of design in the visual arts
and its practical application in the art of landscape architecture
have probably been more influential in my work in poetry than

[ 781 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

the very few courses in literature and English composition which
I took in college. But of course it should be added that subse-
quent reading in the field of poetry has given a very considerable
impetus.

CHARLES JONES PRESCOTT, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 811 Neponset St., Norwood, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bennett, Inc., 678 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Jan, 10, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Charles Jones Prescott,
Evelyn Monroe Livermore.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: S.B., 19253 M.B.A., 1928.

MARRIED: Beatrice Gardiner, Nov. 6, 1926, Boston, Mass. (died Oct. 18, 1932);
Gretchen Adams McGregor, May 17, 1948, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Beatrice, May 2, 1928 (m. John Kestner Goodman, April 3, 1948); Jayne,
Aug. 22, 1929. GRANDCHILD: Lucy Prescott Goodman, July 18, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Livermore Prescott, ’ 27.

OCCUPATION: President, Bennett, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1939-44, Vice-president, 1944-49, president, 1949,
Norwood Hospital, Norwood, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Dedham Country and Polo Club,
Rancheros Visitadores.

I DO not know whether the fact that I was born in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, on January 10, 1905, had a dominating effect on my
subsequent life, but certainly most of my days have been spent “in
the shadow of Harvard Square.” After graduating from college, I
was one of those who went back for more and stayed on for two
years at the Graduate School of Business Administration, receiving
my M.B.A. in 1928.

Then I really went to work, starting my business career with
Bennett, Inc., a small chemical company located right in Cam-
bridge. I have been associated with this company ever since, and
like all Business School alumni (so they say), I have been fortunate
enough to progress steadily, until now I am president of the com-
pany — a dubious honor in these days of harassing conditions.

My home is in Norwood, Massachusetts, where a keen interest
in town affairs has occupied most of my spare time (somewhat to
the displeasure of my family, I fear). My particular activities have
been in connection with the Norwood Hospital, as treasurer, vice-
president, and president at one time or another.

[ 782 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

A minor hobby, or should we say vice, has been stamp collect-
ing. How many philatelists have we in the Class? One of my
most extensive collections, of early American Postal Stationery, is
now on display at the Philatelic Museum in Philadelphia. For
what little physical exercise I have managed to secure —and a
constantly expanding waistline is testimony to the word “little” —
I have relied on horseback riding. All this started with the
mounted field artillery unit we had at college in the R.O.T.C. pro-
gram. Each year I go all the way to California for the annual trek
of the Rancheros Visitadores, a fabulous stag party of 300 horse-
men, which many of you have doubtless heard about.

My family statistics include two daughters, and one grand-
daughter, but no sons or grandsons for dear old Harvard.

HAROLD MARTIN PRIEST

HOME ADDRESS: 2020 S. York St., Denver, Colo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: University of Denver, Denver, Colo.

BORN: July 28,1902, Chicago, Ill. parents: Leslie Rue Priest, Katie Wigles-
worth.

PREPARED AT: Lake View High School, Chicago, Ill.; Chicago Latin School,
Chicago, DL

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; A.M. (Northwestern Univ.),
1926; PH.D. (ibid.), 1933.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Marshall, 1930, Rome, Italy (divorced 1936); Willa
Daniels, 1949, Denver, Colo. cumn: Deborah, Oct. 24, 1931.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Franklin Priest, ’22.

OCCUPATION: Teacher.

OFFICES HELD: President, American Association of University Professors,
Emporia Chapter.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association; American Association of Uni-
versity Professors; Rocky Mountain Harvard Club.

PuBLicaTions: “The Influence of Tasso on English Literature: 1575-1675,”
Abstracts of Dissertations, Northwestern University, 1933; “Italian In-
fluence of English Literature,” Bulletin of Kansas Association of Teach-
ers of English, 1935.

I SPENT the first year after college studying at Northwestern
University, where I acquired an A.M. with a major in English
literature and a minor in comparative literature. My first job
was teaching at Simpson College, Indianola, Iowa. I stayed there
three years. During those summers I travelled or went to school.
In 1929 and 1930 I took a year off for travel and study in Europe.

[ 783 ]

RRO TT SE Se TS NERC airtel na

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

During the fall I did some special work at King’s College, Uni-
versity of London. Then for the remainder of the winter and
spring I studied in Italy, searching the archive records of Flor-
ence, Genoa, and Milan for information relating to Chaucer and
his Italian missions. Nothing positive came of the research. How-
ever, I developed a romantic attachment while I was in Italy
and was married in Rome to Elizabeth Marshall of Olean, New

Tork.

The year after our return from Europe I taught at Miami Uni-
versity, Oxford, Ohio, Following that I undertook my graduate
work in earnest. After two years at Northwestern (1931-33)
I completed my doctorate. My major interests were in the lit-
erary relations of England and Italy. That last year I spent most
of my waking hours in the stacks. Result: Ph.D.

My next job was at Kansas State Teachers College, Emporia,
Kansas. There I was given several graduate courses to teach in
the recently established A.M. program. The opportunities in
that direction appealed to me strongly. However, at the same
time I was called upon to teach freshmen composition. Here I
had a rather unpleasant time of it and so did my students. My
intensive specialized study had so removed me from the experi-
ences and communicative processes of the college freshman that
it was difficult for us to find any meeting ground. It seems that
I had “travelled farther from the East” in more ways than geo-
graphically.

Gradually I went through a process of rehumanization. I re-
vived my interest in tennis and dancing. I took up hunting and
photography enthusiastically. When a group of students wanted
to learn fencing I taught the class. Another group wanted to
learn some Italian; I undertook to coach them. The pattern
which evolved here seems to be the dominant one for the past
fifteen years of my life. It has virtually precluded the possibility
of an impressive career in scholarship. I sincerely hope it has
given a balance to my life which serves to improve my effective-
ness as a teacher. Anyhow I have had a very good time.

After thirteen years at Emporia, I made another westward
move, to the University of Denver in 1946. I like it here es-
pecially for the courses I have to teach: a sequence of period
courses in comparative literature (Middle Ages, Renaissance, 18th

[ 784 ]

/

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Century) and a study of literature in its relations to the other
arts. Furthermore I find Colorado a good place to live.

My wartime activities were limited to work with the Civil Air
Patrol and to instructing for a college training detachment for
the A.A.F., my principal job being teaching air navigation and
air regulations. My little “adventure” came in the summer of
1942 when I went on active duty with the C.A.P. at their patrol
base at Beaumont, Texas. My duties were those of security
technician, in other words, sergeant in charge of the guard.
Through those activities, however, I acquired an enthusiasm for
flying and since the war I have kept up my pilot’s license. When
I am flying I am Faust and Chaucer, Ruggero and St.-Exupery.
Oddly enough, it doesn’t make too much difference when I come
back down to find that I am only Hal Priest.

My family life has not followed any familiar pattem. My
first marriage, which started out so propitiously in Rome in 1930,
ended in Kansas in the depression with separation in 1935, divorce
in 1936. After that my mother came down to help ‘make a home
for me and my daughter, Deborah, who was only three years
old at the time of the break. For fifteen years we three made
up the family. Debbie, who is now eighteen, is a freshman at
the University of Colorado. She represents, I am pleased to re-
port, a marked improvement in both looks and brains over the
last generation (me).

Last spring I was married to Willa Daniels of Denver, for-
merly of Emporia; hence a new chapter is beginning, or, to phrase
it with a professional flourish, Incipit vita nova.

WILLIAM BULL PRINGLE

HOME ADDRESS: 376 Corral de Tierra, Salinas, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 Abbott St., Salinas, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 16, 1903, Oakland, Calif. parents: William Bull Pringle, Isabel
Anna Hutchinson.

PREPARED aT: Santa Barbara School, Carpinteria, Calif. '&cole de Vile de
France, Palaiseau, Villebon, France.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Eldredge Pillsbury, Aug. 23, 1940, Ross, Calif. cHipREN:
Elizabeth Lansdale, Jan. 9, 1943; William Bull, 3d, Feb. 16, 1945; Susan
Duncan, Aug. 11, 1948.

[785 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

occupaATION: Owner of Pringle-Gerlach Machinery Company, agricultural
and construction machinery business.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of San Francisco.

MY LIFE has been interesting and varied; my wealth little; my
hobbies few; my happiness and good fortune great.

After graduation I spent a year in Europe travelling and at-
tending l’Ecole des Sciences Politiques in Paris. Thereafter back
to Harvard Law School where I did not shine; then to Stanford
Law School for two years. I left in 1929 to become a humble
employee of the Caterpillar Tractor Company in San Leandro,
California, for the large sum of forty cents an hour. What price
education! However, as a member of the Export Department
in Training, my wanderings and adventures began.

From 1931 to 1939, with the exception of six months’ leave at
home, I travelled in England, France, Belgium, Spain, Morocco,
Algeria, and Tunisia (the last three for 244 years); then Italy,
Yugoslavia, and France and England again, followed by six
months in Greece, Egypt, Syria, Iraq, and Iran; from there for
24 years in Holland, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland, Es-
thonia, Latvia, Lithuania, and Poland. I used practically every
method of transportation known, including camel in the desert,
and sleds drawn by reindeer, inside the Arctic Circle. To those
who have enjoyed William Hazlett Upson, I was, for Cater-
pillar Tractor Company, the Alexander Botts of Earthworm
Tractor fame.

In addition to a great variety of interesting and entertaining
adventures, and an unrivaled opportunity of seeing and experi-
encing widely different cultures and ways of life, at someone
else’s expense, I learned a very great deal. I was perhaps mainly
impressed with the indisputable fact that most European and
Mediterranean peoples envied Americans and would give any-
thing and everything to become one of us. I learned that the
lot of the average man and woman in Europe is a never-ending
struggle for bare existence; that we in America do not appreciate
what we have; how well off and lucky we are compared to
others.

Let those who grumble and sell America short — particularly
those who have Communist leanings — live and barely exist a
while amongst the peoples I did. There is no surer way of

[ 786 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

learning to love this magnificent country of ours; its way of life;
its institutions and traditions.

The greatest thrill I ever had in all my travels was that of
steaming into New York harbor one evening at sunset and seeing
the breath-taking skyline of New York. 1 broke down and cried
for joy at the sight of the Old Girl with the Flaming Torch
and all she represents.

After my return to the United States I married Elizabeth
Pillsbury of Boston and West Chop and we have three children
Elizabeth, Bill, Jr., and Susan.

When the war came I was associated, in the capacity of as-
sistant to the president, with Caterpillar Military Engine Com-
pany in Decatur, Illinois, created to build air-cooled Diesel tank
engines. Where there had formerly been a corn field there rose
a thirty-million-dollar plant to produce these engines. In 1943
we were “converted” to manufacture 1000 caterpillar tractors
a month for use with bulldozers and approximately 15,000 such
units were built.

Towards the close of the war, I was transferred from this war
company as New York manager of Caterpillar Tractor Company
and after a year, back to the factory in Peoria, Illinois, as export
divisional manager in charge of their business in Europe and
Africa,

Two years ago I made a four months’ trip to some of my pre-
war stamping grounds and hit the high spots in Tunisia, Algeria,
Morocco, Spain, France, Belgium, Holland, Denmark, Sweden,
Norway, England, and Scotland. This was a most interesting
trip devoted to studying postwar economic and political con-
ditions in these countries.

In August, 1949, I resigned from the company to acquire their
distributorship for Monterey and Santa Cruz Counties in Cali-
fornia. So here I am back home again—to add now to my
hobby of hunting, and to my wealth and my happiness.

ROGER VAUGHAN PUGH

HOME apprEss: 8 Rockridge Rd., Rye, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lazard Fréres & Co., 44 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Nov. 15, 1904, Cambridge, Mass. parents: James Thomas Pugh, *96,
Anna Mabel Vaughan.

[ 787 ]

. , ;

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass. |

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

marrieD: Rosamond Tucker, June 11, 1927, Brookline, Mass. cHmopren:
Roger Vaughan, Jr, Aug. 2, 1929; Rosamond Randall, July 19, 1933;
Elizabeth Lincoln, May 30, 1945.

HARVARD SON: Roger Vaughan Pugh, Jr., ’51.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Collier Pugh, *33.

OCCUPATION: Account executive.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Special mediation representative (employer),
National War Labor Board, January-September, 1943.

MEMBER OF: Quinsigamond Lodge, A.F. & A.M., Worcester, Mass.; Manurs-
ing Island Club, Rye.

AT GRADUATION I had not the slightest idea of what ]

was going to do for a living, but I was very definite about what

I was not going to do—I was not going into the securities

business. Beginning at the bottom of something was .in the

American tradition. I began by shoveling sand in a foundry in

South Boston. This ended very abruptly. The textile business

in New York then seemed alluring. But even the infusion of

youth into a century-old firm was unavailing. Shortly it died of

old age.

With infinite more judgment and luck than I had demonstrated
in selecting a career I had, meanwhile, acquired my bride. We
celebrated my severance from a payroll by taking a belated four
months’ honeymoon in Europe. This was considered rash by
our elders and has never been regretted by us.

Promptly upon our return, I went into the securities business
(let the philosophers find a moral) — 1929 was just beginning,
and it seemed a good idea. It was. No more fascinating, even if at
times exasperating, business can exist. It has been fun consist-
ently. It has given an insight into a host of other businesses. It
has made me many lasting friendships. If it has not always sup-
ported me as well as I should wish, I cannot say that the fault is
entirely in the business. .

For nine years we lived in Cambridge. There was an inter-
lude of a few months on a reorganization job in Ithaca and then
in 1938 we moved to Worcester. This was a very hospitable city
to the newcomer and a wonderful one in which to bring up the
children. I like a city of that size. It is large enough to provide
the cultural opportunities one wants and small enough for one to
feel useful to the community.

[ 788 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

For a while during the war I commuted to Washington or
elsewhere three days a week to serve as an employer representa-
tive on National War Labor Board panels. This was very satis-
fying work. It made my three days as a broker seem less selfish,
Somehow a few incipient strikes were avoided. One actual walk-
out was settled with dispatch. It was an education I wish more
people could experience. Labor usually was better prepared and
more skillful than management and the theoreticians were devious
and diabolically determined. As a study in human relations and
aspirations it was extraordinarily illuminating.

The birth of our third child makes 1945 memorable for us.
With her came the prospect of the P.T.A. all over again and at
an advanced age. Soon numerous young marrieds would include
us as friends we hoped, and be tolerant of our greying hair and
middle-aged infirmities. It was more awe-inspiring to us than
the atom bomb. That same year Lazard Freres & Company reached
out to Worcester. We moved back to Boston shortly, and the
paint was hardly dry on our house in Newton before I was
transplanted again — to New York.

We live on a dead end road in Rye. In winter when the leaves
are off the trees we can see the Sound.

Young Rog graduated from Andover and is in his third year
at Harvard. Rosamond — Ronnie to everyone — is a senior at
the Winsor School in Boston. She hopes to go to Vassar as
her mother did. This year, however, has been a sabbatical for
her as she recovers from a bout with polio. Betsey goes to nur-
sery school.

Roz and I feel that we are very fortunate. For special fun
we have climbed in the White Mountains, cruised the Maine
coast, and vacationed with old friends on Lake Erie. We like
our home and the community in which we live. We are un-
bearably proud of our children. We are unreservedly convinced
of the goodness of people. Polio is a dread disease, but our old
friends and our new ones by their words and actions have given
Ronnie and us the courage and strength to fight it to what we
know will be a miraculous recovery.

I am very glad to have had the privilege of seeing these
twenty-five years. No other generation has lived through a
more varied or testing time with its boom, depression, war, and

[ 789 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

nervous peace. As I grow older I realize that “doing unto
others” is more than a teaching — it is a way of life. I hope
we can impress that fact upon ourselves and upon the troubled
world. For our children may we keep our faith not in a state-
supported security but in the truth of opportunity.

t JOHN EARL PURDY

BORN: Sept. 16, 1904, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: William Frederick Purdy,
Margaret Earl.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: AB. 1925; J.D. (Brooklyn Law
School), 1929.

MaRRiED: Virginia Clark, 1928, Brooklyn, N. Y. cumpren: William Crossley,
Sept. 14, 1930; John Earl, Jr., April 14, 1933.

prep: March 31, 1941, Brooklyn, N. Y.

wipow: Mrs. John E. Purdy, 183 81st St., Brooklyn, N. Y.

JOHN EARL PURDY prepared at the Polytechnic Preparatory
School, Brooklyn, New York, before entering Harvard with the
Class. In college he was a member of the Soccer Squad during
1922-1923, and the Soccer Team in his junior year. He was also a
member of the Polytechnic Preparatory School Club. After re-
ceiving his A.B. with the Class, he entered the Brooklyn Law
School, and was granted a J.D. degree in 1929. Purdy spent his
entire career engaged in the practice of law in Brooklyn. His clubs
included the Harvard Club of New York and Block Hall. His
wife and two sons survived him.

PATRICK TRACY LOWELL PUTNAM

aporess: Epulu, Stanleyville Province, Belgian Congo, Africa.

BORN: Sept. 15, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: Charles Russell Lowell
Putnam, Angelica Talcott Rathbone.

prepareD at: Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1925.

marRiep: Mary Farlow Linder, May 15, 1933, Canton, Mass.; Emilie Baca,
April 20, 1938, New York, N. Y.

occupation: Mercantile business.

THIE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Put-
nam did not return a questionnaire.

[790]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDMUND QUINCY

HOME appRESS: 4 Charles River Square, Boston, Mass. (Foreign address:
% Credito Italiano, Florence, Italy).

BORN: May 15, 1903, Biarritz, France, PARENTS: Josiah Quincy, Mary Honey.

PREPARED AT: Stuyvesant School, Warrenton, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925.

MARRIED: Josephine Biamonti, March 9, 1940, Bordighera, Italy. cum:
Daniel Alexander, May 29, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Artist (painter).

MEMBER OF: Newport Art Association, R. 1, Ogunquit Art Association,
Maine, Cape Ann Modern Art Society, Gloucester, Mass.,; Harvard
Club of Boston.

MY INTEREST in Latin peoples, their philosophy, literature,
and art, as well as my knowledge of their languages has led me
to spend much of my time in France, Italy, and Spain. In the
autumn of 1925, I went to Paris to study art and spent several
years there painting. Complications of a legal character had re-
sulted from the fact that I was born in France, so I was unable
to enter that country until my American citizenship had been
satisfactorily established by the French authorities. Consequently,
I stopped in Italy and was able to get a slight impression of
places then visited. Since that time I have realized that life may
be too short to avail one’s self of the immense resources with
which ages of thought and culture have endowed this land. In
the spring of 1939 I made a trip to Italy for the purpose of
getting married, but the marriage laws instituted by the then ex-
isting government, a government which had previously arrested
me on two separate occasions for mistaken identity, were the
cause of endless difficulties for foreigners. It was not until March
of the following year that our permission was finally granted.
My wife, who came originally from Turin, was then living at
Bordighera and we were married from her home there. Several
months later in the midst of the hostilities, we left Italy by plane.
The war years were divided between a variously stocked “victory
farm” in Connecticut and war relief work in Boston. Our son
was born May 2oth, 1946. In 1948 I went to Europe with my
family. In Paris I received the unpleasant news that my former
art dealer had been taken to Poland by the Occupation Forces
to be “liquidated” there.

[791]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

At the present time I am in Italy preparing a number of works
for an exhibition that is to take place before our return to the
United States. It has also been my privilege to collaborate with
various groups here dedicated to Humanistic studies, some of
which are published in various languages. a,

The postwar years are not only valuable to “twenty-five-year-
outers” but they are also years in which we are witnessing a
very rapid expansion of world thought. As individuals in the
midst of this period we should seek to make our thought agree
with the disposition of tendencies excited by our era, realizing
at the same time that it is the insignificance of man’s personality
which has wrought the very changes to which he himself is now
subjected.

+ MARTIN QUINN

BORN: May 7, 1900, Chicago, Il. parents: Martin Matthew Quinn, Margaret
Bigley.

prepareD AT: Columbia University Preparatory School, Portland, Oregon.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924.

marriED: Doris V. Podmore, Oct. 31, 1929. cHiLp: Martin, Jr., Feb. 6, 1934.

piep: Dec. 16, 1942, Palm Beach, Fla.

MARTIN QUINN entered Harvard from the Columbia Univer-

sity Preparatory School, Portland, Oregon. In college three years

as an undergraduate, he served on the Freshman Entertainment

Committee and was a member of the Hasty Pudding Club-Insti-

tute of 1770.

After leaving college, Quinn moved to New York City where
he spent some time engaged as a mortgage broker with the Charles
F. Noyes Company, Inc. He later became active in the real estate
business and in 1935 he reported to the Class that he was president
and director of the Union Terminal of Baltimore, Maryland, vice-
president and director of Butler & Baldwin, Inc., New York, Bus
Centre, Inc., of Washington, D. C., and Holiday Tours, Inc., of
New York City. At the time of his death, he was a resident of
Palm Beach, Florida.

[792 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD DAVID QUINT

HOME ADDRESS: 18950 Oak Drive, Detroit, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Butzel, Levin, Winston, Youngjohn & Quint, 1990 National
Bank Bldg., Detroit, Mich.

porn: Oct. 27, 1902, Kovno, Russia. parents: Abraham Reuben Quint, Bela
Buchshan.

PREPARED AT: Keene High School, Keene, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREES: A.B., [9253 LL.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Frances L. Higer, July 19, 1936, Detroit, Mich. CHILDREN: Peter
Edward, March 8, 1940; Barbara Louise, June 29, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Union Investment Company, and Detroit Federal

Savings and Loan Association.
MEMBER OF: Detroit Bar Association; Michigan State Bar Association; Har-
vard Club of Eastern Michigan.
IN THE fall of 1925 I returned to Cambridge to enter the Law
School. I graduated in 1928 and took up residence and practice
of law in Detroit, Michigan. I became associated with the law firm
of Butzel, Levin & Winston in that year and was admitted to part-
nership in 1935. This association continues under the present |
firm name of Butzel, Levin, Winston, Youngjohn & Quint.

The years have passed by all too quickly but I can look back
on them with some satisfaction and a sense of gratitude. The old
adage that the law is a jealous mistress is no idle saying. But the
rather intensive absorption required in active practice is in itself
a source of compensation. One’s interest is kept at a pretty high
level trying to solve problems which frequently seem insoluble,
and to prophesy that which is not subject to prophecy. Absorbing
interest in one’s work, an occasional sense of accomplishment
when the job turns out right, and enough material return to keep
one afloat in moderate comfort are the compensations of the
lawyer. Thus far these rewards have been satisfying.

There is also the joy of raising a family, even though a small
one. For recreation there are the occasional j jaunts to "the trout
streams and lakes of northern Michigan and elsewhere, a little
golf, and other outdoor activities as the seasons permit. I look
forward with expectation to a continuation of this pattern.

While I was not active in the recent war, except for some
Selective Service work, the war had a special impact for me. Aly
brother, Lt. Maurice B. Quint, U. S. Naval Reserve (Harvard

[793 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Law School, ’32) lost his life aboard the aircraft carrier Bunker —
Hill in May, 1945, during a kamikaze attack.

ALBERT QUINTILIANI

HOME ADDRESS: 35 Williams St., Norwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 58 Broadway, Norwich, Conn.

BoRN: Oct. 6, 1900, San Donato, Italy. parents: Luigi Quintiliani, Nicoletta
Fabrizio.

PREPARED AT: Norwich Free Academy, Norwich, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925, DEGREES: A.B. Cu7m laude, 1925; M.D., 1929.

MarrigD: Lisena DiBona, July 19, 1931, New London, Conn. CHILDREN:
Albert, Jr., Sept. 1, 1932; Richard, May 12, 1936.

OCCUPATION: Physician and surgeon.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Examiner for local draft board.

OFFICES HELD: Senior obstetrician, since 1941, president of staff, 1942, William
W. Backus Hospital, Norwich; vice-president, 1944-45, president, 1945-
46, member board of censors, 1946-49, member board of trustees, 1949-
52, New London County Medical Society; director, Norwich Baseball
Senior League.

MEMBER OF: Connecticut State Medical Society, New London County
Medical Society; American Medical Association; Elks.

AFTER graduation I entered the Harvard Medical School and
received my M.D. in 1929. I then followed this with a general
training at the Union Hospital in Fall River, Massachusetts, and
six months in neurosurgery at the Massachusetts General Hospital
and the Providence Lying-In Hospital.

When I got through I was faced with one of the worst de-
pressions in history and an absolute necessity to make a living.
I decided to go into general practice in a small locality for a
while and later to specialize and move to a larger center. So, on
September 1, 1931, I opened an office in Norwich, Connecticut.

I married Lisena DiBona in New London, Connecticut, on
July 19, 1931. My first son, Albert, Jr., was born September 1,
1932. The other, Richard, was born May 12, 1936.

By this time my practice had increased tremendously and even
though it was hard work, as I was majoring in obstetrics, I was
enjoying it.

Ir is too bad that the age of the general practitioner and family
physician is fast disappearing, as an honest and well-trained
general physician is of great value to a community, especially

[794]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the smaller one. The remuneration of the general practitioner
is not measured in money but in personal satisfaction. By his
close association with his patients he acquires a tremendous
knowledge of human nature, constantly sees the good and the
evil, the pleasures and the miseries of man, and is often called
upon to give advice and consolation in many a human frailty.

It is the kind of life that requires a great amount of work
and sacrifice, and, unfortunately, sacrifice on the part of the
whole family. But, I thank God that I was blessed with a won-
derful wife who has stood by me through thick and thin, and
also two wonderful boys, the elder of whom is preparing to
enter Harvard this fall. I hope he makes it.

Busy as I was I always found plenty of time to spend with
my family, for aside from my practice my family is my chief
interest and pleasure. I tried to grow young with the children,
playing with them and taking them to all games as we have a
common interest in sports. I must admit, however, that it is
getting harder every year now that the middle-age spread is
really spreading, but Pll go down fighting.

Now the thought of specializing and moving to a larger center
has entirely gone from my thoughts as I find it impossible to
detach myself from the pleasant associations J have made and
the joy I find in being useful to so many people. Recently this
was forcibly impressed upon me when at the opening of my
new office I was literally deluged with good wishes and floral
gifts, many from people who could little afford it.

NORMAN SAUL RABB

HOME ADDRESS: 129 Valentine St., West Newton 65, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stop & Shop, Inc., 393 D St., Boston ro, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 13, 1905, Boston, Mass. Parents: Joseph Rabinovitz, Lottie
Rebecca Wolf.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1925.

MarrieD: Eleanor Ruth Epstein, Aug. 1, 1933, New York, N. Y. crmpren:
Hope Davis, Nov. 14, 1935; Jane Marjorie, Nov. 15, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Sidney Rabb, ‘20; Irving William Rabb, ’34.

occupation: Vice-president in charge of sales; director, Stop & Shop, Inc,
operating supermarkets in Massachusetts and Connecticut.

[795 ]

aA A

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve, Supply Corps;
on active duty, July, r941-November, 1944, Commonwealth Pier, Boston,
and Section Base, Lockwood Basin, East Boston; duties consisted of
supplying food needs of all shore activities in this area, both Navy and
Coast Guard, ships coming into area, Inland, Newfoundland, and all
D.E.’s and landing craft built in this area; also responsible for com-
missary feeding 1200 at section base.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary and trustee, Brandeis University; vice-chairman,
Boston Chapter, American Jewish Committee; assistant treasurer and
member of executive committee, Associated Jewish Philanthropies,
treasurer, Boston Chapter, United Service for New Americans; director,
Supermarket Institute; trustee, Lieutenant Herschel L. Gutman Founda-
tion for the Advancement of American Ideals; member National Execu-
tive Council, Joint Defense Appeal, member Executive Committee,
National Federation of Sales Executives.

MEMBER OF: Belmont Country Club; United Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Aleppo
Temple; Crosscup-Pishon Post, American Legion; Newton Post, Jewish
War Veterans, Amos Lodge, B’nai B'rith; Zionist Organization of
America; Sales Managers’ Club of Boston.

MY ENTIRE business career, since July, 1925, has been with

Stop & Shop, Inc. (formerly Economy Grocery Stores Cor-

poration), in association with my two Harvard brothers and my

father. I have gone through the successive steps of clerk, store
manager, supervisor, advertising manager, buyer, and finally at-
tained my present position as vice-president in charge of sales.

The fact that my family controls this enterprise has proved to

be no obstacle to my progress, It is a difficult business and in

spite of the great security which I enjoy, I have really put in
some hard licks. This year I become a member of the Quarter

Century Club. The type of business has changed from small

grocery stores to large supermarkets comprising many food de-

partments and the transition (which included an intermediary
step of developing meat markets) has really kept us on the hop.

Our masterpiece is located on Memorial Drive, Cambridge, not

far from the college itself. Among our customers are many of

the faculty and graduate students of our alma mater.

In 1936 I was convinced that I should join the Naval Reserve
as lieutenant (j.g.) to be of service in case of emergency. It
seemed like a good idea —I didn’t really pay too much attention
to it. In July, 1941, I was called to active duty, before Pearl
Harbor. My experience in foods was put to work and I really
tried to win the war singlehanded. I was promoted lieutenant

[ 796 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in 1942, and came down with ulcers in the same year. In 1944
this condition recurred so badly that I ended up in the Naval
Medical Center at Bethesda and was advised to leave the service,
which I did in November, 1944. While I feel that I made a
valuable contribution to the war effort, it appears that the powers
that be were not convinced, It must be some sort of record
to be a lieutenant (j.g.) in 1936 and complete the big jump to
lieutenant by 1944.

I have been quite active in communal and charitable affairs
for about twenty years— more so, perhaps, than my time per-
mits. It has really now become a rat race which I do not enjoy,
but I find it difficult to extricate myself. My greatest achieve-
ment along these lines has been as one of the founding trustees
and secretary of Brandeis University in Waltham, Massachusetts,
the first non-sectarian university which is Jewish sponsored and
supported. We opened with our first freshman class in October,
1948. The progress has been astounding, the standards superb.
Among our faculty are Ludwig Lewisohn, Max Lerner, and
Milton Hindus. Benny Friedman, Michigan All-American foot-
ball star of the 1920’s, is in charge of our athletic program. We
haven’t lost a single game yet! (Haven't played any.) The uni-
versity is co-educational. You'll hear more about Brandeis in
the future as a valuable addition to the educational and cultural
life of America. Thanks to Mike Cowles, Brandeis received na-
tional publicity in a several-page spread in Look Magazine. The
interest in the project has been terrific. If there is anything of
real importance in my obituary, it will undoubtedly be con-
cerned with my connection with Brandeis.

My hobbies: golf —a weekender — high 80’s — love it — wish
I could play more. Gin rummy — lousy — costly — grand for
my nerves!?? Travelling —love it— plan to do more, but so
far quite limited because I find it hard to get away for long
stretches. I spent six weeks in Europe on my honeymoon in 1933.
It was grand — Europe, I mean — oh yes — the honeymoon, too!

Looking back over twenty-five years, I find that it has been
too crowded and busy. I often wonder if our civilization is not
such that life is too complex and I ponder over whether, with
all our material progress, people are really happier than they were
fifty years ago. As for me, I hope the next quarter-century will

[797 ]

__ ,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

pass at a slower pace, with more time for relaxation and pleasure
and those extra-curricular communal activities which have seemed
to hold a peculiar fascination for me. More time too for a lovely
wife ([’ve been lucky) and a couple of cute daughters who'll
be grown up before I realize it. Let’s see the merry-go-round
stop for a while. I feel like a ride in a horse and buggy or a
Stanley Steamer.

RICHARD KERRY RATHJE

HOME ApprEss: 30 Charlton St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Esquire, Inc., 366 Madison Ave., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 29, 1903, Wheaton, II]. parents: Sylvanus Louis Rathje, May
Carey.

PREPARED AT: Wheaton High School, Wheaton, Ill. -

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925 (26).

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Editorial research, Esquire Magazine.

AFTER graduation I spent a year in Europe. I returned to
Chicago for a year with an abstract company; then New York
and two years with pulp magazines. In 1929 I decided to buy
a ticket for the first place a boat sailing that day might land. It
turned out to be Casablanca, Morocco. Through the kindness
of Walter Harris, dean of London Times correspondents, I was
able to visit Abdel Krim of the Rif, the Glaoui in Telouet, the
Gundalphi, the Tafilalet Oasis, and other areas which at that
time few Europeans or Americans had ever seen. I accompanied
the French military mission which made peace in the Dra country
and the mission which met the Tauregs in Adrar — small news
over here, but the cable was paid for. The next seven years
were spent in Europe. With Devon, England, as a base, I cov-
ered every country on the Continent except Russia. I did see
Latvia, Lithuania, and Esthonia but they were free then. In
1940 I was sent to the West Indies. Having covered all the
islands I found myself stuck in Barbados and there is no place
better in which to get stuck. The temperature with trade winds
goes to 65 degrees in “winter” and hits 75 in “summer.” Bar-
badians visiting me here howl when the thermometer hits 78
and complain bitterly of the “heat wave.” Much as I liked being

[798 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

stuck, I managed to get a passage to the States in 1944 and since
then have been employed by Esquire Magazine.

My work has appeared in Esquire, Coronet, Liberty, Strand,
Wide World, Adventure, etc.

RICHARD HAROLD RAWLINGS

HOME apprEss: Calle Pinar 18-D, Madrid, Spain.

OFFICE ADDRESS: International Telephone and Telegraph Corp., 67 Broad St.,
New York 4, N. Y.

BorN: Nov. 9, 1904, Rutland, Ohio. parents: Ray Hollis Rawlings, Clara
Fay McHaffie.

PREPARED AT: Rutland High School, Rutland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1925; S.B. IN E. ENGIN.
cum laude, 1927.

MarRiED: Harriet Martha Barr, June 19, 1935, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
CHILDREN: Mary Rachel, Dec. 9, 1936; Ann Barr, March 15, 1938; Susan

Fay, Sept. 4, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and chief engineer, International Telephone and
Telegraph Corporation (Espafia); technical adviser, Compafia Tele-
fonica Nacional de Espaifia.

OFFICES HELD: Operating superintendent, Chile Telephone Company, 1935-
37; Managing director, Compafiia Telephonica Rio Grandense, Porto
Alegre, and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 1938-44; vice-president, Puerto Rico
Telephone Company, 1945, Cuban Telephone Company, 1946-47.

THE thing that really provoked this narrative was the difficulty

in answering that question about the home address, Since giving

up really steady travelling along the telephone lines about 1935,

we have lived in eight different cities and some fourteen dwell-

ings in seven countries. Two children, those born in Brazil and
the United States, are in school in Florida; the third, born in

Chile, is in school in Ohio. Home is what one makes it, but the

address is something else again. Any more profound reflection

than that will just have to wait for a pause.

I have worked in some amateur photography, bad tennis, and
worse golf. Bill Heagney in Havana and Harry Smith in various
other parts can attest to this, if they will be charitable. How-
ever, apart from them and a visit with Ted Tuck and Allen
Thompson during a short stay in New York some five years
ago, there has been no coincidence of meeting with the Class of
1925. May the 1950 Reunion temporarily correct the home ad-
dress difficulty for some of us.

[799 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

SAMUEL REBER

HOME ADDRESS: 1532 31St St. Washington, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Department of State, Washington, D. C.

BorN: July 15, 1903, Easthampton, Long Island, N. Y. PARENTS: Samuel
Reber, Cecilia Sherman Miles.

PREPARED aT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

occuPATION: United States Foreign Service Officer.

MEMBER OF: Metropolitan Club; Chevy Chase Club.

I ENTERED the Foreign Service shortly after graduation. Be.
fore the war I served in various consular and diplomatic posts
in South America, Europe, and Africa. A few monthé after
Pearl Harbor I went to Martinique, F, W. L., on a special mission
for both Navy and State Departments. Subsequently I was at-
tached, first to the staff at Allied Force Headquarters in North
Africa, then to the first Allied military mission in Italy, and
afterwards to the Allied Control Commission, Italy. During this
period I also served briefly with the U. S. Fifth Army on a
special force. After the Normandy landing I was attached to
S.H.A.E-F. as political adviser for the liberated areas.

At the end of the war I returned to the Department of State
but have attended meetings of the Council of Foreign Ministers,
the Paris Peace Conference, and other international meetings.
At the time of writing (September, 1949) I am serving as U. S.
Deputy for the C. F, M. negotiations of the Austrian Treaty but
expect shortly to resume service abroad.

This is an abbreviated account of over twenty years in the
Foreign Service.

LUIS RECHANI-AGRAIT

HOME appress: Calle Acacias 105, Mayaguez, Puerto Rico.

OFFICE Appress; Super-A Fertilizer Works, Inc., Mayaguez, Puerto Rico.

BORN: June 22, 1902, Aguas Buenas, Puerto Rico. parRENts: Pio Rechami,
Maria Josefa Agrait.

PREPARED AT: University High School, Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

MagaieD: Belen Zequeira, Nov. 20, 1927, Loiza Aldea, Puerto Rico. cutt-
been: Belén, Oct. 20, 1928 (m. José Roberto Suarez); Mercedes, April 2,
1940; Maria Cecilia, Oct. 10, 1943.

[ 800 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OccUPATION: Vice-president and manager, Super-A Fertilizer Works, Inc.,
secretary, Mayaguez Distilling Company and Puerto Rico Liquor Cor-
poration; farming and thoroughbred horse breeding.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Racing Commission, 1935-40, Central Committee,
Unificacién Puertoniguefia (a political party), 1940; trustee, University
of Puerto Rico, 1940.

MEMBER OF: Optimists, Mayaguez Rifle and Shotgun Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Mi Senoria, a comedy; Tu Mujer no te Engana, a comedy,
Una Nube en el Viento (juvenile poems, together with Rafael Rivera
Otero); Paginas de Color de Rosa, short stories, numerous short short
stories, poems, articles, editorials.

TOO disillusioned to talk about myself,

JOHN EDWARD REDMOND

HOME ADDRESS: 430 E. 86th St., New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Radio Keith Orpheum Corp., 1270 Sixth Ave. New York 20,
N.Y.

BORN: July 23, 1903, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: James William Redmond, Anne
Theresa Sullivan.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 19253 M.B.A. 1927.

HARVARD BROTHERS: James William Redmond, ’22; Paul Joseph Redmond, ’24.

OccuPaATION: Motion picture theatre business.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

WILLIAM THIBAULT REIDY

HOME ADDRESS: 350 Main St., Winsted, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Winsted Container Co., Winsted, Conn.

BORN: Jan. 26, 1904, Winsted, Conn. parents: David Dillon Reidy, Anna
Thibault.

PREPARED AT: Gilbert School, Winsted, Conn.; St. John’s Preparatory School,
Danvers, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926, DEGREE: A.B. 1925 (26).

marrieD: Doris Coffey, 1929, Winsted, Conn. (divorced 1939); Alice Griffin
Vaill, Oct. 18, 1939. cHILDREN: William Dillon, March 22, 1930; Dolcie
Ann, Jan. 23, 1932; Peter Jerome, March 25, 1934; Theodore Vaill, Jr.
(stepson).

HARVARD BROTHER: David Dillon Reidy, Jr., '23.

OccuPATION: Manufacturing (specialized packaging and general manufactur-
ing shipping requirements).

OFFICES HELD: Assistant field director, American Red Cross, 1945-46; director,
Winsted Chapter, American Red Cross.

MEMBER OF: Winsted Club; Footlight Club,

[ 801 ]

7 TA a Ea eT I NIN RTE I EEN HE UEHRUREMEINRLICIS. Ser CT PRUNE TOP EIT

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

OUR Tenth Report found me something less than a legal eagle —
actually a person trying to decide what to do. Since that time
I have engaged in various pursuits including selling insurance
for Aetna Life Insurance Company, working in the aircraft in-
dustry in Pratt & Whitney from 1940 to 1945, and spending
about a year, until March, 1946, with the American Red Cross
as assistant field director at Fort Dix. After my Red Cross service
I worked at the Winsted Container Company in my home town
with a two-year period during 1947-49 in which I served as
superintendent of welfare for my city of Winsted while retain-
ing my position with the Container Company. Since October,
1949, I have been associated only with the Container Company
and expect to be henceforth.

That old boy of mine is now in the service of the U. S. Army,
while my younger children are with their mother. My stepson
is also in the Army — in Okinawa where he denied that all the
misfits are sent. Alice and I live a sedentary life, avoiding all
the late “such and such” sessions possible. The impossible ses-
sions include politics, social welfare, and such knick-knacks which
keep us reading the papers.

I shall look forward to the Reunion for all reasons. Please tell
me how to find my ex-roommate there. I thought I could find
him at a Yale game outside a particular gate because he was six
feet, three and a half inches tall, but Harvard men must average
taller as that would be about hat brim for all I saw. He’s N.
Hosler McElroy, of Cincinnati.

Harvard indifference — final exam — this — advice from one
who knows — do it and add pages to your report because you
can!

HENRY REIFF

HOME Appress: 84 Park St., Canton, N. Y.

orrice appress: St. Lawrence University, Canton, N. Y.

soan: May 20, 1899, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Jacob Reifschneider, Kathe-
rine Marie Reh.

Peevarrp AT: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.; Phillips Acad-
emy, Andover, Mass.

{ 802 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 19253 A.M.
(Univ. of Michigan), 1926, a.m. (Harvard Univ.), 1929; px.p. (ibid.),
19346

marrieD: Ione Alice Drake, July 22, 1935, London, England. cempren:
Jonathan Drake, Sept. 14, 1938, Daniel Drake, Aug. 17, 1941.

occupaTION: Professor of government; head of department of history and
government, St. Lawrence University.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Legal specialist in international organization,
Division of International Affairs, Department of State, September, 1944-
July, 1946; technical expert in the American delegation to the United
Nations Conference on International Organization, San Francisco, April-
June, 1945; technical adviser in the American delegation to the Executive
Committee of the Preparatory Commission of the United Nations, Lon-
don, August-November, 1945; technical adviser in the American delega-
tion to the Preparatory Commission of the United Nations, London,
November—December, 1945; technical adviser in the American delegation
to the first part of the first session of the General Assembly of the United
Nations, London, January-February, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: President, Lambda Chapter, Phi Beta Kappa, St. Lawrence,
1946-48, American Association of University Professors, St. Lawrence
Chapter, 1942-43, New York State Political Science Association, 1947-48;
numerous committee chairmanships.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Political Science Association, Ameri-
can Society of International Law; St. Lawrence County Historical Asso-
ciation; American Association of University Professors.

PusLications: Articles: “The Proclaiming of Treaties in the United States”;
“The United States and International Administrative Unions”; “We

_ Live by Symbols”; “Freedom of Speech: some Newly Needed Safe-
guards”; other publications: “Transition from League of Nations to
United Nations” (pts. I-II), “Work of the United Nations ‘Legal Com-
mittees’” (pts. I-III), The Department of State Bulletin, “A Form Book
for Standard Treaty Clauses,” The American Journal of International
Law.

LOOKING back over these past twenty-five years, I can truly
say, “I am content.” Like all of us, I have had my trials and
tribulations, joys and sorrows, successes and failures, but in the
net I have achieved much that I set out to do. I have had to
trim off my excess of hopes, discount my capacities, take in
my ears a bit, and find my own level of optimum performance.
On the whole I have found the process, as I took it in and ad-
justed myself to it, full of satisfactions. I think often of the
phrase used by Justice Cardozo at a commencement here once
when we gave him a degree: he referred to himself as “plod-
ding mediocrity.” With no allusion to the respective records,

[ 803 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

feeling of satisfaction I have ever experienced — for its utilization
of my professional equipment, for its challenge to my industry
and resourcefulness, for its appeal to be of service during the
war, for its camaraderie, for its fulfillment of hopes reaching
back to my childhood, for its opportunity to make a contribu-
tion to the future of both the United States and the international
community. For these things I am thankful. They are part of
that wealth of intangibles which, in my judgment, alone are
imperishable and which are preéminently a proper heritage for
one’s children.

For the nonce I am super-busy from September to June as
professor of government and head of the department of history
and government at St. Lawrence, as a senior member of the
faculty, making speeches, attending conferences, writing occa-
sional articles and frequent book reviews, participating in the
work of the Universalist Church here in Canton and on occasion
in their summer institute at Ferry Beach, Maine, doing my share
of professional society chores, and listening to my wife read to
me each available evening from nine to ten from some detective
story, some novel, or some biography, while 1 smoke my pipe
and sip my port! And I mean that literally.

GEORGE RENWICK

aporess: Bonnie Brae, Bar Harbor, Maine.

Born: Dec. 11, 1901, Bar Harbor, Maine. parents: John Renwick, Margaret
MacDonald.

preparep at: Bar Harbor High School, Bar Harbor, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925.

Maggiep: Hilda Emery, June 10, 1925, Malden, Mass.

occuPATION: Agriculture.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Ren-
wick did not return a questionnaire.

FRANK ALFRED RHULAND

HOME Appress; Fahy Street, Belfast, Maine.

orrice appress: Crosby High School, Belfast, Maine.

Bown: Dec. 14, 1903, Athol, Mass. parents: William Wallace Rhuland,
Minnie Belle Pike.

pueparep at: Murdock School, Winchendon, Mass,

[ 806 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREES: S$.B., 1925; ED.M., 1935.

MARRIED: Florence M. Ramsey, June 27, 1927, Medford, Mass. CHILDREN:
Frank Alfred, Jr., Jan. 27, 1932; Florence Amaryllis, April 18, 1937.

OCCUPATION: Educator.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Secondary Principals; National Educa-
tion Association; Belfast Teachers Club; Maine Teachers Association;
Budliegh Lodge, AF. & A.M.

FROM graduation until 1942, I devoted myself primarily to

teaching, holding positions as athletic coach in Bristol, Rhode

Island, and Beverly, Massachusetts, senior and junior high schools

as well as teaching mathematics and sciences. During this period

I acquired one wife, two children (not to mention sundry dogs,

cats, jalopies, etc.), and an Ed.M. degree. Like Cornelia, my

jewels are pretty much the congenial family surroundings with
healthy members (even the dogs, etc.) and the satisfaction of
doing an average good job at my profession.

Since 1942 I have undergone more changes: war work in the
General Electric defense plant; teaching in Wellesley High
School; and more recently I took on the headmaster’s tasks here
at Belfast, Maine (Crosby High School), Our modest cottage
on Penobscot Bay is not much compared to our former Beverly
home, but classmates are equally welcome to drop in.

Frank, Jr., completes Andover next June and expects to enter
the Alma Mater —likes the ministry or diplomatic service. F.
Amaryllis may be heard from in the field of music.

I enjoy reading about the great achievements of Harvard men,
such as President James B. Conant, Walter Lippmann, Henry
Cabot Lodge, Jr., and so on. Perhaps, someday, I may achieve
my ambition to give the Alma Mater credit for, and humanity
the benefit from, a substantial contribution to human advance-
ment, sociologically or educationally.

OTIS RADCLIFFE RICE

HOME ADDRESS: 425 Riverside Drive, New York 25, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREss: St. Luke’s Hospital, qzt W. 113th St.. New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Aug. 18, 1903, Reading, Pa. Parents: Clarence Edgar Rice, Mary
Campbell Peckham.

PREPARED AT: Central High School (now Classical High School), Springfield,
Mass.

[ 807 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925, DEGREES: A.B., 1925; B.D. (Episcopal Theological
School), 1928.

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Clergyman, pastoral counselor and teacher.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Civilian adviser to chief of chaplains.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant minister, Trinity Church, Boston, Mass., 1929-33;
instructor, Episcopal Theological School, 1929-33, General Theological
Seminary, New York, N. Y., since 1933; senior assistant minister and
pastoral counsellor, St. Thomas Church, New York, N. ,Y., 1933-38;
rector, Church of St. Barnabas, Irvington-on-Hudson, New York, N. Y.,
1938-40; religious director, St. Luke’s Hospital, New York, N. Y,,
since 1940; acting chaplain, Columbia University, 1942-45; visiting lec-
turer and/or preacher at the following universities or colleges: Bard,
Boston, Buffalo, Chicago, Columbia, Cornell, Drew, Hamilton, Lafayette,
Toronto, Vanderbilt, Yale, the University of the South, and the follow-
ing seminaries: New Brunswick, Seabury-Western, Union, and Berkeley,
and at the College of Preachers, Washington, D. C.; chairman of com-
mission on religion and health, Federal Council of Churches of Christ in
America, 1941-46; chairman of department of pastoral services, Federal
Council, 1946-48; president board of governors, Council for Clinical
Training, Inc. since 1947; president board of trustees, Clifton Springs
Sanitarium, since 1949; cited member, National Committee on Mental
Hygiene; trustee, Yale School of Alcohol Studies, member editorial
board, Journal of Clinical Pastoral Work and Quarterly Journal of
Studies on Alcobol.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New York; New
York Academy of Sciences; Cosmos Club, Washington, D. C.; Century
Association, New York; University Club of New York; National Coun-
cil on Religion in Higher Education (fellow).

PUBLICATIONS: The Church’s Ministry to Returning Servicemen, 1945; co-
author, This Holy Fellowship, 1939, Lectures on Alcohol Studies at Yale
University, 1943, Psychiatry and the War, 1943, Alcohol, Science, and
Society, 1945, Nursing Arts, 1948, Religion and Medical Practice, 1949,
The Ministry, 1949; numerous articles and reviews in religious and
professional journals.

AFTER graduation I had a short tussle in deciding between
medicine and the ministry, but entered the Episcopal Theological
School in the fall of 1925 and pursued some medical and psy-
chiatric studies at the same time. After ordination as a deacon
in the Episcopal Church, I began my ministry at Liverpool
Cathedral in England while at the same time studying at the
psychological laboratory of Cambridge University, I was for-
tunate enough to become a Fellow-Commoner of St. John’s
College at the University and hence enjoyed not only good

[ 808 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

food and drink at the High Table but also the companionship
of some of the finest scholars in Great Britain. During vacations,
which were delightfully long, I travelled on the Continent and
had unusual opportunities to observe the psychiatry being prac-
tised in Scandinavia, Switzerland, and Poland.

Upon my return to the United States, I became assistant min-
ister at Trinity Church in Boston where I served under Henry
K. Sherrill, then rector of Trinity Church and now presiding
bishop of the Episcopal Church in the United States. At Trinity
I began the counseling ministry which I have continued through
the years. This has been a normal pastoral approach informed
by what one can learn from the disciplines of medicine, psy-
chiatry, and psychoanalysis. It was during my work at Trinity
Church that I undertook a training analysis by one of the finest
teaching psychoanalysts in the world to whom I owe a tremen-
dous deal for whatever insights I have for the meaning of human
behavior. In order to share my interest and experience, I taught
at the Episcopal Theological School in Cambridge, what was
probably the first course in pastoral pyschology offered in this
country.

Later in New York City at St. Thomas Church I pursued my
practice of the sacred ministry and enlarged my work in pastoral
counseling and the emotional adjustment of distressed individuals.
I have offered courses at the General Theological Seminary and
also discussed with many groups of my fellow-clergy our com-
mon problems of the pastoral care of individuals. I preached
enough during these years to know that I was no preacher and
that I had best confine my activities to work with individuals
and groups.

Being unencumbered by a family, I was able to travel exten-
sively during vacation periods and when on leave of absence
from my regular work. My boy scout soul led me into various
interesting corners of Europe and into a fantastic series of ex-
periences which still thrill me as I look back on them and which
have grown gorgeously in their proportions as I have recounted
them to friends! In the course of my travels I was able to ob-
serve and study the psychiatry being practised in Vienna,
Munich, Berlin, Stockholm, and London. My contacts with some

[ 809 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 192§

of the leaders in this profession have been extremely valuable in
later years.

After a brief rectorship of a delightful parish in Westchester |
became religious director and chaplain of a well-nigh unique
hospital, St. Luke’s in New York City, This institution is con-
cerned with the total personality of its patients. It is a delight
to be associated with so many members of the medical, nursing,
and social service professions who are genuinely interested in
the whole man.

During the war years I conducted numerous seminars for
service chaplains in different parts of the world on the general
subject of pastoral care of the individual. Perhaps my own lack
of interest in preaching has made me project my own concern
for the individual cure of souls upon other clergy. But the
hunger of the service chaplains generally for more knowledge
of how to deal with personal problems was a genuine one. My
associations during these years were very rich.

From 1942 to 1945 I was “lent” to Columbia University as its
acting chaplain. With the accelerated program, the Midship-
men’s School, and the School of Military Government, com-
mencements and matriculations were held about every other
day, so that if anyone touched me on the shoulder I would
begin a baccalaureate sermon or a matriculation prayer!

The last twenty-five years have been very full and very re-
warding. It has been a rare privilege to exercise a ministry
which has meant a close and intimate relationship with so many
persons in religious and emotional difficulty but who have never-
theless displayed so many resources and potentialities, I have
nothing in a worldly sense to show for these years but without
being in any way sentimental or defensive I can say quite sin-
cerely that I would not exchange my life and work with any
member of our Class!

WILLIAM DOUGLAS RICHMOND

HOME appress: 36 Amory St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Stone & Webster Engineering Corp., 49 Federal St.,
Boston, Mass.

Born: June s1, 1902, Newton, Mass. parents: Charles Franklin Richmond,

Amy Reynolds Douglas.
[ 810 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192I~1925. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1925; M.ARCH.

1931} PH.D. 1939.
UNMARRIED.
occupaTION: Architectural designer.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Corporal (Ts), Army, 8 months.
OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Second Church in Boston, since 1930.
MEMBER OF: Brockton Commercial Club, Brockton, Mass.

UNTIL I finally received my doctorate I held the position of
assistant instructor and, for a brief period, tutor in the fine arts
department at Harvard. I was teaching at the University of
Rochester when drafted into the Army, after trying unsuccess-
fully to enter the Navy and Coast Guard. I served only eight
months in non-combat classification, then left to enter the payroll
department of the Bethlehem Hingham Shipbuilding Corporation
until the end of the war. Since then I have been with Stone &
Webster Engineering Corporation.

My chief source of pleasure is cruising and since discovering
the Maine coast I have spent all my vacations, except during
the war, in that area. Otherwise, unless shooting regularly about
104 at golf counts, my sports favor indoor varieties, bridge and
bowling. I have, during the depression, found a very easy way
to lose money. Any inquiries will be promptly and courteously
acknowledged.

You ask for social, political, or religious convictions. My reply
is that until we pay ‘salaries to those who instruct, govern or
spiritually lead us that are more in proportion to their importance,
we can expect no further important advance in our American
civilization.

JOHN HOWLAND RICKETSON, III

HOME ADDRESS: 1212 Murrayhill Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa.

OFFICE apprEss: Edwards, George & Co., 307 Fourth Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa.

BORN: Sept. 21, 1902, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: John Howland Ricketson, Jr.
’97, Anna Verner Scaife.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921~192§. DEGREE: A.B., 1925. -

MarRiED: Anne King Scott, June 9, 1930, Pittsburgh, Pa. cup: Scott Rick-
etson, Oct. 15, 1931.

HARVARD SON: Scott Ricketson, '53.

[ 811 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

 

occupation: General insurance.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Edwards, George & Company, Western Penn-
sylvania School for the Blind; director, Peoples First National Bank &
Trust Company, Scaife Company.

MEMBER OF: Pittsburgh Club; Duquesne Club; Rolling Rock Club; Pittsburgh
Golf Club; Harvard Club of Western Pennsylvania.

I SPENT the summer of ’25 in Europe and then returned to
Pittsburgh and reality. My first job was that of accountant in
a large corporation. After fighting those damned figures for a
year I left, with a real fondness for my fellow-workers but
with an undying dislike of bookkeeping. My next job was sell-
ing residential real estate. This involved a lot of dealings with
women who were impossible to please, so I moved over to the
insurance department of the same firm and have been there —
contentedly — ever since,

My other interests, excluding wife and son, have been, con-
secutively, horses, dogs, photography and old furniture, showing
no doubt a steady progression towards complete inertia. The
dog craze paid off during the war. Ulcers prevented my en-
listing, but having bred and judged Dobermans, I was able to
take on a voluntary civilian job selecting and shipping dogs from
this part of the country to the Marine Corps and Coast Guard.

My social and religious convictions can, I suppose, be summed
up as trying to give my fellow-men fair and courteous treatment.
My political convictions can be explained by the confidential
disclosure that on the morning following the last presidential
election I threw up.

ALLEN MacDONALD RIDEOUT

HOME AppRESS: 35 S. Common St., Lynnfield Center, Mass.

oFFice appress: General Electric Co., River Works, Lynn, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 22, 1903, Somerville, Mass. PARENTS: Ray Ralph Rideout, Susan
Julia MacDonald.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

Magaiep: Allene Lucille Holman, Aug. 1, 1925, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Richard Holman, Aug. 23, 1926; Philip Munro, June 24, 1936.

OCCUPATION: Cost accountant,

orrices HELD: President, Lynnficld Taxpayers Association,

Memaex oy: Lynnfield Lodge, AF. & A.M.

[812 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER graduation I went into finance. In 1932, when Roosevelt
was elected, I took an interest in politics. When he was re-
elected in 1936 I got out of finance and into politics, much to
my subsequent discomfiture. After tilting at windmills for a
few years watching a steady procession of “Me-too” candidates,
I got out of politics.

During the war I went with the General Electric Company,
where I am now — a connection which stamps me as a respectable
bourgeois citizen with no Red in his make-up. Except, in my
case, there are strawberries on the side, the cultivation of which
I highly recommend to those who are ill at ease in a troubled
world.

This thumbnail sketch shows that I have scaled no peaks but
as a poet once said: “A man’s reach should exceed his grasp, or
what’s a heaven for?”

While waiting for the answer to this question I am aware, of
course, of that most beguiling of political inventions, the welfare
state, which to me is only government of failures, by failures,
and for the benefit of failures. It is old stuff besides, as witness:

Ah, take the cash and Jet the credit go,
Nor heed the rumble of a distant drum!

Thus said Omar, the tent-maker, circa 1100 A.D.

WILLIAM PUTNAM RIPLEY

HOME ADDRESS: 83 Pleasant St., Newton Center, Mass.

BoRN: March 4, 1902, Newton, Mass. parents: William Zebina Ripley, Ida
Sabine Davis.

PREPARED AT: Newton Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. cz? laude, 1925.

MarRIED: Lydia Overbosch, Aug. 6, 1932, Leeuwarden, Holland. cenLpren:
Joanne, July 6, 1933; Suzanne, Feb. 10, 1936, Jan, Nov. 2, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Operator of boat yard.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Senior business analyst, Office of Contract
Renegotiation, War Department.

MEMBER OF: Boston Yacht Club.

THE first two years after college were spent pursuing a higher
education at the Law School. Finding myself with no special
aptitude or liking for the profession, I left in 1927 and com-

[ 813 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

menced working for Stone and Webster. After a few months
of their traditional indoctrination as an office boy at $15 per
week, I was transferred to their utility auditing division and
from 1927 to 1932 I travelled around the United States, visiting
their various companies and enjoying it tremendously. I even
had a winter in Jamaica, B. W. I., on an expense account, which
is a hard combination to beat.

In 1932 I was brought back to Boston and put in charge of a
small affiliated company which handled tax and financial matters
of a purely personal nature for the executives of the Boston
office. Among the other aspects of this job were such diverse
activities as running a fur farm in New Hampshire, a dairy in
Boston, a summer hotel on the North Shore, and a pulp-land
company in northern Maine. It was in this same year, 1932, that
I travelled to Holland and, ably assisted by Bob Holden and
Bob Seamans, got myself married. That operation, which com-
prised a month-long house party climaxed by frantic efforts to
get my wife back into the United States through a sea and fog
of red tape, makes quite a story in itself.

In 1942, after being turned down for military service because
of a squeaky lung, I joined the staff of the Office of Price Ad-
ministration in Boston, and became indoctrinated with the bu-
reaucratic way of life and the confusion and turmoil attendant
on the birth of what I suppose was a typical war-time agency.
In any event, we did our best to keep the lid on things.

After a year and a half with the O.P.A., I was transferred to
the Quartermaster Corps, in the Division of Contract Renego-
tiation, as a business analyst, and there helped to strike what we
hoped was a satisfactory balance between reasonable and ex-
cessive profits for all types of New England companies.

In 1944 I left the government service entirely and joined the
staff of the Hadley Special Tool Company where I did produc-
tion control and cost accounting work in connection with the
production of small arms parts. With the termination of the war
in 1946 and the termination of war business, I was desirous of
finding a small business which I could operate myself, and which
would give me an opportunity to be out of doors. About the
middle of that year I purchased a boat yard in Marblehead and
have since been devoting my entire activities to developing it.

[814]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Except for a couple of months in the winter, when things shut
down completely on the water front, and when I do some
special work for a firm of public accountants in Boston, the boat
business has taken all my waking hours. The problems of the
small businessman, so frequently discussed in the press, are not
academic.

On the social and recreational side of life, I find time to get
in a fair amount of tennis and sailing with my family when I
can join them in our place at Boothbay Harbor. My particular
hobby i is woodworking, and as a retreat from such mental hazards
as writing a twenty- five-year biography, I can usually sneak
down in my cellar for a quick go at the lathe, the jig saw, or
the joiner.

LEONARD LISPENARD ROBB

HOME ADDRESS: 6842 N. Kilpatrick Ave., Lincolnwood 30, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stewart-Wamner Corp., 1826 Diversey Pkwy., Chicago 14, IL

BORN: Feb. 11, 1904, Troy, N. Y. parents: William Lispenard Robb, Caro-
line Winifred Matthews.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921—1925, DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MaRRIED: Raymona Young, March 27, 1937, Waukegan, Ill. cumpren: Julia
Caroline, Sept. 1, 1942; Anthony Lispenard, Aug. 22, 1945.

occupation: Manufacturing.

PHILIP HUNTER ROBB

HOME ADDRESS: 130 Clandeboye Ave., Westmount, P. Q., Canada.

OFFICE appREss: Robb & Co., Reg’d., 1132 William St., Montreal, P. Q., Can-
ada.

BORN: Feb. 27, 1902, Washington, D. C. Parents: Hunter Robb, Isabel
Hampton.

PREPARED AT: Taft School, Watertown, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925,

MarrieD: Mary Linzee Hall, Oct. 3, 1925, Medford, Mass. campren: Mary
Isabel, Oct. 19, 1926 (m. Robert A. M. Smith, Nov. 5, 1949); Barbara
Hunter, Jan. 17, 1929; Joan Linzee, June 24, 1933.

HARVARD BROTHER: Hampton Robb, ’18

occupation: Manufacturers’ counsellor and agent.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chief, overseas branch, Office of War Informa-
tion in Canada.

[ 815 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

oFFices HELD: Nfanager of branch offices, Rhoades & Company, 1928-36,
president, Canada Cuba Company, Ltd., 1936-37, D.C.R., Ltd., 1937~39;
metropolitan chairman, Red Cross, Montreal, 1948 and 1949.

MEMBER OF: Rockaway Hunting Club; Harvard Club of New York, Ca-
nadian Club of Montreal; University Club of Montreal, Montreal Racket
Club; Taillo Club of Montreal; Fin, Fur & Feather Club; Basque Fish &
Game Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, 1925 Class Reports.

WHAT with being “the father of the bride” to my eldest

daughter early this November and then rushing off to the West

Coast of Canada on business immediately after the wedding for

a duration of three weeks, I now find it hard to sit down and

concentrate on a sketch of my last twenty-five years.

On leaving Harvard I went to New York to learn what makes
that metropolis tick in a business way. As I got married that Oc-
tober, I had to tick too. Antique furniture and fine productions
finally led me through the manufacturing end to going to Europe
for four months in the spring of 1926 to buy for the firm. It was
a fascinating experience, especially as I was not at all certain why
the firm thought I could do the job. Although the trip proved
a success, soon after I returned I was drawn as by a magnet to
Wall Street in the company of so many others. For the next
ten years I was in the financial game, a period during which my
wonderful wife presented me with three delightful daughters.

I had always had a yen for Canada and took every occasion
to wend my way there for business. The result was that I left
“the Street” three years prior to the war and headed up a com-
pany in Montreal on research in insulating materials. The war
put an end to this as materials of the kind we were working on
were of secondary interest. Being a United States citizen pre-
vented me from volunteering in Canada so I proceeded to break
all the laws in a different way. From the middle of December,
1939, on I was busy trying to foil Jerry. The U. S. government
sent me to Montreal early in 1943 with the idea of going over-
seas later, but no such luck. After my tour of duty ended in
May, 1946, I decided to remain on in Canada with my family
and here 1 am in my own business as agent for various producers.

I have told of my travels, but my relaxation is in fishing and
hunting in this beautiful country. My Canadian friends are most
generous towards my amateur efforts in the other sports I at-

{ 816 J}

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tempt. All in all it has given a charming background towards
developing a vigorous philosophy of life with my family and
business. The rigors of Canadian winters become a joy. The -
day by day association with English- and French-speaking Cana-
dians is refreshing in its simplicity, contructive in its goal of
live and let live. For me, as a United States citizen in Canada,
politics are out.

As your Class Secretary ¢ over these years I do not pretend to
have been perfect or even average, but I will say that I have
tried to do my best. The personal contact with Class affairs
and the members of the Class has been to me a great inspiration
and a continuing interest that transcends what would appear to
be a rather matter of fact existence that I have portrayed. I do
thank you sincerely for the coéperation that you have given me.

ISRAEL HYMAN ROBERTS

LAST KNOWN apprEss: 25 Firglade Ave., Springfield, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 19, 1899, Morris, Pa. PARENTS: Frank Roberts, Mary Kadesbewitz.
PREPARED AT: Holyoke High School, Holyoke, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: AB., 1925.

OCCUPATION: Mercantile business.

ROBERTS has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since
November, 1943.

CHARLES HIDDEN ROBINSON °

HOME AppREss: 14 Reed St., Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 157 Pleasant St., Marblehead, Mass.

BORN: March 17, 1903, Marblehead, Mass. PARENTS: Frederick Robinson,
Emeline Louise Caswell.

PREPARED at: Marblehead High School, Marblehead, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1025. DEGREE: 8.B., 1925.

MmarriepD: Mildred Leavitt Holloway, April 30, 1933.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Frederick Robinson, Jr. '17; Joseph Stanley Robinson, ’25.

OCCUPATION: Real estate and insurance.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Factory work with Atwood & Morrill Valve
Company, assembling valves for the Navy.

OFFICES HELD: Member and secretary, Board of Marblehead Sewer Commis-
sion, 1931-34.

MEMBER OF: Philanthropic Lodge of Masons; Scottish Rites bodies to 32°
(Consistory); Rotary Club; Chamber of Commerce; Greater Salem Real
Estate Board.

[817]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

AFTER graduation I worked in a number of places (R. E.
Townsend real estate office in Boston, New England Telephone
& Telegraph Company in Providence, National Shawmut Bank
in Boston, and selling printing) until I started my own business
of real estate in 1930.

I hope to see a better system of finding places for college
graduates develop in the near future. The emphasis in the future
will be more and more on change, constant and more rapid
changes in business and society, as inventions multiply and the
masses progress and aspire to their rightful share of a fuller life.
This constant change — some will call it progress — will empha-
size the necessity of individuals’ cultivating the quality of adapta-
bility, a willingness and readiness to welcome and master new
situations and to leave the old. This is quite different from the
past when one might fit oneself into a place and consider oneself
set for life. Those days have gone, sad to relate.

The question is, can this type of society be mastered by our
present system? Or do we want to submit to regimentation and
direct placing of all from a central bureau? Let’s hope there is
enough self-reliance and independence to lead the American way.

My hobby, if any, is music. I have been pianist and organist
in Christian Science churches for twenty years.

+ HAROLD RICHARD ROBINSON

BORN: Feb. 27, 1902, Jamaica Plain, Mass. parENTSs: Leo Robinson, Jennie
Oppenheimer.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925.

MarRiED: Ruth Ann Kimball, June 16, 1927, Providence, R. I. cain: Ann,
September, 1928.

DIED: Oct. 23, 1942, West Newton, Mass.

wipow: Mrs. Harold R. Robinson, 42 Oldham Rd., West Newton, Mass.

HAROLD RICHARD ROBINSON entered Harvard from the

Public Latin School in Boston, and remained with the Class for

four years. In April, 1929, he became associated with the Chevro-

let Motor Car unit of the Gencral Motors Company. He spent his

entire career with the Gencral Motors Corporation and became

widely known throughout New England for his service with the

factory branches of this company. At the time of his death, he

(818 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

was president of the Porter Square Chevrolet Company. He was
survived by his wife and daughter.

+k JOHN RANDOLPH ROBINSON

BorN: Oct. 14, 1904, Paris, France. parents: John Bryan Robinson, Marion
O’Neil.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925(27).

DIED: Sept. 2, 1930, Capri, Italy.

JOHN RANDOLPH ROBINSON received his early education

in French, Swiss, and English schools. In 1919 he enrolled in the

fifth form of St. George’s School and two years later entered

Harvard.

He became a member of the United States foreign service in
1927, and served as vice-consul in Calcutta, Madras, and Nice. In
1929 he was transferred to the consulate at Naples. While on a
visit to Capri, he was fatally injured as a result of a fall from a
balcony of his hotel. He died the following morning.

In college Robinson played leading parts in many of Le Cercle
Francais productions and displayed not only an amazing command
of the French language but also a real talent for histrionics. There
seems little doubt but that, had he wished, he could have had a
successful career on the stage or on the screen, either in this coun-
try or in France. He spoke French so well that he could easily
pass as a Frenchman. He was rather more mature and sophisticated
than most of his classmates and combined a taste for life’s ameni-
ties with a liking for good literature, good works of art, and good
talk.

JOSEPH STANLEY ROBINSON

HOME ADDRESS: 42 Elm St., Marblehead, Mass.

BORN: March 17, 1903, Marblehead, Mass. parents: Frederick Robinson,
Emeline Louise Caswell.

PREPARED AT: Marblehead High School, Marblehead, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.

MarrRiED: Elizabeth Robinson Childs, June 21, 1929, Marblehead, Mass. cHicp:
Sylvia Louise, Feb, 16, 1931.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Frederick Robinson, Jr. '17; Charles Hidden Robinson,

25.
[ 819 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

 

occupation: Writer; reporter on Salem Evening News.
OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Marblehead Planning Board, 1943-49.
PuBLicaTions: The Story of Marblehead, Waymarks in the Life of Mary

Baker Eddy (illustrated with photographs by the author).

MY LIFE since graduation in 1925 has been as varied and on
occasion as hectic as the times. Occupationally it has centered
largely around newspaper work, with some years put in as asso-
ciate editor of the Marblehead Messenger, my home town weekly.
More recently I have been doing reporting and editorial tasks
for the Salem Evening News. Music has been one avocation and
I put in a couple of years as a church soloist. Occasional news
broadcasting sends my voice over the air waves, via WESX.
During depression years we embarked on a business venture in-
volving the making and selling of candy and ice cream, an enter-
prise affording much opportunity to increase our knowledge of
human nature but without swelling our financial statement. His-
torical research is another personal interest which accounts for
the publications mentioned elsewhere, as well as a number of
shorter bits. _

Our family has a common yen for moving about, expressed
notably in a travel tour a few years back to the Grand Canyon,
Mexico, the West Coast, and the Canadian Rockies. A summer
camp on Chebacco Lake provides relaxation and water sports,
chiefly swimming and outboarding. Although near civilization
it takes us surprisingly close to nature, and visits from Canadian
geese, blue heron and woodcock, among other feathered friends,
are most welcome.

The better half does her bit for the community mainly as Girl
Scout Leader. Her troop of very active youngsters raises some
doubts about whether boys are the noisier breed, after all, or
the livelier. I wish her devotion to them were shared by more
capable mothers for such guidance is much needed, Mrs. R. has
served as president of the Leaders’ Association, incidentally.

Our daughter holds the same keen interest in things musical
and dramatic as do her parents. Many roles in high school the-
atricals, as well as singing and comedy engagements outside of
school and college, have strengthened her longing for a stage
career, Her father once did the same thing but, except for a
réle as Moses in a Methodist Church religious drama some years

[ 820 J

= erp oes

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ago, his career ended on tour with the Harvard Glee Club. Her
mother likewise has that natural flair and pleasing voice which
all stage-struck children should insist upon when selecting par-
ents. Without parental understanding and encouragement many
a dramatic genius is born to blush unseen. We have not frowned
upon this glamorous urge in our offspring, feeling that every
individual should develop according to his God-given talents
and inclinations.

Summarizing a quarter-century in a few paragraphs is not easy
when much of one’s life has been routine and the rest not too
spectacular. At this milestone we are beginning to reach con-
clusions regarding the aims and satisfactions of existence which
at the moment indicate that there is much of truth in our homely
old proverbs. As a newspaperman witnessing many mistakes and
catastrophes, often seeing the error which the unfortunate vic-
tim is blindly clinging to, but unable to point out a better way
to those who prefer the hard road to understanding, one some-
times wonders where there is the leadership that might prevent
such lack of wisdom in human affairs —the spiritual influence
which was so strong in the early periods of American history.
The marvel of radio may in time instruct to higher levels of
thought, but the present indications point to the extension of
mere entertainment and material rather than intellectual grati-
fications, lowering standards of political leadership, using expedi-
ency in the solving of crises, We live in an age of revolution and,
when the turmoil is ended, I am convinced there will be peace,
better health, and more abundance for all.

OLIVER VINCENT ROBINSON

HOME AppREss: R.F.D. 2, Meredith, N. H.

OFFICE apprEss: A. W. Sewell Co., Laconia, N. H.

BORN: Novy. 9, 1901, Bedford, Mass, parents: George Washington Robinson,
"95, Mary Bell Nickerson.

PREPARED AT: Wellesley High School, Wellesley, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1925.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Electrician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted, Nov. 2, 1942; trained at Fort Mon-
mouth, N. J., 1942-July, 1943; technician, fifth grade, Signal Corps;
sent overseas with rozgth Signal Corps, August, 1943; served on V.H.F.

[ 821 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

maintenance at fighter bases, s5th Fighter Group, 8th Air Force; pro-
moted sergeant; released from active duty, July, 1945-

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Hampshire; Griggs-Wyatt Post No. 33,
American Legion.

FOLLOWING graduation, I worked as a salesman, carpenter,
farmer, and then at laboratory work with the Brown Company
in Berlin, New Hampshire. When the depression hit in 1932,
I was laid off and returned to the family home in Meredith. Farm-
ing and various other jobs kept me occupied for the next ten years.
Then I was in the Army for nearly three years. I thought |
was fortunate in being stationed in England, but was surely glad
to be back in the States safe and sound when it was all over.
In September, 1945, I started training as electrician under the
G. I. Bill and am still in electrical work, with a bit of farming on
the side.

HENRY JAMES ROCKEL

HOME appress: P, O, Box 15, Storrs, Conn.

OFFICE ADpRESS: University of Connecticut, Storrs, Conn.

BORN: May 3, 1go1, Baltimore, Md. parents: Henry Rockel, Sue McNamara.

PREPARED AT: DeWitt Clinton High School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREES: A.B. #agna cum laude, 1925; AM.
1927; PH.D., 1932.

mMarRieD: Anna Warren Peirce, July 31, 1927, Braintree, Mass. (divorced
1944). CHILDREN: Susan Anne, Dec. 6, 1929; Thomas H. P., Feb. 4, 1935.

occupation: Educator; director of freshman English work, University of
Connecticut.

PUBLICATIONS: Verse; occasional short story; critical articles.

UPON graduation in 1925, I taught one year in high school and
then returned to Harvard for an A.M. in 1927. After two more
years of high school teaching I returned to Harvard for my
Ph.D. During the years 1929-34, I was part-time tutor and in-
structor at Harvard and Radcliffe. I also taught part-time at
Emerson College in Boston. I came to the University of Connec-
ticut in 1936 and am now in charge of freshman English work
here.

I find life here at Storrs quite pleasant and teaching rewarding.
We are a growing institution with a fine future.

My daughter graduates from Connecticut next year and will

[ 822 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

go on to do graduate work in sociology. My son enters Moses
Brown this fall and after four years, I hope, Harvard.

JOHN FRANCIS ROLAND

ADDRESS: 1207 Boulevard, New Haven, Conn.

BORN: Jan. 13, 1900, Brockton, Mass. PARENTS: William Alfred Roland, Alice
Grace Creed.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1926,

THE information printed above is from the Sccretary’s files. Ro-
land did not return a questionnaire.

+ LEON MARK ROME

BoRN: Feb. 12, 1903, Fitchburg, Mass. parents: Lewis Rome, Julia Lavien.
PREPARED AT: Fitchburg High School, Fitchburg, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1915. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.

MarRiED: Goldine Lewis, Dec. 24, 1937, Buffalo, N. Y.

DIED: June 9, 1946, Buffalo, N. Y.

wipow: Mrs, Leon M. Rome, 171 Richmond Ave., Buffalo, N. Y.

LEON MARK ROME entered Harvard from the Fitchburg
(Massachusetts) High School. In college four years as an under-
graduate, he was a member of the Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity.
After leaving Cambridge, he entered the mercantile business and
at the time of our Quindecennial Report, he stated that he was in
the retail ready-to-wear business as vice-president of the Maisel
Clothing Department, Inc., at Buffalo.

JOHN McCOOK ROOTS

HOME apprEss: 45 Berkeley Sq., London W. 1, England.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2419 Massachusetts Ave., N.W., Washington, D. C.

BORN: Oct. 27, 1903, Hankow, China. parents: Logan Herbert Roots, ’91,
Eliza Lydia McCook.

PREPARED aT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: a.B. cum laude, 1925; B.D. (Episcopal
Theological School), 1929.

HARVARD BROTHER: Logan Holt Roots, ’26.

occuPATION: Board of Directors of Moral Re-armament (United States and
Great Britain).

[ 823 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Newspaper articles in North American Newspaper Alliance,
New York Herald-Tribune, New York Journal-American; magazine
articles in The Atlantic Monthly, Asia, New Republic, New York Times
Magazine.

GEORGE GOODSPEED'’S admonitory missives, having haunted
this wayward son of ’25 through Hamburg, Bremen, Duesseldorf,
Cologne, Brussels, Paris, Ziirich, and Turin during the past few
weeks, have finally run him to earth in Rome.

My years as a Harvard graduate began on the fly, and continue
so down to this moment. The day after Commencement in June,
1925, I climbed into a ’22 model white Hupmobile roadster in
Harvard Square with my roommate Ed Lowry, and headed west.
Thus began a quarter-century of travel which has taken me twice
around the world, twice to Moscow, twice across Siberia, twice
across the Equator, into nearly every province of China and state
of the Union, over five continents, several oceans and seas, and
some forty-five countries.

As for my job in life, the recent book by President Conant,
Education in a Divided World, offers some relevant quotes. In it
he points out that the Soviet philosophy is “the equivalent of a
powerful new religion”; that “our fitness to survive the Russian
challenge depends on a vigorous demonstration of the vitality of
our own beliefs”; and that “an ideological thrust can be answered
only in ideological terms.”

Within a year of graduation I was brought up against this prob-
Jem in concrete. As a young free-lance journalist in the summer
of 1926, I made the acquaintance in Canton of Michael Borodin,
spiritual father of Chinese Communism, and of Genera] Chiang
Kai-shek who was then working with him. That September, dur-
ing a first visit to Moscow, I spent the time it took to replace a
stolen passport in making an on-the-spot study of the Sun Yat-sen
University, communist training center for 300 Chinese youths.
The rector, Karl Radck, said to me on parting: “Mr. Roots, these
young men and women may not impress you much now. But
come back in twenty years and they will be running China.” His
prophecy was only a couple of years out.

Radck made me do some hard thinking. The term “cold war”
had not been invented in those days, but this was certainly it.

[ 824 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Back home I tried to give some accounting of my year abroad
to the long-suffering readers of various papers and magazines, in-
cluding the first full-scale interviews with Borodin and Chiang to
appear in the American press. In writing these articles I came to
the conclusion that if the U.S. and the West generally did not
want to be too hopelessly out-of-date when the show-down came,
we ought to take a leaf from the Soviet book and start doing with
a sound idea what they were doing with a false one. In other
words, we ought to give top priority to a national and interna-
tional program of ideological preparedness. So in the autumn of
1927 I lent the light of my countenance to one of the early week-
end assemblies of what was then called the Oxford Group — now
known as Moral Rearmament — and have been up to my eyes in it
ever since.

Besides taking me all over the globe, this work has latterly re-
quired spending many months in the Ruhr and elsewhere in Ger-
many where scores of Communist veterans are leaving the Party
and throwing in their lot with us—so much so that the Com-
munist Party of West Germany has had to be drastically re-
organized. It has also taken me often to Britain where Harry Pol-
litt, British Communist chief, ascribed his defeat in the recent
elections to the influence of MRA in South Wales.

‘The implications of all this for our government’s foreign policy
are obvious. In Washington recently one of our State Depart-
ment’s Policy Planning Staff — formerly headed by my friend
George Kennan (whose only mistake was in choosing Princeton
’25 instead of Harvard) — referred to MRA as “the Comintern of
the democracies.” However this may be, it seems clear that the
free world must find, and find quickly, the secret of winning the
minds of millions in Europe, Asia and Africa who still live in an
ideological vacuum, but whose declaration of allegiance in the war
of ideas is likely, even more than the hydrogen bomb, to decide
the future of mankind.

These have been a fascinating and fabulous twenty-five years,
and if the next twenty-five are anything like them, I hereby under-
take in advance to be back for our Fiftieth to tell the tale.

[ 825 ]

A ?

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

REGINALD PERRY ROSE

HOME aporess: Mill River Road, Oyster Bay, Long Island, N. Y.

oFFice appress: DeCoppet & Doremus, 63 Wall St., N. Y.

BORN: May 23, 1903, Westbury, Long Island, N. Y. PARENTs: George Rose,
Josephine M. Maginnis.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

marriep: Bertha Benkard, Dec. 29, 1926, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN: Regi-
nald Peter, Sept. 29, 1927 (m. Beirne Waters, June 15, 1948); George
Horton, Aug. 19, 1932. GRANDCHILD: George B. Rose, June 28, 1949.

HARVARD SON: Reginald Peter Rose, ’52.

occupation: Partner DeCoppet & Doremus, members New York Stock Ex-
change.

MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club; Piping Rock Club; Holland Lodge
No. 8, F.& A.M.

HAVING concentrated for four years in French literature, I
found myself well qualified to enter the business world. As I had
never taken any mathematical or economics courses, I naturally
turned to Wall Street as the most likely field in which to make my
fortune. Financially, I have managed to survive several major
depressions and the great World War without ever having to
speak one word of French.

I was married on December 29, 1926, and am now the proud
possessor of two sons and one grandson. My elder boy, Peter, is
now a junior at Harvard and has a son, George, five months old.
My younger boy is in his final year at Exeter and hopes to enter
Harvard next autumn.

My wife and I live in Oyster Bay, Long Island, where we attend
the Episcopal Church and regularly vote for whatever Republican
candidate is in the running.

IRWIN ROSEN

HOME ADDRESS: 183 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 16, Mass.

orFice Appress: Brandcis University, Waltham 54, Mass.

Born: Dec. 24, 1903, New York, N. Y, parents: Solomon Rosen, Gussie
Wiener.

Preparrp at: Morris High School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1925; A.M.
(Columbia Univ.), 1931.

[ 826 ]

NN,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Rose L. Koral, June 20, 1926, New York, N. Y. cup: Diana,
July 27, 1929 (m. John E. Miller, July 16, 1949).
occuPaTIoN: Director of business affairs, Brandeis University.

SYDNEY MEYER ROSENBERG

ADDRESS: 1549 W. 36th Ave., Vancouver, B. C., Canada.

BORN: June 11, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: Nathaniel Jerome Rosen-
berg, Cecelia Meyer.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923, 1925-1927.

marrieD: Margot Brucker, March 23, 1929. cHILDREN: Kenneth; Jerome;
Patricia.

occupation: Manufacturing.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Rosenberg did not return a questionnaire.

ELI NATHAN ROSTLER

HOME ADDRESS: 23 S. Walker St., Lowell, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 805-807 Sun Bldg., Lowell, Mass.

BORN: May 17, 1903, Lowell, Mass. parents: Samuel Rostler, Ida Rothberg.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; LL.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Ada Frances Bresth, June 16, 1938, Lowell, Mass. CHILDREN:
Stephen Howard, Nov. 15, 1941; Jeffrey Paul, Feb. 22, 1945.

OccuPATION: Lawyer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Associate member, Draft Board #87; civilian
lecturer in electronics, special U.S. Navy School held at Lowell Textile
Institute, Lowell, Mass.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of governors, Lowell Textile Instirute Library
Association, since 1948; associate member, Lowell Textile Institute
Alumni Association; vice-president, Lowell Radio Operators Club.

MEMBER OF: Lowell Bar Association; Middlesex County Bar Association;
Harvard Club of Lowell; Harvard Law School Association; American
Radio Relay League; Lowell Radio Operators Club; AF. & AM;
Scottish Rite Bodies.

AFTER graduation from college, I attended the Law School,

and after the finishing process begun with graduation from the

Law School, I moved to New York City where I became a

member of the New York Bar and worked in a law firm there.

In 1929 I returned to Lowell, was admitted to the Massachusetts

Bar, and was employed as a lawyer here until the latter part of

1930. Since then I have been practising law on my sole account.

[ 827 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

I was married in 1938 at a relatively advanced age, and was
fortunate enough to become the father of two sons, who, al-
though aged only eight and almost five, are already aiming for
Harvard.

With this change in my mode of living when I acquired my
own home, I found leisure time which I devoted to electronics
and amateur radio as a hobby. This hobby led to my appoint-
ment during the war as a lecturer in the federal government's
engineering, science, management, and war training courses,
and later as a civilian lecturer to United States and British naval
personnel at a special school held at the Lowell Textile Institute.

I cannot say that the political and economic changes that have
taken place since 1933 make me enthusiastic. I rather wish that
if most of the changes were necessary, as some people seem to
believe, that they had taken place at a more evolutionary rate.
So far as religion is concerned, on the contrary, I do not like
orthodoxy in any form. | .

Besides my hobby of amateur radio, I am very much interested
in Masonry, and devote quite a bit of time to the various bodies.

Middle age finds me rather pleased and contented in the rut
which twenty-five years ago I dreaded. I suppose that when
I come back to my Fiftieth Reunion, twenty-five years hence,
I shall look upon these words as being foolish.

GEORGE ROUNTREE, JR.

HOME anpress: Greenville Sound, Wilmington, N. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 212-214 Princess St., Wilmington, N. C.

porn: April 7, 1904, Wilmington, N. C. parents: George Rountree, ’77,
Meta Alexander Davis.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 1925; LL.B. 1929.

makrairp: Helen Elizabeth Johnson, June 28, 1930, St. Paul, Minn. (divorced
1948); Thelma M. Johnson, May 6, 1948. cuitpren: Gcorge, 3d, Aug. 10,
1933; Isabelle Frances, Nov. 7, 1937.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Wartime government rent attorney.

orrices sei: President, Propeller Club of the United States, Port of Wil-
mington, N.C.

[ 828 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARRY ERNEST RUBENS

HOME ADDRESS: 2 Sutton PL. S., New York 22, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rubens & Rubens, Graybar Bldg., 420 Lexington Ave., New
York, N. Y.

BorN: Nov. 9, 1902, Chicago, Ill. parents: Maurice Rubens, Sarah Saks,

PREPARED AT: Carl Schurz High School, Chicago, IIL.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREES: S.B. IN C. ENGIN, 1925; J.D. (New York
Univ.), 1928.

MARRIED: Jeanne Carroll, Sept. 4, 1930, New York, N. Y.

occupation: Patent lawyer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Patent counsel, Subcommittee on War Mobili-
zation of the Senate Committee on Military Affairs.

MEMBER OF: Masons; American Bar Association; New York Patent Law
Association; Harvard Engineering Society.

A TWENTY-FIVE-YEAR accounting is a sobering experience

but here on my roof, writing in the September sun, it has its

constructive aspects. Life after graduation started with a bang —

my reported death in a Boston night club fire. A delayed tele-

gram finally confirmed my presence on Cape Cod, despite the

Harvard authorities who could locate only my trunks in Mat-

thews.

Graduating with an S.B. in Civil Engineering soon proved that
all engineers are not civil, but that all civilians are engineers. An
engineering design job brought me in contact with patent law,
and off I went to law school. Three years later I graduated from
N.Y.U. with a J.D. degree, a degree useful only for travel
purposes. As Dr. Rubens, I visited pre-Hitler Europe. I recall
the port of Galway, the harbor of Bremen, the Leipzig Fair,
the whitewashed rifle markings on the Chancellory walls to in-
crease visibility for tourists in Berlin, the girls in Vienna, the
Austrian palace near Trieste of Maximilian, later Emperor of
Mexico, Venice, Da Vinci and Milan, the Folies and Paris, and
George Moore’s mistress in London. I returned to the land of
prohibition in the fall of ’29 during the Wall Street convulsions.

It was not until 1937 that I was able to switch from engineering
to patent law. My first six months of practice, replacing a worn-
out practitioner, were nerve wracking. As an escape I left New
York, travelling by open car to California, arriving somewhat
sunburnt only to find most Los Angeleans looking as pale as
Gothamites, I decided to make my readjustments in New York

[ 829 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

and so returned. However, as a compromise, I work nine months
and relax for three.

In three-month doses I’ve fished for muskies in the Winnipeg
River, for sailfish off Acapulco, for red snapper at Guaymas,
for marlin at Mazatlan, for shrimp at Puerto Penasco, and for
a wide variety of other fish at Key West, Yucatan, Malibu, and
Jeremiah’s Run. We’ve seen Juan and Evita in Buenos Aires, the
wreck of the Graf Spee in Montevideo, the Mardi Gras at Rio,
the Otis elevator at Bahia, and the jungle at Belem on the Amazon.
We've climbed the pyramids at Chichen Itza, and hunted for
antelope and gold at Quitovaco in Sonora. They sound good on
paper but some of them were pretty awful.

My war experience with the Army was completely unsatis-
factory, for, like the controversy over Homer’s birthplace, the
Army said I was a lawyer, but I insisted I was an engineer. |
compromised by becoming patent counsel to the Senate Subcom-
mittee on War Mobilization and tried my hand at rewriting the
Kilgore bill. I remember a peculiar appropriation of 150 million
dollars for a Manhattan Project by the Signal Corps; also, the
stench of treason in our industrial efforts exerted by the Nazi
Cartels. It’s all in the reports.

During the war my interest in sailing developed, when my
young brother, George, then in the Navy, received a pass to

take his 48-foot sloop, the Young Miss, down the highly restricted ,

Potomac, for a week of relaxation. My interest in sailing termi-
nated when, after a terrific battle in a squall, we dropped ex-
hausted in our bunks only to be awakened at dawn by a terrific
explosion. We were amazed to learn that we had anchored in
the target area of the Dahlgren Proving Grounds. Brother
George has since returned from the South Pacific and joined me
as a partner.

The “we” in the story is my wife, who has given up her own
career as a radio artist to accompany me on my fishing expedi-
tions, in spite of her piscatorial unappreciation.

That brings the accounting down to the date of this record.

I am grateful for my happy home life, for the Harvard mem-
ories and friendships, and for the presence of my young brother
alongside me in my professional life. I shall be happy to be able
to report as pleasant a slice of life on our soth Reunion.

[ 830 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DONALD FREDERICK RUBIN

HOME ADDRESS: 1438 Meridian Ave., Miami Beach 39, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 826 Washington Ave., Miami Beach 39, Fla.

BpoRN: Oct. 22, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Robert Rubin, Anna Lotow.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: 8.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Esther R. Thurman, June 25, 1933, Boston, Mass. cHILD: Eleanor
Ann, Feb. 6, 1939.

OCCUPATION: Real estate.

OFFICES HELD: Member Executive Committee, Harvard Club of Miami, 1949.

AS THIS blank sheet of paper stares back at me from my type-
writer, about the only thing I can think of is that it just can’t
be twenty-five years since graduation. A great many things have
happened to me since that time, but I still find it difficult to
believe that a whole quarter of a century has slipped by since
Commencement.

The first few years after June, 1925, were marked by a variety
of vocations, and perhaps too many avocations. There was a
two-year stretch as a newspaper reporter on the Worcester
Evening Gazette (I did learn to typewrite pretty well). Then
came a brief interlude as a travelling salesman, selling ladies’
dresses (I didn’t meet a single farmer’s daughter). That was
followed by a bit of Marine Corps aviation, where I learned to
fly, and of course I haven’t flown since.

Eighteen years ago I returned to Boston and went into the
food brokerage business. That involved more travelling, but I
did manage to stay still long enough to get married in 1933. Our
daughter, Eleanor, was born in 1939.

Six years ago, after many visits to Florida, we decided to mi-
grate to Miami Beach, and we have made our home here since
that time. The real estate business was booming when we arrived
here, so I joined the parade. Although real estate activity has
quieted down considerably since folks up north stopped coming
here with their “easy dollars,” J am still at it. What I lose in
commissions, I make up in sunshine, so I am still way ahead.

We go back to New England each summer for a couple of
months — it makes us like Miami Beach better when we return.
After last summer’s heat waves we vowed that we would return
‘to New England again only for my 25th and soth reunions.

[ 831 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Life has been good and sweet during most of these twenty-
five years. I am still married to the same wife. I can best describe
her qualities by saying that she has been willing to put up with
me for seventeen years.

We have accumulated no great store of worldly possessions.
We don’t really need too much here. The best things in life —
fresh air, sunshine, a rolling surf to dive into every month of
the year — all these are free. Life is easier here, we find, and if the
Chamber of Commerce figures are correct, we can make reserva-
tions for our 75th reunion right now.

Even after exhuming all this history from an almost forgotten
past, I still cannot believe that twenty-five years have raced by
so quickly. I think it is indicative of an inner happiness that
most men seek, but few find. ,

+ MURRAY MORRIS RUBIN

Born: March 29, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: Joseph Samuel Rubin,
Elizabeth Ebbens.

PREPARED AT: Springfield Central High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921~1925. DEGREE: $.B. cum laude, 1925.

UNMARRIED.

piep: Feb. 25, 1944, Springfield, Mass.

FATHER: Joseph S, Rubin, 16 Sterling St., Springfield, Mass.

MURRAY MORRIS RUBIN entered Harvard from the Spring-

field (Massachusetts) Central High School. In college four years

as an undergraduate, he held the Cobb Scholarship during 1921-22,

the Buckley Scholarship his sophomore year, the C. L. Jones

Scholarship during 1923-24, and was awarded the Farrar Scholar-

ship in his senior year. He was a member of the Boylston Chemi-

cal Club and Phi Beta Kappa, and received his S.B. degree cum

laude with the Class.

Spending his entire business career in the chemical phase of
paper manufacturing, he was engaged for two years as chemist
with the Chemical Paper Manufacturing Company at Holyoke,
Massachusetts. In 1930 he joined the technical organization of
Fraser Companies, Ltd., of Fdmundston, New Brunswick, Canada,
manufacturers of lumber, sulphite pulp, and paper. From June,
1930, to March, 1938, he was chemical engineer in the research
division of the Fraser Paper Ltd., in Madawaska, Maine. The fol-

[ 832]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

lowing year he became a consulting chemical engineer in the pulp
and paper industry. In March, 1939, he moved to Cohoes, New
York, where he became technical director of the Mohawk Paper
Mills, Inc. He contributed several publications in his field, three
of which were awarded prizes in Canada and the United States.
He held membership in the Harvard Club of Connecticut Val-
ley, American Institute of Chemists, and the Technical Association

of Pulp and Paper Industry.

RALPH PAUL RUDNICK

HOME ADDRESS: 32 Park St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 120 Riverway, Boston 15, Mass.

BorN: April 7, 1904, North Adams, Mass. parents: Joseph Frank Rudnick,
Bessie R. Pawley.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MaRRiED: Jean R. Poskanzer, Sept. 4, 1949, Albany, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alford Paul Rudnick, ’26.

occupaTION: Real estate.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned in U. S. Army Reserve Corps,
Jan. 4, 1933; went on extended active duty, Jan. 23, 1942; instructor,
Quartermaster School, Camp Lee, Va., January-September, 1942; assist-
ant professor military science and tactics, R.O.T.C., and quartermaster,
A.S.T.P, Units, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, Ala., September,
1942—December, 1944; billeting officer and post bus transportation officer,
Fort Benning, Ga., December, 1944-end of active duty; returned to in-
active duty as major, O.R.C., June 18, 1946.

MEMBER OF: Boston Real Estate Board; Belmont Country Club.

THE task of determining just what should appear in a published
account of my life since graduation has not been easy. It was
only after some prodding by the Class Report Committee to get
my story in that I finally decided upon the following account.
My four and one-half years of active duty in World War II
and recent marriage, my first, have been the highlights of a
quarter-century of living which I suppose by comparison with
many of my classmates’ would be considered uneventful.
Continuing through the years in the only occupation I have
known, real estate, my first connection with it was in the con-
struction and management of residential and commercial build-
. ings, principally apartment houses. Since 1931, except for the

[ 833]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

war years, I have confined my activities, in the main, to brokerage
and management, having on occasion speculated in real estate
with varying degrees of success.

As for my service in World War II, much could be said.
That my life has been greatly enriched as a result of it is un-
questionable. All my active duty days were spent in the South,
most of them in Alabama and Georgia. While on duty at the
University of Alabama, I was privileged to work in close con-
tact with members of the president’s staff and with many of the
faculty, and while at Fort Benning, not only to be on the staff
of the commanding general, but also to work out some serious
off-post housing and transportation problems with the leading
citizens and social agencies of Columbus, Georgia. During these
years spent below the “Mason and Dixon Line,” understanding
what makes Southerners tick became Jess difficult as I learned
more and more of their problems, their prejudices, and their
past. Perhaps it is regrettable that, if for no other reason than
to have a greater respect for sectional differences, more people
are not able to know how others in distant places live and react
to outside pressures.

The step of transcendent significance and the climax of all
my years was my marriage on September 4 last to Jean Poskanzer
of Albany, New York, a graduate of Skidmore College who
seems not too impressed with the importance of my being a
Harvard man.

In concluding this report, I salute the Harvard Class of 1925
Association of Boston for serving to bring more closely together
than would otherwise have been possible a large segment of the
Class membership. I have enjoyed attending the Association's
affairs and look forward to its increased activity in the years
ahead.

JOSEPH QUINTON RUSH

HOME ADDRESS: 259 Pleasant St., Arlington, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: 729 Massachusetts Ave., Arlington, Mass.

BORN: Jan, 29, 1891, Phoenix City, Ala. parents: John Joseph Rush, Rebecca
Jane Reddock.

purpanra at: Berea Collcge Academy, Berea, Ky.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925, DEGREE: A.B. 1925 (28).

[ 834 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Ethel Clara Mellin, Dec. 4, 1925, Arlington, Mass. cHIDREN:
Shirley Fredrika, June 11, 1927; Wendell Quinton, Feb. ro, 1929.

OCCUPATION: Real estate and insurance,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War I: Marine Corps.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club, Arlington; Arlington Chamber of Commerce;
Massachusetts Real Estate Board; Massachusetts Insurance Agents Asso-
ciation.

SNOW is falling gently against the window pane. It is a quiet

Sunday afternoon. I am sitting in a comfortable chair trying to

review the twenty-five years since 1925. Time has flown swiftly

—too fast — only yesterday, it seems.

Most of my 1925 plans for the future never materialized. |
seem to have been caught in the ebb and flow of the tide of
life with its many if’s, and’s and but’s. I had planned a law
career by attending Harvard Law School and then returning to
Alabama. Not so—I met the girl—got married—secured a
position as salesman. Nevertheless, my work has been pleasant
and my domestic life a happy one.

I entered the real estate brokerage field in 1928. The insurance
department was added in 1933. While I have not accumulated
an over-abundance of worldly goods, I have earned a good living
and have made many friends and have enjoyed my work. My
home life has been my real hobby and happiness. With a wife,
a son and a daughter, I have found real contentment and happi-
ness. My daughter Shirley, a young lady twenty-two years of
age, was graduated from Wellesley College with Wellesley
honors in the class of 1948. She is now assistant instructor at
Kansas University while doing graduate work for her Master’s
in geology.

My son, Wendell, twenty-one years of age, is attending Bab-
son Institute, Wellesley, Massachusetts — this being his second

ear. :

The family spend summers on Cape Cod where I enjoy gar-

dening, golfing, and swimming.

Time has brought a graying head, widening girth, and a
firmer belief in the basic goodness in all mankind; and the
belief that this basic goodness will eventually prevail and carry
man to a hereto unknown height of peace, prosperity, and
happiness.

[835 ]

“TIP RTT RRR RRR TNC RSPR OER TIT mt ERE Ice

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

WILLIAM BIRGER RYDELL

HOME apprEss: West Allen Street, Rice Lake, Wis.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rice Lake Clinic, Rice Lake, Wis.

BoRN: May 24, 1904, Duluth, Minn. parents: Otto Emanuel Rydell, Hilda
Whilhelmina Johnson.

PREPARED AT: Superior Central High School, Superior, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 19253 M.D., 1929.

MARRIED: Helen Elizabeth Bullard, Aug. 26, 1927, Duluth, Minn. cHipren:
Caroly, May 5, 1929; William Birger, Jr., June 22, 1931.

HARVARD SON: William Birger Rydell, Jr., ’53.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Robert Rydell, mp. "43.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons.

FOLLOWING graduation from college, I entered Harvard
Medical School, from which I graduated in 1929. Then I engaged
in hospital work for a while and finally settled in Rice Lake
where I have been ever since, with increasingly frequent ex-
cursions to the outside world. That briefly is the way the past
twenty-five years have been spent.

I have married, have two children (Harvard ’53, Wellesley
"50), have had the usual ups and downs, and look back at Cam-
bridge of the twenties with a great deal of affection. In the
past quarter of a century nothing very exciting has happened but
I have enjoyed most of it.

ADOLPH WALTER SAMBORSKI

HOME apprEss; 4 Eliot Rd., Lexington, Mass.

OFFICE ApprEss: 11 Indoor Athletic Bldg., Harvard University, Cambridge,
Mass.

BoRN: Feb. 10, 1904, Westfield, Mass. PARENTS: John Felix Samborski, Sophia
Made}.

PREPARED AT: Westfield High School, Westfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREES: A.B. 1925(26); ED.M., 1928; A.M., 1933-

mMarrieD: Helen Mary Donovan, June 19, 1928, Quincy, Mass. CHILDREN:
Mary Jane, July 23, 1929; Paul, Nov. 23, 1931; Ellen Mary, Jan. 8, 19345
Stephen, July 9, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edmund Boleslaw Samborski, ’31,

occupation: Director of intramural athletics; coach of freshman baseball.

I HAVE been at Harvard continuously since I became a freshman
in the college in the fall of 1921. Briefly, here is my story.

[ 836 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

We were married in June, 1928, and we have four children.
Mary Jane is now in her second year at the Rhode Island School
of Design, where she is very much interested in textile designing.
Paul is a senior at Governor Dummer Academy where he was
a football captain, and played basketball and baseball. He is
trying hard to bring Harvard into view of his sights. Ellen is a
junior in Lexington High School, while Stephen is putting a
second grade teacher to the acid test.

After my college years, I acquired a Master’s degree in edu-
cation and a Master’s degree in history through part-time study
—while performing my duties in the athletic department of
Harvard College. My first two years with the H.A.A. were on
a part-time basis. In the spring of 1927 I submitted a program
of intramural athletics for Harvard, which brought me the ap-
pointment of director of intramural athletics. This job involves
the organization, direction, and supervision of inter-House and
freshman intramural sports for about two thousand students
annually.

Along with my main duties as intramural director, I have done
some coaching — one year each as J. V. football backfield coach
and J. V. basketball coach; three years with S. V. baseball; eight
years with freshman basketball and baseball; and two years as
Varsity baseball coach. My greatest coaching thrills were the
undefeated freshman baseball team of 1935 and the 2-0 victory
over Eastern Champion Yale at New Haven in 1948, when Chip
Gannon, with a man on base in the ninth inning, hit one of
Frank Quinn’s offerings for a home run. I also have been an
associate in the H.N.S.C, in Dudley Hall during the fifteen —
years of its existence.

During the war years I was a coérdinator in the physical
training programs for the Navy V-12, Army, and civilian stu-
dents attending Harvard College. For a period of a year and a
half, I directed the physical training program for both the civilian
and Army students. In August, 1944, I was appointed a perma-
nent member on the civilian athletic advisory committee, com-
posed of nation-wide leaders in intercollegiate, intramural and
professional sports, under the Special Services Division (ASP) —
to advise on programs and schedules for the Army participants.

During the summers of 1929 and 1932, inclusive, I conducted

[ 837 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

a course in baseball and in the administration of intramural ath-
letics in the Harvard Summer School of Physical Education. For
several years since then I have supervised the swimming program
during the Summer School sessions. Vacations with the family
and, in recent years, gardening round out our summer activities,
For more than fifteen years I have been engaged in the extra-
curricular activity of officiating in college and preparatory foot-
ball and basketball games.

In recent years my work has been made even more interesting
by the visits of Harvard sons of my 1925 classmates. It is always
a pleasure and a thrill to have a student come into the office,
introduce himself, and tell me that his father was a classmate of
mine. These sons bring back memories of our own college days
— and these sons make me feel more sure that my work is with
young men.

ALEXANDER ALEXANDER SAMOILOFF

HOME ADDRESS: 316 Highland Ave., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: E. B. Badger & Sons Co., 75 Pitts St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 25, 1902, Moscow, Russia. PARENTS: Alexander Samoiloff, Anna
Bary.

PREPARED AT: High school in Russia, private tutors.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922~1926, 1930-1931. DEGREE: S.B. IN C. ENGIN., 1931.

MarrieD: Carlene Bowles Murphy, April 15, 1928, Winchester, Mass. cHt-
DREN: Alexander Bowles, Nov. 10, 1928; Dudley Dimitry, Aug. 14, 1934

HARVARD SON: Alexander Bowles Samoiloff, ’50.

HARVARD BROTHER: Leon Alexander Samoiloff, °25.

occuPATION: Engineer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society, Massachusetts Society of Profes-
sional Engineers, Harvard Club of New York, Harvard Club of Eastern
Middlesex.

FOR the past twenty years we have lived in Winchester. Our
life has been happy and without any major catastrophies. We
have had the good fortune of living in an unusually attractive
studio and house built by my wife’s parents. Her father, H.
Dudley Murphy, was a well-known artist and taught at the
Harvard School of Architecture for thirty-five years. His talent,
good taste, and imagination are reflected in various details of our
home secluded on a hilltop with view, trees, walls, and terraced
gardens. Elere our boys have had much freedom and with their

[ 838 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

friends played games and carried on different projects, keeping
dogs, cats, ducks, rabbits, goats,-and even a pony for six years.
This gave me a chance to take part in the children’s activities in
the building of fences and walls and the converting of the garage
into a stable. ‘This was not done according to the best design as
taught at Harvard, but we have had companionship I shall al-
ways cherish.

Gardening, woodchopping, and tennis are my recreations, and
I am proud to report that our two sons, both very athletic, occa-
sionally overlook.my diminishing physical endurance and skill
and take me on in tennis.

In the summer of 1946 my family painted a verbal picture of
the irresistible beauty and the wide open spaces of the west for
my consumption. My resistance collapsed and I recklessly took
six weeks’ leave from my office. We drove thousands of miles
to the Pacific coast and I was introduced to the charm of camping
and successfully passed the test of sleeping cosily under the stars
in a bag at 28 degrees F. at Crater Lake in Oregon. We shall
always remember this trip vividly.

During the early years of our marriage we were fortunate in
having my father, a heart specialist and professor in Moscow
University, visit us while attending the International Physiological
Congress at Harvard—and in 1934 my mother was given a
year’s absence from her teaching at Moscow University and
spent a most cherished year with us.

Carlene has always had a deep interest in the theatre and we
see many plays together. She taught in the Drama Department
of Tufts College and the Cambridge Upper School. Last year
she organized an exhibition of sketches of the leading New York
stage designers, travelled and lectured in conjunction with it at
nine New England colleges and art schools. This season she
taught a class in acting at the Harvard Dramatic Club.

Being associated with the oil refining industry, I have visited
Texas, Oklahoma, California, and the Middle West. Now my
work confines me to our Boston office where my job is to Co-
ordinate various phases of design of oil refining units. During
the war I spent three years in the New York. office of E. B
Badger, coming home only weekends. We designed for the
U. S. Tredsway Department through Lend-Lease several re-

[ 839 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

fineries for Russia. My knowledge of both the Russian language
and engineering landed me the job of liaison officer for the
duration of this project. This was very interesting work, but
also very trying and demanded much patience, especially while
interpreting at conferences between the technical experts of
two opposite ideologies, The rewarding part of my work was
the opportunity to observe professionally and personally a small
group of engineers from behind the now Iron Curtain. I realized
more vividly than ever before that I feel I am 100% American.

LEON ALEXANDER SAMOILOFF

HOME AppREss: 154 Bayview Drive, Knollwood Beach, Huntington, Long
Island, N. Y.

oFFicE appress: M. W. Kellogg Co., 225 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BORN: July 25, 1902, Moscow, Russia. PARENTS: Alexander Samoiloff, Anna
Bary.

PREPARED AT: Private tutors.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Louise L. Cripps, May 29, 1946. cHmp: Martin (stepchild), aged
eleven.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alexander Alexander Samoiloff, ’25.

occuPaTION: Mechanical engineer, with company contracting for and de-
signing oil refineries.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Mechanical Engineers; Harvard Engineer-
ing Society; Harvard Club of New York. _ -

pusLicaTions: Premise Drops in Pipes (with L. Friend), Edwards Brothers,
Ann Arbor, Mich. 1949 (a set of 200 pages of charts for solution of
problems of flow of liquids and gases through pipes designed for oil
refining and power plant and chemical engineers’ use).

I HAVE spent all twenty-five years in the United States. From
Harvard Engineering School I went to Westinghouse Company
in East Pittsburgh and took a student engineering training course
offered by the company and was planning to stay with that com-
pany. However, in 1926 my mother and one of my sisters came
from Russia to the U.S.A. for a visit and I left Pittsburgh, return-
ing to Cambridge where I lived for a year with them and my
brother who was a senior at Harvard. I worked for a while ina
testing laboratory of the Boston Edison Company, took courses in
radio at Harvard, and became instructor in electrical engineering
at Harvard Engineering School. Towards the end of my first year
of instructorship I felt that I ought to go into industry in order to

[ 840 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

get in direct contact with engineering life and its problems. So I
joined International Telephone and Telegraph and worked in their
radio development laboratory in New York until 1930 when the
depression forced the company to stop its development work.

With long periods between the jobs I continued working on
development problems until 1927, at first on variable speed gas
turbines and later on forced circulation boilers. The latter work
took me to the U.S. Naval Boiler Laboratory in the Philadelphia
Navy Yard. I spent three years there with Commander W. D.
La Mont. In the end the Navy did not accept La Mont boilers
and the work stopped.

I tried to continue working on the design of boilers, first with
Babcock & Wilcox in Barberton, Ohio, and later with the Combus-
tion Engineering Company in New York. I was not enjoying the
work in either of the companies —it was routine repetition of
well established designs. In 1941 I joined the mechanical engineer-
ing department of the M. W. Kellogg Company of New York
City, contractors and designers of oil refineries. I found the work
interesting. Till 1949 I worked in the New York office on hy-
draulic and mechanical problems connected with refinery design.
For the last fourteen months I have been in E] Dorado, Kansas, in
charge of the engineering design office organized for moderniza-
tion of Snelly Oil Company’s El Dorado refinery. I expect to
return to the New York office in April.

I met my wife in 1944 in New York. She came to the United
States with her son, Martin, from London, after the beginning of
aerial bombing of London. Until 1946 she was editor of a baby
magazine; in that year she started the publication of the magazine
Baby Post of which she is president and editor. She likes living in
the country near the sea and that is why we moved to Huntington.

I did not give up altogether the development work. For two
years I spent my Saturdays in College Point, Long Island, where
I worked as consultant on special problems and testing of heli-
copters for the Carlat Development Company.

WILLIAM DONALD McATEER SAMPLE

LAST KNOWN aAppress: 516 Holmes St., Wilkinsburg, Pa,
BoRN: Feb. 15, 1902, Wilkinsburg, Pa. PARENTs: William Miller Sample,
Katherine Stewart McAteer.

[ 841 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925
PREPARED AT: The Principia, Elsah, Il.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.
SAMPLE has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since
February, 1936.

HYMEN LEWIS SAMSON

HOME ADDRESS: 1666 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 11 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 15, 1902, Kiev, Russia. PARENTS: Rubin M. Samson, Rosa Bell.
PREPARED AT: Beverly High School, Beverly, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; LL.B. (Northeastern Univ,),
MarRiED: Hazel R. Poresky, Oct. 10, 1943, Boston, Mass.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association.

THE record of the last twenty-five years is one showing an
eager nose bent over an exacting grindstone. It seems in retro-
spect that I must have enjoyed the battle itself rather than the
spoils of victory, for as I get older I cannot tell when or where
the battle ends.

Although these last years have been devoted almost exclusively
to the practice of law, my previous years encountered several
interruptions, After graduation, I attended Harvard Law School
with all good intentions of some day becoming another Brandeis
or Holmes. Suddenly, however, I found myself in New York
trying to rescue a sick business. The job was longer and more
difficult than I had anticipated and it was not until the midst of
the depression that I was able to return to the law. Later, during
the war years, I took time out again to work with the Army
Air Force and the War Assets Administration in a civilian
capacity. |

In the meantime I chanced to find one Hazel Poresky whom I
remembered several years back as a little Radcliffe freshman. She
sold me the idea that I was lucky to find her again, and we were
married, If I had never done much travelling before, I certainly
have since. [fazel has travelled a great deal— Europe, the
Americas, etc, — and is even now planning a motor jaunt to the
Wese Coast, with me of course!

[ 842 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY HAROLD SAMUELS

HOME ADDRESS: 84 Forest St., Hartford, Conn.

orFice apprEss: G. Fox & Co., Hartford, Conn.

BORN: Aug. 26, 1903, Boston, Mass. paRENTs: Bernard Samuels, Melanie Levy.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass. ”

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922~192§. DEGREE: S.B., 1925 (26).

marriED: Sophie Korbholz, Aug. 26, 1930, New York, N. Y. cuitp: Nancy,
Nov. 11, 1931.

occuPaTION: Retail merchandising.

MEMBER OF: Tumble Brook Country Club.

ERIC SANDQUIST

HOME ADDRESS: 779 East St., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Financial Publishing Co., 82 Brookline Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 26, 1902, Concord, N. H. parents: Martin Sandquist, Charlotte
Susan Lennartson.

PREPARED AT: Concord High School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925, 1926-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1925 (28).

MARRIED: Elizabeth Petterson, July 9, 1932, Centerdale, R. 1. cup: Eric
Lawrence, Jan. 7, 1943.

OccUPATION: Computer.

MEMBER OF: A.F. & A.M.

HAPPINESS and regret are a common lot. My greatest happi-
ness has been in keeping one wife and one job. Zealous attention
to them may not fill forty fine-type lines above, but money could
not buy either. Shortly after graduation I was lucky enough to
start working with Charles H. Gushee, Harvard ’24, at a highly
specialized job. Since then we have been producing numerical
tables in such quantity and scope that today few bonds are issued
or home loans made that do not depend somewhere on our work.
Bankers, I learned lately, are not sleepless because of collective
bad conscience. Instead they lie awake devising cockeyed prob-
lems for us to solve.

My major regret is that nothing was done soon enough. I
should have been born a little earlier — seen service in one con-
flict, graduated without delay, married the same girl six years
earlier, and started a family seventeen years sooner.

[ 843 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

GAETANO RENATO SANDULLI

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 64 Cooke St., Waterbury, Conn.

BORN: Oct. 24, 1900, Waterbury, Conn. parENTs: Joseph Sandulli, Emilia
Giordano.

PREPARED AT: Crosby High School, Waterbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922~1925. DEGREES: A.B. 1925; MD. (Tufts Medical
School), 1929.

MARRIED: Louise Pontone, Sept. 1, 1926, Medford, Mass. CHILDREN: Guy,
May 27, 1927; Joel, June 11, 1935; Richard, Jan. 19, 1940.

occupation: Physician and surgeon.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Medical examiner, local draft board; captain,
Civilian Defense Organization.

OFFICES HELD: Medical adviser to schools, Waterbury, Conn.; medical exam-
iner, John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company, New York Life
Insurance Company.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Connecticut State Medical So-
ciety; Waterbury Medical Society.

A YEAR after graduation I was married, while attending Tufts
Medical School. In 1929 I received the degree of M.D. and the
following year interned at St. Mary’s hospital in Waterbury,
Connecticut. Since then I have been in private practice in
Waterbury.

My wife is from Medford, Massachusetts, and attended the
New England Conservatory of Music. She has given me three
boys. Guy, now twenty-two years old, is a senior at The Citadel
Military College, South Carolina. Joel, now fourteen years old,
is attending Fork Union Military (College) Academy at Fork
Union, Virginia, and Richard, now nine years old, is in the fifth
grade. Guy is planning to study medicine also.

We are rather conservative and take part in the regular social
activities of the community just like the ordinary Amercan fam-
ily. My wife likes music, so we attend the playhouses, concerts,
etc. I like dancing and social affairs, such as parties, and we attend
these. My boys, like many, are sports-minded and like the movies.
They are studious and good boys and for this my wife and I
are prateful.

For the past twenty years I have devoted my life to taking
care of sick people and making them well. This has given me
great pleasure and I have for this reason developed the philosophy
of making people happy so that I might also be happy. There

[ 844 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

is nothing that I enjoy more in life than seeing people enjoy
themselves and I feel much more so when it concerns those close
to me, naturally. However, there are other things that bring
satisfaction to me, but the most important is the ability to help
others — not financially or materially, but morally, spiritually,
and otherwise.

ELLWOOD WEBB SARGENT

HOME ADDRESS: Quarters O-40, Fort George G. Meade, Md.

OFFICE ADpREss: Army Judge Advocate, Hdqs. 2d Army, Fort George G.
Meade, Md.

Born: April 14, 1904, Somerville, Mass. parents: Albert Ellwood Sargent,
Isabel Adelaide Webb.

PREPARED AT: Weymouth High School, Weymouth, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: 8.B. cum laude, 1925; LL.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Isabel Linscott, June 30, 1927, Quincy, Mass.

OccuPATION: Army officer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned captain, Judge Advocate General’s
Department-Reserve, U. S. Army, May, 1936; active duty overseas,
European and Mediterranean Theatres, April, 1943-December, 1945, in
United States, November, 19qo-April, 1943, since January, 1946; duty
currently as Army Judge Advocate, Headquarters 2d Army, Fort George
G. Meade, Md.; commissioned in Regular Army, February, 1947; present
permanent rank, lieutenant colonel; present temporary rank, colonel;
awarded Legion of Merit, Bronze Star Medal, and Army Commendation
Ribbon.

MEMBER oF: Army-Navy Country Club, Washington, D. C.; Harvard Club
of Washington; Boston Bar Association.

FROM 1925 to 1927 I was an assistant district traffic manager
with the New England Telephone Company, assigned to districts
in Massachusetts and Rhode Island. In 1927 I entered Harvard
Law School and was graduated in 1930. After a “rubberneck”
tour of Europe with my wife during the summer of 1930 I
practised law in Boston from 1930 to 1940.

In 1936 I had been commissioned a captain, Judge Advocate
_General’s Department-Reserve, U. S. Army, and in November
1940, was called to extended active duty. Before going overseas
in 1943, I served as assistant judge advocate, First Corps Area,
Boston, then in the Office of the Judge Advocate General, Wash-
ington, D, C., and later as division judge advocate, roth Armored
Division, Fort Benning, Georgia. From April, 1943, to F ebruary,

[ 845 ]

| \ Z

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

1945, I served as a member of the Board of Review, Branch
Ottice of the Judge Advocate General for the European Theatre,
and was stationed in Cheltenham, England, and later in Paris,
From February, 1945, to November, 1945, I was chairman of
the Board of Review, Branch Office of the Judge Advocate
General for the Mediterranean Theatre, and was stationed in
Naples. In substance these boards reviewed for legal sufficiency
the more serious records of trial by Army general courts-martial
which arose in the European and Mediterranean theatres. For
three months during the latter part of 1945 I served as acting
assistant judge advocate general in charge of the branch office
in Naples. I returned to the United States in December, 1945,
and was chief of the Military Justice Division, Office of the
Judge Advocate General, Washington, D. C., from 1946 to
June, 1949. I was commissioned in the Regular Army in Feb-
ruary, 1947. In June, 1949, I was assigned as army judge advocate,
Second Army, and am now stationed at Second Army Head-
quarters, Fort George G. Meade, Maryland.

CHURCHILL SATTERLEE

HOME appress: Cedar Ave. R.F.D. 2, East Greenwich, R. I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Quonset Naval Air Station, Quonset Point, R. 1.

Born: May 25, 1904, Lenox, Mass. parents: Churchill Satterlee, Helen
Stuyvesant Folsom.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921~1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925 (26).

MazzieD: Dorothy Jane Walsh, Nov. 9, 1929, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1937);
Mae Annetta Thacker, July 6, 1944, Lincoln, Nebr. cyitpren: Jane
Lawrence, March 29, 1935; Helen Austin, Nov. 4, 1947; Margaret Eliza-
beth, June 20, 1949.

occupaTion: Radio technician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Attached to R.A. as radio technician, 1941-42;
U. S. Signal Corps, 1942-46: radio maintenance officer (first lieutenant)
in Guam, 1945.

MemueR OF: Organized Reserve Corps.

THIE years of my life since graduation have been so devoid of
material or intellectual accomplishment that, had_it not been for
the provocative and good-humored goads of George Goodspeed,
I would not dignify them by recording them.

After graduation I spent a year at Cambridge University and

[ 846 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

on the Continent, then two winters in a gloriously Republican
Washington, when men were men and, as such, in continuous
demand. Following that, I engaged in the investment business
during four manic-depressive years culminating in a position
with the department of insurance in the state of New York,
which kept body and soul together but not my family. The
following years included a winter in Florida in the business of
aerial dusting and spraying and the operation of a ham station
from the house trailer (call letters: WLMNJ), a year in England
on the Isle of Wight operating a radiolocation transmitter, and
enlistment in the U. S. Signal Corps and O.CS.

This confused pattern ultimately resolved itself into a thin
straight line, beginning with my second marriage in 1944. After
a year in Guam and separation from the Army in California I
toured the United States and parts of Mexico and Canada with
my wife and eleven-year-old daughter. We finally settled down
with a bang in East Greenwich, with the purchase of a one-
hundred-and-fifty-year-old farm house and the arrival in short
succession of two more daughters. Now I am working as a radio
technician at the Quonset Point Naval Air Station with so-called
outside interests centered in the demands inherent in a family
which includes four females.

** EDWARD ADAMS SAWIN

BORN: Jan. 30, 1903, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Herbert Edward Sawin,
Edith Roseletti Adams.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE! A.B. 1925.

MarRieD: Ethel Dale Laughlin, May 5, 1928, Greenwich, Conn. CHILDREN:
Barbara Dale, March 11, 1929; Herbert Edward, 2d, Aug. 1, 1934; Edward
Adams, Jr., July 22, 1937.

piep: Jan. 15, 1946, at Philadelphia, Pa.

wiwow: Mrs. Edward A. Sawin, 1805 Hillcrest Rd., Chestnut Hill, Philadel-
phia, Pa.

EDWARD ADAMS SAWIN entered Harvard from the Cam-

bridge (Massachusetts) Latin School. As an undergraduate, he

won the Boylston Prize in 1924. He was a member of the Fresh-
man Track Squad. He served on the Crimson and Advocate, while

[ 847]

"TREND ORERRICES RENNER ENECERARETO RENTER
CEES RN tt ES REECE AE TRAN 8 CHT Ae

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

his memberships included the Christian Science Society, the Fresh-
man Glee Club, Dramatic Club, and Pi Eta Club.

After graduation he became associated with Harding, Tilton &
Company, textile selling agents of cotton and worsted yarns in
Boston. In the spring of 1927 he was sent to Reading, Pennsyl-
vania, as the company’s representative of eastern Pennsylvania,
and after a year and a half there was put in charge of the Philadel-
phia and Reading territories with headquarters in Philadelphia. In
the spring of 1930, it became necessary for him to resign from the
company because of ill health. He spent the summer with his
family recuperating in the Thousand Islands, Alexandria Bay,
New York. During this time he became determined to leave the
textile industry having become tremendously impressed by the
splendid work being done in the programming of life insurance
estates. As a consequence, he joined the Louis F. Paret Agency as
special agent for the Provident Mutual Life Insurance Company
of Philadelphia.

ROSCOE HALL SAWYER

HOME aporess: Manslick Road, Rt. 2, P.O. Box 660, Louisville 9, Ky.

OFFICE appRESS: % Devoe & Raynolds Co., Inc., P.O. Box 328, Louisville 1, Ky.

Born: Aug. 5, 1903, Gray, Maine. parents: Fernald David Sawyer, Susie
Hall.

PREPARED AT: Pennell Institute, Gray, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: $.B, IN IND. CHEM, cum laude, 1925;
A.M., 1927.

MaragiED: Priscilla Paradis, Jan. 1, 1931, Ludlow, Mass,

occupation: Chemist; assistant chemical director, Devoe & Raynolds Com-
pany.

OFFices HeLp: Chairman, sub-committee XVIII, Committee D1, A.S.T.M.
1944-48, sub-committee VII, committee D1, A.S.T.M., currently; secre-
tary, Baltimore Paint and Varnish Production Club, 1943; president,
duPont Acro Club, 1948; vice-president, Louisville Paint and Varnish
Production Club, 1950.

Mampre ov: Alpha Chi Sigma; American Chemical Society; American So-
ciety for Testing Materials; Chemists Club, New York.

puBLications: Comparison of Wet- and Dry-Film Hiding Power Tests, 1934;
Tinting Strength, 1934; Hiding Power and Opacity, 1941; Basic Prin-
ciples Involved in the Preparation of Pigments, 1942, Surface Coating of
Pigments, 194}.

[ 848 )

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JUNE, 1925. Those silly old men cavorting about at their
Twenty-fifth Reunion! December, 1949. Can it be that I shall
be one of them in the eyes of those serious, but oh so young,
boys of the Class of ’50, come June? Surely the years have been
kinder to me than that! How fortunate that the life-time stream
flows by while I, the observer, but change my observation point
and perspective as it passes.

The years have been kind. Slow to leave the cloistered walls
for the harsher realities of life, I stayed at Harvard until 1928,
probing further into chemistry and bedevilling those unfortunates
who followed me in Chemistry 3 with harder and better un-
knowns. It was a mild transition to the easy life of an instructor
in chemistry at Bates where snow is something to play in and
the curriculum accented the first syllable of the co-education
characterizing the college. There I taught analysis, both what
and how much, and the chemical industry I was yet to learn
myself. I was just an onlooker in 1929, and in 1930, most remark-
able timing, I moved on to duPont. Marriage came soon after.

With duPont I carved out a comfortable job. I became expert
at pigment physics and optics, such esoteric commonplaces as
hiding power, thixotropy, and surface phenomena; then became
in turn, research division head at each of the two Tioz plants,
then a research supervisor of new product development and sales
service. These jobs had taken me successively from Newark,
New Jersey, to the Wilmington area, to Baltimore, and back to
Wilmington, where I thought I could reasonably expect to settle
down to the leisurely rounding out of my business career over
the next two decades, free from the moving about that had marked
my progress up to that time.

A year ago I was jolted out of the complacency I was develop-
ing by an offer too attractive to be refused and sought further
conquests in new fields, In a business sense I find the move to

have been a most excellent one. However, living in Louisville
tends to be cold and remote — none of the vaunted “Southern
hospitality” or “Midwestern friendliness” I’ve heard about — but
strictly up to the standards of the Harvard Yard. Perhaps the
fault is ours, perhaps the Sawyers are too remote, too aloof in
their aerie and with their four dogs. Time will tell.

Travel has included a prewar vacation trip to Hawaii (on two

[ 849 ]

° Netra RARER eer Ene NEARER AN I

AO

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

weeks out of Wilmington), a hurried business trip to England
late in 1946 (I recommend Christmas in London!), and a more
leisurely visit to Germany and England in 1947. During ‘this
trip I was able to use a car and to travel through France, Belgium,
and Switzerland. The contrasts of war damage and present
economic conditions in these countries were most striking and
educational. England with its damages either hidden or cleared
up vs. Germany in the raw. The empty stores of Germany, rigid
rationing in England, and full availability of everything in Bel-
gium and Switzerland. No eggs in England, piles of hard boiled
eggs on the bars in Paris.

Politically I am an unconverted, anti (and ante) Roosevelt, .

die-hard Republican who is convinced increasingly that the only
salvation foreseeable lies in the complete and utter destruction
of the Republican party and for the term “Republican” to permit
a fusion of Southern and Northern conservative elements freed
from the residue of hate now decades old and long since out-
grown which has forced political thraldom on the South and
hidden real political issues and unity of objective. The conserva-
tive elements of this country must be united and must put for-
ward a sound restoring program, We must curb the profligate
spending of the “New Deal” and the “Fair Deal” which is just
becoming the “Raw Deal” of the future. So much for politics!

Personally, I prefer the stock market. It has become an en-
grossing hobby and I have become a chartist in a major way
with charts of all big board stocks. It is said that the past plots
the future. Therein lies fascination but no overwhelming profit.

Shortly after the war I got the private license the Harvard
Flying Club inspired, but did not help me towards, and I have
logged a fair amount of cross-country time since. The shift to
Louisville has retarded my airtistic efforts considerably.

And so, from my hilltop south of Louisville, I look out, and
down on a wet countryside and wonder what the next quarter-
century will bring to me, reflecting the while on the smoothness,
mildness, and satisfaction of the last, so round, and firm, and
fully packed with living enjoyment. May it continue!

| 850 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ LOUIS MOFFATT SCARR .

poRN: May 14, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: John Scarr, Marion MacDon-
ald.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

UN MARRIED.

DIED: July 6, 1935, Boston, Mass.

MOTHER: Mrs. John Scarr, 24 Pearl St., Dorchester, Mass.

AFTER receiving his degree with the Class of 1925, Louis Moffatt

Scarr continued in Cambridge for another year, working as a

special student under the Faculty of Arts and Sciences.

For several years he was employed by the financial firm of
Burr, Gannett & Company of Boston. In order to become more
efficient in the business world he undertook graduate studies at
Boston University College of Business Administration. Later he
became interested in the chain-store field and was employed by
the Lincoln Stores in Quincy, Massachusetts. At the time of his
death he was Boston office manager of a subsidiary of the T. G.
Buckley Company.

Although he suffered from ill health for many years, Scarr main-
tained an optimistic attitude towards life and business. He always
enjoyed participating in Class activities and in the sports of the
University.

HENRY FRANKLIN SCHLARB

HOME ADDRESS: 2023 Arroyo Ave., San Carlos, Calif.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Co., 140 New Montgomery
St., San Francisco, Calif.

BORN: Oct. 15, 1901, Earlham, Iowa. parents: Philip Peter Schlarb, Viola M.
Eppard.

PREPARED AT: Miami High School, Miami, Okla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924.

MmarrieD: Mildred G. Sheets, Sept. 20, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Engineer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Major, U. S. Army Signal Corps; commanding
officer, 3365 Signal Service Branch, Central and Western Pacific, Aug.
30, 1942-Jan. 15, 1946; provided communication for Air Transport
Command at all islands in Pacific; awarded Legion of Merit.

DUE to circumstances beyond my control it was impossible for
me to finish my education at John Harvard, and in r925 it was

[ 851]

TE TTT a ES aN NTN TES aP ORY PENIS ESS ufh¥ hth: feenyovensnmahe

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

necessary for me to seek employment. This started in the lead-
zinc mining fields of northeast Oklahoma. Thankful for my
“hydraulics” in the electrical engineering course at Pierce Hall,
I was able to do a good job as an “‘overall” engineer. My interests
in communication in 1927 led me to Iowa where I became an
engineer in the Bell System. For almost twenty-two years, ex-
cept for three and one-half years of Army duty, my “life, hberty
and pursuit of happiness” has been to that organization. Though
I don’t hold any degrees from dear old Harvard, my education
had a good start there whereby it has been possible for me to
make a “small” mark in the communication field.

Yes, Iam thankful for that short education at Harvard since
it taught me the basic fundamentals of my education — the
ability to think soundly and analyze.

As for hobbies — the main ones are photography and living —
the latter moved me from the Middle West to sunny California.
Under the Bell System retirement plan, it will soon be possible
(8-9 years) for me to retire and devote all my time to both
hobbies.

During these long winter evenings, like tonight, it’s a real
pleasure to lounge with slippers and pipe and recall all the
pleasant memories of Cambridge—“Mom” and Pierce Hall,
the boat trip to New York when we beat Princeton by a drop
kick — what a game — what a return trip too!

The glamor of the past twenty-five years was the Army duty
which started in the Pentagon Building and ended in Tokyo.
Philadelphia was my home for fifteen months for the develop-
ment, procurement, and issue of radio teletype equipment under
the Chief Signal Officer, Army Communication Services. Since
the proof of the pudding was in the eating, I went to the blue
Pacific to install the “stuff” we had designed — for a branch of
the Air Forces, In eighteen months I hit most islands in the
central and western Pacific — all by air, never on the water —
200 hours of hopping. Since nobody else was available, I assumed
command of my organization early in 1945 and found what it
meant to do the impossible with nothing — or nearly so. As 4
reward I was able to make a junket to Tokyo to sce the remains
and pick up my souvenirs and return to the Bell System, Much

[ 852 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ado was made in civilian circles when the Legion of Merit decora-
tion was awarded.

ALBERT E. SCHWARTZ

HOME ADDRESS: 51 Brattle St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDREss: Old Colony Trust Co., 1 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 8, 1903, Cincinnati, Ohio. parents: Albert William Schwartz,
Sophia Eberle.

PREPARED AT: Hughes High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: AB. magna cum laude, 1925; LLB.
1928.

UNMARRIED.

WILLIAM WILKINS SCOTT

HOME ADDRESS: 30 E. 35th St., New York 16, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Volitant Publishing Corp., 103 E. 35th St., New York 16,
N.Y.

BORN: Aug. 2, 1901, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Hugh David Scott, ’98, Helen
Livingston Saunders.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925.

MARRIED: Frances Thomas, May 2, 1941, New York, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Richard Sanders Scott, ’27 (deceased) ; Robert Livingston
Scott, ’31.

OCCUPATION: Magazine editor.

SINCE leaving Harvard and the editorship of the Harvard

Lampoon, I have continued my work and my hobby of magazine

editing. A few years after college I found myself on the staff

of “the old Life” (not to be confused with the Yale-owned pic-

ture magazine of the present day). I was assistant editor of this

old Life under editor Robert E. Sherwood. After the title LIFE

was sold to Luce, I continued to write and edit humor until

radio took over the bulk of the funny business. Except for a

year in Hollywood as a script writer, I have been editing maga-

zines for various publishing companies ever since. Last year I

edited a rather large and costly magazine for the Indian Motor-

cycle Company at Springfield, Massachusetts. But motorcycles

did not prove popular, the magazine was discontinued, and I

returned to New York and the established magazine business.

I am never bored when editing a magazine, and it all began with

the Lampoon!

[853 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

+ THOMAS ARNOLD BARRETT SCUDDER

BORN: Oct. 26, 1901, Chicago, Ill. parents: John Arnold Scudder, Alice
Barrett.

PREPARED AT: Sanita Barbara School, Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924.

UNMARRIED.

pieD: Jan. 11, 1931, Chicago, Ill.

BROTHER: Barrett Scudder, 3501 Howard St., Skokie, Ill.

THOMAS ARNOLD BARRETT SCUDDER remained in col-
lege two and one-half years. As an undergraduate he was a mem-
ber of the freshman track squad, and he belonged to the Iroquois,
Stylus, and Fly Clubs, and to the Hasty Pudding Club—Institute of
1770.

Following graduation, he travelled for some time on the Con-
tinent and in Morocco. He then tried his hand at painting among
the mountains of the American Southwest. His principal hobby
for several years was the training of dogs.

On December 27, 1930, while visiting a farm where he was
boarding some of his dogs, he intervened to protect his kennelman
and the latter’s wife from the assaults of a lunatic. He was shot
and fatally injured. He died two weeks later in Chicago.

Scudder’s great, rugged exterior was a contrast to his soft, deep,
and marvelously modulated speaking voice. He had a passion for
the unusual, a complete unawareness of conventions, and an in-
comparable sense of humor.

+ JOHN LOFTUS SCULLY

BoRN: March 8, 1903, Savannah, Ga. parents: John Loftus Scully, Mary
Elizabeth Tyson.

PREPARED AT: Trinity School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924.

DieD: Sept. 3, 1924, New York, N. Y.

JOHN LOFTUS SCULLY died just before the opening of our

senior year. During his two and one-half years in Cambridge he

was a member of our freshman basketball team, played on the

freshman tennis squad and later on the university basketball squad,

and shared in social service work under the auspices of the Phillips

Brooks House.

[ 854 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

When he graduated from Trinity School, he was given, on the
vote of the masters of the school, the McVickar Prize for general
excellence during his school course, and also, by vote of the boys
of the school, he was awarded the honor of having his name en-
graved on the Holden Cup as the boy who had done most for
athletics during his senior year. These awards signify the high
esteem in which he was held, not only by his instructors but by
his fellows as well. During the nine years he was in the school he
proved himself to be of more than ordinary intellectual capacity,
honest, reliable, responsible, and loyal.

ROBERT WALKER SEAMANS

HOME appress: Amherst, N. H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 606 Willow St., Manchester, N. H.

BORN: Oct. 16, 1903, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Frank Manning Scamans,
Helen Minerva Walker.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

MaRRIED: Margaret Cowles Esty, Dec. 27, 1933, Framingham Center, Mass.
CHILDREN: John Howe, July 10, 1937; Elizabeth Esty, Feb. 27, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frank Manning Seamans, '24 (deceased).

occupaTION: President, Seamans Supply Company.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant general sales manager, Sylvania Electric Products,
Inc., Salem, Mass., 1944-46.

HAPPY home life, business or professional success, and good
health are probably the three fundamentals most important in
the twenty-five years since college, although I doubt whether
many had these in mind during that time.

I am at my desk by the fireplace in a two-hundred-year-old
house in a small town in southern New Hampshire. My fine
wife (yes, no need for divorce statistics here) loves it and our
two children are growing up the right way in the country.
We couldn’t ask for much more from the happy home angle.
As far as business activity is concerned, that is a longer story,
entwined with the matter of health.

Poor health forced me to leave college in my sophomore year
and pushed me into the resort hotel business: Pinehurst, North
Carolina, winter and spring; Cape Cod or Canada in the summer.
In the fall I worked with the Harvard Athletic Association.

[855 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

This program gave me fine experience and was quite lucrative —
from bellboy to manager in three short years. In 1929 I changed
to merchandising with Telechron, Inc., spending a couple of
years in the sales office and three as midwest representative
working out of St. Louis. Then a switch to Sylvania Electric
Products, Inc., at Ipswich and Salem, Massachusetts, proved to
be a good move. Fluorescent lamps were just being developed
and to my surprise I was chosen to head their merchandising
and sales which, in the five years before 1945, had grown to a
twenty-million-dollar business.

Farly in the go’s I found I was one of those out of every
eight who has diabetes, which in itself is no real handicap.
But coupled with it came recurrent attacks of meningitis. For-
tunately I pulled stakes from Sylvania in 1946 and, with the help
of our good classmate Wally Soule, started an electrical whole-
sale business in Manchester, New Hampshire. Nothing startling
to report, but lots of fun. The business seems to be growing
slowly and keeps the wolf from the door—all in a locality
where living is good living.

If the next twenty-five years are as happy and good to me as
the last twenty-five, I shall never ask for anything more. Oh
yes, you probably won’t see me at the Reunion, for the country
is the place for me.

HENRY FRANKLIN SEARS

HOME ADDRESS: 242 Phosphor Ave., New Orleans 20, La,

OFFICE appress: Metairie Park Country Day School, New Orleans 20, La.

Born: Sept. 14, 1903, Melrose, Mass. parents: Harry Franklin Sears, ’97,
Winifred May Dyer.

PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

mMaraiep: Marion McGann, Dec. 27, 1928, Springfield, Mass, CHILDREN:
Richard Duncan, March 22, 1934, David McNeill, May 26, 1940; John
Franklin, Dec. 15, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Sears, ’24.

OCCUPATION: Teacher.

AFTER teaching in private schools in New E ngland and Chicago
for twenty years, I came here to the deep South in the fall of
1946 to teach French and Spanish at Mctairie Park Country Day

[ 856 ]

c

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

School, founded and very successfully carried on by Ralph
Boothby, ’12. My three sons are students at the school.

We still cherish our New England connections and spend our
summers with our families in Charlemont, Massachusetts, and
New London, New Hampshire, incidentally giving our children
an opportunity to see a good deal of the United States en route.

Before the war I made two visits to France, one of a year’s
duration for study and travel.

Although I spring from a staunch Republican family, I have

found the Democratic party much closer to my political philoso-
phy and as long as the Republicans continue to display, as a
party, such an archaic outlook and such uninspiring leadership,
I shall continue to vote Democratic, though not with complete
enthusiasm.
_ [have recently become a member of United World Federalists
and I am firmly convinced that only through working towards
the goal of world federation, difficult as it may be to attain, can
we hope to avert a third war which will mean catastrophe to
all, winners and losers alike.

NATHAN SEGAL

HOME ADDRESS: 752 West End Ave., New York, N. Y.

OFFicE apprEss: 78 Delevan St., Brooklyn, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 7, 1903, Odessa, Russia. PARENTS: Samuel Segal, Ida Milmerstein.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: §.B. IN IND. CHEM., 1925.

UNMARRIED. ;

occupation: Co-owner of Landers-Segal Color Company, manufacturers of
dry pigment colors.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Industrial specialist in the ammunition branch,
Office of Chief of Ordinance, War Department, 1942-43.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society; American Institute of Chemists;
Association of Harvard Chemists.

MY ACTIVITIES since graduation have been devoted almost
exclusively to the field of pigments and industrial minerals, I
started my chemical career in the laboratories of the New Eng-
land Fuel and Transportation Company where, for a year, I
analyzed coal, coke, and gas. Not finding this work particularly
illuminating, I decided to acquire experience in other branches

[857]

x

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

of the chemical industry outside of the laboratory and I became
a chemical salesman for a Boston dealer (L. W. Cronkhite, Inc.)
with whom I remained until October, 1928.

I then became associated with a New York dealer and importer
of pigments and minerals (Smith Chemical & Color Company)
and I found this field to be very colorful, and to my liking. In
this firm I became closely associated with Louis Landers. In
June, 1932, we formed a partnership to establish the Landers-
Segal Color Company as dealers, importers, and exporters of
dry pigment colors and industrial minerals. The outbreak of
the war shut off practically all of our imported pigments so we
proceeded to duplicate and manufacture our own. This led to
manufacturing many other pigment specialties for various in-
dustries,

From June, 1942, to August, 1943, I took a leave of absence
_ from my company to accept an appointment with the War
Department as an industrial specialist in the ammunition branch
of the Ordinance Department. I was with the raw materials
expediting group, handling copper allocation and expediting re-
quests. The copper shortage then was extremely bad. By sched-
uling some of the production and deliveries of the brass mills,
by controlling and shifting plant inventories, and by carefully
allocating our monthly copper allotments, we managed to keep
production lines going and plant shutdowns to a minimum.
Curtailment of the ammunition production program in 1943 (tre-
mendous stocks had been accumulated by then) left us with sur-
plus copper, and my expediting was at an end. I then returned to
New York and to my pigments.

Since then my work in the laboratory, plant, and office, and
out in the field, has kept me pretty busy, especially in the de-
velopment of foreign markets, resulting in our colors going
practically all over the world. Our latest venture is in the
packaging of our colors in small units for nationwide distribu-
tion through wholesale paint and building material dealers, as
well as for some industrial consumption. They should be on
the market by June.

I have no special hobbies and my relaxing pleasures are mainly
in music and the theatre. Of course I follow the current trends

[ 858 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in world events and the progress of scientific developments with
considerable interest (who doesn’t?).

I am still a bachelor but there is always the possibility that
this status may change before the Fiftieth Class Reunion,

JOSEPH LEWIS SELTZER

HOME ADDRESS: 238 Westchester Ave., Mount Vernon, N. Y.

BORN: July 17, 1905, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Solomon Seltzer, Edith
Abramson.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926.

MARRIED: Roberta B. Kohl, Nov. 11, 1929, Brookline, Mass, CHILDREN:
Richard Kohl, Feb. 7, 1941; Eugene Stephen, July 1, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Herbert Abraham Seltzer, ’28; Car] Seltzer, ’29.

EDSON OLIVER SESSIONS

HOME apprEss: Brinker Road, Barrington, Ill.
OFFICE apprEss: 1 N. LaSalle St., Chicago 2, Ill.
BORN: Noy. 5, 190z, Toledo, Ohio. parents: Edson Oliver Sessions, Helen

Potter.

PREPARED AT: Chicago Latin School, Chicago, If.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 10922-1925. DEGREE: §.B., 1925.

MaRRiED: Frances Browning Cox, April ro, 1937, Chicago, Hl. cum:
William Loren, Sept. 8, 1939.

OccUPATION: President, Sessions Engineering Company, consulting, industrial,
and management engineers.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Powers Regulator Company, Kelite Products Com-

pany.
MEMBER OF: Barrington Hills Country Club; Fin ’n Feather Club; Luncheon

Club; Society of Automotive Engineers.
FROM 1925 to 1934 I tried with varying degrees of success to
work for the other fellow. Finally, convinced that my employers
would insist upon my compliance to their system and that I was
essentially a non-conformist, I had no alternative but to be my
own boss. This was a happy move and I have enjoyed thoroughly

the past fifteen years of business activity.
By 1937 bachelorhood became a bore so I traded its uncertain

joys for the more assured, solid comforts of married life. By
the way, my Harvard roommate, George Johnson, and I are
now brothers-in-law.

[ 859]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Hobbies have consumed most of my spare time and probably
some time that should have been more productive. In boyhood
I was interested chiefly in hunting and fishing, somewhat later
in automobiles, then airplanes, and now in middle age my in-
terests have reverted to hunting and fishing. I have hunted over
most of the United States, Canada, Alaska, and Mexico, and
three years ago climaxed this with an African hunt. I also enjoy
skeet and trap shooting and did quite a bit of competitive skeet
shooting this year.

During the war I devoted my time to a considerable extent
to help Army Ordnance step up production.

My political convictions have been Republican (and still are)
and just now I am awed by the social and economic changes in
progress. I loathe a planned existence (that is, planned by others),
yet such seems to be the will of the majority. The only sur-
prising thing about this trend was that it took the voters so
long to use their power after receiving universal suffrage.

I have not kept in close touch with Harvard since graduation.
I look forward to a brief reindoctrination in Harvard policies
and meeting old friends at our Twenty-fifth Reunion.

FRANK A. F. SEVERANCE

HOME appress: Father Peter’s Lane, New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dunnington, Bartholow & Miller, 1 Wall St., New York 5,
N.Y.

BoRN: May 26, 1904, Gaithersburg, Md. parents: Frank Bridwell Severance,
Rosa Blanche Fulks.

preparep aT: Central High School, Washington, D. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1925; A.M., 1926; LLB.
1929.

Marriep: Frances Vidal Clarke, July 5, 1933, Flushing, N. Y. cHiepren:
John B., July 24, 1935; Alexander, March 14, 1939; Sarah V., Aug. 22,
1940, Martin Renwick, Oct. 26, 1944.

occupation; Lawyer,

WARTIME GOVFRNMENT posts: Legal adviser, Sclective Service Board, New
York, 1940-42.

ovrices HeLD: Assistant district attorney, New York County, 1938-42; chair-
man, Committee on Admissions, Association of the Bar of the City of
New York, 1942-43; secretary, Executive Committee, Association of the
Bar of the City of New York, 1944~45.

[ 860 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Down Town Association; New Canaan Country Club; Harvard
Club of New Canaan; American Bar Association; Association of Ex-
_ members of Squadron A.

AFTER a year in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, as
George W. Dilloway Fellow, and the acquisition of a Master’s
degree, I spent three rigorous but stimulating and intensely in-
teresting years in the Law School. Perhaps no other years have
furnished me with more frequently recalled memories. There
was the benign Williston, the dramatic Bull Warren, the queru-
lous Thomas Reed Powell, the pioneering Zac Chafee, the matter-
of-fact Eddie Morgan, the nimble-minded A. Wakeman Scott,
the tenacious but kindly Joey Beale, and the monumental Roscoe
Pound— men to whom we shall all ever be grateful for teach-
ing us an approach to the law and life which has been invaluable.

Like many classmates, I left law school to seek my fortune
(as Grimm invariably puts it) in a large New York law office.
Beginning a law clerkship in 1929 with Shearman & Sterling, I
devoted most of my time to litigation in which the firm repre-
sented the National City Bank of New York. My most absorbing
experience, up to 1938, was participating in the hundreds of
suits arising out of the confiscation of the Bank’s Russian branches
by the Soviet government. I learned much about the Russian
approach to life, and became acquainted with perhaps a hundred
Russians, white and red, most of whom had had first-hand, ex-
citing, and harrowing experiences in the Russian Revolution of
1917. My brief experience with Soviet law also gave me some
insight into modern Soviet “justice.” During these days I was
again thankful to Harvard for the principles of international law
which I learned under George Grafton Wilson.

The summer of 1932 provided a brief interlude of travel in
England, Belgium, Germany, Switzerland, Italy, and France.
Upon returning home I met my future spouse and we were
married in July, 1933.

A desire to gain more active experience in jury trial work
led me to accept, in 1938, an appointment by Hon. Thomas E.
Dewey as an assistant district attorney of New York County.
For four years I worked closely with Mr. Dewey and as chief
of the Frauds Bureau, handled such cases as that of Richard
Whitney, former president of the New York Stock Exchange,

[ 861 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

the Coster-Musica case involving his machinations in McKesson
& Robbins, the prosecution of Fritz Kuhn, former head of the
German-American Bund, and numerous cases of security manip-
ulation, larceny, fraud, and forgeries by corporate executives.

With experience as a prosecutor came an acute consciousness
of the real meaning of liberty and civil rights as exemplified by
our American system — above all, the importance of protecting
those liberties at all costs.

In 1942 I returned to private practice and became a member
of my present firm, Dunnington, Bartholow & Miller, where I
have devoted myself to general practice, including work in the
field of litigation, estates, wills, and trusts.

Meanwhile matters have been progressing on the domestic
front and I have been busy raising three sons and a daughter.
New York City is not the ideal place to raise a family, or at
least we think not. Moreover, having been raised on a Maryland
farm, I had a strong urge to live in the country. In 1937 we
acquired several acres of land in New Canaan, Connecticut,
and built a house where we spent simmers until 1944, when we
took up permanent residence.

Needless to say, my tennis game is an old man’s game, but
I still enjoy it, along with fly fishing when I can steal away
for it. Gardening is fun, but I find my undertakings in that
line are not nearly so ambitious as they used to be. The juvenile
front keeps me busy with tag football, home brand of baseball,
and, above all, keeping abreast of the records of major league
teams and players. Thus begins a second childhood.

SAMUEL DONNELL SEWALL

appress: Bayberry Point, Islip, Long Island, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 20, 1900, Denver, Colo. FaTHER: Stephen Sewall.
PREPARED AT: Hallock School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

MARRIED, CHILDREN: three,

occupation: Mercantile business.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Sewall did not return a questionnaire.

[ 862 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FELIX IRA SHAFFNER

HOME apprEss: 1616 16th St. N.W., Washington g, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 800 Connecticut Ave. N.W., Washington, D. C.

BorN: Feb. 15, 1904, Boise, Idaho, parents: Ira Franklin Shaffner, Mae Belle
Davison.

PREPARED AT: Boise High School, Boise, Idaho; Phoenix Union High School,
Phoenix, Ariz.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B. cto laude, 1925; A.M. 1926; PH.D.,
19333 B.LiTr. (Univ. of Oxford), 1928.

marriep: Marie-Louise Gabrielle Leschaloupe, July 26, 1937, Port of Spain,
Trinidad.

HARVARD BROTHER: Dean Nevin Shaffner, '37.

occupation: Economist (chief economist, Economic Cooperation Adminis-
tration, and director of liaison with National Advisory Council on intcr-
national monetary and financial problems).

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Senior economist, Price Division, 1942~44,
administrative analyst, Bureau of Budget, Work Simplification Division
attached to O.P.A, Rent Division, 1945-46, Regional Office of Price Ad-
ministration, New York, N. Y.

OFFICES HELD: Securities analyst, Old Colony Trust Company, Boston, 1925;
instructor in economics and tutor in the division of history, government,
and economics, Harvard University, 1918-37; economic consultant, Gen-
eral Motors Corporation, Detroit, 1928, Investment Managers Company,
New York, N. Y., 1929, Foster-Marvin & Company, New York, N. Y.,
1937; lecturer in economics, School of Commerce, Accounts, and Fi-
nance, and Graduate School of Business Administration, New York,
N. Y., 1938-43; principal economist and chief, Economic Analysis Branch,
Economic and Market Research Division, July-October, 1946, member
and acting vice-chairman, Real Property Review Board, October, 1946-
December, 1947, member general board, January, 1948-June, 1949, vice-
chairman general board, November, 1948-June, 1949, chairman general
board, General Services Administration, July-October, 1949, War Assets
Administration, Washington, D. C.; present position, E.C.A., since Oc-
tober, 1949.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Kappa Sigma Fraternity; Association of Ameri-
can Rhodes Scholars; Harvard Alumni Association; American Economic
Association; American Statistical Association; American Finance Asso-
ciation; Academy of Political Science; Harvard Club of Washington,
D. C.; Harvard Business School Club of Washington, D. C.,

PuBLicaTions: “Solar and Economic Relationships: A Preliminary Report,”
Quarterly Journal of Economics, Harvard University Press, 1934 (re-
printed 1945 and 1949); The Problem of Investment, J. Wiley & Sons,
New York, 1936.

IN THE spring of 1924 I discovered, to my surprise, that I had
accumulated enough additional course credits to permit me at that

[ 863 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

time to take my divisional examinations in economics, complete
my requirements for the A.B. in my junior year, and spend my
senior year doing graduate work at Harvard. Accordingly I did
so, enrolling in the Harvard Business School in the fall of 1924,
and after learning that I had received a Rhodes Scholarship at
Oxford University, which I was expected to take up the follow-
ing year, I made arrangements with the Graduate School of Arts
and Sciences whereby, by taking courses there also, I could, with
the work I was carrying at the Business School, complete my re-
quirements for an A.M. by June, 1925, which I did. I also sat in
on some second-year courses at the Business School, and on some
Harvard Law School courses, which gave me a fair overall grasp
of what both schools had to offer.

After spending the summer of 1925 as a securities analyst with
the Old Colony Trust Company in Boston, I sailed for Oxford,
England, with three years ahead of me in which to acquire all the
knowledge and memories I possibly could. Receiving “advanced
standing” at Oxford, I was permitted to set to work immediately
on a research dissertation in international finance in the libraries of
Oxford, the British Museum, the London School of Economics,
and the Royal Statistical Society in London, as well as the libraries
in Paris, for a postgraduate degree of B.Litt., which I received in
June, 1928. Oxford was for me a memorable experience which I
shall always treasure, for itself, for the enduring English and
American friendships gained and for the extensive travels I made
through England, France, Belgium, Germany, Austria, and Switz-
erland, I spent more time in Paris and Vienna than I had in Boston.

After Oxford I returned to Harvard for several years as in-
structor in economics and tutor in the Division of History, Gov-
ernment, and Economics, served as economic adviser to certain
business and investment institutions, took a Ph.D. in investments
(domestic and international), in 1933, co-authored a monograph
on business cycles, wrote a book on investments and was a charter
faculty member of the House Plan in operation at Harvard. In
1932 I again visited England, France, and Germany, with a brief
and most enlightening trip to Russia. In 1936 I arranged a trip to
Hawaii (which I found indescribably beautiful and irresistibly
attractive), then on to Pago Pago, Samoa, Suva in the Fiji Islands,
New Zealand, and Australia. A year later I visited most of the

[ 864 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

islands in the Caribbean, Bermuda, and parts of South America,
where I investigated oil properties for a New York investment
banking house and also joined the ranks of the Benedicts.

During the war I did emergency war work for the government
and taught graduate and undergraduate courses as a lecturer in
economics at New York University. In 1946 I joined the War
Assets Administration in Washington, and as a member of the
Real Property Review Board and later as vice-chairman and then
chairman of its successor, the General Board, I shared with other
board members and the administrator the responsibility for de-
termining the disposal terms for sale or lease of a good part of the
war plants and other real property costing originally about eight
billion dollars out of the total of approximately $28 billions repre-
sented by the entire disposal program.

In the fall of 1949 I joined the Economic Cooperation Adminis-
tration in Washington as its liaison director and staff representa-
tive on the National Advisory Council on International Monetary
and Financial Problems, created by the Bretton Woods legislation
to coérdinate and make the necessary cabinet-level decisions on all
international financial transactions and policies of the United
States.

My immediate family consists of myself and my South Ameri-
can wife who likes Washington very much. My hobbies are golf,
fishing, and travel (for none of which have I had much time in
recent years), music and record collecting, studying investments,
a good deal of reading and some writing.

ARTHUR RUSSELL SHARP, JR.

HOME ApprEss: Oakland Farm, Taunton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bemis Brothers Bag Co., 4o Central St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 8, 1902, Boston, Mass. parENTs: Arthur Russell Sharp, Mary
Silsbee Sparks.

PREPARED AT; St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925.

MarriED: Marguerite Talbot, June 25, 1925, Norton, Mass, cut: Helen,
Nov. 4, 1936.

occupation: Textile executive, cotton buyer, and farmer,

MEMBER oF: American Museum of Natural History; Boston Museum of
Science; American Farm Bureau Federation; American Forestry Asso-

[ 865 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

ciation; Ducks Unlimited; Massachusetts Fish and Game Association;

Northeastern Poultry Producers Council; National Good Egg Club;

Veterans Association of the First Corps of Cadets.
MARGUERITE and I were married immediately after the end
of college and made our home in Taunton on my family’s farm
where we have continued to live with a great deal of pleasure,
That same year I became associated with a New Orleans cotton
merchandising firm in Boston and in 1926 I opened an office
for them in Providence where I remained until they retrenched
Jate in 1930.

This period had ended a golden era of upland bird and duck
shooting. Bag limits were being reduced, seasons curtailed, mi-
grations were smaller and non-migratory upland birds diminished,
We missed quail and pheasants to stock our farm and, through
my connection with the New England Game Breeders Associa-
tion, I made an effort to legalize preserve shooting in Massa-
chusetts, which failed.

Field trials for pointers and setters became an important hobby
and, with Marguerite, I attended and judged many of them in
New England, New York, and Canada, while the insurance
business, which had become my means of livelihood during the
doldrums, suffered lack of attention. Frankly, it bored me.

April, 1934, found me associated with Bemis Brothers Bag
Company as textile executive and cotton buyer, an activity |
continue to enjoy. This carries me to all the cotton producing
states from the Atlantic to the Pacific as well as many other
sections, so that I have become reasonably well travelled in the
United States.

Time for extraneous activities was naturally restricted by this
work. Farming activities at home were expanding, leaving less
time for dog training, and field trials fell into the discard. Helen
arrived on November 4, 1936, keeping us happily nearer home.
This Jed to further farm expansion. Nothing elaborate, but, on
reading today’s papers, I shudder to think of twelve acres of
potatoes and 1 500-egg producing hens. Fishing took the place
of training dogs in spring and summer with surf fishing for
striped bass taking the lead in my affections. Every opportunity
to shoot or fish on weekends and holidays, from Canada to
Mexico, is avidly grasped.

[ 866 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Ten years ago, or thereabouts, Ernie Gebelein and I were
among a group who formed and operated the Brick House
School, Inc., a private school for children up to second grade,
which continues to flourish. Conservation and natural history
are among my favorite minor subjects, which blend well with
the major ones.

HOWARD PARKER SHARP

HOME ADDRESS: 632 Pitcairn PL. Pittsburgh 32, Pa.

OFFICE ApprEss: Third Avenue and Ross Street, Pittsburgh 30, Pa.

BORN: Aug. 27, 1903, Youngstown, Ohio. parents: Robert Clyde Sharp,
Josephine Parker.

PREPARED AT: Peabody High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: AB. summa cum laude, 1925; LL.B.
magna cum laude, 1928.

marrieD: Nora-Blanche Peters, Oct. 14, 1930, Tulsa, Okla; Emma E. Ochil-
tree, Aug. 4, 1937, Pittsburgh, Pa. cumpren: Robert Parker, Nov. 2,
1931; Sara Josephine, Aug. 14, 1938; Susan Parker, May 11, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Jones & Laughlin Steel Corporation, in charge
of legal and corporate affairs.

OFFICES HELD: Elder, Sixth United Presbyterian Church, Pittsburgh, Pa., since
May, 1946.

MEMBER OF: American Iron and Steel Institute; Pittsburgh Chamber of Com-
merce; Pennsylvania and United States Chambers of Commerce; Alle-
gheny County Bar Association; Pennsylvania, Oklahoma, and American
Bar Associations; Phi Beta Kappa; Delta Sigma Rho; Duquesne Club;
Longue Vue Club; Rolling Rock Club,

PuBLicaTions: “The Application of the Doctrine of Swift v. Tyson since
1900” (with Joseph B. Brennan), Indiana Law Journal, March, 1929;
“Conclusive Administrative Decisions,” Indiana Law Journal, May, 1930.

AFTER I graduated from: college, I attended Harvard Law
School. The excellent education which I received in the Law
School has been a great asset to me in my legal career. I used
to hear the Law School criticized for being too much interested
in teaching theory and not enough interested in teaching legal
decisions and rules of practice. I have always felt that the Law
School might profitably have emphasized theory even more
strongly. By proper investigation a person can usually discover
what the law is, but it is often much more difficult for him to
learn the reason for the Jaw which he has found.

Being a graduate of Harvard Law School has many times

[ 867 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

created a useful, friendly contact for me, because I have met
many graduates of the Law School in handling matters with
government agencies, law firms and corporations.

In the summer of 1925 I travelled in England, France, Italy,
Switzerland, Belgium, Holland, and Scotland. In the summer of
1926 I travelled extensively in South America, and in the summer
of 1927 I travelled through the Scandinavian countries, Germany,
Czechoslovakia, Austria, and northern Italy.

Shortly after taking the Oklahoma Bar examinations in June,
1928, I started on a trip around the world which lasted approxi-
mately six months. I sailed westward from San Francisco on a
Dollar Line boat. I left the boat for a trip through Japan, Korea,
Manchuria, and north China. I then took another Dollar Line
boat from Shanghai to Colombo, Ceylon, where I disembarked
for a fascinating trip through Ceylon and India. At best, travel-
ling in India was quite primitive, but I have always considered
the period of almost a month which I spent in that country the
most interesting of all my travels. I sailed again from Colombo
for Egypt, where I disembarked for a trip through that country,
Palestine, and Syria. Then I sailed for home on another Dollar
Line boat. At the time, the trip seemed long enough, but in
subsequent years I have often regretted that I did not take a
few more months to visit several places of particular interest in
the Orient which I missed. By the time I have the leisure for a
long trip again, I may be much less inclined to make it.

In January, 1929, I began the practice of law in Oklahoma
City with the firm of Hayes & Richardson. This was about a
month after the discovery of oil on the outskirts of Oklahoma
City. During the three years that I practised law there, I saw
the great change in the city which resulted from the oil develop-
ment and I participated in the business resulting from this de-
velopment.

In December, 1931, I moved to Pittsburgh and began the prac-
tice of law with the firm of Reed, Smith, Shaw & McClay. In
June, 1942, I entered the employ of Jones & Laughlin Steel Cor-
poration as an attorney. In April, 1943, I became general counsel.
I was elected a director of the corporation in 1946 and a vice-
president and a member of the executive committee in 1947.

My hobbies have been my family, gardening, and the teaching

[ 868 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of a Sabbath school class for young adults. My main problem
has been that the pressure of work has left me far too little time
to enjoy my hobbies. However, I am pleased with the thought
that I am in the process of reaching a satisfactory solution to
this problem.

Pittsburgh has finally become civic-minded. The smoke elimi-
nation program is succeeding very well indeed. New buildings
are to be erected and new highways are to be constructed. I
am very enthusiastic about the future of Pittsburgh and am
watching the developments here with keen interest.

CLIFFORD JOHN SHAW

HOME ADDRESS: 31 Tobey Rd., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: Maine & New Hampshire Theatres, 260 Tremont St., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: Oct. 5, 1901, Boston, Mass. parents: Herbert Nathan Shaw, Mary
MacGilvry.

PREPARED AT: High School of Commerce, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: $.B., 1925.

MarRiED: Anna Lacey, Sept. 19, 1926, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Patricia Mary,
July 2, 1927; Herbert Clifford, Nov. 9, 1928; Lorraine, May 1, 1931;
Virginia, Dec. 27, 1934; Carole Ann, Feb. 4, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Assistant general manager, theatre chain,

MEMBER OF: Marshfield Country Club.

OLIVER SHAW

HOME apprEss: Building D, 125 Northfield Ave., West Orange, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Chilcott Laboratories, Morris Plains, N. J.

BORN: June 7, 1902, Watertown, Mass. parents: Charles Fletcher Shaw, ’o1,
Florence McNear Rand.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: 8.B. Cum laude, 19253 M.B.A., 1927.

MARRIED: Mary Carmen Triebel, July 29, 1933, Lincoln, Mass. cuitp: Joanna
Mary, Sept. 10, 1934.

occupaTiION: Foreign sales manager, Chilcott Laboratories, Division of the
Maltine Company.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Foreign consultant, Office of Alien Property
Custodian, Washington, D. C., 1942-44.

OFFICES HELD: President and director, Ethical Export Executives Club, New
York, N. Y¥., 1947-48; member of advisory board, Seventeen Club,
New York, N. Y., 1949.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

[ 869 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

SINCE graduation from the Business School, I have been con-
cerned principally with the development of American foreign
trade. My business travels through Latin America, Africa, and
the Far East have resulted in many warm friendships and asso-
ciations. Thus many of us were quietly building for the future
long before the creation of the Good Neighbor Policy. During
the past twenty years I have seen the American business man
abroad grow in ability and adaptability until he now leads where
once he was led.

After serving an export apprenticeship with Lawrence & Com-
pany, a New York textile house, I travelled widely through Latin
America for five years for the Gillette Safety Razor Company of
Boston. Then came my one incursion into domestic business in
the advertising department of Procter & Gamble Company, Cin-
cinnati, where I learned large-scale national advertising. How-
ever, in 1936 I was again back in exporting as Foreign Sales
Manager of the Mennen Company, Newark, New Jersey.

Soon after the beginning of World War II, I became Foreign
Consultant to the Office of the Alien Property Custodian. As
such I organized the International Division of the Schering
Corporation, Bloomfield, New Jersey, a seized German pharma-
ceutical firm, for the purpose of supplying from America those
essential medicines and chemicals formerly shipped from Ger-
many. During the war I travelled almost continually in Latin
America in the development of this program, as well as to
purchase seized German property and to supervise its sale to
qualified groups of nationals of the various Latin American
countries. Inasmuch as this work placed me in contact with the
various ministers of finance and our own diplomatic representa-
tives in these countries, it was possible for me to broaden con-
siderably my understanding of current politics and economic
development.

After the termination of the war, I became manager of the
foreign division of the Maltine Company, a pharmaceutical firm
founded in 1875. Since then we have moved from Brooklyn
and New York City to our new laboratories in suburban New
Jersey. In 1948 I not only visited all the countries of South
America, but also spent over a month in the Union of South
Africa, returning home with visits to the Belgian Congo and

[ 870 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Portugal. I was tremendously impressed with the future poten-
tial of South Africa and the Congo.

Not only is my home and business now in northern New
Jersey, but also my daughter is in school there. So it appears
that my activities at home and abroad will be in the future
based on this part of the world.

PAUL MICHAEL SHEA

HOME ADDRESS: 50 Pembroke St., Newton 58, Mass.

OFFICE ADDREss: English High School, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 13, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Michael Melrose Shea, Cathe-
rine C. Sullivan.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; A.M. (Boston Coll.), 1926;
ED.M. (Boston Teachers Coll.), 1941.

MaRRIED: Agnes M. O'Shea, July 6, 1938, Boston, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Emmett Joseph Shea, ’27 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Teacher.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, Army Air Force.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Boston High School Masters Association,
1938-41; treasurer, High School Men of Boston, since 1949.

MEMBER OF: National Education Association; Modern Language Association
of New England; Boston Mercantile Library Association, American
Schoolmen’s Association.

I WAS happily married in 1938 to Agnes M. O’Shea, a teacher
of English in the Roslindale High School and at present a
member of the faculty of the Mt. Ida Junior College in Newton,
Massachusetts. I regretfully report we have no children, but
plenty of nieces and nephews on my wife’s side of the family
who keep us quite busy. Our hobbies are reading, bridge, and
travel. We haven’t travelled extensively but have seen a respect-
able portion of Europe, the British Isles, and the North American
continent. Politically and otherwise I guess we are what you'd
call conservative — school teachers, you know.

JOHN SANFORD SHEPARD

HOME AppREss: 94 View St., Franklin, N. H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Shepard Realty Co. 27 Memorial St. Fr: anklin, N. H.

BoRN: Sept. 15, 1901, Franklin, N. H. parents: John Sanford Shepard, Alice
Maude Robinson.

[ 871 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; A.M. (Boston Univ.), 1932.

marRieD: Ruth Gertrude Crockett, June 24, 1933, Douglas, Mass, CHILDREN:

John Sanford, July 7, 1934; Ruth Anne, Oct. 19, 1936; Rosamond Robin-
son, March 4, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robinson Shepard, ’r9.

OCCUPATION: Real estate operator and broker; general insurance agent.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted as private, Machine Gun Company, First
Regiment, New Hampshire State Guard, 1917; discharged as sergeant,
1919; reénlisted as private, Third Company, New Hampshire State
Guard, 1942; served as company clerk, about five years; discharged as
sergeant, 1946.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member Franklin Rationing Board, 1941; chief
of staff corps, Franklin Council of Civilian Defense, 1941.

OFFICES HELD: Junior counsellor, Concord Council #559, United Commercial
Travelers of America, since 1950; deputy governor, Society of May-
flower Descendants in New Hampshire, since 1950.

MEMBER OF: Lakes Region Real Estate Board; Meridian Lodge No. 60, F. &
A.M.; New Hampshire Association of Insurance Agents; Society of
Mayflower Descendants in New Hampshire; United Commercial Trav-
elers of America.

THE events which have most influenced me during the last

twenty-five years have been the depression, family affairs, and

the war. My life has been a pretty continuous struggle to preserve
my inheritance and to bring up my family in the small city of

Franklin, New Hampshire. I have had lots of fun en route, but

if I had not been so preoccupied with grim financial affairs ]

would have been able to relax oftener in the pleasant society
of my family and my friends.

Immediately after graduation, I learned the wholesale grocery
business, working for my father. In the summers of 1926 and
1929 I visited Europe. In 1931 I studied at Boston University,
receiving my A.M. the next year. In 1932 I went abroad again.

Then I taught school for six years, first at the Tilton School
for Boys, then at Franklin High School. I worked for my father
every summer.

In 1933 I was married in the old Congregational Church at
Douglas, Massachusetts. When my three children arrived, I
became a family man.

After my father’s death in 1937, my mother, sister, and I
formed the Shepard Realty Company to operate the real estate
which we inherited. Lack of capital made this difficult, also a

[ 872 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

very bad employment condition here and, in recent years, rent
control. However, we have improved our situation and find our-
selves now in a better position to reach our objectives.

In the summer of 1949 I entered the insurance business, starting
from scratch. I like the work and the outlook for my agency
seems bright. At present I represent the Travelers Companies
and several mutuals.

I don’t find much time for hobbies. When I do, I play chess,
take pictures with my Leica, or read a detective story, biography
or novel. When I take a vacation, I either go to the beach at
Ocean Park, Maine, or on a motor tour with my family. Ruth
and I have a date to go to Yellowstone again on our twenty-fifth
wedding anniversary.

I have got a kick out of this review of twenty-five years.
Like my airplane trip to Los Angeles two years ago with my
son, it has given me an opportunity to view things as a whole.
One aspect of my life stands out—the variety of it. Perhaps
that is why it has been interesting even if it has not brought me
the fulfillment of all my ambitions.

JAMES HUBERT SHEPARDSON

HOME AppREsS: 256 South St, Holyoke, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.

BorN: Feb. 6, 1903, Pittsfield, Mass. PARENTS: James Payson Shepardson,
Mae Chapin.

PREPARED AT: Pittsfield High School, Pittsfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921~1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

MaRRIED: Olive Mae Mann, September, 1929, Lebanon, N. Y. CHILpREN:
Janice Mae, June 17, 1930; Philip Chapin, Nov. 23, 1934; Richard Payson,
June 9, 1943.

occupation; Registrar, Williston Academy.

OFFICES HELD: President, Springfield Speakers’ Club, 1944-46, Associated
Speakers’ Clubs of Western Massachusetts, 1946-49, member executive
board B.S.A., Mt. Tom Council, 1948-50; chairman Committee Educa-
tional Survey, 1949, member Council on Religious Education, three
years, member men’s council, three years, Congregational Church.

MEMBER OF: Past member, Newton Lodge of Masons; Wilbraham Pascom-
muck Club, Easthampton.

IT IS clear in retrospect that the four years after graduation
were chiefly exploratory. The first two years were spent at the

[ 873 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

GEORGE CHAPELTON SHEPHERD, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 532 zoth St., N.W., Washington, D. C.

OFFICE ADDREss: Munitions Board Petroleum Committee, Room 2C-84s,
Washington, D. C.

BORN: May 6, 1903, Boston, Mass. parents: George Chapelton Shepherd,
Blanche Elizabeth Pool.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922, 1923-1925. DEGREES: S.B. IN MET. 7agna cum
laude, 1925; a.m. (Georgetown Univ.), 1950.

marrigD: Twilo May Hough, June 2, 1934, Long Beach, Calif. (divorced
1948).

occupaTion: Naval officer (petroleum engineer); currently deputy director,
Plans Division, Munitions Board Petroleum Committee.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Naval Reserve officer since 1928; called to active
duty in October, 1940; promoted commander, November, 1942; gradu-
ated Naval War College, June, 1944, and Industrial College of Armed
Forces, June, 1947; served as Pacific Ocean Areas Area Petroleum Officer
responsible for petroleum supply and distribution to all military and
naval forces therein; transferred to Regular Navy, September, 1946;
awarded bronze star.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers,
American Economic Association; American Statistical Society; Econo-
metric Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Four patents in petroleum technology and metallurgy; tech-
nical articles in Metals and Alloys and Chemistry and Metallurgy.

ONE of my memories of graduation a quarter of a century ago
was the frequent and inharmonious rendition of the tune, “Shut
the door, they’re coming through the window,” by the then, to
me, apparently middle-aged members of the Class of ’oo. At
that time I wondered what those of us who would return for
our Twenty-fifth Reunion would be singing, what we would be
like, and what, if any, parallelism there would be between our-
selves and the “naughty oughters.” (I was almost positive there
would be none.) Seven years after they graduated they were
in the depths of an economic depression, seventeen years after
they graduated they were heeding the call to arms in a great
World War. Enough of historical analogies. We can only pray
that they have run their course.

This pleasant January afternoon finds me in both an evaluative
and a retrospective mood. I find myself in excellent health,
with much less hair, fewer teeth, and quite a few more pounds

[ 876 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

than I had twenty-five years ago. As a regular naval officer, des-
ignated for petroleum engineering duties, I am quite profession-
ally content as my vocational love during the formative years of
my maturity was the oil industry, and my avocation in the pre-
World War II days was the Naval Reserve. I find life good in all
ways but my evaluation is tempered by my inability to write,
as I wish [ could, of my pride and joy in family life as a husband
and father. My only essay into the first category ended in re-
treat without achieving the second.

Leafing back through the pages of Time, I started to work
shortly after graduation as a steel mills open-hearth laborer
and gradually advanced to melter foreman. There was a short
interlude during a mill shutdown when I became a blacksmith
and was very proud of myself when I shod my first horse. In
the late spring of 1927 I succumbed to the wanderlust and, in
company with another metallurgist, vagabonded the length and
breadth of the country in a Model-T touring car for six months,
working when we went broke and living at dude ranches when
we were flush. We finally settled for the winter in southern
California where I went to work as a petroleum chemical re-
search engineer.

Thirteen years later when my Reserve unit and I were called
to active duty by the Uniced States Navy, I was still engaged
in petroleum research in California. Even in the service I found
I could not get away from oil, After an early naval career in
minesweeping and patrol work, I went to the Naval War Col-
lege and after graduation I was first assigned as executive officer
to the Pacific Ocean Areas Area Petroleum Officer, later becom-
ing area petroleum officer. This was an interesting assignment.
My colleagues were from all services and we were entirely re-
sponsible for all oil for all services operating in the Pacific Ocean
areas. Late in 1946 I bid “Aloha” to the Pacific and spent the
next year as a student at the Industrial College of the Armed
Forces in Washington, D. C. After graduation I Spent a year
and a half on the faculty of the Industrial College and was then
assigned to the munitions board petroleum committee in the
Pentagon, where I expect to stay for the next year or so. In
the course of my Washington tour of duty I acquired a Master’s
degree at Georgetown University.

[ 877 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

This brings me to the last leaf in my book of the past. There
are, I hope, many pages yet to be written. What will be en-
graved on them is shrouded in the mists of the future. If I find
life and people as worthwhile during the next twenty-five years
as I have during the past twenty-five, I shall be very content.

‘+ JIM CHAPMAN SHERMAN

BoRN: July 12, 1904, Augusta, Ga. PARENTS: Thomas Holliman Sherman,
Sarah Camfield Morris.

PREPARED AT: Academy of Richmond County, Augusta, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1925; M.ARCH., 1929.
UNMARRIED.

piepD: Sept. 7, 1934, Augusta, Ga.

JIM CHAPMAN SHERMAN received his early education at the

Academy of Richmond County in Augusta, where he attained the

highest honors. During his three years as an upperclassman at

Harvard he held successively the Rumrill Scholarship, the Sewall

Scholarship, and the Bigelow Scholarship. He was graduated with

distinction. He was a member of the freshman lacrosse team and

played on the university lacrosse squad the following year. He had

a wide circle of friends and acquaintances.

Sherman early acquired an absorbing interest in architecture. In
college he specialized in fine arts and he had already become an
efficient mathematician. As a consequence he was especially well
adapted for a postgraduate course at the architectural school,
where he received the degree of Master in Architecture in 1929.

After an interlude of practice in Boston, he returned to Augusta
where he was associated with a leading firm of architects, Scroggs
& Ewing, of which he, in time, became a member. He was con-
sidered one of the South’s most promising young architects at the

time of his death.

ARTHUR MILES SHERRILL

appress: % Greenwich Trust Company, Greenwich, Conn.
BORN: June 5, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: Arthur Bonnycastle Sherrill,

Martha Haydon.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923. ,

[ 878 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Dorothy Googins, April 19, 1925, New York, N. Y. cupren:
Arthur Miles, Jr., April 19, 1926 (m. Ruth Fuhrmann, Sept. 18, 1948),
Richard Rodman, March 1, 1928.

HARVARD SON: Arthur Miles Sherrill, Jr., 47.

HARVARD BROTHER: Leicester Haydon Sherrill, '26.

OCCUPATION: Writer.

MY “life since graduation” began before the rest of you fellows
graduated, for I never did. 1 left college after a year and a half
with the firm intention of earning a few dollars and returning
to college to complete my education, but in New York I met
again Dorothy Googins, whom many of you will remember for
her leading roles in the 47 Workshop during our years at college.
We were married before the Class graduated, and I haven't yet
gone back for the rest of my education!

The Crimson started me in the publishing business, and I’ve
stayed with it, in one form or another, ever since — first with
the Condé Nast Publications, then with Liberty Magazine, then
with Young & Rubicam, then as an editorial adviser to the David
C. Cook Publishing Company.

In this last job, my wife and I lived on a boat, cruising the
Atlantic Coast while we read manuscripts for Cook, sailing Maine
waters in the summer and Florida in the winter. We have now
resigned and we are still cruising, hoping to keep the seawolf
from the door by writing.

We have two sons. Art, Junior, graduated from the V-12
course at Harvard with an S.B. degree in one hand and an ensign’s
commission in the other, and was given duty in Japan and China.
Returning to this country, he went to the Harvard Business
School, from which he graduated in 1949. He is married and
now works for the Ford Motor Company. The younger son,
Dick, is in his senior year at the U. S. Merchant Marine Academy,
Kings Point, where he is commodore of their sailing activities.

I can’t report a brilliant career, but I can record a happy one.
A wonderful wife and two fine sons plus living the kind of
life that I love adds up to great joy.

Nor can I report a list of publications, for until now I’ve been
criticizing the other fellow’s writing rather than doing any, to
speak of, of my own. But the writing career is just starting, and if
I can’t list a best seller by the time our fifty-year report comes
along, it won't be because I haven’t tried!

[ 879 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

I might combine the items of travel and social convictions by
telling of my recent trip through Germany as a guest of the
U. S. Army to study their GYA (German Youth Activities)
program, for I am convinced that our Army is carrying on a
most worthwhile project that is, unfortunately, not at all well
known in this country. At some 300 centers throughout the U. S,
Zone we are reaching more than 800,000 German children,
bringing them up with an understanding of democratic principles
and an appreciation of the brotherhood of man.

Our GI’s themselves started the program, which still functions
without benefit of appropriated funds and is dependent on gifts
of materials and money for its life. This is not a charity — the
Army motto is “A Helping Hand is Better Than a Handout.”
It is a recreational program in which democracy is taught not
by cramming it down the throats of the youngsters, but rather
by letting them see it in action, and letting them practice it them-
selves, This they do by electing their own officers and seeing to
it that they carry out the wishes of the majority. If this program
can continue its present rate of growth, we can count on a
friendly next generation of Germans, rather than permit another
war with Germany to come along in another few years.

The Army GYA program needs all the help it can get, and
they can use just about anything that you can’t use, from old
clothes (even if they aren’t wearable, the girls can cut them up
and make new things from them), athletic supplies of all kinds,
carpentry and gardening tools, books. CARE is codperating
wonderfully with GYA, and by keeping its finger on the
situation is in a constant position of being able to supply them
with whatever materials are most urgently needed at the
moment.

If you are moved to lend a helping hand to our soldiers in
the Army of Occupation who in turn are lending a helping hand
to the next generation of Germans — moved either by the un-
selfish desire to aid a worthwhile cause or by the selfish thought
of spending a dollar for an ounce of prevention rather than
leaving it to your children to pay for another pound of cure — you
can send gifts of materials and supplies to GYA, Eucom Head-
quarters, APO 403, care of Postmaster, New York (and pay post-
age to New York only) or you can make donations to CARE,

[ 880 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Washington, D. C, (only address necessary) and specify that your
gift is for GYA.

Any of you who could have been with me on this trip and
could have seen the things that I saw would, I am sure, give
generously.

HERBERT SHERWIN

HOME ADDRESS: 1445 Cambridge St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 475 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 12, 1904, Russia. parents: Nathan Schwartz Sherwin, Ida Rock-
lin

PREPARED AT: B. M. C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: 8.B. cur laude, 1925; M.D., 1929.

Marriep: Ida Delle Silverman, Aug. 14, 1935, Plattsburg, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Nancy Eleanor, April 5, 1941; Margaret Dee, Oct. 29, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alfred Schwartz Sherwin, '22.

OccUPATION: Physician (pediatrician).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Member U. S. A. Medical Reserve Corps, since
1929; called to active duty July 1, 1941; captain, station hospitals, Max-
well Field, Ala. and Charleston, S. C.; sent overseas with 8ist General
Hospital; stationed near Cardiff, Wales; sent to France, discharged with
final grade of lieutenant colonel, Feb. 14, 1946.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Associate examining physician, local Board
#45, U. S. Selective Service.

OFFICES HELD: Visiting pediatrician, Cambridge City Hospital, junior physi-
cian in pediatrics, Mt. Auburn Hospital, Cambridge, Mass.; associate in
pediatrics, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston, Mass.; school physician, Depart-
ment of Public Health, Cambridge, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Narragansett Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; National
Sojourners; Cambridge Post #34, J.W.V.; American Medical Associa-
tion; Massachusetts Medical Society; New England Pediatric Society;
Cambridge Medical Improvement Society; American Board of Pedi-
atrics (certified by); American Academy of Pediatrics,

NOT only does the preparation for the medical career require
years of apprenticeships but even after the goal is attained there
is always need for further study and research. The demands of
the profession are such that many things personal and social must
be left undone.

Briefly, following the college years there were four years spent
at the Medical School and four more in hospitals both in Boston
and New York. Having married a Cambridge ex-schoolteacher,
I decided that Cambridge was as good a place as any to locate.

[ 881 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

For one thing it enabled me to remain close to the large medical
centers of Boston. Then came the troublesome years of initiating
a practice, slow at first but gradually gaining momentum. Let
me advise any prospective “‘medico” that a helpful wife is half
the battle won and I believe I had it. At any rate, we had made
the necessary local contacts, owned our own home, obtained the
desirable hospital appointments, and started a family when the
war years came.

Having been a long-time member of the Medical Reserve

Corps, I was called into the service early, in June, 1941, and
assigned to the Station Hospital at Maxwell Field, Alabama. In
a few months I was joined by my wife and three-and-one-half-
month-old daughter, and we spent a pleasant year betwixt the old
families of Montgomery and the Officers Club at the Field. This
was followed by another eighteen months at Charleston, South
Carolina, which I pleasantly remember because there I saw the
development of a barren field into a huge Army Air Base. Also
I was partly instrumental in the building of the Station Hospital
there and, for a few months before leaving the base, 1 was com-
manding officer of the hospital.

Finally the war really caught up with us and I was assigned
to go overseas with the 81st General Hospital. I shall never
forget driving my family, including now a two-month-old infant,
from Charleston to Boston during the last few days of a cold
wintry December and almost getting marooned in a snowstorm
in Virginia. I joined the Unit in Palm Springs, California, but
we ended up in South Wales where we set up a hospital five
miles outside of Cardiff. From this vantage point I was able to
mingle with the country-folk and I also visited London a few
times. Finally about D-plus-365, we crossed over into France
for a few months enabling me to sce a bit of Paris before flying
back to the States, in September, 1945.

Now comes the most recent phase, namely, postwar rehabili-
tation and relocation. It was quite a shock to me to find that,
although we owned the property, we had to take legal measures
to get back into our home. However, that is a matter of the
past now and here I am back again just about where I left off.
In addition to the hospital clinics, ward rounds, house calls,
office hours, and school visits, I am trying here and there to

[ 882 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

squeeze in a little scientific reading and an occasional refresher
course.

As I am sitting at my office desk writing this narrative on a cold,
snowy night, I should like to call it a day and retire to my home
and family. But I have just had a phone call from a worried
mother about little Johnnie having a rash; so off we go again.
Thus it is clear that the life of a doctor is everybody else’s but
his own. I do not complain, as I believe that medicine, like the
ministry, is a calling for which one must have a profund desire;
and the enjoyment therein is counted not in material benefits but
in services rendered. If [ had to choose over again I do not think
I would choose any other.

MITCHELL MYERS SHIPMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 41 Auerbach Lane, Lawrence, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 70 Pine St., New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 1, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: Samuel Shipman, Sarah Pels.

PREPARED AT: Boys High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921—1925. DEGREES: S.B., 19253 LL.B. 1928.

maRRiED: Esther Kamen, December, 1929, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:

_ Judith Ann, April 17, 1932; Matthew, Nov. 23, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Sidney Palmer Shipman, LL.8., °37.

occupation: Lawyer, specializing in labor relations and serving as umpire
and arbitrator in labor disputes.

‘WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Commissioner of conciliation, U.S. Department
of Labor; senior mediation officer, National War Labor Board, Wash-
ington, D. C.

oFFIcEs HELD: Lecturer, Cornell University.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Political and Social Sciences; Woodmere
Bay Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Contributions to various magazines and trade publications on
labor, industrial, and trade relations.

I WAS one of you who decided to become a lawyer. And so I
spent another three years at Harvard Law School. It wasn’t long
after graduation that I fell for Mrs. Shipman and got married. The
depression was on and making a living was not easy. But I got a
grand dividend in the form of a pretty little daughter, Judith, born
right in the heart of the depression, April, 1932. Incidentally, Judy
is now a freshman at Wellesley. So you fellows who have sons at
Harvard had better note this.

[ 883 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

With the depression of the thirties in full force, I decided to try
my fortune with the government, so I became one of those gov-
ernment “boys,” joining the N.R.A. as U. S. Assistant Counsel in
charge of the Chemical, Paint and Drug Division. These were a
most interesting nine months. I learned a lot about industry and
labor and their problems. I would like to have stayed on with the
government but because of a poor Civil Service and wage system,
I could not afford to do so. When I was offered an opportunity to
return to private practice to head up certain industrial codes, |
quit government service and returned to New York in 1933. I was
supposed to be quite a success then but soon found out how rela-
tive and ephemeral success may be. For along came the Schechter
decision of the Supreme Court holding the N.R.A. unconstitu-
tional. This sort of knocked the props from under me and most of
my retainers flew out of the window.

Again I had to start from scratch but this time with a lot of
experience and knowledge of what the whole thing was about. I
was able to maintain a reasonable level of earnings at the Bar, prac-
tising trade regulations, labor relations, and general work. In the
meantime, in 1938, I got another addition to the family, a son, _
Matthew, thus rounding out the ideal family of a son and daughter
and assuring me of a Harvard prospect.

Skipping through the years, it wasn’t long before the war period
came on. I, of course, was patriotic and got the itch to do some-
thing for our country. I offered my services in the Army, took
my physical, got all the injections, and waited for the promised
commission. But nothing happened so I got tired of waiting and
joined the War Labor Board. My job there was to run all over
the country and try to settle labor disputes. It was a thrilling job
and one which made me feel that I was doing something for the
war effort. I stayed in Washington for a number of months but
eventually had to return because it entailed too much of a sacrifice.
However, I did carry on here in New York with the Board, serv-
ing as Chairman of Panels and as Mediation Officer and Commis-
sioner of Conciliation for the Department of Labor.

With the conclusion of the war, I found that because of my
wide experience with labor relations matters I was being called
more and more to serve as umpire or arbitrator for companies and
unions in labor disputes. Before long, I found myself spending a

[ 884 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

large part of my time in this work. I serve as permanent impartial
umpire for a number of companies and unions including Bethle-
hem Steel Company and the United Steelworkers of America,
Baldwin Locomotive Works, Standard Steel Works Division and
Bendix Aviation Company, Scintilla Magneto Division and the
International Association of Machinists,

My work has also taken me into a great variety of industries in-
cluding motor manufacturing, textiles, motion pictures, chemical
and many other industries. The work is very interesting and
worth while even though very trying. Arbitration has today be-
come a vital part of labor relations in the country and constitutes
probably the best answer that we have to date for the avoidance
and settlement of labor disputes. In the midst of these disturbing
times when democratic free enterprise is being challenged, it be-
comes particularly important that we here in this country do
everything possible to maintain industrial democracy. Arbitration
and the arbitrator play vital rdles. I am happy that I have the
opportunity to serve.

‘

ISADORE SIGEL

HOME ApprEss: 11§ Colborne Rd., Brighton, Mass.

OFFIcE Appress: M. Sigel & Sons, 95 Chauncy St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 28, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: Morris Sigel, Sadie Klebenov.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

marriep: Anne Lichter, June 14, 1938, Brookline, Mass. cHmprEN: Judith
Mae, May 9, 1941; Louise Beth, March 12, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Executive and selling, woolen textiles.

MEMBER OF: Germania Lodge, AF. & A.M.

AS I have no literary talent, it is rather difficult for me to write
even the few words that are necessary to tell my life’s story
since graduating with the Class of 1925.

On leaving school, I joined my father and brother in the textile
business and I have been in the same business ever since.

On June 14, 1938, I married Anne Lichter. Our first daughter,
Judith Mae, arrived May 9, 1941, and our second daughter,
Louise Beth, came on March 12, 1944. My life has been happy
and content because I married the right girl, and our marriage
has been blessed with two lovely children,

[ 885 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

HERBERT ARTHUR SILVER

HOME ADDRESS: 611 Rosewood St., S.E., Grand Rapids, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Houseman’s, Grand Rapids, Mich.

BORN: Oct. 11, 1904, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Max Silver, Matilda Frankel,

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 192§.

MARRIED: Virginia Owens Davis, August, 1934, New York, N. Y. (divorced
1938); Edith Newman, April, 1940, New York, N. Y. cHi~pren: Susan
Matilda, Jan. 18, 1936; Ruth Carol, Sept. 6, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Archibald Herbert Silver, ’28.

occupation: Department store manager.

OFFICES HELD: President, Retail Merchants Association, Battle Creek, Mich,
1944, B'nai B'rith, Battle Creek, 1946; chairman, Community Chest
Drive, Retail Division, Battle Creek, 1945; secretary, Michigan State
B’nai B’rith Council, Battle Creek, 1947; member board of directors,
Civic Players, Battle Creek, 1948, member board, U.S.O. Travelers Aid,
Battle Creek, 1942-45.

MEMBER OF: Association of Harvard Chemists; Advertising Club of Grand
Rapids, Mich.; Masons; Consistory; Shrine; Elks; B’nai B’rith.

AT THE close of graduation in 1925 I had entertained the idea
of entering medical school and visited the McGill University in
Montreal that summer. However, my father’s illness precipitated
me into the bakery business in Boston where I remained until
1930. My project here was to help raise a young family and get
them through school. In 1930 I tried my hand at working for
the Bostonian, a magazine which was published at 24 T Wharf.
It started out to be like the New Yorker but never got that far.
Then I went with a small advertising agency for a short time.
In 1931 I joined the R. H. White Company and went from stock
boy to buyer of stationery and books, and then to drapery buyer.
I left R. H. White Company in 1936 to join Mercantile Stores
in their New York buying office as a divisional merchandiser of
home furnishings. When they closed their office in 1938, I joined
Interstate Department Stores and went to their Peoria unit for
a brief training period. In January, 1939, I went to their Battle
Creek, Michigan, unit and remained there until July, 1948. In
1948 I moved on to their second largest unit in Fort Wayne,
Indiana. I severed my connection with this company on Sep-
tember 15, 1949. After the best month’s rest in fifteen years, I
moved up to Grand Rapids, Michigan, and I am presently store

[ 886 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

manager of Houseman’s, a ninety-nine-year-old retail establish-
ment.

My family consists of my wife, Edith, a former secretary to
an advertising brain huckster, She 1s still handy with her short-
hand and handier with the typewriter. In fact, she is typing this
for me. She has been continuously active in community and
P.T.A. work and always manages to be the wardrobe mistress
whenever I get a chance to act ina civic play. My elder daughter,
Susan, is fourteen, is tall and a redhead and plans a business career.
My younger daughter, Ruth, is eight and is on her way to be-
coming an expert ballerina.

I feel that the average Harvard man’s first reaction to the Class
Life Reports is a feeling of negation, a reluctance to review one’s
life, an urge to kill and file the unwritten report in the waste
basket. But with the super-efficient follow-ups, the constant and
undiminished pleas for co6peration would move the staunchest
of die-hards to open their souls and lives to the psychiatrist's
couch and touch. Alas! it is too late, Had I only followed the
advice of my physics teacher at English High School when he
said, “Silver, don’t waste your time — become a plumber now,”
[ would not have to sweat this review out now. I am eternally
grateful to the City of Battle Creck, Michigan, for giving me
the opportunity of finding a pattern for living in our American
community. It took time, but I found that by giving freely of
my talents to the community that both my family and I enjoyed
a fuller and more complete life.

My political views have remained on the liberal side through-
out my lifetime. I still believe that “all men are created free
and equal” and that we should ever strive in our lives towards
the fulfillment of that goal. Frankly, I do not believe that I
have taken full advantage of my association with Harvard in the
first twenty-five years. The more I read about its accomplish-
ments in the world of science and knowledge, the more firmly
am I convinced that it is a symbol of “sweetness and light” and
should have the heartfelt codperation of all of its sons, both big
and small, young and old.

[ 887 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

ERNEST JOSEPH SIMMONS

HOME ADDRESS: 445 Riverside Drive, New York, N. Y.

OFFICE appress: Columbia University, New York, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 8, 1903, Lawrence, Mass. PARENTS: Mark Simmons, Annie
McKinnon.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1925, AM,
1926; PH.D., 1928.

MaRrRIED: Winifred McNamara, June 22, 1940, East Jaffrey, N. H. comp:
Richard (stepchild), Dec. 30, 1934. .

occupation: Professor of Russian Literature; executive officer, Department
of Slavic Languages, Columbia University.

OFFICES HELD: President, Cambridge Union of University Teachers; AF. of
L., 1939-40, American Association of Teachers of Slavic and Eastern
European Languages, 1945-46; chairman, Board of Directors, American
Russian Institute, 1944-48; vice-president, American Labor Party, 1944-
46; American associate editor, Slavonic and East European Review, since
1946, managing editor, American Slavic and East European Reviev, since
1946, secretary, Joint Committee on Slavic Studies.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: English Literature and Culture in Russia, Harvard University
Press, 1935; Pushkin, A Biography, ibid., 1937; Dostoevski, the Making
of a Novelist, Oxford, 1940; A Survey of Modern Russian Literature,
Cornell, 1945; Tolstoi, Linle, Brown & Co., 1947; Editor, U.S.S.R., A
Concise Handbook, Cornell, 1947.

SOMEHOW or other, the enclosed model biographies from 1924
do not inspire me to write the sort of account of myself which
you desire for these records. I suppose part of the trouble is
that over the last twenty-five years my life has been a happy
one, and happy people do not have histories. So please let the
accompanying skeleton of vital statistics hang pleasantly in my
little niche as a Class remembrancer.

ALBERT EVANS SIMONSON

HOME AporESS: 10 Lloyd Ave., Providence, R. I.

orFice appress: Rhode Island School of Design, Providence, R. I.

Born: July 7, 1903, Calumet, Mich. parents: Albert Barnes Simonson,
Elizabeth Evans,

PREPARED aT: Calumet High School, Calumet, Mich.; Culver Military Acad-
emy, Culver, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922, 1923-1925. DEGREES: 8.B., 1925(26); M.ARCH,
1930.

[ 888 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Priscilla Loud, April 8, 1930, New York, N. Y. cum: Peter Loud,
July 24, 1931.

occupaATION: Architect and educator.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Planners, American Society of Planning

_ Officials; Massachusetts Society of Architects; American Institute of

Architects (Rhode Island Chapter); American Society of Landscape
Architects; Providence Art Club, Planning and Traffic Board; Provi-
dence Chamber of Commerce.

CURIOUSLY, a quarter-century seems like an exceedingly short
time and I suppose on review that one should discover a strong
personal pattern and a goal achieved. I can hardly regret that
my pattern is confused but I trust the next decade will make a
goal a little more evident. Only last night a conversation among
friends turned to various experiences of being lost in the woods
or in a South County swamp. An old story, thinking one is going
in a relatively straight line, one returns to the precise same spot
where one first was aware of being without direction. I strongly
suspect this is my pattern — perhaps a spiral rather than com-
pletely circular. At least the meanderings have been entirely
fascinating.

The realization of being lost actually occurred while I was
an undergraduate. Somehow I had taken it for granted that I
would follow in my father’s footsteps and be a doctor. A year
abroad in what should have been my sophomore year opened up
other vistas and the failing of an excellent course in organic
chemistry persuaded me that planning for the well rather than
the ill might be to the latter’s advantage, hence — architecture.

After graduation from Harvard College, I spent five years in
the School of Architecture, with one out as a draftsman, re-
turning to complete my thesis and embark on a career of matri-
mony and architectonics. Another year abroad followed in which
architecture led to delving into the causes of architectural ex-
pression and hence a return to teaching architectural design and
history rather than office practice — except for a few interesting
private commissions.

For ten years I taught at the Cambridge School of Architecture
and Landscape Architecture which became a graduate school of
Smith College. When Harvard opened its doors to women, the
need for this graduate school ceased, the students went to Har-
vard, and I, with the beneficence of the Wheelwright F ellowship,

[ 889 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

was able to make an extensive trip to the West to investigate
schools of design. I returned to teach at the Lowthorpe School
of Landscape Architecture in Groton and at the same time, during
the war, was instructor in the Navy Program at the Harvard
School of Design and also taught at the Raytheon Company.

The amalgamation of Lowthorpe with the Rhode Island School
of Design necessitated a change of address to Providence. In
this institution I have had the good fortune to have many dif-
ferent occupations, namely — Chairman of the Freshman Founda-
tion, Chairman of the Division of Planning, a year as Dean and
lately, Consultant on Education.

Although these meanderings seem to be getting farther and
farther from architecture, it is all a question of design and plan- ©
ning, be it a new series of lectures or a curriculum. At least, it
is an attempt at an integration, a desire to promote a healthy
situation and therefore, perhaps not too far from the spot where
I first “lost” my way.

CHARLES CARPENTER SISE

HOME appreEss: 135 W. Willow Grove Ave., Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia 18,
Pa.

OFFice ADDRESS: Insurance Company of North America, Public Ledger Bldg.,
Philadephia 6, Pa.

BORN: June 21, 1901, Portsmouth, N. H. parents: Frederick March Sise,
Anna Marian Carpenter.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.

MargieD: Anna Belle Sewell, May 24, 1935, Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia, Pa.
cHiLp: John Sewell, Oct. 10, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Sise, 21 (deceased).

orFices HELD: Member board and finance committee, Philadelphia Protestant
Episcopal City Mission; member board and treasurer, Seaside Home for
Invalid Women; member board and secretary, Greenmount Country
Club; partner, John Sise & Company; president, 1945-47, member execu-
tive committee, 1944-47, Harvard Club of Philadelphia.

MEMBER OF: Philadelphia Club; Rabbit Club; Harvard Club of Philadelphia;
Harvard Club of New York; Loyal Legion.

BUSINESS and the business of living have taken up my time
since I left college. I have worked and lived in New York,
Boston, and now Philadelphia and find that as far as contentment

[ 890 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

is concerned it really matters not where ones lives as long as
one enjoys what one is doing. Insurance brought me to Phila-
delphia and I find I like the town.

On leaving college, I started work in New York with a cotton
house on Worth Street. Shortly thereafter Wall Street beckoned
and I became associated with an investment banking firm and
finally shifted to investment counsel. Late in 1941 the political
and social drift of the country seemed to indicate that this line
of endeavor was becoming a dead-end street so I came here to
Philadelphia to be with the Insurance Company of North America.

We have settled in Chestnut Hill where my wife lived before
we were married. The community presents for my taste about
the right mixture of country, city, and suburban life. At no
time do I envy those who live four or five miles from a railroad
station.

Our summers have been spent mostly at York Harbor, Maine.
That is near Portsmouth and I like returning to that part of
the country at least for some part of the year. It is a welcome
relief from the hot, sticky weather that often characterizes
summer in Philadelphia. I have given up tennis and squash rac-
quets, so golf remains my standby and at that I am still only a
weekend player.

During the war I headed the bond drives for the insurance
district and for some time I have had the insurance brokers and
agents for the Community Chest. I had not participated in a
campaign such as the Community Chest until I moved here, and
I am impressed each year by the great good will and effort on
the part of the workers. Fund raising occupied my attention
again in 1944, 1946, and 1948, when I was vice-chairman of the
Metropolitan Philadelphia Republican Finance Committee.

During my term as president of the Harvard Club of Phila-
delphia I invited the Associated Harvard Clubs to hold their
1948 meeting here in Philadelphia— again more fund raising.
The host club enjoyed that Harvard party thoroughly and I
trust our guests had an, equally good time. I chink they did.
The Harvard Club scholarship committee engrosses my atten-
tion now. We have seven boys at college, all of whom are doing
well not only scholastically but in other activities as well.

Towards the conclusion of his address at the meeting of the

[ 891 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Associated Harvard Clubs in 1948 Mr. J. P. Marquand said, “If
you have ever been to Harvard, you will never be allowed to
forget it.” I have found that to be true. The fact that someone
else went somewhere else never seems to afford the same con-
versational opportunities as the sudden realization on the part
of an acquaintance or a newly made friend that you went to
Harvard. “Oh! You are a Harvard man!” is the opening gambit
and then it goes on from there. Perhaps the recent football season
points up this situation.

JOSEPH ANDREW SKRYPZAK

HOME apprEss: 401 Maline St., Pittsburgh 14, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Department of Public Assistance, Harrisburg, Pa.

BORN: Sept. 10, 1903, Erie, Pa. paRENTS: Joseph Stanislaus Skrypzak, Anna
Scheffs.

PREPARED AT: St. John’s Kanty College, Erie, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MarrieD: Anna Belle Frantz, July 5, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Stephen Skrypzak, ’27.

occupation: Social worker.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Inspector, U. S. Army Ordnance Department,
Pittsburgh, Pa.

AFTER graduation, my first position was that of an instructor
in history, government, and economics at a boys’ prep school,
Kanty College, in Erie. After two years I made an attempt at
law at the University of Buffalo but was forced to quit and take
employment. In 1928 there began a series of short-term jobs
chiefly because of business conditions. In turn, I became a sales-
man, organizer of a small chemical business, property manager,
and insurance agent.

In 1932 I returned to my home town and became employed
by the State Emergency Relief Board, later called the Depart-
ment of Public Assistance. During the next eight years I was
employed as a visitor in this department. During this period I
also served as secretary to the Polish Business and Professional
Men’s Club. In 1940 I left this employment to go into the used
car business. I left Erie and after some travel through the Eastern
States I settled down to work. In 1941 I came to Pittsburgh to
take work with the Army Ordnance Department. On July 5,

[ 852 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

i941, I married Anna Belle Frantz. In 1946 I returned to the De-
partment of Public Assistance,

We are Roman Catholics. My chief hobby is hiking. Among
the arts we both enjoy music and the theatre best.

SAMUEL SLAFF

ADDRESS: 70 Pine St., New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 21, 1903, Passaic, N. J. PARENTS: Abram Slaff, Mamie Slaff.
TRANSFERRED FROM: University of Pennsylvania.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923—1924. DEGREE: AB. (Leland Stanford Univ.), 1925.
OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Slaff
did not return a questionnaire. .

WILLIAM DENISON SLEEPER

BORN: Jan. 8, 1904, Hartford, Conn, parents: Henry Dike Sleeper, ’89,
Mary Elizabeth Peet.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES! A.B. 19253 M.B.A. 1927.
UNMARRIED.
DIED: Jan. 19, 1930, New York, N. Y.

sisTeR: Miss Harriet Sleeper, 315 E. Seventh St., Plainfield, N. J.
WILLIAM DENISON SLEEPER passed his youth and received
his early schooling in Northampton, Massachusetts, where his
father was a member of the faculty of Smith College. Both his
grandfathers were clergymen, and his great-grandfather was a
_ founder of Beloit College in Wisconsin.

Preparatory to entering Harvard, he attended Worcester Acad-
emy, where he graduated at the head of his class in 1921. In college
he concentrated in the Division of History, Government, and
Economics, and after graduation, attended the Harvard Graduate
School of Business Administration. During both business school
years he served as an associate editor of the Business Review, At an
early age and throughout his school work, he showed an unusual
interest and exceptional proficiency in mathematics, and his prin-
cipal work in the business school was in the field of statistics and
finance. Upon graduation from that school, he chose a position
with Royal Baking Powder Company, serving first as treasurer of

[ 893 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

a subsidiary company in Detroit, and later in the office of the com-
pany in New York city, where he advanced rapidly to a position
of great responsibility.-

He participated in athletics in Worcester and at Harvard. His
vacations were spent on Lake Champlain, where he was an en-
thusiastic companion and leader in swimming, canoeing, mountain-
climbing, and other outdoor sports. He possessed an unusually
broad, human, and refreshing outlook on life, had a fine and effi-
cient mind, and was a courageous and independent thinker.

AUGUSTUS LEDYARD SMITH

HOME appREss: 6 Charles River St., Charles River Village, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 Frisbie Pl., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 18, 1901, Milwaukee, Wis. PaReENTs: Franklin Taylor Smith,
Mary Eliot.

PREPARED AT: St, Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.

marrieD: Nancy Sawyer Falk, Nov. 14, 1931, Milwaukee, Wis. (divorced
1945); Katharine Hazard Moss, Oct. 23, 1948, New York, N. Y. cum-
prEN: Augustus Ledyard, Jr., Sept. 27, 1932; Sandra Falk, March 4, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Eliot Smith, ’22.

occupation: Archaeologist.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles on Middle American archaeology.

THE time limit is up, or about up, and as the result of a telephone

call last night during which I was told a literary masterpiece was

not necessary, I hasten to give a brief summary of my activities

since college.

Upon graduation, three classmates and I took a trip to Europe
to get the wanderlust out of us before settling down to work.
On my return I entered the business of manufacturing sash and
doors, starting at the elevated position of sweeping floors and mix-
ing glue. My having concentrated in French literature did not
seem to impress the boss. After a year of struggling up through
various machine jobs to a position in the office, I decided to try
a new field of endeavor. I am afraid I had not lost my desire
to go to foreign parts, so I accepted an invitation of a friend,
Oliver Ricketson, Harvard ’16, to join him in an archaeological
dig in Central America. This seemed to me to be just what I
wanted — at least it was worth a try. After this first trip I was

[ 894 ]

me

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

definitely sold on archaeology. Having no background in an-
thropology, I took two half-years at the Harvard Graduate
School. Most of the past twenty-five years of my life have been
spent working in Guatemala for the Carnegie Institution of Wash-
ington, excavating and exploring. Even during the war I was
stationed in Guatemala.

At present my wife and I are living in Charles River Village.
It is one of the few winters I have spent in the States but it had
to be for in this job one is supposed to get his field work up to
date and published. So here I am back in an office again, liking
it no better than I did twenty-five years ago. I guess I still have
the itch to keep moving. Fortunately my wife feels the same way
about things.

ELI ALLEN SMITH

ADDRESS: 92 Granite St. Worcester 4, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 19, 1904, Kiev, Russia. PARENTS: James Smith, Sarah Sher.
PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: $.B. cum laude, 1925 (26); LL.B. 1928.
occuPATION: Lawyer.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Eli
Smith did not return a questionnaire.

t+ FRANK DELARME SMITH, JR.

BORN: March 27, 1903, Washington, D. C. parents: Frank DeLarme Smith,
Anna Ruth King.
PREPARED aT: Central High School, Washington. D. C.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925, DEGREES: S.B. IN MECH. ENGIN,, 1925; LL.B.
(George Washington Univ.), 1932.
MarRieD: Helen Barbara Linkhart, Oct. 28, 1927, Washington, D. C.
pep: April 13, 1933, Washington, D.C.
FRANK DeLARME SMITH, JR., prepared for Harvard at the
Central High School in Washington and as an undergraduate was
registered in the Harvard Engineering School. During his fresh-
man year he held the scholarship of the Harvard Club of the
District of Columbia.
In college his field of specialization was mechanical engineering.
Following graduation he was employed for some time with the

[ 895 ]

iit ie Maasai das alien alas siti

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

A. C. Spark Plug Company in Flint, Michigan. He then entered
the United States Patent Office as examiner, a position he retained
until his death. In June, 1931, he was admitted to the Bars of the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia and of the District of
Columbia Court of Appeals. The following June he received his
LL.B. degree from George Washington University. He had taken
out several patents himself on electrical and mechanical devices.
He possessed an unswerving loyalty, quietly expressed and well-
balanced judgment, and extraordinary abilities in his chosen field.

HARRY STANLEY SMITH

HOME ADpREsS: Quinta Naihati, Alto Del Talar, General Pacheco, Argentina;
Mill Hill, North Turner, Maine; 230 E. 3oth St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: International Telephone & Telegraph Corp., 67 Broad St,
New York, N. Y.

BorN: Feb. 16, 1903, Auburn, Maine. PARENTS: Fred Everett Smith, Nellie C.
Spofford.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

marriep: Georgie Alexandra Pirie Bremer, July 4, 1931, Montevideo, Uru-

guay.

occuPATION: Communications.

MEMBER OF: American Society of the River Plate, American Club, Club
Hipico Argentino, and Bidou Club of the World, Buenos Aires; British
American Club, Madrid; Tortugas Country Club, Tortugas, Argentina,
Southern Cross Club, Pan American Society, and Argentine-American
Chamber of Commerce, New York, N. Y.; Mexico Pilgrims, Telephone
Pioneers of America.

SINCE graduation “home” has been where I have been assigned
or travelled in the employ of the International Telephone & Tele-
graph Corporation and continual travel makes it necessary to list
three “home” addresses. I have had permanent legal residence in
Cuba, Spain, Argentina, Chile, and Uruguay. Rather long assign-
ments have been in Paraguay, Brazil, Peru, Bolivia, and Mexico.
Travelling between assignments and during them, include Portu-
gal, France, England, Scotland, Belgium, Holland, Germany, the
Azores, and Madcira. Costa Rica may be added where between
my freshman and sophomore years | first came in contact with
Latin America.

Relatively long fixed assignments have been as follows: traffic

[ 896 ]

ee NN.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

supervisor — Cia, Telefonica Nacional de Espafia, Madrid; traffic
engineer —1.T.T. General Staff, Buenos Aires; general traffic
manager — Cia, Telefonica de Chile, Stgo. de Chile; long distance
superintendent — Cia. Union Telefonica — Buenos Aires; general
trafic manager — Cia. Union Telefonica, Buenos Aires, general
manager — Montevideo Telephone Co., Montevideo, Uruguay;
general traffic manager —I.-T.T. General Staff — Buenos Aires;
Telephone & Radio Dept.—1LT.T. General Staff, New York
City.

I am now writing from Havana, Cuba, back at the point where
I started in July, 1925. Tomorrow I shall be off to Puerto Rico.

During the twenty-five years, only about twelve months have
been spent in the U.S.A. when I add weeks and months on various
quick trips. “Home” perhaps means a combination of Argentina,
Chile, and Uruguay; particularly Argentina after seventeen or
eighteen years of permanent legal residence, where my wife
keeps the home fires burning (two fireplaces) on our ten suburban
Buenos Aires acres, with horses, dogs, flowers, and vegetables
and, last but not least, intimate friends of many nationalities.

Personal effects, goods and chattels are scattered at a farm in
Maine, an apartment in New York City, in trunks at Mexico City
and at our own house outside Buenos Aires— and also in the
luggage which has been accompanying me on continual trips since
December, 1947, to U.S.A., Spain, U.S.A., Mexico; U.S.A., Chile,
Argentina, Brazil, Bolivia, Peru, and for the moment Cuba; and
tomorrow Puerto Rico.

Likewise good friends are scattered over the various countries
mentioned — good friends of many nationalities. My great re-
gret is that they are so scattered, and could they all be brought
together I am convinced that they would form a most happy
community although they represent nearly every stratum of so-
ciety from cowboys to Government Minister.

My wife —a Scotch lassie, born at Lochee, Scotland, but with
school years and youth spent in the Orient, particularly India —
when annoyed uses Hindustani in my direction, and of course I
answer in Spanish. Yes, we are an international corporation both
as regards work and home life. Even the horses and the dogs
feel it, being baptized with names of many countries — Sidar,
Perambuco, Rubio, Puggie, Rajah, Mik, Blackie, etc.

[ 897 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

now to find things different. The motion picture industry of all
nations I know, plus war, plus salesmen and technical gadgets,
have made nearly everything the same. It is only at periods of
special holidays that anything of folklore can be seen unless it be
specifically prearranged — or perhaps my eyes have changed and
I now accept as quite natural that which the tourist finds strange
and typical. I hope I am wrong for the good of tourist agencies
_and those who still look forward to visiting out-of-the-way
places.

Perhaps those who have remained in one place envy those who
travel, and often we who travel envy those who have been per-
manent. Undoubtedly those who have selected one spot for
“home” — and successfully — are better equipped in the material
comforts of life and security. Twenty-five years of varied resi-
dence perhaps makes it difficult to settle permanently and one
lives in an imaginary locality contructing this imaginary “home”
with all the good and ideal factors observed or encountered here
and there. And no country has a monopoly of such things; some
have more than others, but whatever may be the longitude or
latitude, happiness depends upon family and friends and lacking
these any ideal climate or surroundings are always unsatisfactory.

Friends, yes, and I am looking forward to June, 1950, when
old acquaintances are to be renewed and friends meet again—
friends whom I have not seen since the Lobster Battle of Marble-
head in 1928.

As I finish these notes in “narrative style” it seems that June,
1925, was but a few days ago — particularly as I am writing from
Havana, Cuba, where I found myself just a few days after
graduation.

JACOB HAROLD SMITH

HOME ADDRESS: 76-35 113th St., Forest Hills, Long Island, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Hirsch & Co., 25 Broad St., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: April 1, 1903, Fall River, Mass. parENTs: Samuel T, Smith, Jennie M.

Lesser.
PrePARED aT: B. M. C, Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1925.
MarriED: Florence H. Heller, Dec. 3, 1931, New York, N. Y.
occupation: Stockbroker and investment adviser.

[ 900 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Consultant to national Office of Price Adminis-
tration, Food Rationing Division, Washington, D.C.

OFFICES HELD: Member Queens County Democratic Committee, 1948-49.

MEMBER OF: Grand Street Boys.

RES ipse loquitur, in Latin, means that I have been married
happily for nineteen years. Last summer the Smiths enjoyed a
nine-thousand-mile auto trip to the west coast via most of the
national parks. We liked the hotels which had swimming pools
and noted the rapid growth of drive-in movies throughout the
country. A leisurely auto trip is an effective way of rounding
out geographical knowledge and increasing one’s love of one’s
native land.

Not wanting to submit to an aptitude test in politics, I must
emphasize that I am a Democrat in local politics only. It is my
fervent hope that we obtain sound and sane governmental politics
in Washington. If the farm, labor, and veteran groups suddenly
join forces in brotherly love, we may all be deprived of the gold
in them thar Kentucky hills.

In theory, I am against sin and against all benevolence which
emanates from Washington. Our nation needs a restatement of
and a rededication to our American ideals in terms of sound meta-
physical, ethical, political, and economic premises. Maybe we
need an economic supreme court to minimize the staggering waste
of money and man-hours in many sectors of our economy, Not
enough effort is being expended in solving the problems of mal-
nutrition and fatigue, two conditions which often precede the
incidence of illness, disease, absenteeism, and accidents in industry,
and the attitudes of the worker towards his job.

Perhaps brevity can be served by posing a few provocative
questions:

(1) Do we spend enough time analyzing the recurrent phe-
nomena attending periodic business cycles for our individual and
collective good? .

(2) How can the alumni of a great university prove that they
are a real asset to their country?

(3) Can the Class of 1925 enrich Harvard by publishing a
report which would catalogue the vast amount of experience
and wisdom acquired during the past quarter-century? (This
book could be entitled Senior Adviser to the Class of 1950.)

[gor]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

(4) Can the Class of 1925 further enrich Harvard with roval-
ties from a book which deals with opinions and views on deficit
financing, socialism, flaws in the educational system, world peace,
and other important political, economic, and social problems?

Are we inadvertently, albeit, ignominiously, engaged in a con-
spiracy of silence or should these comments have been withheld
for the edification of the federal tax collector?

JAMES HARRY SMITH

HOME ApprEss: ‘Tiptonville, Tenn.

BORN: Jan. 18, 1903, Tiptonville, Tenn. parents: James Harry Smith, Truma
Eleanor Wynn.

PREPARED AT: Culver Military Academy, Culver, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 19253 A.Muy 1927.

marriep: Sara Catron Smith, Dec. 28, 1933, Fulton, Ky.

OCCUPATION: Farm management.
puBLicaTions: The Great Critics, 1932 (with Edd W., Parks); The Reading

of Poetry, 1939.

I HAVE given most of my time and energy since college days to
the teaching profession, at the Rice Institute and the Culver
Military Academy. This activity has been counterbalanced by
the development of farming interests, as dissimilar a work as
any that could have been chosen, And yet the effort to achieve
in such opposite directions has had its compensation: I have had
a safeguard against monotonous specialization and a detachment
from which to look for new values in each activity. I have also
very often felt like the circus stunt rider astride two horses at
once, and have been asked by one friend whether there were
any evidences of approaching schizophrenia.

Farming, in the South as elsewhere, is more and more a spe-
cialized business, with its own exactions and treacherous oppor-
tunities. You do not succeed merely by planting the seed and
hiring somebody to labor in the field. And still less do you
succeed with teaching in that way. Eventually, therefore, I have
seemed to come around to the threatened specialization after
all — only in a double form.

In 1946 I left Culver, where I had maintained varying contacts
since 1925, and moved to Tiptonville, Tennessee. Here, with
agricultural and related interests taking much of my time, I yet

[ 902 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

try to keep in touch with things academic, revising a book or
following a plan of study for future use.

KEMP HENRY SMITH

aporrss: R.R. 3, Albion, Ill.

poan: Sept. 11, 1go1, Albion, [lL parents: Solomon Smith, Florence Peters.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREE: 8.8, cunt laude, tors.

manrgiep; Gertrude C. Sanford, Sept. 30, 1927, Detroit, Mich,

occuPATION: Education.

THE information printed above is from the Sceretary’s files,
Kemp Smith did not return a questionnaire.

KILBY PAGE SMITH, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 40 Crescent Ave, Second Cliff, Scituate, Mass.

orice aporess: Lincoln & Smith Press, Inc. 530 Atlantic Ave. Boston to,
Mass.

Boan: Feb. 25, 1904, Waltham, Mass. paaents; Kilby Page Smith, Alice
Slade Milron.

prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Excter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923, 1924-1926.

MamnieD: Elizabeth Weld Carret, May 10, 1932, Brookline, Mass. cantoren:
Sandra Carret, Jan. 12, 1933, Kilby Page, yd, Dec. 28, 1933; Margot Weld,
Aug. 20, 1938; Jennifer Haynes, July 19, 1944.

occupation; Master printer.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Class of igas Association of Boston, 1948-

49.
MEMBER or: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York; Cohasset Golf Club.

PUBLICATIONS: The Greenbush Plan, 1947 (with Carlton E. Tucker),

A FEW months ago one of my children asked me to tell what
it was like in the olden days. Thinking back now to the start
of my business career, I can recall that the most important thing
I learned up to that moment was how to wire a tub of butter. A
whole new generation doesn't even know that butter used to come
in tubs and that the grocery boy had to cut out a pie-shaped
piece for each customer.

Well, that’s the first thing I learned when I took my first job
as a clerk in an A & P store and it didn’t take a professor to
teach me. The manager showed me once and then I was on my
own. He was sore at me, too, because I was a friend of a friend
of the president and he had to pay me eighteen dollars a week when

[ 903 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

clerks were plentiful at twelve dollars. All that for seventy-two

hours work and no back-talk either. I had seven years of that,

mostly as supervisor of one territory or another — that is, a group
of fifteen to twenty stores. This was fun for a while, even
though it was practically a 24-hour-a-day, 7-day-a-week job.

There wasn’t much time for outside activities. I did manage to

take time to get married and find out about children — two ar-

rived during my last stretch of A & P servitude.

When my father died, I found I had inherited his desk in the
family printing business, founded in 1859 by my grandfather.
I started at twenty-five dollars a week which shows that my mar-
ket value had increased just one dollar a week for each year of
experience. Since then I’ve been mostly helping run a small plant
and worrying about meeting the payroll.

I still vote Republican and still cheer for the Harvards. My
physical hobbies are swimming and sailing which correctly in-
dicates a sedentary life most of the year. 1 am not yet convinced
that mental retrogression has set in, but my intellectual stimulus
is rather closely confined to the bridge table.

During the past three or four years, I have made a hobby of
wrestling with the problems of the Old Colony Railroad —a
purely local problem but dear to my heart. My interest here
has brought me into close contact with the politicians —a most
unsavory breed. On the other hand, it has found me a valued
friend who is a professor at M.I.T. Professor ‘Tucker is prob-
ably my antithesis in every possible category, but we can spend
hours chattering like magpies about railroading.

Our Class Association of Boston has been quite active during
the past few years. I have enjoyed immensely attending the
various functions, sharing the work and meeting new and old
friends in the Class. Our Twenty-fifth Reunion is certain to be
the first truly great event of the Second Half-Century and I
hope you will all enjoy it as much as I shall.

LYMAN BRADFORD SMITH

HOME Appress: 41 W. Washington St., Kensington, Md,
oFFice Appress: Department of Botany, Smithsonian Institution, Washington,
D.C.

[ 904 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Sept. 11, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Francis Edward Smith, Elsie
Cora Davis.

PREPARED AT: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.; Browne and
Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925, DEGREES: A.B. cu laude, 1925; A.M., 1928; PH.D.,

1930.
MARRIED: Ruth Carlisle Gates, June 25, 1929, Winchester, Mass. CHILDREN:

David Lyman, August 5, 1930; Constance Bradford, May 5, 1932; Chris-
topher Carlisle, June 18, 1939; Stephen Francis, March 11, 1948.
HARVARD SON: David Lyman Smith, ’51.
OCCUPATION: Botanist; associate curator, Smithsonian Institution.

* PETER VAN per MEULEN SMITH

BoRN: Dec. 9, 1902, Hartford, Conn. parents: Fred Stevens Smith, Edith
Arnold Mills.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1925.

UNMARRIED.

pieD: Nov. 17, 1928, Berlin, Germany.

PETER VAN per MEULEN SMITH prepared for college at
Milton Academy, and was graduated from Harvard in 1925, with
honors in fine arts. Following one year of graduate study at the
Harvard Graduate School of Architecture he worked for a year
in the office of Stone & Webster. In the autumn of 1927 he went
to Paris to study with the architect Lurgat and was working with
' him on the development of problems of the ferro-concrete style
in Continental architecture at the time of his sudden death.

Early in his college career he showed marked ability as a stu-
dent, and his work in the courses on Romanesque architecture was
highly praised by the late Professor A. Kingsley Porter. Besides
his interest in the fine arts and architecture, he was an enthusiastic
musician, studied the violin and especially the viola throughout
his four years at Harvard and afterwards, and played chamber
music. His appreciative comprehension of the most valuable
qualities in fine arts, literature, and music, particularly in current
manifestations, was great. Because he possessed a rare and fear-
less judgment towards contemporary phases of such fields in the
face of rather general hesitation, he gave promise of a contribu-
tion to the arts peculiarly vital.

[905].

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

PHILIP WEBSTER SMITH

HOME AppREss: Far Hills, N. J.
oFFice appress: F.S, Moseley & Co., 14 Wall St., New York, N. ¥.
BORN: Jan. 28, 1903, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: Philip Lees Smith, Belle Farr
Webster.
PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925. .
marriep: Cornelia A. Clark, Nov. 26, 1928, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Philip
Webster, Jr, Aug. 29, 1929; Forrester Clark, Aug. 29, 1931; Bayard
Webster, July 9, 1934.
HARVARD SON: Philip Webster Smith, Jr., ’52.
HARVARD BROTHER: Horace Webster Smith, °34.
OCCUPATION: Investment securities,
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S. Coast Guard Reserve.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Essex Fox Hounds, Far Hills.
ON LEAVING college in February, 1925, I enjoyed a month's
cruise through the West Indies and in April I commenced life
in Wall Street. It has had its ups and downs. Too many downs
to be sure, but at least one “up” was appreciated when taxes were
reasonable.
Marriage in 1928 resulted in three sons, one now at Harvard,
one at Trinity College, and the third still in boarding school.
Deserted by the children most of the year, and too old to work
on the farm, my wife and I have gravitated towards life in the
city and always look forward to classmates dropping in on us,
120 E. 79th Street, at any reasonable hour.

SAMUEL SMITH

LAST KNOWN appress: 281 Webster St., East Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 24, 1904, Meretz, Lithuania. parents: Louis Smith, Lillian Sa-
minisky.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925.

SAMUEL SMITH has been carried as a “lost” man on our
records since January, 1940.

WILSON GOODRIDGE SMITH

HOME appress: 1620 W. Estes Ave., Chicago 26, Ill.
orrice appress: Western Union Telegraph Co., Chicago, Ill.

[ 906 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

porn: Oct. 16, 1903, Portland, Maine. parents: Leon Lewis Smith, Fossil
Arethusa Young.

PREPARED AT: Portland High School, Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: $.B, IN CHEM. ENGIN, 1925.

marrieD: Florence Virginia Slater, Sept. 5, 1927, Harvey, Ill. carpren:
Justin Wilson, Aug. 3, 1934; Truman Wilson, March 2, 1936.

occUPATION: Telegraph communication, investigator of complaints and
claims.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Southtown Cooperative Club; secretary-treasurer,
Loop Cooperative Club, president, Cook County Council of Cooperative
Clubs.

MEMBER OF: Masons (32nd degree).

IT IS interesting to look back over the twenty-five years I so
recently anticipated with “great expectations” and much hope,
but without fear. Again I look forward, still fearlessly, still hope-
fully, but with smaller expectations. I am profoundly grateful
for the good things that have come my way and thankful that
the bad experiences were no worse.

Briefly, my business and professional career has been bumpy.
My first job, one for which Dean Hughes recommended me, was
that of assistant engineer with the Sanitary District of Chicago.
That collapsed after four years when the Board of Trustees
abused the public trust and there was no money in the till to
pay us.

With a depression setting in and the publicity given the Sani-
tary District, I could not get an engineering job. So I became a
soap salesman, a specialty man, introducing a new toilet soap.
After six months the manufacturer decided it would be cheaper
to have the regular sales force handle this extra activity, without
additional compensation, than to maintain a specialty man, so they
paid me off.

A friend told me that the Postal Telegraph-Cable Company
needed a draftsman. I accepted the job and started again. During
the next thirteen years I was up and down three times due to re-
trenchment programs. Then the company merged with its larger
competitor and I started all over again. During this last period
organized labor jumped into the saddle and now I pay dues to
hold my job and I can be promoted only if my years of service
are sufficient to catch on where someone else drops out. Don’t
think for a minute that I changed my politics as a result of this
experience, I still vote the straight Republican ticket,

[907 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

The other side of the scales of justice has been kind to me. |
have a fine family and a happy home life. I envy no one and
wouldn't change places with anyone. I’ve acquired no reputation
of the headline variety, done nothing sensational, nor had any
great misfortune befall me. I fear God and love life, appreciate
spiritual values and depreciate materiality.

Harvard can’t be blamed for my business setbacks, nor can
she take credit for my real riches. However, I’m glad I passed
her way.

Twenty-five years from now I'll tell you the rest!

LENDON SNEDEKER

HOME ADDRESS: 30 Dudley St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Children’s Medical Center, 300 Longwood Ave., Boston 15,
Mass. ,

BORN: Oct. 10, 1904, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Edwin Lendon Snedeker,
Louise Steele Atwater.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory Country Day School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; M.D. cum laude, 1929;
M.P.H., 1934.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Gerrish Frothingham, March 31, 1933, Glen Cove, Long
Island, N. Y. cHILDREN: Nancy Frothingham, Aug. 16, 1935; Mary
Elizabeth, Aug. 8, 1936; Jean, Feb. 3, 1938; John, Feb. 19, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Major, Medical Pool, Lovell General Hospital,
Fort Devens, Mass., February-June, 1943; served at 7th General Hospital,
Fort Devens, June-August, 1943; sent overseas to Casablanca and then to
Military Government holding center at Tizi-Ouzou, Algeria, September-
December, 1943; regional public health officer, Allied Military Govern-
ment, Italy, December, 1943-November, 1945; promoted lieutenant
colonel, February, 1945; awarded Order of the Crown (Italian govern-
ment) and Order of St. Agatha (Republic of San Marino).

orrices HELD: Member board of directors, Boston Young Men’s Christian
Union, since 1936, Greater Boston Community Council, 1947-49; member
board of trustees, Bay State Society for Crippled and Handicapped, since
1945, Beaver Country Day School, since 1949.

MeMbeR OF: The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.; Harvard Club of Boston;
American Academy of Pediatrics (alternate district chairman); New
England Pediatric Socicty; Massachusetts Medical Society; American
Medical Association, American Public Health Association; Massachusetts
Public Health Association.

puntications: Health Service for Massachusetts Children, 1949; several ar-
ticles in medical journals.

[ 908 ]

2§$TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RETROSPECTION is an unaccustomed pursuit for one who has
been kept all too busy maintaining some hold on the coat-tails
of the present. I doubt that I shall be successful in recollecting
the plans and moods of the past twenty-five years, but some effort
is inevitable. George Goodspeed is well supplied with persever-
ance and postage and I must tap this off before the Christmas
tornado begins.

Having entered college at a tenderer age than most, I was slow
in getting oriented. I really have always felt that my medical
school years were the happiest student years of my life. One
had known all along the general direction one would take, and
found great pleasure in living with others who were headed the
same way.

At the conclusion of medical school, George Humphreys and
I were accepted as house officers at the Presbyterian Hospital in
New York City and spent two years at the very absorbing pas-
time of interning in a large teaching hospital. But I was not
pleased with the idea of spending my life amongst cement and
subways and returned to the Children’s Hospital in Boston for
further training, with a final year spent at the School of Public
Health in Boston as a Rockefeller Fellow.

I was undecided for a time whether to make public health a
career, for even then there were signs that medicine was in
store for a change. However, I decided to practise pediatrics
in Boston and opened my office in 1934, after a brief trip to
Europe with my bride, whose interests in medical social work
have made her an unusually understanding partner. For the
next nine years I had all the pleasures and exactions of a busy
practice, together with the distractions of teaching pediatrics
part-time and engaging in community health activities.

When the war came along, I was in an unsettled mood and
welcomed the change that it would bring. I signed up to go
with the Seventh General Hospital, the Boston City Hospital
Unit. By February, 1943, the unit was still inactive. I applied
for active service and was ordered to the Medical Pool at the
Lovell General Hospital at Fort Devens, In June our unit was
activated and our active training had just started when I was
ordered overseas as a public health officer with AMG. After
three months in North Africa attending Military Government

[ 909 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

School, I went on to Italy for nearly two and a half years of
very interesting work with the Allied Commission. I enjoyed my
assignments but took longer than I had anticipated to redevelop
a taste for travel and for bachelor living.

Successively, I took responsibility for the public health ad-
ministration of eleven Italian provinces and had the interesting
opportunity of seeing at successive stages the recovery after war
of an old and tired country. I spent eight months with the
Eighth Army on the Adriatic side followed by four very busy
months as Regional Public Health Officer with Headquarters at
Bologna. For the last four months I had a small independent
command at Merano in the South Tyrol charged with setting up
a hospital center for the Italian Red Cross, which received and
cared for sick prisoners of war returning from the various allied
zones.

I did not return to practice immediately after coming home,
but spent eight months doing a survey of health services for
children in Massachusetts, whose results were published this past
July. In October, 1948, I discontinued practice and became As-
sistant Administrator at the Children’s Medical Center. In the
last year I have had the very interesting experience of partici-
pating in a fund-raising campaign and seeing at first hand the
workings of one of the best known teaching hospitals in the
country.

After sixteen years of marriage, my wife and I still agree that
Boston is one of the nicest possible places to live. Our eldest
daughter is fourteen and has begun to create inevitable chal-
lenges for the family transportation system. Our hobbies are
skiing, a bit of hunting and fishing with always hope for more,
keeping up with school bills, repairs to the house, and all the
many pursuits implicit in raising four children.

The past twenty-five years have been satisfying, and I hope
somewhat productive. I feel that I have developed a little better
discrimination as to what I can and cannot do. I think I have
developed an increasing capacity to enjoy the passing human
show. I am prepared to face what the future may hold for my
profession and to adjust to the social changes which I feel sure
will come. I did not sufficiently understand the implications of
a medical career. I have had a great deal of satisfaction working

[910]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with various community health activities and getting each year
to feel more at home in the city where I have chosen to live.
There have been no distinctive family land-marks to follow and
I have found no ready-made measures of success. I think I shall
be content if my wife and I can see our family reared and ready
for their turn, and keep on witnessing with enjoyment this senti-
mental, confused, and over-specialized age.

JOHN VICTOR vow SNEIDERN

HOME ADDRESS: 43 Oriole Ave., Bronxville, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 44 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Aug. 3, 1897, San Francisco, Calif. parents: John Victor von
Sneidern, Anna Louisa Modin.

PREPARED AT: Staten Island Academy, Staten Island, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: §.B., 19253 LL.B. 1931.

MarrieD: Mildred L. Little, Sept. 23, 1929, New York, N. Y. cup: John
Victor, Jr., Nov. 29, 1935.

occuPATION: Attorney and corporation executive.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War I: Lieutenant (j.g.), US.N.RF.;
sailed around north and south Atlantic on Merchant Marine vessels.
World War II: Joined Navy as lieutenant commander, 1942; assigned
U. S. Maritime Service Training Station, Sheepshead Bay, N. Y.; trans-
ferred Maritime Service, 1944; became superintendent of station with
rank as captain, 1945; released to inactive duty, January, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: President board of trustees, Windward School, White Plains,
N. Y., 1939-41; director and vice-president, National Bondholders Cor-
poration; president and director, National Realty Management Com-
pany, Inc., General Highway Facilities Company of Pennsylvania, di-
rector, National Union Corporation of Baltimore, National Union
Investment Company of Baltimore; director and officer in various minor
companies.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Huguenot Yacht Club; Bronxville
Field Club; Shrine Club of Allentown, Pa.; Propeller Club of New York,
Masons.

IN THE spring of 1917 I took my College Boards, graduated
from the Staten Island Academy, attended Navigation School,
and stood in line with hundreds of others waiting to join the
Navy, practically simultaneously. It was not until after the
first World War and several years spent in roaming the seven
seas with the Merchant Marine that I finally reached Harvard
in February, 1922. Hence, I found college a very pleasant albeit
a somewhat restrictive interlude. Catching on to the Class of

[911]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

1925 when it was already in full swing was not unlike today’s
commuting sprint for the 8:18. Once aboard, however, the ride
has been very pleasant.

I went to Harvard in the first place mainly because I wanted
to go to Law School —I wanted to go to law school because
I was interested in admiralty. In the Law School from 1925 to
1927, I watched the steady deterioration of the merchant fleet
and the drying up of admiralty activity in the United States,
As our fleet shrank, so did my interest in the law, and my itch-
ing feet took me off to sea again. Rio, Shanghai, and the U. K.
seemed more attractive, but memories proved deceptive. Back
I came to the States, to the girl I left behind me, and made a
deal —she’d marry me if I would get a “respectable” job. For
this purpose I victimized the staid Guaranty Trust Company of
New York. This satisfied even her banker father, and we got
married in September, 1929, just in time for the crash! Loans,
margins, calls! With the same pencil I had used for notes in
History I, I could knock off a million or two of collateral value
in an hour! Banking, however, seemed not for me, so back to
Cambridge I went for my law degree, which I got in 1931.
Coming out, I “served my time” with White & Case, at 14 Wall
Street. Later, I headed up the legal department for National
Bondholders Corporation, where trouble shooting for some 12,000
real estate items and kindred problems in 532 cities in 35 States
kept me doing a sort of “Inside the U.S.A.” right down to
the war years. Also, during these years, I formed a law part-
nership with Vin Smart, ’23, which prospered primarily because
of the labors of Vin and his staff.

In 1942 I rejoined the Navy and was sent to Sheepshead Bay to
help run the new training station for merchant seamen (the world’s
largest) which had been built there by the U. S. Maritime Com-
mission. There we trained 10,000 at a time and shipped out the
men to man the transport ships that were rolling off the assembly
lines and helped to write the epic of the Murmansk run and others.
I developed a new admiration for a certain segment of my fellow-
Americans, like the 72-year-old stationary engineer who came to
us to be “converted” into a marine engineer (there was no age
limit on these). And the sixteen-year-olds who were accepted for
a while, eager and anxious to sail out and do a man’s job, and the

[912 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

thousands of others of all ages whom I watched pass through our
gates with grim determination to get the job done. There was
little of the cheering that I remembered from 1917-18, and a much
better understanding of the fact that war is war, and as such is
indefensible, reflecting only the bankruptcy of statesmanship.

Came the end of the war and back to the business of replenish-
ing the bank account. In 1946 I became president of National
Realty Management Company, Inc., the operating subsidiary of
National Union Corporation of Baltimore, with a variety of
hotels, apartment houses, restaurants, and kindred activities to
supervise. I have withdrawn from the partnership with Vin
Smart and except for a few special clients, do very little legal
work. ,

My hobbies include a very sharp pair of pruning shears which
my wife hides from me to protect the shrubbery, and two Howard
Johnson restaurants in Pennsylvania where, when I am too old to
keep moving myself, 1 can sit by the side of the road and be a
friend to man.

WILBUR MURRAY SNIDER

HOME appREss: “Normandy,” Magnolia, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Snider Fuel Corp., Mystic Wharf, Charlestown, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 7, 1905, Portland, Maine. parents: Benjamin Snider, Frances
Druker.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925.

marrigeD: Ruth Eilenberg, May 25, 1926, Brookline, Mass. curity: Joan Lee,

July 9, 1928.

occupaTION: President, Snider Fuel Corporation.

MEMBER: Masons; Shrine (Aleppo Temple); Belmont Country Club; Mag-
nolia Association; Magnolia Lions.

AFTER graduation I decided to become engaged, settle down,
and embark on a business career. Several ventures proved un-
successful but in 1929 I entered the fuel business (wholesale and
retail, coal and oil) which to date has furnished me with most of
the pleasures and comforts I desire. In 1939 I moved to the coun-
try (Magnolia) where I developed a hobby of breeding and raising
poultry, and operating a miniature farm. This has given me a
great deal of satisfaction even though profits have been small.

[913 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

I have a daughter, now a senior at Sarah Lawrence College, who
is doing a good job of keeping us all young and gay.

Life has not been like a “bowl of cherries” — there have been
plenty of “ups and downs.” But it seems that through my personal
efforts, plus a lot of luck, I have been rewarded with a very com-
fortable way of living, a wonderful family, and prospects of a
bright future. Who could ask for more?

WALLACE MacDONALD SNOW

HOME ADDRESS: 232 Nelson Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New York Central System, 466 Lexington Ave., New York,
N.Y. ,

BORN: Sept. 21, 1904, Stoneham, Mass. parents: William Brackett Snow,
Elinor Kimball Bruce.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-192§. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Virginia Rose Winters, Sept. 26, 1936, Bradford, Il. cHpren:
Wallace MacDonald, Jr., Aug. 23, 1939; Charles Bruce, Aug. 28, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Bruce Snow, ’15; William Brackett Snow, Jr., 718.

occupation: General eastern freight agent, New York Central System.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Direct commission as major, May, 1942; sent to
England to help organize office of Chief of Transportation, London;
became deputy assistant chief of transportation movements arranging
personnel and freight movements for armed services within England,
with creation of forward echelon communication zone became chief of
movements division, Transportation Section, drawing up procedures for
operation on European continent; arrived in France over Omaha Beach,
D-plus-6; returned to position as deputy assistant chief of transportation
movements, Paris; with capture of Antwerp, became port area trans-
portation officer during planning stage, for duration of war; returned to
inactive duty as colonel, September, 1945; awarded Bronze Star Medal
and Chevalier Order of Leopold (Belgium).

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Traffic Club of New York; Down-
town Athletic Club.

THE old saying goes “Join the Navy and see the World.” While
I didn’t join the Navy, the New York Central accomplished much
the same thing for me. The July after graduation found me re-
porting to the New York Central for a job with the general yard-
master at the new Selkirk Yard which had just been opened south
of Albany, New York. There my education was augmented in
several useful ways, such as trimming wicks, filling lanterns, sweep-

[914]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing out shanties, and above all warming freezing fingers by placing
them on the globe of your light. For several years I was the lucky
person drawing pay and having every day off. (I worked nights.)

The (in)famous crash of twenty-nine resulted in my having
nights as well as days off, the seniority system being strongly in
vogue. Accordingly, in the summer of 1930 I returned to Cam-
bridge for the summer course in the Business School. That fall the
axe cut deeper and deeper with the result that my few years’
seniority were as nothing.

By doing some talking and thanks to some help from another
’25er, a change was made in the freight traffic department in which
I still am and the Odyssey began. An apprenticeship in the traffic
department at Albany was followed by a transfer to the rate de-
partment at New York. From there I went to my first sales job
in Peoria, Illinois. How successful a salesman I was for the rail-
road, I do not know; but I must have learned something because
while there J negotiated my best contract — a life partner — my
wife. It was a natural, Snow joins Winters, although even the
Chicago Tribune had to comment when the engagement was an-
nounced in the hottest summer for years.

However, before the contract could be fully completed, I was
back again in New York, this time for less than a year. The Lon-
don, Midland & Scottish Railways of Great Britain proposed ex-
changing one of their younger men with a similar man from the
American railroads. The Pennsylvania and New York Central
agreed, with the result that being expendable, I was lucky enough
to have the opportunity. We were married in September and
sailed in December —a gorgeous year but little did either of us
foresee its eventualities.

We returned home a year later, and after a month of uncertain-
ties, Chicago became our home. There we started to put down
roots only to be rudely interrupted by a transfer to San Francisco.
Our elder boy was born in Oak Park, Illinois, the day after I ar-
rived on the West Coast. Little did he realize it, but George Baker
whom I met on the platform of the Union Station helped break
the news of the transfer to my wife who came up just as I was
telling him.

Arriving in San Francisco with the Fair in progress, all was well
until a telephone call on a Monday afternoon, “Would you like to

[915]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

go to Boston?” Among other things it paid more money. “All
right, be there next Monday.”

Settled back in New England, everything seemed well until the
May after Pearl Harbor. Again a telephone call. A group of
transportation people was being organized to go to England for
the Army. Our second boy was born in August after I had sailed
in June.

The tale is nearly told. A couple of years in Boston after the
war and then to New York on the present job. Unless we can
return to New England, we hope our journeying is done. Time
alone will tell. It has been fun in many ways but somehow with
added weight as well as years it is beginning to seem nice just to
sit for awhile. :

EUGENE HAROLD SOLOW

LAST KNOWN AppREsS: 75 Hawthorne St., Salem, Mass.

BORN: July 19, 1904, Salem, Mass. parents: Isidore Solow, Gertrude Ray
Goldman.

PREPARED AT: Salem High School, Salem, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1925.

occupPaTION: Dramatist.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Solow did not return a questionnaire.

BERNARD SOMAN *

HOME appreEss: 1409 Albemarle Rd., Brooklyn, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kaye, Scholer, Fierman & Hays, 149 Broadway, New York,
N.Y.

BorN: April 10, 1909, Passaic, N. J. parents: Abraham Soman, Ethel Rosen-
thal.

PREPARED AT: Brooklyn Boys High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1925; LLB
magna cum laude, 1929.

MARRIED: Florence Jane Blumberg, Feb. 7, 1937, Brooklyn, N. Y.

OccuPATION: Attorney specializing in tax law.

PUBLICATIONS: Wills, Gifts, and Estate Planning under the 1948 Revenue Act,
written for and published by the Bureau of National Affairs, Inc.

ON GRADUATING from college I received a Henry Russell
Shaw Travelling Fellowship and spent the next year travelling in

[ 916 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Europe. I arrived in France knowing all about Moliere but unable
to order a roast beef sandwich. My studies abroad were casual, the
travel intensive, and in every respect the experience proved to be
a memorable one.

I entered Harvard Law School in 1926 and after graduating,
began to practice law in New York City in 1929. With no invest-
ments in the stock market, I weathered the depression with great
ease, unlike so many of my neighbors in the Wall Scrcet district
who were jumping out of windows with monotonous regularity.
I am now a member of Kaye, Scholer, Fierman & Hays, a firm
which I joined in January, 1948, after retiring as a member of the
firm of Cook, Lehman, Goldmark & Loeb. I specialize in tax law
and spend the usual amount of time soothing the feclings of clients
who expect to find a loophole around every corner.

In 1937 I married Florence Jane Blumberg who hailed originally
from South Carolina but who moved up to New York with her
family and lost her Southern accent along with her milk tecth.
We have never had occasion to rehash the Civil War and our
marriage has been just about perfect from the start. Some years
ago Florence was fired with the sudden urge to express herself and
whipped up a novelette which she gave me to read. After finishing
it I shook my head sadly and declared that it would never scll, a
pronouncement over which she brooded for a few days before
taking it in to the biggest agency in town. Within the space of a
few weeks the story was accepted by one of the slick magazines
for a thumping price, and I wore an agreeably red face for wecks
afterwards. Since then she has had a rather dazzling career and
her short stories have been appearing regularly in top magazines,
both here and abroad, over the name of Florence Jane Soman. In
my spare time I act as her critic and offer suggestions which are
most uniformly disregarded with no discernible detriment to her
career. Incidentally I have already told her that our home isn’t
big enough for two careers, so would she mind if I gave up mine?
But so far I’ve remained harnessed to the practice of law and any
beachcomber leanings I might have are still in a state of temporary
suspension.

We have a four-room apartment in the heart of Brooklyn with
a microscopic terrace that holds two adults and five squirrels. My
favorite hobby is still playing the piano, and almost every weck-

[917]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

end our home becomes slightly hectic with me playing Bach, my
wife typing furiously, and my nephew watching a telecast of a
Dodger baseball game. One of these years I hope that he will be
the next in my family to find his way to Harvard.

LEO MAX SONNABEND

HOME ApprEss: 24 Loring Ave., Salem, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 333 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 29, 1902, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Isidor Sonnabend, Rebecca
Rogers.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.; Berkeley School, Boston,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1929.

marRigeD: Arlene Kerr, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Samuel David, Aug. 16,
1939; Rebecca, April 13, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Coast Guard Reserve (temporary), November,
1942-September, 1944.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, Temple Sons of Jacob, Salem,
Mass., 1949-52; vice-president, Brotherhood Sons of Jacob, 1949-50.
MEMBER OF: Boston University Law School Alumni Association; Temple
Israel Brotherhood; B’nai B'rith Salem Chapter; Metropolitan Singers,

1939-41; Dolphin Yacht Club.

TWENTY-FIVE years out of college — to me it was but a few
years. Certainly during these twenty-five years education, politics,
and science have undergone great changes. Except for a deeper
understanding of problems generally, which should come with
maturity, my position or station in life has not been greatly af-
fected. Truly, I can’t begin after the lapse of twenty-five years to
see myself as, undoubtedly, others can.

Since completion of my law course I’ve been engaged in the
general practice of law, devoting virtually all my time to it. I’ve
managed to keep out of the public eye, but point with satisfaction
to my own experiences in trying to get many simple joys out of
my daily life. I don’t mean to create the impression that all has
been merry and gay and that I’ve been free of worries and cares.
There were times when my spirit might have been low and days
not so bright, but looking for happier days and knowing the un-
certain way of chance or fate, I could fortify my hope and “hitch
my wagon to a star.”

[918 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Although my law practice keeps me occupied, I take time for
an occasional motor trip. Living on the North Shore in Salem, I
have the convenience to partake to the full in my hobby, boating.
Quite often I buckle down to real hard work. I follow no set pat-
tern. My family and friends afford me great joy and pleasure. No
doubt the tender years of my two children, my daily association
- with them, and my frequent chats with them about the years
ahead, give me a false sense of youth with its characteristic eager-
ness for fun and play. Truthfully I look forward to spending
many an evening at home. Perhaps it’s age — I can’t say that.

Often I wonder what is expected of us: if we are good providers
and carry on our everyday duties simply and honestly, are we
deemed to be successful? Though we all are not born to be leaders
nor fated to be great, we all will have partly fulfilled our mission
if we think and strive to see that those people less fortunate than
we, wherever they be, shall eventully enjoy the privileges of a
democratic way of life with all its freedoms and partake in some
measure of the joys and pleasures which a more secure economic
life would afford. Thinking in this direction may now seem of
little consequence, but, at least, it may in years to come give the
impetus to such action which would be a benefit to many.

It is my desire that my children when of age shall continue
during their lifetime to be aware of and accept their share of civic
responsibilities, and at the same time be tolerant and sympathetic
with due regard for the religious beliefs of others. If I can guide
and steer them on this course it will be as satisfying as if I had
recovered that “million-dollar verdict” I dreamt about when sub-
mitting my notes for the Sexennial Report.

PARKER SOREN

HOME AppREss: 110 Comstock Rd., Manchester, Conn.

OFFICE ADpREss: Connecticut Power Co., 773 Main St. Manchester, Conn.

BorN: March 14, 1902, Schenectady, N. Y. parents: Townsend Hodges
Soren, ’93, Gara Mabel Parker.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924.

UNMARRIED.

Occupation: Manager, Manchester Electric Division, Connecticut Power
Company.

MEMBER OF: Manchester Country Club.

[919]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

AFTER leaving college in 1924 at the request of the Dean because
my studies were below par, I went to Guatemala as a time-keeper
for the United Fruit Company. I returned in March, 1925, and in
May went to work in the gas works of the Connecticut Power
Company in New London. In March, 1926, I was transferred to
the South Meadow power station of the Hartford Electric Light
Company in Hartford. I worked in various departments of the
company until 1930, when I got a job with the American & Foreign
Power Company in Barranquilla, Colombia. I returned to the
Hartford Company in March, 1931, where I worked in the audit-
ing department. In December, 1932, I was given the job of man-
ager of the then Manchester Electric Company, Manchester,
Connecticut, which is now the Connecticut Power Company,
Manchester Division. Since that time I have made my home in
Manchester where I have found enjoyment in both the town and
my work.

During the war years, I was active in preparation for civilian
defense as neither the Army nor Navy would take me because of
the condition of my feet caused by infantile paralysis. This con-
dition was corrected for normal living by an operation in 1926.
However, the examining doctors did not feel that the correction
was sufficient for military service.

My vacations are usually spent in Nassau, B.W.L., in the winter,
so that I can spend my spare time the rest of the year working in
the garden. Besides the garden, I have two English bulldogs and
a mess of tropical fish.

WALLACE GORE SOULE

HOME ADDRESS: Falmouth Foreside, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Soule Glass & Paint Co., Portland, Maine.

BORN: Dec. 8, 1901, Newton, Mass. parents: William Gore Soule, Margaret
Snow Wallace.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921I~1925. DEGREE: $.B., 1925.

MarRRIED: Eleanor Painter, Sept. 29, 1928, Newton, Mass. CHILDREN: Martha
Feb. 3, 1930; Wallace Gore, Jr, Aug. 6, 19313 Charles Painter, July 4
1934; Susan, Oct. 22, 1942; Benjamin A., Dec. 26, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Enos Soule, ’27, Frank Huntington Soule, ’30.

OccuPATION: Treasurer, Soule Glass & Paint Company.

[ 920 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Soule Glass & Paint Company, 1943-50, Seamans
Supply Company, Manchester, N. H., 1945~50; assistant to vice-presi-
dent, Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company, Pittsburgh, Pa. 1929-34.

~ WILLIAM HAYES SOULE

BORN: Jan. 1, 1904, Quincy, Mass. parents: George Hudson Strowbridge
- Soule, Lucy Lord Haves.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924.

maraieD: Dorothea Charhart Ashton, Jan. 2, 1926, Boston, Mass.,; Ruth Mar-
tin, Dee. 11, 1936. CHILDREN: William Hayes, Jr, Nov. 6, 19:6; Edward
Laurence, June 20, 1929.

piep: Feb. 15, 1949, San Francisco, Calif,

sister: Mrs. Frances Petersen, 2335 Walter Ave, North Brook, Ill.

WILLIAM HAYES SOULE entered Harvard after preparing
at Milton Academy. In Cambridge three years as an undergradu-
ate, he was a member of the Red Book, Republican Club, and
Social Service. Little was heard from Soule after leaving college.
For a time he was manager of the stock department of Arnold,
Sears & Company of Boston. Later he was with Townsend, An-
thony & Tyson, also in Boston, and in 1940 he reported that he
was still engaged in the brokerage business, with H. C. Wain-
wright & Company.

He had been a member of the Harvard Club of Boston, Boston
Art Club, Wellesley Country Club, and Mangus Club of Wel-
lesley.

PHILIP SPALDING

HOME ApprEss: 287 Highland St., Milton, Mass,

OFFICE appREss: % Dixon & Co., 14 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: July 7, 1902, Stratford, Pa. parents: Philip Leffingwell Spalding, ‘92,
Katharine Hobart Ames.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925(26).

Marriep: Emily Augusta Thomas, Sept. 17, 1936 (divorced 1943); Georgia
Lamar Smart, Oct. 24, 1949. CHILDREN: Josephine Reynolds, Sept. 23,
1937; Philip Leffingwell, May 17, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Oakes Ames Spalding, ’27; Hobart Ames Spalding, 34.

occupation: Member New York Stock Exchange.

[921 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Major, 362nd Fighter-Bomber Group, Ninth Air
Force.

MEMBER OF: First troop, Philadelphia City Cavalry.
AFTER a successful course at summer school in 1925, I moved to
Philadelphia and was associated with the banking house of Drexel
& Company. From there I went to New York where I became a
member of the Stock Exchange in 1930. In 1936 I joined the
Philadelphia firm of Dixon & Company as their floor broker.

With the advent of the war I was assigned as a lieutenant to the
Army Air-born Engineer base at Westover, Massachusetts, then
transferred as captain to the Ninth Air Force in England. What
with escorting the heavy bombers of the Eighth Air Force in their
raids over Germany and buzz-bomb “hunting,” these were busy
days. From an interest point of view we were lucky in being the
first fighter-bomber group to land in Normandy after the invasion.
Our strip was an extended cow pasture and we were shelled from
just below Caen daily. Our duty now was to blast, with General
Patton’s tanks, the way through St. Lo, Rennes, Rheims, and so to
the Battle of the Bulge.

I was discharged as major from the Air Forces in 1945 and have
been an independent broker ever since.

WILLIAM ALEXANDER SPONSLER, Hl

HOME AppREss: R.D. #3, Harrisburg, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, State Capitol, Harrisburg,
Pa.

Born: Dec. 6, 1903, York, Pa. parents: William Alexander Sponsler, Jr,
Aimee Elizabeth Heiges.

PREPARED AT: Steelton High School, Steelton, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924.

marriep: Kathryn Elizabeth Steckley, Sept. 14, 1929, Harrisburg, Pa. can
pREN: Katherine S., June 30, 1931; William Alexander, qth, Aug. 24, 1933.

occupation: Deputy secretary of property and supplies, Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant budget secretary; secretary of Pennsylvania Liquor
Control Board; deputy secretary of public assistance (all of Pennsyl-
vania); chief budget control specialist of American Mission for Aid to
Greece for U.S.

MY CONSTITUTIONAL antipathy towards appearing con-
spicuous has been overcome only by the realization that, to indulge

[922 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my curiosity as to what fate has dealt the friends, acquaintances,
and strangers of twenty-five years ago, I shall have to reciprocate,

Life so far has been devoted, through no planning on my part,
to an effort to discover and apply improvements to that umbrella
we have thrown over us to protect us from each other and from
the inexorable economic hailstones of mortal life. We call it
government, we have endowed it, we fancifully belicve, with
superhuman qualities; and we expect of it superhuman bencfi-
cences. To the endless pursuit of these unattainable ends, I scem
to be dedicated.

I entered the field of governmental administration through the
public accounting route about the time the Class was graduating,
having discovered a flair for the exciting nuances of mathematical
symbols which was totally unsuspected and undemonstrated in
college. After a pupal period of eight years of shochorning exu-
berance of expenditure into the strictures of reluctant income, a
process known as budgeting, I was sclected, since I was wholly
uncontaminated by any preconceived ideas born of experience, to
organize and bring into being the multi-million-dollar business
which is today the state liquor stores system, Since the time al-
lotted for this magical bit of midwifery, from idea to fruition, was
thirty days, it cost me forty pounds in weight, which, I am able to
report, I have subsequently regained in abundant measure.

From this adventure, I returned to the realm of debit and credit
for four years more before the next excursion into the incredible
wonderland. This time I was charged with the duty of changing
a seven-thousand-employee organization engaged in dispensing
public assistance from the malignant spoils system to the benign
civil service pattern ordained by Washington. Coincidental with
this tasty problem of administration, the depression collapsed into
the recession. With one-fifth of our people depending upon gov-
ernment handout, we engaged in tearing down and rebuilding the
organization which made the handouts possible. This operation
cost me no weight, I am happy to say. I offer this in proof that a
man’s philosophic bent is bound to increase with his years.

Back again to journal, ledger, and balance sheet. And now, alas,
came my downfall. Scene: the cellar steps. Weather: dry. Per-
sonal condition: unstimulated. The result: a year spent consecu-
tively in pain, in plaster, and in a spinal brace, followed by a

[923]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

completely turned-up-nose attitude from Washington during the
war. Consequently, [ spent the war years valiantly on the home
front. But adventure loomed. The swivel chair reveries of a June
afternoon in 1947 were shattered in best radio serial fashion by
Dear Uncle in Washington, asking how quickly I could be ready
to go to Greece as part of the new mission. My job was to or-
ganize and scrutinize the Greek budget. Of course, I was a
“natural” for such an assignment. Hadn’t I shown a tendency to
be in the thick of unpromising undertakings? What matter that
I knew no Greek, since governmental finance and Greek are
synonymous.

Thus blithely off to Greece went the Sponslers, all but the cat
and the goldfish, to return a year later worn and travel-weary,
with a wholesome respect for the three-hundred-year-old civiliza-
" tion of this country of ours aroused by an intimate association with
what man has accomplished on the site of a civilization ten times
older.

The repetition of excursion afield and return to the inevitable
cash books has been broken. No longer am I playing the role of
budgeteer. I am now the State’s principal housekeeper, the living
counterpart of Poo-bah, with multiplicity of duties which would
tax credulity to relate.

There was a time, antedating twenty-five years, when | thought
Henley’s Invictus was the ultimate description of how life could
be controlled by the will. Now I am forced to admit that it
seems no more than the chest thumpings of Tarzan. Subject, of
course, to later contradiction, I would like to testify that I have
done none of the deeds which I fancied for myself up to 1925, and
that I have been a creature of pure chance. But so much for “in-
formal reflection of myself and my points of view.”

I married in 1929. I am still married to the same woman. She
knows exactly when and how much to inflate or deflate my ego
and hence is perfect. I have two children: a six-foot daughter and
a son of as yet undetermined ultimate length. As I review my
parenthood, I perceive that whatever qualities of worth my chil-
dren may exhibit will have to be attributed to accident rather than
to my precept and admonition.

Travels have been described. I have made it a practice to do
none without what I choose to call constructive purpose. My

[ 924 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

hobbies have been almost as diverse as my official life, including at
one time or another the carpentry, electrical, architectural ma-
sonry, painting, landscaping and other wholly personal labor in-
cidental to restoring one of those old stone houses in the country
so dear to every woman’s dream. There have been periods of
cabinet making, iron working, landscape painting, and teaching
actuarial mathematics to the present college generation. Of course
I have kept up the singing of worth-while music begun in the Glee
Club. I occupy the same position both as to relative size and tone
in a singing organization as the bass viol in the orchestra.

Socially, 1 have been most fortunate, having avoided all of the
clutter, pretense, and show associated with the purely social.
About political convictions, the least said the better. I can think
of no subject upon which I might expound more forcefully and
with more chance of having to eat my words later. As to religion,
I still believe in one God who is wholly free from trappings of
sect and creed. Also I am still unable to dissociate Him into three
parts.

It is not often that the professional creator of forms has to fill
one out himself. I hope that the promptness with which this has
been returned marks me as a practitioner of the golden rule of life
among the forms.

WALDO CHAMBERLAIN SPRAGUE

HOME apprEss: 419 Highland Ave., Wollaston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Quincy City Hospital, Quincy, Mass.

BORN: May 10, 1903, Wollaston, Mass. parents: Frank Headley Sprague,
Anne Louise Jones.

PREPARED AT; Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925,

UNMARRIED.

occuPaATION:; Storekeeper.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1941-44, secretary, 1937-41, Quincy Historical So-
ciety; member of various committees and director of other historical
societies.

MEMBER OF: Quincy Historical Society; Braintree Historical Society; New
England Historic Genealogical Society; Society for Preservation of
New England Antiquities; Massachusetts Society of Mayflower De-
scendants; Appalachian Mountain Club.

[925 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

SINCE graduation twenty-five years ago I have changed status
but little as compared to many others. I have always lived in my
native town and expect to remain in spite of the continual changes
that time brings. As I have no family or near relatives I am com-
paratively free to move about and have done so increasingly the
past few years, especially in the summertime when I manage to
get quite far afield. I have just returned from a trip west, prin-
cipally to Oregon, which I consider one of our best states. I enjoy
all parts of the country but still feel rather more at home in New
England than elsewhere, in spite of many drawbacks to life here
such as the increasing congestion of our towns.

My work has changed radically since I left the architectural
profession for which I prepared after graduating. The great
changes in our economy inaugurated by President Roosevelt and
others led me to believe that I would be foolish to persist in the
course I had started upon, and in 1936 I became afhliated with the
Quincy City Hospital which was located near my home, and I
certainly feel that the change was wise for me.

My avocations in the past twenty-five years have changed
partly, inasmuch as it was not until about 1934 that I took any
particular interest in local history which has taken a large part
of my spare time since then, My interest lies mainly in New Eng-
land and especially the region in which I live. I have made par-
ticular researches in the land records of the towns adjoining my
home with the thought of perhaps, some day, working up a history
of the early land grants and purchases of colonial times. This has
led also to considerable genealogical research on some of the early
families of this area, and I have prepared typed genealogies of a
number of families including Curtis, Wales and Thayer. This
type of research, which I enjoy, takes more time than usually is
supposed, and accounts for many hours of examining and copying
old records, of which I have tried to make a good collection.

I still derive much pleasure from my garden and would be very
loath to have to live where I could not have a plot of ground to
raise those plants which interest me. For the past few years my
chief interest has been azaleas, most of which were formerly con-
sidered not hardy in this climate. Now that my former interest in
architecture is only a memory, my aesthetic sense of beauty has to
be supplied in other ways, such as by a garden. But life to me 1S

[ 926 ]

—_

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

worth living only if one can try to enjoy such things. I do, and so
I have had to leave to others the political arena and the many other
activities for which they are better fitted temperamentally than ]
believe I am. I still greatly enjoy good music but take no active
part in it now, as I gave my violin to the Pierian Sodality a few
years ago.

WILLIAM ALFRED SPURR

HOME ADDRESS: §48 Gerona Rd., Stanford, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Graduate School of Business, Stanford University, Calif,

porn: Dec. 24, 1905, Washington, D. C. parents: Josiah Edward Spurr, 'g2,
Sophie Burchard.

PREPARED AT: New Rochelle High School, New Rochelle, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. Miagna cum laude, 1925; M.B.A,
1928; PH.D. (Columbia Univ.), 1940.

MarRiED: Elizabeth Guion Mackey, Aug. 23, 1935, Bronxville, N, Y.; Hallie
L. Rucker, 1946. cHitoreN; Diana E., Dec. 3, 1944; Patricia R., Aug. 22,
1947; Roberta B., May 4 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Anton Spurr, "36.

occupaTion: Professor of business statistics.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Naval aviator, 1926-31, and aerial navigator,
1942=45, with rank of lieutenant commander.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Senior economist, U. S. Department of Com-
merce, 1941-42; principal industrial economist, statistics division, War
Production Board, 1942.

MEMBER OF: American Statistical Association (president, San Francisco
Chapter); American Economic Association; American Association of
University Professors.

PUBLICATIONS: Seasonal Variations in the Economic Activities of Japan, 1940;
various monographs in Nebraska Studies in Business, 1937-41; Forecasts
of California’s Population and Production, 1950-60, Stanford University
Press, 1949; contributor of numerous articles in Journal of the American
Statistical Association, Journal of Political Economty, Land Economics,
etc.

AFTER graduation I became a naval aviator, travelled around the
world with the Harvard Eclipse Expedition to Sumatra in 1926,
completed the Harvard Business School course in 1928, and ex-
plored the Mt. Spurr region in Alaska with the United States
Geological Survey that summer. Then followed seven years of
commuting from New Rochelle to New York City as financial
Statistician with Clark, Dodge & Company and the Western Elec-
tric Company. Here I became dissatisfied with the making of

[927]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

, money as the primary aim in life, and decided to go into research
and the teaching of business statistics and forecasting instead. |
took a year and a half off, combining a Ph.D. program at Columbia
with study and travel in the Orient. From 1937 to 1941 I served as
director of business research at the University of Nebraska.

After the turbulent war years, mostly in the Navy, I spent a
year at the University of Chicago and finally came to the Stanford
Graduate School of Business as professor of business statistics, in
September, 1946. Here I have at last found my niche and am
content.

HOWARD PARKER STABLER

HOME ApDpREss: 186 Main St., Williamstown, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Thompson Physical Laboratory, Williams College, Williams-
town, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 26, 1903, Brooklyn, N. Y. ParRENTs: Edward Lincoln Stabler,
Elizabeth Tubby.

PREPARED AT: Brooklyn Friends School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: S.B., 7agma cum laude, 1925; A.M.
1929; PH.D., 1931.

marrieD: Margaret Anderson VanAlstyne, April 5, 1932, Braintree, Mass.
CHILDREN: Elizabeth Holly, Sept. 10, 1933; Robert Coleman, June 14
1935; George Merritt, July 1, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Russell Stabler, ’26.

occupation: Professor of physics.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Staff member, Radiation Laboratory, Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology, 1943-46.

OFFICES HELD: Council member, American Association of University Profes-
sors, 1946-48.

MEMBER OF: American Physical Society; Institute of Radio Engineers, Amer-
ican Association of Physics Teachers, American Association of Univer-
sity Professors, Americans for Democratic Action.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional technical reports, abstracts of papers presented at
Physical Society meetings, U. S. patents, contributions to Volume 2,
Radiation Laboratory Series, “Radar Aids to Navigation.”

WHILE ostensibly emerging from Harvard confines in 1925, I
was promptly reincarcerated that fall to start six years of study in
physics combined with teaching in mathematics and physics, This
led to a Ph.D. in 1931 with an incidental A.M. along the way. Even
then, I failed to shake off academic surroundings and merely ex-
changed Cambridge for Williamstown. Now, almost twenty years

[928 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

later, the prospect of breaking away from collegiate affairs seems
remote.

Margaret joined me at Williamstown shortly after my arrival
and we then produced Holly (’33) and Robert ('35). George put
in an appearance in ’43 during our three war years at Weston,
Massachusetts. We are a closely knit family and have fun growing
together. Holly enters college next fall, and Bobby should be a
member of the Class of 1956.

We are excessively provincial, barely having left Massachusetts,
Notable events have been notable only to ourselves. For relaxa-
tion, we enjoy the countryside by climbing, skating, skiing, and
gardening. The Boston Symphony at Tanglewood has been an
annual link with Cambridge music. One of the privileges of a
laboratory worker is to exploit the excellent shop facilities that it
provides,

When friends from out of town speak of Williams College, it is
customary to comment on the unusual beauty of its location. But
associates are more important than scenery, however pleasant.
Williams has been a stimulating place with an unusually young and
vigorous faculty. Interesting students are sufficiently numerous
to provide a challenge and leaven for the community.

Aside from teaching, being essentially a practical person, my
activities have been chiefly in the field of applied physics. During
the war, I was involved in radar systems development at the M.L-T.
Radiation Laboratory. Since then I have been associated with
electronics computing projects and government sponsored re-
search on similar devices.

A physicist, even if merely an applied physicist, has a civic
duty these days in February, 1950. This duty is to emphasize on
all possible occasions the reality of the universal disaster that awaits
atomic warfare. The distinction over previous disasters is one of
many orders of magnitude. There is no likelihood that science
can formulate a defense which can in any way cope with the
scale of destruction now possible. Security cannot be gained
through secrecy nor through temporary atomic armament superi-
ority. A positive peace program is desperately needed, even if
immensely costly and comparable to the war effort. Perhaps these
remarks will be inappropriate when read in June and I surely
hope they will seem superfluous. If so, they can at any rate reflect

[929 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

my interest in the increasingly heavy responsibility that scientists
must assume in public affairs.

AUBREY HARRISON STARKE

HOME ADDRESS: 2519 Q St., N.W., Washington 7, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, The Pentagon,
Washington 25, D. C.

BoRN: Oct. 31, 1904, Water Valley, Miss. parents: Claude Morgan Starke,
Mary Molloy Watkins.

PREPARED AT: Hyde Park High School, Chicago, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. Cu7# laude, 1925; A.M. 1927.

occuPATION: Information specialist.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted June 26, 1942; commissioned 2d lieuten-
ant, A.A.F, Statistical O.C.S., Harvard Business School, July 28, 1943;

_ statistical officer, 370th Fighter Group, Ninth Air Force (England,
France, Belgium and Germany), Jan. 31, 1944-Aug. 15, 1945; commis-
sioned captain, May 1, 1945; public relations officer, Headquarters A.AF,
Oct. 25, 1945-Occt. 26, 1946.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; University Club, Washington,
D. C.

PUBLICATIONS: Sidney Lanier: A Biographical and Critical Study, University
of North Carolina Press, 1933; Volumes VII-X, “Letters,” Collected
Works of Sidney Lanier, Johns Hopkins University Press, 1945; articles
in American Literature, Tbe Colophon, etc.

GEORGE LINDSLEY STEARNS

HOME ADDRESS: 2934 Park Ave., Oleander, Wilmington, N. C.

OFFICE ADpREss: Ocean Motor Sales, Inc., 310 N. Second St., Wilmington, N.C.

BORN: March 10, 1904, Medford, Mass. parents: Frank Preston Stearns, ’67,
Emilia Maciel.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MarriED:. Marjorie Pate, May 28, 1931, Locust Valley, Long Island, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Robert Davol, Oct. 12, 1935; Patricia Davol, Nov. 30, 1937.

OccUPATION: Treasurer and accountant.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Secretary, New Hanover County Council for
Civilian Defense.

OFFICES HELD: Executive secretary, Wilmington Community Chest, 1942-475
director, United War Fund of North Carolina, 1943-45.

MEMBER OF: Cape Fear Club; Surf Club; L’Ariosa Club; Cape Fear County
Club. .

PUBLICATIONS: “Pigeons for Profit,” a series of articles and statistical studies
published in the American Pigeon Journal.

[ 930 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FOR eight years after leaving college, the old jingle “Thursday's
child is wont to roam” seemed truly prophetic. I went from a
publishing venture in Cambridge to try my hand at banking in
Washington, thence back to publishing in New York, and managed
to sandwich in two trips to Europe. At least I stayed long enough
in New York to get married, for which I am truly thankful.

Came the Great Depression, and it seemed to both of us that
this charming and delightful city on the Carolina coast, where we
had visited so often, was definitely a more pleasant place to live.
So we settled down here to raise a family. Advertising and pub-
licity became my occupation; hunting, fishing, and the develop-
ment of a small commercial pigeon farm were my hobbies, |
also tried, unsuccessfully, to develop a small “estate” vineyard.

The morning after Pearl Harbor found me in a frenzied effort
to organize civilian defense in this southern coastal city which
had suddenly shaken its lethargy, About a ycar later, while serv-
ing On a committee to organize a community war chest, I dis-
covered that I had talked myself into the job of executive secre-
tary with the responsibility of raising funds for war relief and
local social agencies.

After six years of public service, it was painfully obvious to
me that a public servant in a small community is not permitted to
enjoy any private life, so | went back into business and became
re-acquainted with my family.

WILLIAM NATHAN STEINAM

HOME AppREss: 19 Locust Ave., Larchmont, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 345 Hudson St., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: April 26, 1904, New York, N. Y. Parents: Joseph Lauferty Steinam,
Edna Foster.

PREPARED AT: Far Rockaway High School, Far Rockaway, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921~I923.

MarRriep: Catharine Stein, Oct. 6, 1931, New York, N. Y. cHivpren: Ellen,
Oct. 8, 1938; Margot, March 15, 1945.

OccUPATION: Real estate director, Miles Shoes, Inc.

SINCE college my life has been rather conventional but never-
theless reasonably satisfying. Real estate has been my “metier,”
Principally in and around New York City. During the early part
of the war, when trading and construction came to a standstill,

C931]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

I found myself at the head of the real estate department of one of
the important chain store companies, Miles Shoes, Inc., in which
a couple of other Harvard men have key posts.

For several years I was active in settlement work but now my
extra-curricular interests have turned to local community affairs,
music, and gardening.

I have no Harvard sons, but now that women are being ad-
mitted, I may have Harvard daughters.

*k ALFRED MAX STERN

BORN: Sept. 13, 1903, Cincinnati, Ohio. parENTs: Max Stern, Martha Season-
good.

PREPARED AT: University School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MarRIED: Frances Ehrlich, 1929.

pieD: May 23, 1929, Cincinnati, Ohio.

AT HARVARD Alfred Max Stern was an editor of the Freshman

Red Book and played with the Freshman Mandolin Club, In his

studies he was especially interested in English. His hobby was

book collecting.

After graduation in 1925, he worked for a year in the editorial
department of the Cincinnati Times-Star, a position he was obliged
to leave because of trouble with his eyes. He then went into the
real estate business, choosing this field partly because of his in-
terest in low-priced housing for the poor. At the time of his
death he had already begun to assume an important place in the
community in political, religious, and charitable activities,

He gave rich promise of a distinguished career in journalism.
In fact, within a short year he realized in part that promise. He
had every attribute of a successful newspaperman. He could
write with uncommon facility in style and with what is so neces-
sary in newspaper work, celerity in execution. In his reportorial
contacts he had the courage which is so necessary in a calling
that takes a man where the ordinary man might fear to tread.
And over all his words and acts there played a delightful humor.
His contacts with the realities of life, sometimes sordid, never
caused him to lose sight of his ideals. His familiarity with the
finer things of literature had bred a conception of beauty that

[ 932 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

he refused to relinquish. He seemed securely possessed of the
great sources of consolation and inspiration.

BERNARD ALBERT STERN

HOME aApprEss: Somers, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stern, Lauer & Co., 30 Pine St., N. Y.

BORN: March 29, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: Albert Stern, Amy Sea-
songood.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

MaRRiED: Caroline Augusta Rittenberg, April 10, 1930, New York, N. Y,
cuitp: Bernard Albert, Jr., July 26, 1934.

MY CLASS life can be put in one word —SHORT. My other
life has been a race between a competence and a coronary. Un-
fortunately the coronary won and life’s tempo has been slowed
down for some time to come. Thanks to my illness there will be
much more time for travel and hobbies, so it is unfortunate that
this Report is not for a year later. I am viewx-jeux, being still
married to my original wife and living in the same place where
I was born. In this I slightly resemble the limpet.

My son is at Deerfield and hopes to stay at Harvard at least two
years longer than his father did,

ARTHUR MITCHELL STEVENS

LAST KNOWN ApprEss: 6937 N. Oleander St., Chicago, III.

BORN: July 30, 1902, Downers Grove, Ill. parents: Elmer Ellsworth Stevens,
Geneva May Patrick.

PREPARED AT: West Aurora High School, West Aurora, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Rita Frances MacNeil, Jan. 12, 1925, Pawtucket, R. J. CHILDREN:
Neal, Jan. 24, 1928; another.

OccuPATION: Mercantile business.

ARTHUR STEVENS has been carried as a “lost” man on our
records since July, 1940.

++ HAROLD SHERBURNE STEVENS

BORN: July 20, 1903, Somerville, Mass. parents: Everett Lincoln Stevens,
Bessie Agertus Rhodes.
PREPARED AT: Reading High School, Reading, Mass.

[ 933 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924.

MarRiED: Gertrude Lovering, Nov. 2, 1923, Nashua, N. H. (died April, 1933).
cuitp: Harold Sherburne, Jr., Jan. 12, 1925 (died Aug. 26, 1933).

piED: Aug. 26, 1933, Ridgewood, N. J.

FATHER: Everett L. Stevens, 321 Lowell St., Reading, Mass.

HAROLD SHERBURNE STEVENS received his education in
the schools of Somerville and later of Reading, Massachusetts,
He entered Bates College, but in his second year transferred to
Harvard, where he continued until January, 1924, when he left
to enter the business world.

Stevens’ abiliry as a writer was recognized in the Reading
High School when he was chosen editor of the school’s publica-
tion, The Pioneer. To satisfy his desire to see more of the world,
he obtained employment on various steamships during vacation
periods, visiting Central American countries, Cuba, Naples, Rome,
Hamburg, Switzerland, and the Azores. His articles describing
those travels were published in The Pioneer and a Boston news-
paper.

Stevens’ first business position was in the publicity depart-
ment of the International Mercantile Marine Company, New
York. Later he was assistant advertising manager of Becton,
Dickinson Company, Rutherford, New Jersey, manufacturers of
surgical instruments; then advertising manager of W. A. Baum
Company, New York, makers of the Baumanometer; and still
later managing editor of Medical Economics, Rutherford, New
Jersey, a business magazine of the medical profession. This last-
named position he held for seven years.

His wife died in April, 1933, and in August of the same year
Stevens himself and his eight-year-old son met instant death in
an automobile accident while they were driving to his parents’
home.

As managing editor of Medical Economics, Stevens won the
esteem of the profession in Greater New York and his reputation
spread to medical centers in various sections of the country. He
conducted medical surveys, contributed valuable articles to Medi-
cal Economics and to publications of the American Medical As- -
sociation, and was a speaker at conventions in the West and South.
Under his management Medical Economics attained the largest

circulation in its history.

[934]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY MILLARD STEVENS

HOME ApDpDRESS: Haven Street, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Campbell Soup Co., Camden, N. J.

BORN: July 30, 1903, Marlboro, Mass. PARENTS: Ralph Emerson Stevens,
M.D. ’97, Blanche Blackinton Millard.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.; Cambridge High and Latin
School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924.

marrieD: Elizabeth Gerould, April 26, 1930, Cambridge, Mass. cHiLpren:
Nancy Blackinton, Oct. 15, 1931; Sarah Winslow, Oct. 17, 1935; Russell
Gerould, April 24, 1940; Henry Millard, Jr., Aug. 14, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ralph Emerson Stevens, Jr., ’23.

OCCUPATION: Merchandising assistant to executive vice-president, Campbell
Soup Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, United Community Services of Greater Boston,
1949-50, Greater Boston Community Council, 1947-49; vice-president,
member board of managers, Community Workshops, Boston, 1943-50.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New York, Dedham
Country and Polo Club.

ABOUT twenty-five years ago I tried to put to good use a little
experience in boats, camps, and zodlogy labs. I endeavored to
join as lowly factotum a South American expedition headed by
Dr. Alexander Hamilton Rice, a classmate of my father’s. Not
for.me the routine of a stuffy bank or business office! I would be
among those who found the white pygmies. My imagination
soared until a lengthy, gracious letter turned me down.

Next an opportunity in a “progressive department of a large
Cambridge manufacturer” sounded interestingly different from
most business offers to the uninitiated. In person I applied, and in
nothing flat I was accepted.

I never again heard the department of which I was the newest
member called by such a high falutin’ name, but it was correctly
described because I certainly made progress, Sixteen miles of it
daily through office and plant mysteries of a soap maker! Within
a week I made further progress — a promotion from the messenger
force to the advertising department. And thus started a huckster’s
career — and into vapor went my plans for far-flung discoveries.

~The livelihood I had chosen so carefully provided a local form
of adventure, however, which was quite appealing at first to a
provincial New Englander. There were treks to Ohio and Wis-

[935 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

consin to learn the washing habits of so-called hard-water house-
wives, and explorations into the baking and frying customs of
homemakers in Pittsburgh and Dallas. Later my travels all too
regularly included the “5 o’clock” and “midnight” trains and the
New York boat. Then came Hollywood, as the dark jungles of
radio were probed and penetrated.

Business hasn’t tethered me, or even marriage, as I am constantly
reminded by my slender wife, because I have always felt that
weekends and vacations were challenges for keeping up the pace
and fun of the workday. Therefore we have had seasonal flings at
fishing, New Hampshire farming, sailing, shooting, and skiing,
And although the pleasure has been high, the score of accomplish-
ments has been C-Plus . . . not unlike my success at making a
living! The striped bass were never over forty pounds, and the
ears of corn never blue-ribbon,” but there were always enough
for us and friends.

Somehow we also found time to help in good causes. In fact, I
believe we twice moved to a nearby town so I could resign from
mounting community obligations, and my wife claimed similar
reasons for a hiatus to have two of our youngsters. We reached a
point some winters where we both had meetings the same evening,
and occasionally saw each other on the same committee. Much of
this has demanded late hours of labor but all of it has been re-
warding beyond description.

When I cock my head at myself in the mirror I don’t think
that time has particularly weathered me, or do my contemporaries
seem to have aged over the years, except for a little puffing on
the stairs. Certain suggestions make me wonder, however, if mid-
forties are not really middle age. My children describe people
as “not as old as you!” Young married couples show polite
respect to me, and appear to find more easy conversation with
my eighteen-year-old daughter! This recent change in the manner
of others in relation to me is an unpleasant novelty which con-
founds me, and I know of no good book or extension course for
clarification or instructive aid.

Regardless of these hints, I am glad that I feel only thirty-five
years old and that my wife looks but twenty-nine. Such youthful
spirit will be useful because of a recent business transition from
soap to soup which promises new advertising adventures for me

[ 936 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and an expedition soon for the family to the Philadelphia area.
Yet this change provoked the following comment from an Indiana-
born friend: “Such a move from Boston will be too safe and com-
fortable. Why don’t you go West and do something exciting and
stimulating?”

Well, I have just returned from another trip to California.
While I'll grant that the West is stimulating to a New Englander,
so is a change to Philadelphia — with a house to find, new friends
to make, new schools, different book stores, antique shops, mu-
seums, and even historical places and tradition! There should be
excitement enough for awhile, especially with further territory
for exploration in nearby New York City, the Poconos, and
eastern shores.

This stock-taking project has been accomplished by much
pleasant reminiscence. A goodly quantity of blessings have come
my way, and I am deeply appreciative of them all — companion-
able wife, two daughters and two sons (three are red heads! ), our
fine health, and the fun we have had. And I’m happy, too, that
the goading for this résumé will now end.

STANLEY L’ARMINIE STEVENS

HOME AppREss: 199 Lexington St., Westbury, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 424 Madison Ave. New York 17, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 29, 1903, Detroit, Mich. Parents: Stanley Garfield Stevens,
Florence Olive Jackson.

PREPARED AT: Ann Arbor High School, Ann Arbor, Mich.; Hackley School,
Tarrytown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925, 1926-1928, 1931-1932.

MARRIED: Constance Innes, Jan. 28, 1928, Boston, Mass.

occupaTION: Public relations; publicity.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted, Sept. 19, 1942, as Volunteer Officer
Candidate; received honorable discharge for disability, April 11, 1943,
Camp Davis, N. C.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; Publicity Club of New York;
Radio Executives Club; Sports Broadcasters Association.

EXPOSURE to education lies largely in the laps of the gods;
assimilation of education lies largely.

I attended Ann Arbor High School in the shadows of the
University of Michigan, and Hackley School, steeped in the lore
of the Eliots, the Williamses, and the Gages. Then Harvard — well,

[937]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

you know — then the ancient ivied walls of Cambridge, England,
and the bobbing beards of Sorbonne savants. Finally, two years
or so of broadening travel abroad and elsewhere — well, that’s
a deal of exposure.

Strangely enough, the butcher, the baker, etc., etc., never ac-
cepted them in lieu of accepted media of exchange. No, that is
no complaint, no bitterness. [’'m sure they could not eat them
either, or, for that matter, drink them.

It is merely that our standards change perforce, and we can
only wonder whether we are better or worse for all that. The
practicalities of life, the necessities of the moment, throw the
balance way off balance.

So, as we gaze back on twenty-five years we have no regrets,
nor would we have wanted to do much differently — only to do
it better.

Strange the dreams we dreamed; strange the wishes we wished.
Did I say no regrets? Take that back for a short nonce. A real
regret! When I came back to Harvard to take some extra courses,
and perhaps to get the degree I missed by inches because of an
auto accident (and might have received except that I chose to go
to England, etc.), well, then I had the rare experience of meeting
some of the finest people of my life. Among that group loomed
largely, and those who knew him know that that covers a multi-
tude of virtues, Dr. Robert I. Blake. It was largely through his
inspiration, and aid, that I received, being still legally an under-
graduate, a recommendation for a Rhodes Scholarship from
President Lowell. Well, it would have been interesting, to say
the least, to have been, to the best of my knowledge, the only
Harvard man to attend both Cambridge and Oxford.

Perhaps the most exciting and fulsome years of a public re-
lations career were the five spent as director of same for the N.Y.A.
prior to the war. We had some seven hundred youngsters en-
gaged in every type of radio and entertainment activity, a youth
symphony orchestra of 110 fine young musicians who played
coast to coast on all networks and in Carnegie Hall, popular music
orchestras, glee clubs, drama groups, writers, etc., and some hun-
dreds of technicians whom we trained for the Army. After the
Army, a tour with the British Broadcasting Corporation as director
of publicity and special events for North America Jed into open-

[ 938 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing my own office in 1944. Out of a welter of public relation
activities there is always excitement: Dorothy Kirsten making
the Met and headlines, Earl Wrightson and The Firebrand of
Florence, rehearsals in New York and Boston, Milton Berle — oh
well, just Berle, the Edison Centennial, the Oleomargarine Drive,
Consolidated Vultee, Carrier Corporation radio shows and others,
and now the very exciting and new adventure in heating, Radiant

Glassheat.
Thus we look to the next twenty-five years — and may we
write again,

CHARLES WARREN STIGER, JR.

ADDRESS: 4616 W. zoth St., Cicero 50, Ill.

BORN: Oct. 24, 1901, Chicago, Ill, parents: Charles Warren Stiger, Louise M.
Rathbone.

PREPARED AT: Chicago Latin School, Chicago, Ill.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

MarRRIED: Verna Mary Ross, June 20, 1924, Oak Park, Ill. cHttpren: Cynthia
Ross, Oct. 7, 1930; Judith Skiff, Sept. 30, 1935.

occupPaTION: Industrial Engineering.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Stiger did not return a questionnaire.

WILLIAM EARLE STILWELL, JR.

HOME apprEss: 740 Ivy Ave., Glendale, Ohio.

OFFICE AppREsS: Stilwell Engineering Associates, Inc., 2966 Jessamine St.
Cincinnati, Ohio.

BORN: Feb. 5, 1904, Cincinnati, Ohio. PARENTS: William Earle Stilwell, ’o1,
Katherine Frances Walsh.

PREPARED AT: University School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: a.B. cum laude, 1925; £.E. (Univ. of
Cincinnati), 1928.

MarRIED: Frances Mendenhall Hunt, July 3, 1933, Cincinnati, Ohio. cum-
DREN: William Earle, 3d, July 28, 1936; Frances Putnam, July 9, 1940;

’ Katherine Carlisle, May 7, 1943.
OccuPATION: Development engineer.
WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Consultant to armed services,

[ 939 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

DUDLEIGH CHAPIN STONE

ADDRESS: 12 Sunny Brae Pl., Bronxville, N. Y.

BoRN: March 22, 1901, Pasadena, Calif. PARENTs: Walter Summers Stone,
Adele Chapin.

PREPARED AT: Berkeley High School, Berkeley, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922—1925. DEGREES: S.B., 1925; M.D., 1929.

marrieD: Opal Hay, Feb. 19, 1939, Paterson, N. J.

OCCUPATION: Medicine.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Dudleigh Stone did not return a questionnaire.

LAUSON HARVEY STONE

HOME appREss: 41 Garden Pl., Brooklyn 2, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boyle, Feller, Stone & McGivern, 25 Broad St., New York,
N.Y.

BORN: Nov. 28, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: Harlan Fiske Stone, Agnes
Harvey.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School for Boys, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1925.

MaRRieD: Jane Hunter Colwell, Sept. 21, 1929, Paris, Il. campren: Harlan
Fiske, 2d, Jan. 13, 1935; Peter Hunter, May 10, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: Marshall Harvey Stone, ’23.

OccuPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned major, A.U.S., May, 1942; assigned
to Office of Fiscal Director, S.0.S.; promoted lieutenant colonel, 1943,
and colonel, 1944; released to inactive duty, September, 1945; awarded
Legion of Merit.

MEMBER OF: University Club; City Midday Club.’

ALTHOUGH these twenty-five years have not provided me with
any spectacular events or great achievements to tell you about,
they have yielded me much satisfaction and reward.

I chose Jaw as my profession and entered law school at Colum-
bia in 1925. My three years there involved much boning and
some fun. I was elected to the Law Review, and was class presi-
dent my third year. Since graduation I have followed the career
of a practising lawyer, and have come to agree with the saying
that ‘‘the law is a jealous mistress” — at least her demands allow
neither long vacations nor regular hours.

The recent war provided the only interruption in the practice
of my profession. After working on one of New York’s local

[ 940 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

draft boards for over a year I found that the call of events was
too strong, and I sought the opportunity of rendering service of
some kind. Although Army doctors pronounced me “physically
unfit for service in any theatre” (I thought I was pretty healthy),
I was commissioned in May, 1942, in the Army for limited service
in connection with the procurement program and the financial
affairs of the Army. No sooner had I reported for duty than I
was assigned to assist counsel for the eight German saboteurs
who landed in Florida and on Long Island from submarines. I
spent several weeks on the trial of this case before a military com-
mission in Washington. The case was the subject of a special
convening of the U. S. Supreme Court in July. As a reward for
my efforts I had an unusual experience and received a most in-
teresting testimonial signed by the six who were executed (the
other two were imprisoned and released after the war).

During the remainder of the war I was in command of an L.M.D.
(light mahogany desk) in Washington. When I was released I
had charge of all the legal work for the Fiscal Director, who had
charge of all disbursing, accounting, and other financial matters
for the Army and the War Department. Again my reward was
an interesting experience and an opportunity to handle import-
ant matters to the best of my ability. Shortly after my release I
joined with three other alumni of the armed services to start a
new law firm.

Most of my family have been engaged in the educational field
at one time or another, and hence it is perhaps natural that my
“extra-curricular” activities should develop along the same lines.
In 1938, after I had served some years as a trustee of the Brooklyn
Public Library, Mayor LaGuardia appointed me to New York
City’s Board of Higher Education, which administers four city
colleges, This brought me into contact with a multitude of prob-
lems, including the selection of two college presidents, the con-
troversy over the proposed lectures by Bertrand Russell at the
College of the City of New York, and the discharging of a num-
ber of teachers involved in Communist activities. Through the
Jast I gained, nearly ten years ago, an insight into Communist
methods and aims which are becoming widely recognized today.
I resigned from the board in 1942 to enter the Army.

In 1937 I became a trustee of the Long Island College of Medi-

[941]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

cine, an independent school in Brooklyn. In 1948 I was elected
chairman of the board and have been working ever since on plans
whereby the medical college is being enlarged as part of the State
University of New York.

The practice of Jaw and these (and other) activities have not
left as much time as I would like for other pursuits. Nevertheless
I have found time for three trips to Europe: to Italy and Germany
in 1932, to England in 1933, and to Switzerland and France in
1948. I have also travelled in the country. For hobbies I do some
stamp collecting and have developed a taste for classical music,
My greatest enjoyment, I think, is in my home and family, and
in sharing my travels and hobbies with them.

ROBERT WINTHROP STORER

HOME ADDRESS: 746 East End Ave., Pittsburgh 21, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mellon National Bank and Trust Co., P. O. Box 926, Pitts-
burgh 30, Pa.

BoRN: Aug. 21, 1901, Milton, Mass. pARENTs: Roscoe Radcliffe Storer, Ruth
Ballou Whittemore.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 19253 M.B.A., 1927.

marrieD: Caroline Elizabeth Tietjen, Sept. 10, 1932, White Plains, N. Y.
(divorced 1949); Helen Denison Wheeler, Oct. 22, 1949. CHILDREN:
Edith Barnes, March 2, 1934; Robert Tietjen, Oct. 15, 1936; Ruth Whitte-
more, June 12, 1939; David Ballou, March 24, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Banking.

OFFICES HELD: Various offices, White Plains Consumers Club, 193 5-37, West-
chester Cooperative Society, 1937-40; director, Consumers Cooperative
Services, Inc. 1937-40, New York, Lackawanna & Western Railway
Company, 1944-45, Albany & Susquehanna Railroad Company, 1944-45;
discussion group leader, Great Books Group, Pittsburgh, 1947-49.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Business School Club of Pittsburgh; Harvard-Yale-
Princeton Club of Pittsburgh; Pittsburgh Bond Club, Great Books
Group; Money Marketeers of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: “Effects of Yield-Maturity Curve on True Yields,” Analysts
Journal, July, 1949.

THERE often comes to mind a thought attributed to A. Lawrence

Lowell on the eve of his retirement: “Life is a series of failures,

which somehow work out to a tolerable success.”
Vocationally, I have steered a rather straight course, always in

investments, but at one time or another I have been affiliated with

[942 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

just about all the kinds of institutions having to do with stocks
and bonds. I am exhilarated as well as depressed by the dynamics
which pervade my professional field, much as they do all others,
With a fair, quartering wind and a following sea I get a sense of
accomplishment from the voyage. I look back with special pleas-
ure on the nine years, 1936-1945, spent in Professor Marcus Nad-
ler’s evening class on money-markets at New York University.
He is a great guy, as earthy, as big-souled, and as brilliant as
Thomas Nixon Carver was at college.

It is a surprising paradox that in a world and a culture increas-
ingly afflicted with malaise, I feel less unsure and insecure than
formerly. The process of having to take my personality apart
and reassemble it has imbued me with an immense respect for
psychotherapy and psychoanalysis, and what they can do to help
maladjusted persons.

Contrasting the allegedly “bright college years” with the pres-
ent I am slightly staggered by the changes in almost everything
but my weight. After four years in the Glee Club, I kept up my
choral singing until 1946 and am now content to indulge my taste
for high-fidelity amplifiers, records and FM. Less Brahms, Bach,
and Beethoven nowadays and more Stravinsky, Holst, and Richard
Strauss; I’m not yet quite up to Hindemith and Shostakovitch.

One of the adventures in recent years has been discussion group
leadership in a local University of Chicago Great Books program
— an adventure in self-education, not alone of the intelligence
but of the whole personality, Not until then did I realize the
amount of liberal arts and humanities which I (presumably) might
have got, but didn’t, at Harvard. The adult discussion group
technique is the most profitable and painless way I have yet found
for integrating the head and the heart. To some that maturity
comes early; to me it has come slowly, late, and painfully at times.
I sometimes see myself in Ernest Pontifex (Samuel Butler’s “The
Way of All Flesh). |
Fifteen years of commuting twenty-four to fifty miles to the
job in New York City has left me convinced of some outstanding
advantages of the medium-large city as against The Metropolis.

I. often wonder what form the reaction will take against our
excessively competitive, highly materialistic cultural pattern. In
this the atomic bomb of deepest significance seems to be the twin

L 943 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

trends of greater individual, group and class interdependence on
one hand, and, on the other, the constantly growing insecurity,
distrust, and bitterness among all of these, Or are these things
relatively static and is it only my own growing awareness of them
which makes them seem dynamic?

Religiously, I started struggling with Congregationalism in
1931— again a delayed start—and later, from environmental
pressures, with Prebyterianism. Having by now given myself
up as a bad job theologically, I find myself quite comfortable in
the Jaissez faire of the local Unitarian church, an atavistic throw-
back to my militant and religiously unpopular freethinking fore-
bears of the early 1800's.

My intentional omission of family comments will be quite as
eloquent as anything that I would feel justified in writing.

MERRELL LANGDON STOUT

HOME ADDRESS: 102 Cotswold Rd., Baltimore 10, Md.

OFFICE apprEss: Hospital for the Women of Maryland, 1400 John St,
Baltimore 17, Md.

BORN: May 21, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: Charles Herman Stout,
Henrietta Maria Schroeder.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; M.D. (Johns Hopkins
Univ.), 1931.

MARRIED: Helen Scarlett, June 22, 1929, Baltimore, Md. cHitprReN: Charles
Langdon, Jan. 12, 1931; Merrell Langdon, Jr., April 13, 1936.

occuPATION: Hospital administration.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Deputy State Chief, Emergency Medical Serv-
ice of Maryland.

OFFICES HELD: President, Maryland-D. C. Hospital Association, 1945-46, Balti-
more Hospital Conference, 1941-44, Baltimore Council of Social Agen-
cies, since 1948, Baltimore Hearing Society, since 1945; trustee, Baltimore
Community Chest, since 1946.

MEMBER OF: American College of Hospital Administrators (fellow); Ameri-
can Medical Association (fellow); Emmanuel P. E. Church, Baltimore,
Md. (vestryman); Elkridge Club; Maryland Club; Gibson Island Club;
Harvard Clubs of New York and Maryland; Royal Bermuda Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles on hospital administration.

AFTER graduation I entered the banking business in New York
City and in fairly short order I convinced the bank by which I
was employed, my father, and myself that it would be necessary

[ 944 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to use a high-powered microscope to observe any contribution |
could make to the banking world in the foreseeable future. So two
years after graduation [ entered the Johns Hopkins Medical School
in Baltimore, and, fortunately, survived a rather grucling but
nevertheless fascinating four years.

Peculiarly enough, it was while I was a rather lonely transfer
student at the Royal College of Surgeons in Edinburgh, Scotland,
that I met “the most important girl,” only to find that she was a
student nurse at the Johns Hopkins Hospital and a native Balti-
morean. And now we have just celebrated a very happy twentieth
wedding anniversary.

My chosen specialty in the medical field was obstetrics and I
practised and taught this specialty at Hopkins until an unfortunate
loss of hearing on my part made it impossible to continue, At that
time it occurred to me that J had been exposed to the administra-
tive operations of hospitals over a period of years and I finally
obtained the position of Assistant Superintendent of the University
of Maryland Hospital in Baltimore. I worked at this for two years
under the very able guidance of the late Dr. Arthur J. Lomas, who,
until his untimely death, was considered one of the outstanding
hospital administrators in the country.

In 1937 the Hospital for the Women of Maryland undertook a
major expansion program and put me in charge. I have remained
as director of that institution and, while wondering daily what
new complication the government and the medical profession can
think up to make a hospital superintendent's life more confusing,

I find a deep sense of satisfaction in the work and thoroughly
enjoy it.

My extra-curricular activities have included a real Jove for
Chesapeake Bay, both its surroundings and contents, a modest
amount of work in various so-called civic activities, and an ever-
increasing interest in and respect for the Protestant Episcopal
Church.

RALPH ISIDOR STRAUS

HOME aporEss: 895 Park Ave. New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 331 Madison Ave., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 11, 1903, New York, N. Y, parents: Percy Selden Straus, '97,
Edith Sara Abraham.

[945]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

pRePaRED aT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 1925; M.B.A, 1927.

marertep: Matilda Bradford Day, Aug. 31, 1933, Interlaken, N. Y. cHrpren;
Thomas Percy, April 15, 1935; Bradford Peter, Jan. 29, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: Donald Blun Straus, ’38.

occuPATION: Investment management (also interests in several small com-
panies, member board of directors in large company, and occasional
work for U. S. Government).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned major in military government,
April, 1943; attended Fourth Military Government Class, University of
Virginia; attached to British 7th Armored Division (Desert Rats), Trip-
oli, August, 1943; landed at Salerno, September, 1943; chief, economics
and supply, Naples City Military Government Team, October—-Decem-
ber, 1943; civil affairs officer, Pozzuoli Area, January-February, 1944;
SHAEF Mission to Holland, April-August, 1944; stationed in London;
served with Solid Fuels Section, G-4, SHAEF, September, 1944-Nover-
ber, 1945; discharged as lieutenant colonel, January, 1946.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Office of Export Control and Board of Eco-
nomic Warfare, April, 1941-May, 1942; War Production Board, June,
1942—May, 1943.

OFFICES HELD: Member ECA-Commerce Mission to Investigate Possibilities
of Increasing Western Europe’s Dollar Earnings, May-June, 1949, mem-
ber commission appointed by Mayor McKee of New York to inquire
into and make recommendations for centralizing purchasing for New
York City, 1932; member National Advisory Council of Defense, 1940;
trustee and vice-president, Educational Alliance, 1934-46, trustee, Mu-
seum of the City of New York, 1936-46; director and member executive

committee, National Retail Dry Goods Association, 1938-40; vice-presi-
dent, Citizens Union, 1938-41; general vice-chairman, Greater New York
Fund 1939-41. Currently: member board of directors, R. H. Macy &
Company, Inc.; member council of advisers, Atlantic Union Committee;
member voluntary committee on housing and construction, State of
New York; president, National Multiple Sclerosis Society; trustee, Fed-
eration of Jewish Philanthropies of New York.

MEMBER OF: Century Country Club; Chamber of Commerce, State of New
York; Council on Foreign Relations, Harvard Club of New York,
Metropolitan Club of Washington, D.C,

THE twenty-five years since my graduation seem, on ‘reflection
(caused by the questionnaire), to have fallen into two rather dif-
ferent periods. The first period I might call the traditional, accord-
ing to my circumstances. I spent two years at the Business School,
and then after a six months’ sabbatical, which took me, among
other places, on a two months’ trip through European Russia, |
entered the employ of R. H. Macy & Company in New York
which, although not a family business in the strict sense of the

[ 946 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

word, nevertheless had a family background. I stayed there for
thirteen years up until 1941 and the war, which ended the first
period. During this period | used to take short trips on my vaca-
tions — Europe, Mexico, and out West. Some hunting and fishing,
and a good deal of horseback riding, including a little polo and
riding to hounds.

On Armistice Day, 1932, I met my “bride,” Tilly Day — of a
Yale family—and we were married the following summer.
Tommy and Braddy came along in due course, and at the time of
this writing — aetat 15 and 13 respectively — Tom is at Exeter
and both, I hope, are headed for Harvard.

I “felt” in my bones there would be a war, so in the summer of
1939 my wife and I made a last trip to Europe and I was right —
war was declared while we were in England. The following
summer I again felt we would be in it, and I went to Washington
for a short time with the National Advisory Council on Defense.
Then in April, 1941, I again tried to do my bit for Uncle Sam in
the Office of Export Control, and subsequently the Board of
Economic Warfare and the War Production Board. In the spring
of 1943 I was commissioned as a major (AUS) in Military Govern-
ment, and was fortunate in spending my entire service overseas.
It included a short spell with the British Army in Tripoli and a
landing via LST with the “Desert Rats” at Salerno.

I was part of the Military Government Team in Naples, being
responsible for “Economics and Supply” or the business life and
feeding of the population. Then a short period of “Bell for
Adano” existence in a district north of Naples. I was then sent to
England and for a while during the planning stage was a member
of the SHAEF Mission to Holland. The last year of the war I was
a staff officer in G-4 SHAEF working on problems of coal mining
and distribution for Northwest Europe, and followed that head-
quarters through into Frankfurt, Germany, where I left for home
at the end of 1945 asa lieutenant colonel.

The last four years I have been engaged in a number of un-
related but interesting activities, namely building prefabricated
houses, developing new products, handling trust investments, and
charity. In the last field I have been a member of the board of
trustees of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, and the presi-
dent of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society. Last summer I

[ 947 ]

»

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

was a member of the ECA-Department of Commerce Mission
that spent two months abroad studying the possibilities of closing
the “dollar gap” by increasing exports from the Marshall Plan
countries to the dollar areas. As I write this, I am preparing to go
to Paris to help carry out the recommendations of the report.

MILTON STROMBERG

HOME ADDRESS: 14 Egmont St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Commonwealth Clothing Co., 60 K St., South Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 2, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: Isaac Stromberg, Anne Cohen,

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1925.

marrigeD: Gladys Elinor Berman, Aug. 24, 1927, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Arthur Harmon, Oct. 28, 1928; Peter Evan, Nov. 8, 1932.

occupaTION: Men’s clothing manufacturer. °

MEMBER OF: Blue Hill Country Club.

UPON graduation I entered the men’s clothing manufacturing

industry and am still associated with the same business and the

same firm with which I started and which I now head. Business,

however, has called for very close attention to affairs allowing but

little time for many outside activities I would have enjoyed.

Travel has not been extensive, being confined to business trips

throughout the United States during the past years. If there were

any sensational or startling experiences that occurred they must

have missed me or slipped by without hitting me too hard, for I

never noticed them — in my pre-occupation.

The family consists of one wife, two sons, and myself. Starting
from the least important — myself — the less said the better. Be-
ginning at the other end — the wife — I couldn’t say enough good
things. In the middle — the sons — two good guys. Arthur grad-
uates from the University of Illinois in June, 1950, and Peter
graduates from the Clark School in Hanover, New Hampshire, at
the same time. Peter hopes to enter one of the colleges of his
choice in September. Harvard? No. You know it is usually hard
for a man or a school to be heroes in the home town. Oh well,
Harvard can afford to lose another good ball player — they have
so many! And speaking of that, the hobby is athletics. As for
actual participation, it is weekend golf — or should I say “hack-
ing”? The spectator part consists of all of them — baseball, foot-

[ 948 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ball, basketball, hockey, tennis, and even the roller derby. Harvard
athletics, too? Oh yes, but what are they? But kidding aside, the
Old Man (that’s me as if you didn’t know) still stands up for his
Alma Mater, still cheers her on 48-o or 28-7 or anything, still
insists that all around and over the years, ours is the best university,
still is grateful for the few wonderful years spent there, and, be-
lieve it or not, wouldn’t mind going back for four more!

LINNELL EDWARDS STUDLEY

HOME Appress: 77 Wood End Rd., Newton Highlands, Mass.

OFFICE appress: New England Confectionery Co, 2154 Massachusetts Ave.
Cambridge, Mass.

porN: March 15, 1904, Newton, Mass, parents: James Butler Studicy, ‘go,
Mary Frances Edwards.

prepared at: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925,

MARRIED: Katharine Lincoln, May 5, 1928, Newton, Mass, cunpren: Barbara
Lincoln, April 8, 1931; James Burler, April 10, 1935.

OccuPATION: Vice-president, New England Confectionery Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant (T), U. §, Coast Guard Temporary
Reserve.

MEMBER OF: Brae Burn Country Club; Socicty for Advancement of Man-
agement; New England Confectioners’ Club; Savin Hill Club, Peninsula
Club; Orleans Yacht Club.

MY LIFE since graduation, way way back — gosh, I well remem-

ber attending my father’s twenty-fifth back in 1924 and all the old

fogeys who were there, and here I am one of the same — has been
unexciting, quite conventional, and thoroughly enjoyable.

My entire business life has been spent with one company and
with them I have progressed from the minor headaches of a pro-
duction clerk, trying to live down a Harvard education (our plant
is just below Central Square), through personnel manager, to the
real, full-fledged migraine ones of factory manager, and now to
vice-president. But as it’s probably the sweetest job that any
member of the Class holds, and since the company is the best in the
business, it’s been very satisfactory.

As to my family: my daughter is in her first year at Bradford
Junior College and, although I may be accused of being preju-
diced, is a very attractive young lady. My son is in his last year of

[949 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

junior high and has hopes, which I more than share, of entering
Exeter this fall.

I have only one hobby —a lovely place at East Orleans on Cape
Cod on an inlet from the sea, with a garden, a few acres of land,
a long shore line, and a boat which all too often is just swinging at
her mooring. As many weekends throughout the year as can be
stolen away ; from business are spent there.

Political convictions? What good does it do to have any? I’ve
been on the wrong side so long that perhaps I should feel out of
step, but I don’t. 1 personally “don’t expect to get something for
nothing, don’t believe anybody ever did, and I don’t believe the
ciuzens of the U.S. A. can either, especially through Washington,
D.C.

JOHN JOSEPH SULLIVAN

ADDRESS: 29 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y.

Born: May 20, 1904, Fall River, Mass. parents: John Joseph Sullivan,
Margaret Louise Murphy. .

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

occupation: Lawyer.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
John Sullivan did not return a questionnaire.

JOSEPH SULLIVAN

HOME appress: 46 Wade Ave., Catonsville, Md.

orFice appress: Federal Security Agency, Equitable Bldg., Baltimore, Md.

Born: March 2, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Joseph Michael Sullivan, Agnes
Theresa Foley.

prepared aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREES: A.B., 1925(26); LL.B. (Boston Univ.),
1929.

Makaifp: Dorothy E. Burns, Nov. 17, 1941, Marlboro, Mass. CHILDREN:
Martha, Oct. 13, 1942; Lucille, Nov. 25, 1943; Dorothy, Jan. 21, 1946.
HARVARD BROTHERS; Frederick Richard Sullivan, ’27; Charles Raymond Sulli-

van, °33-
occupaTION; Attorney.
WAKTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Fedcral Security Agency, Boston, Mass.

MY VOCATION has been law. In 1937 I became an attorney for
the Social Security Board which upon reorganization became part

[950]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
of the Federal Security Agency. I have worked in the fields of

unemployment compensation, public assistance, vocational re-
habilitation, and old age and survivor's insurance. I was transferred
to Baltimore in 1947 and have worked principally on domestic
relations problems involved in claims for old age and survivor's
insurance.

My hobby seems to be watching my girls grow. Of course I
have become quite a handy man at doing odd jobs in renovating
our house.

+ ROBERT EMLEN SUMNER

BoRN: March 27, 1903, Boston, Mass. parents: John Osborne Sumner, Mary
Shreve Hutchinson.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MaRRIED: Mary Barnet FitzGerald, Aug. 31, 1927, Effingham, N. H. cum-
DREN: Joan, March 22, 1929; William Osborne, March 15, 1932.

DIED: Sept. 17, 1941, Norwalk, Conn.

wipow: Mrs. Robert E. Sumner, New Canaan, Conn.

ROBERT EMLEN SUMNER entered Harvard after preparatory

studies at the Country Day School in Newton, Massachusetts.

He was a member of the Freshman Cross Country Squad, Senior

Endowment Committee, Hasty Pudding Club-Institute of 1770

and Spee Club. He was Ivy Orator, and a member of the Lam-

poon staff. He was also a member of the Speakers’ Club and

served as its president his senior year.

He taught for one year at the Middlesex School, Concord,
Massachusetts, and then moved to New York. In 1932 he became
associated with the New York banking house of Brown Brothers,
Harriman & Company. He had been a member of the Harvard
Clubs of Boston and New York.

JOHN LOWRENCE SWAYZE, JR.

HOME AppRESS: Hamburg, Sussex Co. N. J.

OFFICE appress: Young & Rubicam, 285 Madison Ave., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 8, 1903, Trenton, N. J. parents: John Lowrence Swayze, Eva
Couse.

PREPARED AT: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925 (26).

[951]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

MARRIED: Phyllis Smith, Aug. 4, 1928, Morristown, N. J. CHILDREN: Joan,
Dec. 21, 1930; John Lowrence, 3d, March 25, 1933; Townsend Smith,
July 17, 1937; Henry Seward, April 4, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Joseph Swayze, zd, ’33.

occuPATION: Radio advertising.

THERE’S very little to tell — my life has been advertising with
all the different kinds of work, the friends, and, during the war
especially, the occasional public service that go with it. My
home life has been my wife, my children, and my friends. Travel
has been mostly for business. My hobbies have changed very little
since I was in Harvard. And, for further information, my daugh-
ter Joan is now in Radcliffe, starting college almost where I did
twenty-five years ago.

Joan writes a little also, but at present she is mostly interested in
science. During the last two summers she worked at the Sloan-
Kettering cancer foundation, helping study mutations, adaptations,
and the heredity patterns of bacteria.

FREDERICK ARNOLD SWEET

HOME ADDRESS: §525 S. Blackstone Ave., Chicago 37, Tl.

OFFICE appREss: Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, Ill.

BORN: June 20, 1903, Sargentville, Maine. parents: Frederick Arnold Sweet,
Julia Harkness.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1021-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 1925 (26); A.M., 1930.

marrieD: Esther Elizabeth Stephenson, Sept. 6, 1928, Portland, Maine. cuit-
pren: Ann Macdonald, April 19, 1931; Jessica Harkness, Oct. 27, 1934.

HARVARD BROTHER: Philip Whitford Kirkland Sweet, ’21 (deceased).

OccUPATION: Associate curator of painting and sculpture.

OFFICES HELD: Curator, Renaissance Art, Brooklyn Museum, 1932-36; director,
Portland Art Museum, Portland, Oregon, 1936~—39; assistant curator,
painting and sculpture, 1939-42; associate curator, painting and sculpture,
since 1942; editor, The Bulletin, 1939-46, Art Institute of Chicago.

MEMBER OF: The Arts Club of Chicago.

PUBLICATIONS: Two afticles in Early American Rooms, 1936; The Hudson
River School and the Early American Landscape Tradition, 1945; editor,
George Bellows, 1946; From Colony to Nation, 1949; contributor to
The Art Quarterly, BM Bulletin, AIC Bulletin, Art News, Antiques, and
other art publications.

ALTHOUGH the customary spring arrival of the bill for the
$8.88 insurance premium has been a constant reminder of the

[952 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

passage of time, perhaps the most alarming evidence of the ap-
palling remoteness of 1925 was brought to my mind by the fact
that last year my elder daughter was a freshman at Radcliffe.
Radcliffe freshmen take time —a long time —to produce. Her
younger sister, a junior at the Putney School, is close behind.

My first year out of college was spent in Europe, mostly in
Italy, Spain, and France, with several weeks’ study at the Sorbonne.
During the twenties I spent a good deal of time abroad, alternating
with graduate work in fine arts at Harvard. I was especially im-
pressed with medieval Europe and spent many exciting hours in
the Romanesque churches of small Spanish and Italian towns,
Though not a classicist, I was inspired, nevertheless, by Dr. Chase’s
teaching and found Greece correspondingly rewarding. Ulti-
mately I learned to admire the Baroque era, and saw Rome and the
palaces of Germany in a new and thrilling light. And finally,
through exhibitions in Paris, I came to know Cézanne and ulti-
~ mately was introduced to modern French painting.

Starting as a neophyte in the museum field at the Brooklyn Mu-
seum, I gradually learned my way around and acquired the prac-
tical experience so necessary in order to be a useful member of any
profession. In 1936, after a summer in Germany and Austria, I
went out to Portland, Oregon, to be director of the art museum,
and had the pleasure of seeing something of my own country.
Although I knew fifteen countries in Europe, I had not seen, up to
that time, as many states in this country. Having travelled exten-
sively during the past dozen years, covering all but two of the
forty-eight states, I realize how much I had missed.

In the spring of 1939 I joined the staff of the Art Institute of
Chicago, undoubtedly the most active and stimulating museum in
the country, and have taken an active part in the many notable
exhibitions for which the Art Institute is justly famous. Aside
from regular curatorial work, I have done a good deal of writing
and editing, a job which I enjoy very much and have even done
some teaching, probably the most difficult job in the world for
one who is not a professional teacher.

Exploring by car continues to be an active hobby, and may take
me to eastern Oregon, southern New Mexico, old river towns
along the Ohio and Mississippi, or down east villages in Maine.
Greek revival architecture has a great fascination for me and many

[953 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

a choice example has turned up in central New York state, Ohio,
southern Michigan, and Louisiana. I have enjoyed many fine vaca-
tions on the eastern shores of Penobscot Bay, Maine, where my
family pioneered as summer residents in the nineties and was wise
enough to buy a house which we still use. I look forward to more
travel in the West and to Europe again.

Life in Chicago has never a dull moment. Everybody comes
through here and they all have to change trains, so there is a con-
stant procession of scholars, movie actresses, visiting nobility,
parading Shriners, in fact, every known type of visiting fireman,
The University community, in which I live, is a world in itself
and offers fine music, exciting lectures, and no end of good com-
pany. We like to give parties in which we mix atomic scientists,
artists, visiting foreigners, doctors, and musicians, and the inspired
food which my wife has a genius for preparing seems to make
them mingle most amicably.

My two daughters, who form a very important part of our
household, amaze me with their physical energies developed dur-
ing their years at the Putney School in Vermont and during sum-
mers in Maine. They are equally ready to climb Mt. Washington
with a sixty-pound pack, do all the ski runs at Stowe and Cannon
Mountain, man a sailboat, dash into a square dance, or play a
Bach fugue.

HARRY OLIVER SWETT

HOME ADDRESS: 340-E Hackett Blvd., Albany 3, N. Y.

orFice appress: Albany Academy, Albany 2, N. Y.

BORN: June 24, 1903, Lynn, Mass. parents: Harry Adams Swett, Marian
Louise Oliver.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; ED.M. (Univ. of Vermont),
1941.

MarrieD: Dorothy Marion Lannigan, July 14, 1931, Fall River, Mass. CHILD:
Robert Adams, May 8, 1932.

occupation: Educator, specializing in reading.

oFFices HELD: Principal of several high schools; guidance director of two
other schools; master of local Grange for short time; local preacher in
Methodist Church for a few years.

MempeER OF: National Association of Remedial Teachers; Grange.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles concerning topics in educational field, printed
in school magazines.

[954]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SHORTLY after graduation from Harvard, I entered the profes-
sion of education and I have remained in it. The experience has
been rich and varied. If I were to start my working days again
with the Class of 1950, I should choose the same profession. It has
taken me from a unicellular country high school (one teacher, two
years of work for the pupils) to my present specialty in reading at
Albany Academy, one of the country’s oldest and best known day
schools.

After our marriage in 1931, my wife continued in the teaching
profession with me, except in those years when our son was very
young and not enrolled in school. At that time I was in the Educa-
tional Department of the Civilian Conservation Corps. From this
experience I learned much about the education of young men that
learned professors in our colleges do not touch upon in the train-
ing of prospective teachers.

The C.C.C. brought us to Vermont, a State in which we re-
mained for nine years, during seven years of which we taught in
the public schools of the State. Our years in Vermont are still a
delightful memory to us. Our son Bob so liked the State of his
boyhood that he elected to enter Middlebury College last Sep-
tember. Both of us think that his choice was very wise. Harvard
can come later, in the graduate years.

Our only professional mistake was in going to work at Hackley
School in Tarrytown, New York, for three years, during which
I held the title of director of testing and guidance. During these
years, however, I took courses in reading techniques under Pro-
fessor Ernest Wood at New York University, Dr. Stella Center
at New York University Reading Clinic, and Dr. Earl Taylor at
the Washington Square Reading Center.

In my present position at the Albany Academy I am carrying
out my plans for the development of a reading clinic which will
assist not only Albany Academy boys but pupils in neighboring
schools as well.

Politically I am still “a little to the left of center” but not so far
to the left that I appreciate the various vote-getting activities of
the Truman Administration in the form of some of the bland pro-
visions of the Welfare State. Religiously, I am still in accord with
the social outlook of the Methodist Church but can’t see how it
can be so intelligent about this yet so doltish about its refusal to

[955]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

let its clergymen smoke or take an occasional friendly “cup that
cheers.” I believe that we have the alternative of a unified Chris-
tian Church within the next half-century or dialectic materialism
at its worst.

Our greatest interest is our son Bob, now seventeen and a fresh-
man at Middlebury. He is preparing to enter foreign service,
taking economics, government, and languages at Middlebury
before entering Littauer School at Harvard.

It may be that pressure of work may make it impossible for me
to attend the Twenty-fifth Reunion, but I am still hoping to be
able to get there for a part of it, at least.

JOSEPH SMITH SYLVESTER, JR.

HOME apprEss: Washington Street, Hanover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Industrial Machine Works, Inc., South Hanover, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 19, 1903, Hanover, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Smith Sylvester, Mary
Ainsworth Lyman.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925 (26).

marRrieD: Mildred L. Black (divorced); Elizabeth R. Eaton, Dec. 16, 1935,
Millerton, N. Y.

OCCUPATION: President and treasurer, Industrial Machine Works, Inc.; treas-
urer, Syl-Fav Art Glass Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Rockland Trust Company; master, Phoenix Lodge
AF. & A.M., Hanover, 1945-47.

WERE I to sit down and enumerate the ups and downs of my life
since graduating from college, it would be uninteresting to every-
one including myself.

Suffice to say that at present I am living in a small town about
twenty-five miles south of Boston. I am interested in two different
businesses here — a machine shop and a glass decorating factory.

JAMES BOGERT TAILER, JR.

ADDRESS: 123 E. 7oth St., New York 21, N. Y.

BoRN: Nov. 12, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: James Bogert Tailer, Clara
Woodward Moss.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MarRiED: Barbara Simmons Register, Oct. 3, 1925, Marion, Mass. CHILDREN:
James Bogert, 3d, July 8, 1926; Patricia Woodward, March 29, 1928.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

[956 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THE information printed above is from the Secrctary’s files,
Tailer did not return a questionnaire.

ABBEE WINTHROP TALAMO

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Commodore Rd., Worcester 2, Mass.

oFFice ApprEsS: Talamo & Talamo, 390 Main St. Worcester 8, Mass.

porn: Sept. 8, 1904, Worcester, Mass. parents: Jacob Mever Talamo, Fannie
Esther Feingold.

PREPARED AT: North High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: 8.B., 1925; LLB. 1928.

MmarrieD: Gertrude Ruth Dereshinsky, Dee. 3, 1929 Boston, Mass. cuiLoren:
Richard Charles, April 21, 1935; Ruth Clara, Jan. 15, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Talamo, La. "18.

OCCUPATION; Attorney,

orrices HELD: President, ¥Y.M.H.A, Worcester, 1928-30, Worcester Lodge,
B'nai B'rith, 1941-42, Jewish Youth Center, t9y9-s0, chairman, U.S.O,
J. W. B. Armed Services Committee for Central New England Arca,
1940-50; chairman men’s division, Jewish Welfare Fund and U. J. A.
Campaigns, 1945-50; member executive committce, Worcester Youth
Guidance Clinic, Social Center for Older People, B'nai B'rith, New
England Jewish Welfare Board.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Worcester, Kappa Nu Fraternity; B'nai B'rith;
Zionist Organization of America; Worcester County Bar Association;
Worcester Child Guidance Association, Community Chest, Red Cross.

MONTHS of unjustifiable procrastination are finally ended and
here goes what I had firmly resolved to do during my vacation at
Dennisport last August.

After the usual three-year stretch at the Harvard Law School,
I returned to my native Worcester to start the traditional general
practice of law. I had nothing to lose in the crash of ’29 but that’s
when I acquired my greatest asset. Since then two swell children
arrived to make our happiness complete.

After a few years of routine law practice and communal work,
I accepted a call to Washington to direct a nationwide investiga-
tion of the wages, hours, and working conditions of the textile
industry. Again in 1938 I accepted the directorship of a nation-
wide housing and building investigation for the Department of
Labor. In this capacity it was necessary to make flying visits to all
regions of our fair land through the regional offices which I estab-
lished at New York, Indianapolis, San Francisco, Dallas, Atlanta,
and Washington, with headquarters at Boston.

[957]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

During World War II, through U.S.O. and the National Jewish
Welfare Board, I directed a cultural, social, religious, and recrea-
tional program for all servicemen in the central Massachusetts area.
This entailed work at Fort Devens, Lovell General Hospital, Cush-
ing General Hospital, and Camp Framingham. My constant con-
tacts with the Special Service, Red Cross, chaplains, U.S.O., and
Service Club officers took me away from home at least two or
three evenings a week. In fact, coupled with activity on the
various savings bond drives, my law practice and home life at
times seemed purely incidental.

Since the war, although some time is spent at Fort Devens and
several nearby veterans’ hospitals, I have tried to enjoy some time
with my family. A few weeks at the Cape each summer have been
supplemented by occasional family jaunts to New York and Maine.
The musical proclivities of our offspring have a purely maternal
origin: Richie with the clarinet and oboe and Ruthie with the
piano. Occasional football games at the stadium have often been
preceded by nostalgic meanderings through the Yard, Massachu-
setts Avenue, and the Square, with amazement at the physical
changes that have been wrought since ’25. No doubt prayers will
be offered at our Reunion for the return of Crimson football to its
quondam glory. My current communal activities are, I presume,
typical of an aging barrister.

These incoherent ramblings give me one solace — that they do
not have to be scrutinized by an English A instructor. I am an
independent voter with no political aspirations. Having the swell-
est wife and children and being able to bring some happiness to
others, rank me with the wealthiest in the Class, albeit my “income
and living standards” are most modest. I hope that the advent of
old age will never detract from my ability to share the real values
and joys of life.

GEORGE CASSIUS TALLIS

HOME apprEss: Mornington, Victoria, Australia.

BORN: Sept. 18, 1902, Melbourne, Australia. PARENTS: George Tallis, Mil-
licent Young.

PREPARED AT: Corio, Victoria,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1021-1925. DEGREE: S,B. IN MECH. ENGIN., 1925.

[958 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

married: Dorothy Elizabeth France, June, 1925, Columbus, Ohio. crttpren:
June Patricia, March 26, 1927 (m. George Andrew Kirk); George
Michael, Aug. 10, 1931.

occuPATION: Sheep and cattle farming.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Duty with Australian A. A. Regiment, 1941;
served with Army Inventions, H.Q., Melbourne, 1942-45.

MEMBER OF: Athenaeum Club.

OF ME and my brother, when we played truant from school and

arrived back home much the worse for wear, our old nurse would

demand: “Now what have you young devils been up to this time?”

Then when by guile and cunningly phrased questions she had

learned the horrid truth, she would add, “And what your Mother

will think about this I really would not know!” That was forty

years ago but, as it was then, so is it now. What have we “been

up to”?

I live “down under” and with me still is the Radcliffe girl I firse
met at the Junior Prom. Our two children are quite grown-up and
here on these indolent southern shores the old home seems strangely
quiet and empty now. The evening calm is no longer shattered by
ether-borne crooners, for our daughter is married and the boy is
at an agricultural college. He had early been ear-marked for
Harvard, not only for sentimental reasons, but the insatiable ap-
petite of Fort Knox soon made such a dream, well, just a dream.

On the whole, life has been for me pleasant, uneventful, and
unspectacular. Looking back I don't think I could have wished it
otherwise, for opportunity, though it knocked several times, has
always been courteously but firmly redirected up the road. My
accomplishments, aside from shooting sitting rabbits with a fair
degree of confidence, are quite ni] and I may perhaps claim the
rare distinction of never having said, written, or done anything
worthy of note in any field of endeavor. It is a damaging confes-
sion and I fear will bring gasps of dismay from my more restless,
energetic, and erudite classmates. The Class standard has been let
down, and badly at that! And once again, with guilt acknowl-
edged, I seem to hear an old, old voice saying, “And what poor
Harvard will think about this I really would not know!”

Despite these very lamentable shortcomings, however, I am
strangely glad and proud to be one of Harvard’s many alumni:
glad because I can pose as an authority on American thought and
proud because I can bask, and there is nothing I really like better,

[959]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

in a sort of reflected glory from her prestige. And there is pride
too in the knowledge that virile American blood is in my children.
For they, I see, are shaping up to life’s insistent stream; they are
not, like me, content to pause a while and watch it pass.

IRVING BENJAMIN TAUB

HOME ADDRESS: 102 Murray Ave., Larchmont, N. Y. .

OFFICE ADDRESS: Paramount Furniture Industries Co., 206 Lexington Ave,
New York, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 4, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Benjamin Taub, Lillian Lask,

PREPARED AT: DeWitt Clinton High School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.

MarRiED: Ruth Helen Rose, June 19, 1929, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Peter
Benjamin, Jan. 27, 1930; John Sherman, Feb. 2, 1933.

HARVARD SON: Peter Benjamin Taub, ’51.

occuPATION: Office manager, wholesale furniture.

WHEN I was a Harvard freshman, my first writing assignment
was an autobiography, which I found extremely difficult. Even
four years at Harvard, plus twenty-five years in the great wide
world, have done nothing to change the situation.

Mine may well be among the most undistinguished autobiog-
raphies in the Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report of the Class of
1925. My sole claim to wartime service, for instance, was the post
of air raid warden. I met some of the nicest people in Larchmont
on those cold nights. An accounting of the years since 1925 shows
no heights and no depths; a suburban existence, with its satisfac-
tions and its drawbacks; a thoroughly pleasant family; the usual
ups and downs of living and raising two sons; as a matter of fact,
plenty of everything except money.

My good wife, an erstwhile Smith girl who became a newspaper
woman rather late in life, tells me that although I could hardly
qualify as the life of the party, I have turned out to be a first class
husband and father. Our son Peter, twenty years old, is a junior
at Hlarvard and sports editor of the Crimson, more power to it,
and sports correspondent to the Herald Tribune. He hopes for a
sports writing job after graduation. John, our seventeen-year-old,
is a high school senior and we hope will have been admitted to
Hfarvard by the time this Anniversary Report is published. He is
aiming at a medical career.

[ 960 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My travels, for lo, these many years, have been largely confined
to the commuters’ path between Larchmont and Grand Central.
Europe, Bermuda, and the lazy cruises of an earlier day have long
been memories. My political convictions are superbly expressed
in Arthur Schlesinger’s The Vital Center. 1 work hard for fifty
weeks of the year and in the summertime I like to crew on my
friends’ sailboats on Long Island Sound. I try to understand my
children and the changing world, and manage to keep up my al-
most unbroken Harvard-Yale game attendance, despite all and
sundry vicissitudes.

If this be the proper place for it, I should like to express my
warm appreciation for Harvard’s admirable stand during last year’s
anti-Communist hysteria, and pay sincere tribute to President
Conant’s letter and Dean Bender’s statement.

JOHN BOOTH TAYLOR

HOME ADDRESS: 216 34th St., Manhattan Beach, Calif.

OFFICE appREss: % Wilshire Oil Co., Inc., Legal Department, 1206 Maple
Ave., Los Angeles 15, Calif.

BORN: Feb. 20, 1903, Cascade, Mont, parents: John Booth Taylor, Kate
Eldora Van Emon.

PREPARED AT: Great Falls High School, Great Falls, Mont.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. Cum? laude, 19253 LL.B. 1928.

MaRRIED; Evelyn Joslyn, Sept. 14, 1946, Prescott, Ariz.

OccupaTION: Attorney.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Army Air Force, 1942-43.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant secretary, Wilshire Oil Company, Inc., since 1947.

MEMBER OF: State Bar of California; Wilshire Oil Supervisory Club; Harvard
Club of Southern California; James A. Garfield Lodge No. 566, F. & A.M.

FROM the cloistered halls of Harvard, I went to a different kind

of cloister in the largest law office in San Francisco. In 1931 I

escaped from there to Los Angeles where I became associated

successively with two small firms of attorneys. Eventually I helped

try a lawsuit involving most of the oil companies and one of the

largest oil fields in California. The trial lasted three years. From

childhood I had been interested in oil and when, in 1939, the op-

portunity occurred, I joined the legal department of Wilshire Oil

Company, Inc., the largest independent in California. My asso-

" Ciation with Wilshire has been very pleasant and very gratifying.

Every weekend for years I played tennis. Then I took up flying,

[ 96: ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

but that became too expensive when I married and bought a
house —a house with outdoor (as well as indoor) fireplace and
patio, half way up a hill and two and a half blocks from the beach.
I like to work with my hands and in my spare time I find self-
expression and relaxation in carpentry, painting, and general put-
tering around my establishment. My wife is artistic and the two
of us have quite thoroughly transformed our house.

On most of my vacations I drive to Montana, Canada, or the
Pacific Northwest. One summer I drove to North Carolina and
back.

The years have kept me busy, but not too busy to live.

HOLLIS KERESEY THAYER

HOME ADpREsS: 16 Remsen St., Brooklyn 2, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Dominick & Dominick, 14 Wall St., New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 8, 1902, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Edward Claflin Thayer, ’85,
Alice Keresey.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory Country Day School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

marrieD: Florence Elizabeth Read, Aug. 17, 1935, Whitefield, N. H. cam-
DREN: Bradley Read, June 14, 1936; Florence Fairchild and Hollis Red-
mond (twins), July 29, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Redmond Thayer, ’2r.

OCCUPATION: Investment banking.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Renegotiator for War Department, November,

1942—-May, 1945.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Lawrence Beach Club; The

Heights Casino.
SINCE my graduation, my time has been devoted principally to
my family, my job, and a few various extra-curricular activities.

Mrs, Thayer and I have lived in Brooklyn Heights since our

marriage in 1935. We have lived at three different locations, mov-
ing each time our family expanded. Our home now is a house built
in about 1848 with five stories and a fine view across the East River
of the lower Manhattan skyline. Although we live rather on the
vertical, 1 find the stairs help to keep me in trim for our summer
hikes in the White Mountains. I can see my office building from
our home and I can get there from my breakfast table in fifteen
minutes, which is a lot better than the hour and forty-five minutes
which a good many of my commuter friends require.

[ 962 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Our daughter attends Packer Collegiate Institute, a girls’ school

which her mother attended and which is only a few blocks from
our home. Our sons go to Poly Prep Country Day School where
I went and which is a half-hour’s subway ride from the Heights.
I am sure that two other members of the Class of 1925, Lauson
Stone and Travis Whitney, will agree that Brooklyn Heights is a
friendly community and a comfortable and pleasant place to live,
especially for anyone working in downtown New York.

We spend at least part of each summer, and usually the best part,
in Whitefield, New Hampshire. This lovely New England town
is about ten miles west of the White Mountains. Our family has
had lots of good times on the Appalachian Mountain Trails. Last
year on a beautiful day we climbed across the Presidential Range
after spending the night in the hut on Mt. Adams. We have also

spent parts of several summers on the shore at Nonquitt on Buz-
zards Bay and at Lawrence on the south shore of Long Island.

After graduating, I started working in my father’s wholesale
shoe company of Claflin, Thayer & Company in New York. My
father decided shortly afterwards that the prospects for the whole-
sale shoe business in New York were not promising. By 1928
liquidation of the business was substantially completed and I started
working in the investment banking business. For the past fourteen
years, I have been in the research and investment department of
Dominick & Dominick with the exception of two and a half years
during the war when I was attached to the New York Ordnance
Office of the War Department as a renegotiator of war contracts.
. Although I did not feel in 1929, 1930, and 1931 that I had picked

the best time to get into investment banking, in looking back I am
glad that I did have the experience of those years behind me early
in my business career. I have found my work in this field very
absorbing and feel that the opportunity it presents to learn quite
a bit about a wide group of industries and companies is one of its
most gratifying features.
I like to classify myself as a liberal Republican and politically
I believe I am about in the center. Although a registered Repub-
lican during the Roosevelt era, I voted for F.D.R. twice. Except
for working for Wendell Willkie and at times for a few of my
friends who have run for local political offices, I have not taken an
active part in politics,

[ 963 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

My extra-curricular activities consist partly of being on the
boards of several local charities, the favorite being the Brooklyn
Home for Children. My wife has been very interested in this home
for many years and I more recently. The home is almost a hun-
dred years old and we feel that it has done a great deal fora great
many children.

My hobbies are not of the elaborate type. In addition to the
Sunday afternoon nap, I like a good game of squash racquets
doubles at the Heights Casino during the winter and sailing, golf,
and tennis during the summer. My wife has been a season sub-
scriber to the Dodger night baseball games. While my wife and I
share each other’s interests, I really look forward more to the
night baseball games.

With the children growing up, I find that I have become regular
in my church attendance. We attend Grace Episcopal Church,
where the boys have been members of the choir and Spencer
Memorial Church, Presbyterian, where my father-in-law is min-
ister. Although I believe my convictions have become somewhat
more firmly fixed along certain lines, I also feel that in other
respects I have become more tolerant of the thoughts and opinions
of others.

PHILIP HUNTINGTON THEOPOLD

HOME ADDRESS: 47 Bemis Rd., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Minot, DeBlois & Maddison, 294 Washington St., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: Aug. 8, 1902, Faribault, Minn. parents: Herbert Cotton Theopold,
Anna Laura Cole.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MarriED: Harriet Evelyn Royce, June 16, 1928, Dedham, Mass. cHrpreN:
Ann Huntington, Nov. 27, 1929; Harriet Royce, Sept. 29, 1931; Jean
Ames, Dec. 28, 1933; Karen and Freda (twins), Dec. 1, 1935.

OccuPATION: Trustee and manager of real estate and personal property.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Member First Motor Squadron, Massachusetts
State Guard, September, 1940-October, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Consolidated Investment Trust and Employers Group,
Farm and Trades School, various real estate trusts; director, Fiduciary
Trust Company, John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company, Fifty
Associates, Employers Fire Insurance Company, American Employers
Insurance Company, Boston Storage Warehouse Company; trustee and

[ 964 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

treasurer, St. Mark’s School; trustee and member board of investment,
Provident Institution for Savings in the Town of Boston.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Somerset Club; Union Club of Boston,
Dedham Country and Polo Club.

CHRONOLOGICALLY, the past twenty-five years fall into
five periods:

From 1925 to 1927, I was a member of the faculty at St. Mark’s
School, primarily as an athletic coach and also in order to sce if
I had any bent for teaching. Answer “No.”

From 1927 to 1932 I was associated with Lee, Higginson &
Company of Boston, where I sold bonds and expected to be a
millionaire in no time.

From 1932 to 1937 I was associated with and a partner in the
New York Stock Exchange firm of F, L. Dabney & Company,
where the above-acquired idea was rapidly and completely driven
from my mind.

In 1938 I was treasurer and director of the Polaroid Corporation,
a position which neither was suited to me, nor I to it, with a
resultant state of mental confusion on my part as to what I was
going to do in life, and four months of unemployment. Thanks
to the New England hurricane there was plenty of physical work
to be done during those four months — but no pay.

From 1939 to 1949 I was associated with and member of the
trustee and management firm of DeBlois & Maddison in Boston.
As of January 1, 1950, a new firm — Minot, DeBlois & Maddison
— emerged as a consolidation of my former partnership and that
of another old Boston one — Minot, Williams & Bangs. Thus,
after twenty-five years, there is a new challenge to meet with
much anticipation and hope.

During most of the ume since graduation there have been two
of us, for a happy marriage in 1928 has brought joy to me and
five more females to the world. We have lived in Dedham since
the start and have spent weckends in New Hampshire since the
war. In this I had no service, unless one is permitted to consider
six years in the Massachusetts State Guard as an acceptable sub-
Stitute.

There has also been time for many outside interests and I was
an early enthusiast for the Community Chest idea. With Frank

Akers, I helped start the first joint effort in Dedham and con-

[ 965 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925 _-

tinued on until in the fall of 1947 I had the privilege of being
general chairman of the Greater Boston Community Fund cam-
paign. I am still interested in the work and am currently a direc-
tor of United Community Services of Metropolitan Boston.

There have been outside though related business interests, in-
cluding directorships in three insurance companies and a couple
of banks. I also served as first commissioner of state-owned air-
ports for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in 1948.

So much for the factual side of these years, which have been
such busy ones. Perhaps one of the happiest things which has
happened to us as a family is our discovery of New Hampshire.
From a beginning in the days immediately before Pearl Harbor
until now, we have made periodic visits there. In the last three
years each weekend from April to December has seen us enjoying
the change and relaxation which a quiet countryside can bring.
There is plenty of work to be done on a small farm to annoy
those who would rather catch a trout or shoot a partridge. There
is swimming in a spring-fed pool and generally enough snow for
the casual skier. Some day we hope that this weekend haven may
be our permanent home.

This completes a composition which has been harder to write
than any I ever did in college. My family think it is dull; I think
it is provincial; and I expect the reader to think it boring. I
gather from many other classmates that they have had the same
difficulties, so I am mailing this in and forgetting it. I would like
to have done many more important and worth-while things than
I have done and I still hope that in the coming years there may be
an opportunity to do work of more lasting benefit than has so
far been the case. However, I hope I shall never have to write
about it in another Class Report.

DUDLEY HUBBARD THOMAS

HOME ADDRESS: 226 McKinley Ave., Waukegan, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 707 S. Genesee St., Waukegan, Ill.

BORN: July 7, 1900, Boston, Mass. parents: John Willard Thomas, ’gs, Alice
Beulah Hubbard.

PREPARED AT: Williston Academy, Fasthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; LL.B. (Fordham Univ.).

[ 966 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MarnieD: Tommye Rose Hodges, Sept. 2, 1942, Chicago, Ill. (died June 24,
1944).

occuPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S. Army, Sept. 4, 1942-Sept. 29, 1944.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Waukegan Housing Authority, at present,
member board of directors, Waukegan-North Chicago Community
Chest, 1946-49, Waukegan Y.M.C.A, 1946-49, chairman board of
managers, South Genesce Street Branch, ¥.M.C.A. 1946-49.

MEMBER OF: Lake County Bar Association.

I HAVE been wondering why I have delaved filling out this

questionnaire until the laste moment. After some thought, I am

convinced that the reason is that I have been seeking a way to
make an ordinary and uneventful career appear interesting and
exciting.

After finishing Law School in 1930, I engaged in social service
work for several years. Then followed a five-year association
with the law firm of Ellis & Westbrooks in Chicago. Coming to
Waukegan in 1940, I opened my own office, engaging in the gen-
eral practice of law, with the exception of two years spent in
the service during the war.

At present, I am one of five commissioners of the Waukegan
Housing Authority which is now completing preliminary steps
for the building of a low rent federal housing project.

Although to date I am still a widower, I expect to marry again
— and soon — before I lose all my hair and teeth.

HENRY PICKERING THOMAS

HOME AporESs: Woodchuck Hill Road, Fayetteville, N. Y.

OFFICE appress: General Electric Co, Syracuse, N. Y.

BoRN: May 23, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: John Jenks Thomas, Frances
Pickering Walker.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 1925(26); 8.M. IN B. COM, ENGIN,
1927.

MARRIED: Justine VanRensselaer, July 27, 1931, New York, N. Y. (died 1941);
Virginia Sclater, 1944, Reno, Nev. capren: Rosemary, Feb, 2, 1945;
Timothy Pickering, Dec. 10, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Grimes Walker Thomas, '24; Alfred Thomas, ’26.

occupation: Electrical engineer.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers.

PUBLICATIONS: Proceedings, Institute of Radio Engineers, electronics, FM and
television.

[ 967 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

WAYNE BENTLEY THOMAS

HOME ADDRESS: 1406 Westover Rd., Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio.

OFFICE AbpRESS: Hunter-Thomas, Associates, 2130 Keith Bldg., Cleveland 1s,
Ohio.

Born: April 19, 1903, Niles, Ohio. PARENTS: William Arthur Thomas, Mary
Evelyn Bentley.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.; Mercersburg Academy,
Mercersburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926.

MarrieD: Sarah Katherine Kennedy, Sept. 17, 1927, Youngstown, Ohio (di-
vorced 1948); Sarah Louella Gallagher, Dec. 9, 1948, Cleveland, Ohio.
CHILDREN: William Arthur, 2d, May 13, 1930; Bentley Kennedy, June 5,
1932.

occupation: Management of business associations as partner in Hunter-
Thomas, Associates,

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Niles Steel Products Company, 1931-36;
assistant general manager of division, Republic Steel Corporation, 1936-
38; partner, Hunter-Thomas, Associates, since 1938; director, General
Dry Batteries, Inc., Time Finance Corporation; commissioner, Air Dis-
tribution Institute; member, Domestic Water Tank Manufacturers
Council, Enameled Utensil Manufacturers Council, Galvanized Ware
Manufacturers Council, Milk Bottle Crate Manufacturers Council, Milk
and Ice Cream Can Institute, Predecorated Panelboard Council.

MEMBER OF: American Trade Association Executives; Harvard Club of New
York; Union Club of Cleveland; The Country Club, Cleveland.

ON LEAVING college I entered the production phase of the
primary steel industry in which I had previously worked during
vacations and an interim absence from Cambridge. From this
I gravitated more or less naturally into the production depart-
ment of a company fabricating steel products. This led to some
sales work and eventually to the financial and general management
functions of secretary-treasurer of the Niles Steel Products Com-
pany.

You will recall that the middle ’30’s were not the happiest era
in which to be engaged in any manufacturing enterprise and in
1936 we sold out (or gave up) to Republic Steel Corporation. |
continued there for two years as assistant manager of the division
until February, 1938, when I was asked to undertake the manage-
ment of two trade associations and associated myself with my
present partner,

I entered the field of business organization management with
very mixed feelings, not knowing whether I would like the type

[ 968 ]

—_,

|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of work or whether it would like me. I soon found that I had
simply exchanged the management problems of one company for
those of a number of companies, and that the problems had a
remarkable similarity. After twelve years in this profession, [
like it better than ever and I suppose I have achieved some moder-
ate Success in it.

During the war I commuted between Cleveland and Washing-
ton every week for over four years, spending four days rushing
about the mazes of the nation’s madhouse and the other three
days in Cleveland trying to keep up with my office and recover
from “Washington shock.” There was nothing either glamorous
or satisfying about the work and frustration frequently got me
down, but I suppose somebody had to do it.

Reading is probably still my favorite form of relaxation, with
some golf and flying mixed in.

The names of my two sons are absent from the space provided
in the report for “Harvard Sons” for the reason that they both
seem to prefer smaller and, in my opinion, of course, less repu-
table institutions of learning. The elder boy is a sophomore at
Colgate this year and the younger one will enter Williams next
fall.

It seems to me that asking a man for an account of his life
twenty-five years after leaving college is somewhat like asking
him at noon of a long, hard automobile trip how he has enjoyed
the scenery. He has probably been too intent on the road and
in trying to reach his destination to have much real appreciation
of what he has seen on the way. Probably certain incidents and
views will stand out in sharper focus nearer the end of the drive
and while reviewing it in retrospect.

About all I can report so far is that I have had a fair share of
both reverses and successes. Some of the reverses seemed almost
unbearable at the time and some of the successes, I believe, I
enjoyed to an extent not justified by their subsequent importance.

I am still a Republican, though a somewhat discouraged one,
and many would no doubt classify me as a reactionary, It is true
that I was anti-New Deal and I am now anti-Fair Deal, but I think
if I have learned anything in twenty-five years, I have learned
that economic, political, and social development does not stand
still. Change is the essence of life and we can’t go backwards. I

[ 969 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

am old enough to be convinced that much that is going on today
in our political and economic life is inherently wrong, but young
enough to oppose it and be tremendously interested in what is
going to come next.

ALLEN BRADFORD THOMPSON

HOME AporEss: 9 Highwood Way, Larchmont, N. Y.

OFFIcE ApprEss: Associated Hospital Service of New York, 80 Lexington
Ave., New York, N. Y.

Born: Feb. 11, 1904, Haverhill, Mass. parents: Frank Carroll Thompson,
Millie Keziah Bray.

PREPARED aT: Concord High School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MarRiED: Ruth Almira Lothrop, Sept. 24, 1927, Cranston, R. I. cHILpren:
Helen Marie, Dec. 4, 1928; Allen Lothrop Aug. 19, 1930.

HarvarD son: Allen Lothrop Thompson, ’52.

occupation: Vice-president and actuary, Associated Hospital Service of
New York; consulting actuary, New York State Blue Cross and Blue
Shield Plans.

MEMBER OF: Larchmont Men’s Club; Men’s Association of Larchmont Ave-
nue Church; American Statistical Association.

puBLications: Articles: “How New York Plan Weathered Storms on Un-
charted Course,” Hospital Management, “Hospital Service Insurance,”
Transactions of the Actuarial Society of America (co-author: Arthur
Hunter); “Hospital Payments on a Sliding Scale,” Southern Hospitals.

I HAVE been in actuarial work since 1925 — with the Connecti-
cut General Life Insurance Company in Hartford, Connecticut,
until 1930, then with the Protective Life Insurance Company in
Birmingham, Alabama, until 1937, then with the Southeastern Life
Insurance Company in Greenville, South Carolina, until 1939, and
finally with the Associated Hospital Service of New York, the
Bluc Cross Plan of New York City.

My present position has been most interesting and has given me
the unusual opportunity of watching and sharing in the growth of
a great social-insurance movement. When I came with the New
York Blue Cross Plan there were less than four million people
covered in the entire group of hospital service plans. Since that
time the plans then organized have grown and other plans have

(970 ]

ere!

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

been formed with the result that there are now over thirty-five
million people covered by Blue Cross.

During these ten years there has been a constant threat of com-
pulsory health insurance under federal or state legislation. I be-
lieve that Blue Cross has been a bulwark against the inroads of
government, that but for the rapid growth of the voluntary health
plans, a federal program would have been adopted. Hence I can
feel that I am helping to preserve our free way of life.

As a result of the greater age and size of the New York Blue
Cross Plan, its experience in meeting and solving problems has been
of value to other Blue Cross plans, It has been my good fortune to
visit other plans to analyze their experience in the light of ours in
New York. This has taken me from Manitoba in the north to
Alabama in the south, and from Boston to Honolulu, with stops in
between.

While I have enjoyed these trips, I have begrudged the loss of
time at home. I like beg with my family — although at present
both children are away at college —and I like my hobbies: read-
ing, gardening, playing the piano (I started taking lessons two
years ago when I knew absolutely nothing of the piano), swim-
ming, and, recently, playing badminton. My life is full and I enjoy
it.

LOVELL THOMPSON

HOME appress: Argilla Road, Ipswich, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Houghton Mifflin Co., 2 Park St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 8, 1902, Nahant, Mass. paRENTs: Charles Miner Thompson, ’86,
Isabella Wayman Carr.

PREPARED aT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.; Cambridge
High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Katharine Simonds, Sept. 2, 1929, Snowville, N. H. cumpren:
Daniel Pierce, Aug. 31, 1931; Judith Hayward, April 4, 1933; Nicholas
Simonds, Jan. 29, 1938.

HARVARD SON: Daniel Pierce Thompson, ’53.

OCCUPATION: Publishing.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Houghton Mifflin Company.

I HAVE been with Houghton Mifflin Company since leaving
college.

[971]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

WILLIAM HUNTINGTON THOMPSON

HOME AppreEss: South Tamworth, N. H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Rectory School, Pomfret, Conn.

BORN: June 25, 1903, Northeast Harbor, Maine. parents: William Goodrich
Thompson, '88, Mary Hinckley Huntington.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. 19253 A.M. 1927.

MarriED: Elizabeth Morton Allen, Sept. 2, 1931, Dedham, Mass. CHILD: boy,
adopted August, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Goodrich Thompson, ’27.

occuPATION: School teacher and assistant headmaster, The Rectory School.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Private, 1923-26, Battery A, 1o1st Field Artillery,
Afassachusetts National Guard.

SINCE I stopped graduate study in 1929 I have taught in private
schools in New England. Most of my teaching has been at ele-
mentary or junior high school levels. For the last seven years |
have been assistant headmaster of the Rectory School in Pomfret.

During the war, as I was not asked for any special service, nor
even called before the draft board, my wife and I took charge of
an English boy who came to us in September, 1940, and returned
just five years later.

In the summer of 1946 we adopted a four-year-old boy. A year
later the adoption was made permanent.

I have been too busy with the many small details of my job and
of keeping up our house and land in New Hampshire to have
formulated any opinions worth setting down here.

CHARLES EDWARD THORP

HOME aporess: Quintard Drive, Port Chester, N. Y.

orFice appress: Football Publications, 370 Lexington Ave., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Oct. 29, 1903, Kewanee, Ill. parents: Archibald Warson Thorp,
Jessica Stokes.

PREPARED AT: Kewanee High School, Kewanee, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924. DEGREES: A.B., 19253 M.B.A., 1926,

MarrigD: Lenore Agnes Binkley, April 21, 1934, New York, N. Y. (divorced
1942); Virginia Early Kane, Oct. 29, 1943, New York, N. Y. cum:
Linda Stokes, Dec. 13, 1944.

occupation; Advertising and publishing,

Members or: Westchester-Greenwich Harvard Alumni Club.

[972 ]

meen Tee TT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JUNE, 1925, found me a bit undecided as to which way to jump.
During my fourth year in college J had been taking courses in the
Business School, and I knew that I was going to finish there — but
what next? The theatre which was to draw so many of the other
fellows in the Dramatic Club had always intrigued me. But maybe
I should try to do something with that mathematics major? And
then too, I had one eye on the Law School. In the Business School
I was concentrating in marketing which could fan out in two
directions: into advertising which had interested me as an under-
graduate, or into retailing. To explore the latter possibility I was
already signed up for a summer quickie tour at Macy’s.

The Strauses run a very efficient emporium at Herald Square,
perhaps too efficient for me, for that summer decided me that
retailing was not my dish. I returned to Business School and grad-
uated in June, 1926. Then casting to the winds the advice of a
Business School professor that the smart businessman always hired
himself a lawyer, I entered the Law School.

I had been doing the Harvard-Yale Regatta program since un-
dergraduate days. Still being interested in advertising, and also
looking about for a further means of financing the law course, I
checked into the possibilities in football program advertising.
Prior to 1926, even for the Harvard-Yale game, the H.A.A. had
issued only a little four-page score card. Yale and some other
colleges were publishing programs with photographs of the play-
ers and limited material besides just the line-ups. A classmate,
George Stearns, and I formed Football Publications, Inc., per-
suaded the H.A.A. and the Yale A.A. that we should publish maga-
zine-type programs for them with 4-color covers and containing
in addition to the “names and numbers of all the players,” data on
the teams, humorous sketches, articles by big-name authors, femi-
nine fashions, theatre notes, etc., and along with this we went after
national advertising which had never been carried in this medium
previously.

Keeping on top of the Law School with this football work and
the spring sports programs, together with our plans for expansion,
proved to be a bit of a chore so after the first year I withdrew
from the Law School, planning to go back and finish after things
got organized, As it happened I never did get back but I have
always felt I got more mental training out of the one year at the

[973]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Law School than out of the College and the Business School com-
bined. And at least my intuition generally tells me now when it’s
a good idea to consult one’s lawyer.

In 1927 we became the national advertising representatives for
football programs at other institutions throughout the country,
and soon this list included familiar names from West Point to
Stanford and from Minnesota to Tulane. With plans for further
expansion in 1930, we moved to Manhattan, America’s advertising
capital, where we were one of the first tenants in the 370 Lexing-
ton Building, and we have been here ever since.

From 1932 the football business has been conducted as a pro-
prietorship, F ootball Publications. I have also handled the pro-
grams in other sports such as the National Horse Show, Kentucky
Derby, Gold Cup Regatta, Poughkeepsie Regatta, etc. During the
war I issued publications for many of the War Relief agencies such
as Bundles for Britain, Wings for Norway, British-American Am-
bulance Corps, Marine Corps League, Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Club,
etc. |
For the last twelve years I have also been the eastern advertising
representative for the Azhletic Journal magazine which goes to the
athletic officials in the colleges and high schools. I also represent
the National Bowlers Journal and other periodicals.

During the war years I published four editions of a large format
1200-page encyclopedia called Aerosphere which presented photo-
graphs and descriptions of all the airplanes and aircraft engines
throughout the world. In commenting on its weight a British
reviewer suggested that a perambulator be included in the pur-
chase price! Replete though Aerosphere was with street addresses
of Japanese spark plug manufacturers and designs of the latest
German fighters, and in spite of glowing annual forewords by the
late General “Hap” Arnold, it developed that this project was to
cost me most of my shirt. I also published the first book in the
world on air armament, Aircraft Armament by Louis Bruchiss —
which tells you how to make everything but an atomic bomb. In
more recent years I published Gas Turbines and Jet Propulsion for
Aircraft by G. Geoffrey Smith of London. Throughout the world
this title seems to be considered the authoritative word on that new
power plant which is destined so greatly to affect everyone’s life.
On this continent Gas Turbines and Jet Propulsion for Aircraft is

[974]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

extensively used by the Air Force, Naval Aviation, Marine Corps
Aviation, and the Royal Canadian Air Force, and is the text at
most of our universities giving courses in power plants. A greatly
expanded 5th edition is scheduled for this spring (Aircraft Books,
Inc., N. Y. C.).

Like most everything else I guess, the advertising and publishing
business is no bed of roses. However, it does offer extensive travel
and infinite variety — which to me are stimulating. And curiously
enough, publishing work which involved at least half a dozen of
my student “activities” has turned out to be my life work.

As concerns politics, I’m still betting on the Republicans to come
out on top. The nearest I have got to politics myself, though, has
been to put out a book for the New York State Republican Con-

vention.

As for clubs, I have never been much of a clubber although this
spring I did help organize a Westchester-Greenwich Harvard
Club.

Our Linda is five and, judging by her first semester report card
from Rye Country Day’s kindergarten department, she is excep-
tionally well adjusted which is good news in these fast-moving
days. My hobbies are sparse but Linda is striking right out for
ice skating and ballet dancing.

_ My wife likes flowers, music, and bridge. I think flowers smell
sweet too, and am only sorry that I can’t be as enthusiastic in my
praise of the other two. Before we were married, Virginia was
also in advertising work, having been with J. Walter Thompson,
William Esty, and Compton. So perhaps unlike some of my less
fortunate brethren I am always assured of a sympathetic ear for
any office headache!

HAROLD THURMAN

HOME ApprEss: 139 University Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE AppDREss: Thurman Co., 131 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: May 9, 1904, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Jacob B. Thurman, Bella Ra-
binovitz.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MaRRIED: Melanie Dorothy Thurman, Aug. 14, 1935, Boston, Mass. cEnLDREN:
Jane Virginia, June 18, 1937; Deborah Simone, March 20, 1945.

[975]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

HARVARD BROTHER: Aaron Thurman, ’19.

OCCUPATION: Food business; flour merchandising.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Head, Food Division of the State of Massachu-
setts, War Food Administration, Office of Price Administration, Wash.
ington.

OFFICES HELD: Director, treasurer, president, honorary president, Jewish Big
Brother Association, 1926-49; vice-president, director, Big Brothers of
America and Canada, 1947-49; trustee, Associated Jewish Philanthropies,
1935-49; president, Greater Boston Council of Jewish Centers, 1947-49;
president, director, Brookline Jewish Community Center, 1946-49; di-
rector, Jewish Vocational Service, 1946-49.

MEMBER OF: Jewish Welfare Board, New England Section (director, 1948-
49); Bureau of Jewish Education (executive committee, 1947-49); Hillel
House of Harvard (director, 1948-49); Friends of Hillel House of Har-

vard (vice-president, 1948-49).

I STOOD there wondering as those old men of the Class of 1900

marched by — that was June, 1925. Now I wonder what the Class

of 1950 will think about us as we march by.

Well, it is 1949 and I find myself i in Florida. Not the way I had
always hoped — you know those insurance ads: retire, fish, play.
But rather on doctor’s orders. Some virus, unknown to science,
knocked me out in May, 1949, and kept me three months in the
hospital as a “specimen.” “A very interesting case. We shall try
tests, etc.” I never knew how many needles and how much medi-
cine a body could take. But I have learned the secret. While they
pump it in, they take it out in blood.

Then there were the war years — services not too anxious to
have you. So you give up your business and work up the O.P.A.
You start by reading price regulations with a lawyer at your side:
he to interpret the English language to you, you to explain trade
language and methods to him. You spend months explaining the
law to the people in industry, trying to soften the so-called impact
on those who wanted to conform and using the iron hand on those
who thought they knew the way around the law. Funny how
many of these same people often say to me now, “If we only had
the O.P.A. — how much better off we would be.”

Harvard Business Schoo! — the retraining course — that was the
satisfaction I had chosen for my frustrations in the O.P.A. It was
a humdinger. They worked us hard, and it was hard to study.
But, now that it is over, it was wonderful and I learned a lot,
especially how to care for conjunctivitis of the eyes.

[976 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Washington greeted me holding my certificate from the Busi-
ness School. Into the War Food Administration I went, as an
authority on the compression of food. It’s lucky I had an air-
conditioned office for I did sweat a lot. After a few months my
statistician brought me some figures. We were saving much needed
space on vessels, so much space that the building of Victory ships
stopped. I later found out the reason was not because of the com-
pression of food division. Something still bothers me: how is
anything ever completed in Washington?

I am blessed with three women. It all started in August, 1935,
when my uncle of the Class of 1903 consented to be my father-in-
law. He has a charming daughter who is now my wife. We have
two daughters. It is grand to be loved by three women. [ recom-
mend it.

During these twenty-five years I have worked in and really have
enjoyed the food business. I have had the thrills of being inter-
ested in other industries too. I guess I am a food man at heart — it
has the greatest appeal for me.

I have been interested in many philanthropic activities, mostly
with younger people. It has given me a lot of satisfaction.

My good wife just asked me, “Would you have changed any-
thing during these last twenty-five years?” Yes, some of the things
that happened in the world none of us have liked. But as for me,
I thank God for all He has given me and happily join the line of
old men.

EDMUND PAUL TOBIN

HOME ADDRESS: 21 Glendale Rd. Rye, N. Y.

OFFICE appress: Union Labor Life Insurance Co., 570 Lexington Ave., New
York 22, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 17, 1904, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Daniel Joseph Tobin,

~ Annie Elizabeth Reagan.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925. ,

MARRIED: Alice Margaret Brine, June 25, 1932, Arlington, Mass. CHILDREN:
Edmund Paul, Jr., Jan. 15, 1934; Elizabeth Anne, Nov. 12, 1935; Constance
Mary, March 11, 1943.

occupation: Life insurance executive.

MEMBER oF: Apawamis Club, Rye, N. Y.; Friendly Sons of St. Patrick, New
York; Harvard Club of New York.

[977]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

MARTIN GEORGE TORSON

HOME ADDRESS: 2310 W. 85th Terr., Kansas City, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 707 Waldheim Bldg., Kansas City, Mo.

BORN: Sept. 16, 1894, Emporia, Kans, parents: Thomas Martin Torson, Isa
May Kerns.

PREPARED AT: Wyandotte High School, Wyandotte County, Kans.; Oread
Training School of the University of Kansas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.

marrieD: Dorothy Haren, July 31, 1922, Kansas City, Mo.

occupation: Christian Science practitioner and first reader.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War I: Medical Corps, September, 1918-
January, 1919; World War II: Chaplain, Army Chaplain Corps, October,
1944-February, 1946; served as Christian Science wartime minister for
twenty-eight months and as a Christian Science chaplain for sixteen
months.

AFTER leaving school, I continued in business with the Torson

Construction Company of Kansas City, Missouri. I had been as-

sociated with this company since 1910. In 1937 I severed my con-

nection with the company and began to devote my life to the
work of a Christian Science practitioner and have continued in

this employment to the present time. During the recent war, I

was a chaplain serving the Christian Science Church, the First

Church of Christ, Scientist, in Boston, Massachusetts. My first

station as a chaplain was Camp Beale, California, where I was

given two battalions of white troops and one battalion of colored
troops. Later, I was made Post Chaplain at the Tooele Ordinance

Depot, Tooele, Utah. At this station I received the rank of cap-

tain. I am still in the Organized Reserve Corps, retaining the

rank of captain. Before entering the Chaplain Corps, I served as

a Christian Science Wartime Minister at Camp Crowder, Mis-

souri. At this point, I served twenty-eight months, subsequently

becoming a Christian Science Chaplain, October 16, 1944. For

a more detailed account of the nature of my wartime work con-

sult The Story of Christian Science Wartime Activities 1939-

1946, Chapters 10 and 11; one volume, published by the Christian

Science Publishing Society, Boston 15, Massachusetts.

In the Army I witnessed many healings which were performed
by the power of God alone, after all medical aid had ceased to
benefit the patients. Five of these cases were given up completely
by the Army doctors and all five soldiers were healed in from

[978]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

one to six days solely by the power of prayer. Many Army
doctors openly admitted the power of God in these cases. The
above-mentioned volume contains the account of many such
cases of healing and proves that primitive Christianity is still
doing the work Christ Jesus commanded us to do. I am official
representative of the Christian Science Church at Wadsworth
V. A. Hospital, Wadsworth, Kansas, and Excelsior Springs V. A.
Hospital at Excelsior Springs, Missouri.

ALBERT FERENCZ TOTH

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 60 E. 42nd St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 4, 1902, Sirma, Hungary. parents: Frank Toth, Barbara Lippay.
PREPARED AT: Stuyvesant High School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924, 1926-1927.

occupaTion: Engineering.

TOTH has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since
March, 1935.

JOHN EDWIN TOULMIN

HOME ADDRESS: 374 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: First National Bank of Boston, 67 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Nov, 1, 1902, Brookline, Mass. parents: John Edwin Toulmin, Alice
Munroe Barbour.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Rose Cracroft Loveland, Sept. 25, 1926, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. cxit-
DREN: Peter Noyes, July 7, 1927; Hugh Huidekoper, July 9, 1930, Paul R.,
Dec. 10, 1936.

HARVARD SONS: Peter Noyes Toulmin, ’50; Hugh Huidekoper Toulmin, ’52.

occupation: Banker; senior vice-president, First National Bank of Boston.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned major, A.U.S., September, 1942;
duty with Office of Procurement Service, September, 1942—January, 1943;
served with Office of Strategic Services, Washington, D. C., January-
June, 1943; commanding officer, Office of Strategic Services for Balkans
and Middle East, June, 1943—January, 1945; promoted lieutenant colonel,
June, 1943, colonel, May, 1944; service mainly in Cairo, Egypt, Turkey,
and Italy; discharged July, 1945; awarded Legion of Merit, 1944.

OFFIcEs HELD: Director and member executive committee, United Fruit
Company, since April, 1946; trustee, Free Hospital for Women; director,
Dwight Manufacturing Company, 1938-42; treasurer, Greater Boston
Community Fund, 1938-42.

[979 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New York; Harvard

Varsity; Dedham Country and Polo Club; Algonquin Club.
IT HAS been rumored that I was born on the back of a whale in
Massachusetts Bay, but this is not true. I caused my mother little
trouble in Brookline in 1902. Early schooling, both public and
private, ended at Choate in 1921. College was more fun than in-
structive, marks averaging C—, with four years of baseball at
which I gained the reputation of being Harvard’s all-time worst
pitcher. In my defense I must add that I was dandy against teams
that had never played the game before.

During the summers of 1924 and 1925 I tutored a rich young
man on Long Island, probably the most lucrative job by com-
parison that I have ever had. I went to work for a bank in Boston
after graduation and except for the war have been there ever
since. I am called senior vice-president, which really means I run
errands for the president and help with the spittoons in the morn-
ing. Marriage took place in 1926 with the eventual production
of three sons. Two are at Harvard, a senior and a sophomore,
and one at Milton Academy. Up to the recent unpleasantness of
war, my life was that of a poor country gentleman (?). This
included some tennis, shooting, golf, simple social activities, and
a scattering of local civic and charitable efforts, some poorly
done.

The war itself to me was not entirely pleasant or inexpensive
but it was, to say the least, stimulating. Starting as a recruiting
officer, I ended in charge of the Balkan and Middle Eastern Oper-
ations of the Office of Strategic Services (often called the “Oh So
Secret” or “Oh So Social”). Nearly two years were spent in
Egypt, Turkey, and Italy. The job consisted of training and dis-
patching agents to operate behind enemy lines and organizing
guerrilla groups to cause the enemy as much trouble as possible
by fighting and sabotage. Unfortunately you were dealing with
human lives, and bad luck, poor execution or planning meant a
pretty sudden death to the operatives. The results on the whole,
however, were fairly good although a Harvard education and a
banking career are no particular assets in this type of venture.
Due to my own careful planning, I was seldom in danger of being
killed and was awarded the usual behind-the-lines armchair
medal, Frankly, I have never encountered so many real people

[ 980 ]

Tr

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

together with so many so-and-so’s, the latter in many cases mem-
bers of the regular Army and Navy.

After the war I returned rather penniless as even banks pa
their officers better than the Army rewards colonels. My job
seems to have grown somewhat bigger and I am happy in it. For
the last four years I have been on the executive committee of
the United Fruit Company which has proved to be very interest-
ing, not only as to operations in this country, but because of
frequent trips to their Central American divisions.

My present main extra-curricular effort is attempting to raise
with the help of others the money for the 25th Reunion. This
cannot be classified under the heading of fun. Except for the
misfortune of being separated from my wife, the last twenty-five
years have been more than good to me. I am neither a success
nor a failure, just average.

In my opinion we stand on the threshold of some vital decisions
in this country. If we, the so-called intelligentsia, with what is
considered a good education, cannot be a force in influencing
these decisions, then perhaps we have flunked the course. I hope
not.

PERRY DAVIS TRAFFORD, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 28 Grandview Drive, Mt. Kisco, N. Y.

OFFICE Appress: Riggs, Ferris, Geer & Mygatt, 120 Broadway, New York 5,
N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 3, 1903, New York, N. ¥. parents: Perry Davis Trafford, ’89,
Elizabeth Meeker.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; LL.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Polly Potts, June 11, 1941, New York, N. Y. cHipren: Perry,
Oct. 31, 1942; Anne, June 28, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Bradford Trafford, 32.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served in Naval Air Intelligence, February, 1942-
December, 1945; duty in Quonset, Pensacola, Newport, Norfolk, Key
West, Brisbane, Admiralty Islands, Biak, Morotai, Leyte, and Luzon.

OFFICES HELD: Member law reform committee, Association of the Bar of the
City of New York, 1947-50; member board of trustees, Cisqua School,
Mount Kisco, N. Y.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Association of the Bar of the City
of New York; American Bar Association; New York Law Institute;
Lunch Club.

[ 981 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

A YEAR of pre-medical work at Cambridge, England, was fol-
lowed by Harvard Law School and a job with Evarts, Choate,
Sherman & Léon in New York City. One summer, my brother
Brad and I in the course of a trip to Ireland, spent a week on the
Aran Islands off Galway — Cromwellian forts, eleventh-century
churches, sixth-century sanctuaries, prehistoric stone forts, and
beautiful girls. Another summer (1930) I travelled in Russia and
on my return predicted a revolution there by winter, the circum-
stances of those I saw being so intolerable.

The ten years which followed were what you would expect for
an unmarried Jaw clerk in New York City. Then in 1941 things
began to happen. I fell in love, got married, and a few months
later stood in line for inoculations at Quonset Point. Our wed-
ding furniture took a beating as it followed us around the country.
First to Pensacola, where my son was born, then up to Newport,
Rhode Island, and down to Norfolk, followed by Key West, and
back to Quonset. In June, 1944, they flew me out to Brisbane via
the islands of Palmyra, Canton, Funafuti, and Espiritu Santo; a
month later, I was on my way by air to the Admiralty Islands
with stops at Townsville, Port Moresby, Nadzab, and Finch.

The rest of it through the Japanese surrender was pretty much
routine for a naval air intelligence officer. As well as in the Ad-
miralties, I served at Woendi (Biak Area), Morotai, Leyte, and
Luzon, ending up at Clark Field on that island. The Southwest
Pacific was just as hot and wet as they say, at times monotonous
and at other times very hard work and very little sleep. I came
away with my conviction of war’s stupidity unshaken and with
some new convictions such as the necessity for immediate unifi-
cation of the services and that big dealing in government property
in the Philippines augured ill for life in the welfare state.

After coming home, I became a partner in the New York law
firm of Riggs, Ferris, Geer & Mygatt, and acquired a daughter
and a heavily mortgaged house in Mt. Kisco, New York. Believe
me, it’s a very happy rut to be in.

THEODORE ERSKINE TUCK

HOME apprEss: 76 W. Garden Rd., Larchmont, N. Y.
orFice appress: Charles H, Bohn & Co., Inc., 200 Hudson St., New York 13,
N, Y,

[ 982 ]

25TH ‘ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Sept. 26, 1904, Paterson, N. J. parents: Theodore Calvin Tuck, Lucy
Jeanette Kelley.

PREPARED AT: New Rochelle High School, New Rochelle, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1025, DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

MaRRiED: Harriet Furniss Fernald, Feb. 25, 1938, Larchmont, N, Y. CHILDREN:
Theodore Erskine, Jr., Aug. 16, 1939; Richard, June 15, 1941 (died June
24, 1941); Henry Dana, Nov. 23, 1942; John Fernald, July 31, 1944; Alan
Wingate, July 18, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Clarence Oliver Tuck, ’30; William Kelley Tuck, ’31
(deceased).

occuPATION: Salesman (bookbinding).

THERE are few highlights to my history other than those already

listed in the vital statistics. I had hoped to report a successful

political action when as a Republican I ran as an Independent and

Democratic candidate against the local machine. We lost by a

small margin.

| Through O.C.D. work I went into the volunteer fire department

for my war work. I commend fire department membership for

pleasure, sound contacts, and frequent usefulness.

As a member of the local civic associations, I have learned more
about government than is taught, or shall we say I learned, in any
course in Harvard. Some professor could create a good course
involving laboratory work in Cambridge or nearby civic asso-
clations.

SIDNEY FREDERICK TYLER, II
ADDRESS: 32 Seedarmm Weg. Bad Homburg, U. S. Zone of Occupation, Ger-

many.

BORN: March 16, 1903, Surrey, England. parents: Harry Blake Tyler, Elea-
nor Mary Donald.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

MarRiED: Sarah Meade Large, March 22, 1928, Philadelphia, Pa.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Tyler did not return a questionnaire.

EVERARD MILLER UPJOHN

HOME ApprEss: 401 W. 118th St., New York 27, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 806 Schermerhorn Hall, Columbia University, New York,
N.Y.

[ 983 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

BORN: Noy. 6, 1903, Scranton, Pa. paRENTs: Hobart Brown Upjohn, Mar-
garet Miller.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; M.ARCH., 1929.

MARRIED: Florence Davol, June 14, 1927, Roxbury, Mass. CHILDREN: Richard
Vassall, Aug. 10, 1929; Amy Putnam, July 26, 1931.

HARVARD SON: Richard Vassall Upjohn, ’51.

occupaTION: Associate professor of fine arts, Columbia University.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve, December,
1942, to October, 1945; lieutenant commander, October, 1945, to January,
1946; Naval Indoctrination School, February, 1943, to March, 1943, Fort
Schuyler, N. Y.; Bureau of Naval Personnel, March, 1943, to December,
1945, Arlington, Va.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor of fine arts, University of Minnesota, 1929~
35, Columbia University, 1935-42; associate professor of fine arts, Colum-
bia University, since 1942; Matthews Lecturer, Metropolitan Museum
of Art, 1941-42.

MEMBER OF: Men’s Faculty Club, Columbia University; Athenaeum, New
York.

pusLications: Richard Upjohn, Architect and Churchman, 1939; A History
of World Art, 1949 (in collaboration with P. S. Wingert and J. G. Mah-
ler); contributor to Encyclopedia Brittanica, Collier's Encyclopedia, and
Encyclopedia Americana, magazine articles and book reviews in The
Art Bulletin, Saturday Review of Literature, Art News, etc.

THE first four years after that antebellum incident of gradua-
tion — how long ago it seems—TI devoted to preparing myself
for the practice of architecture. By the grace of God, ably sec-
onded by Deans Chase and Edgell who allowed me to serve as
their assistant in Fine Arts 1c and 1d, it slowly dawned on me that
I might be of more service to the art of architecture, and inci-
dentally to myself, by teaching the history of art than by practis-
ing architecture. Hence, with all my imperfections on my head,
and a month-old baby in my arms, my wife and I set forth for
Minneapolis to found the Department of Fine Arts at the Univer-
sity of Minnesota.

The prestige of Harvard we soon found to be partly offset for
a young eastern couple by the good-natured banter that greeted
us. The rigorous climate and an acute attack of homesickness made

our first winter a miserable experience, but by spring the friendli-

ness of the Minnesotans began to change our views, and long be-
fore leaving the Midwest in 1935 we had conceived an affection
for them that has often drawn us back. Though inevitably lacking

[ 984 ]

7

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the age and traditions of the Atlantic seaboard, we felt a warmth
of hospitality, an energy, an eagerness to learn, and a willingness
to experiment that convinced us that Minnesota and its neighbors
are the most hopeful part of this country, nor have our subsequent
travels altered that opinion.

However, in 1935 home ties and an offer from Columbia were
too strong to be denied. Since then, except for three unlamented
years in Washington during the war, we have lived in New York
in winter, at the bridge table whenever possible and taking no
exercise whatever, and in New Hampshire in summer with con-
centrated exercise in the form of tennis and day laborer’s activities
on our place.

The satisfactions of an academic life do not include stocks and
bonds, nor do they make exciting reading, but they are none the
less real. Since our marriage we have managed to get three sum-
mers abroad, on two of which I was a leader (lecturer) for the
Bureau of University Travel. After twenty years of teaching, we
were able to take our first sabbatical leave — let no one not asso-
ciated with university life be deceived by the derivation of sab-
batical; one does not always take leave every seventh year! We
toured as much of this country as we well could in six months
(American architecture is more or less my special field). Now
that our children are grown up, with Dick in the Class of 1951 at
Harvard, that trip was a second honeymoon for both of us, so
much so that we are already looking forward to our next oppor-
tunity.

JOHN ELLRINGTON UTTER

HOME ADpRESS: 6 rue de Presbourg, Paris 16, France.

OFFICE ADpREsS: American Embassy, Paris, France.

BORN: March 13, 1905, Elmira, N. Y. parents: Stanley Stites Utter, Marion
Helen Pringle.

PREPARED AT: Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. lagna cum laude, 1925.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Foreign Service officer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Pre-landing preparations and subsequent cam-
paign with Ambassador Murphy in North Africa, 1941-45; member
Control Council, Germany, 1945.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Automobile Club de France, Paris.

[ 985 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

TWO years following graduation delightfully spent trying to
arouse interest in the French language and literature in the not
always receptive heads of boys at Choate School in Wallingford,
Connecticut, convinced me of the pleasures of the sheltered aca-
demic life. They also confirmed my desire to seek a more active
existence.

After a preliminary round in Washington, preparatory to enter-
ing the Foreign Service, I was finally persuaded by dejected
friends in the State Department, who looked with envy at their
more prosperous and influential brothers in Wall Street, to enter
what they vaguely and awedly termed “international finance.” In
August, 1928, I joined the National City Bank and eight months
afterward I was on my way to their Paris office, where I remained
until the end of 1940, when I was unceremoniously dislodged, due
to the occupation of the French capital by the Germans. Those
inter-bellum years of frantic grasping at the good life which still
abounded, weathering the steadily increasing crises, and getting to
know not only the French but also other peoples of Europe, com-
pleted the first chapter of the active life I had chosen. A brief
interlude during 1938-39 as the bank’s representative in Berlin
afforded me the opportunity of seeing Hitler’s handiwork from a
front loge, and prepared me somewhat for the holocaust to come.

Back in America on New Year’s day, 1941, I lost no time in
entering classes to prepare myself for a commission in the Navy,
while carrying on my work at the bank. In May Robert Murphy
asked if I would join his little band in North Africa. Starting as
Vice-Consuls and Control Officers checking on the American
goods sent to North Africa under the Weygand-Murphy agree-
ment, we twelve disciples soon took on the more exciting task of
laying the groundwork for the coming allied landings of Novem-
ber 8, 1942. My headquarters was Tunis, and there I was locked
up after the landings for five days. A providential escape enabled
me to participate in the campaign which followed. This was per-
haps the most exciting chapter in my life since leaving Harvard.

Following North Africa, there was a period spent in SHAEF
at Versailles and with the Control Council in Germany. In 1946
the State Department decided to find out what was happening in
Libya, and I was sent as a roving observer between Cairo and
Tunis. This was the beginning of a chapter properly termed

[ 986 |

—_

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

“Italian Colonies,” which has just been concluded at the United
Nations at Lake Success in December. For the past four years my
whole focus has been on this problem. Councils of Foreign Min-
isters, the Peace Conference, Deputies of Foreign Ministers, and
finally the United Nations have grappled with this complicated
issue, and I was always there to partake of the frustration. In order
to get facts first-hand, a Commission of Investigation was sent out
by the Council of Foreign Ministers in the aurumn of 1947 to the
Italian Colonies to make a report on the political, economic, and
social conditions there and to ascertain the wishes of the inhabi-
tants. I was the head of the U.S. Delegation on this Commission,
and spent seven months trekking about Libya, Eritrea, and Italian
Somaliland, arguing facts with my British, French, and Russian
colleagues. The monumental work which we produced after a
year of toil was given scant attention by the fifty-nine nations
which were finally to decide the issue.

The decade of wanderings appears at last to be over, and I am
looking forward in this current chapter to a few consecutive years
of political work in Paris.

DINO GRIS VALZ

HOME ApDpREsS: 17 Stratford Rd. Andover, Mass.

OFFice appREss: % Sutherland-Abbort, 234 Clarendon St., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 31, 1903, Montesinaro (Vercelli), Italy. parents: Joseph Gris
Valz, Clelia Bono.

PREPARED AT: Spaulding High School, Barre, Vt.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925,

MARRIED: Erma Trentini, June 10, 1931, Milford, N. H. cumpren: Paola,
July 18, 1932; Donald, Sept. 10, 1933.

occupaTION: ‘Traffic control manager, Sutherland-Abbott (advertising);
part-time instructor, Simmons College, Boston.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served in Massachusetts State Guard, World
War II. ‘

AFTER graduation I settled in Andover where, for some eighteen
years, I worked for the Andover Press on Harvard, M.LT., Boston
University, Dartmouth and numerous other college yearbooks.
In 1927, 1928, and 1929 I went abroad during the summer months
and climbed Mt. Rosa, the Matterhorn, and many less-known
peaks. In 1931, on my honeymoon, I aided and abetted my bride
in climbing the Breithorn. It was in 1939 that I started part-time

[ 987 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

teaching in the graphic arts at Simmons College, taking the place
left vacant by J. Rhyne Killian, now president of M.I.T.

In the summer of 1944 I began working at Sutherland-Abbott,
advertising agency in Boston, as production manager. Three years
ago I set up a traffic contro] department there and became its
manager.

Below, somewhat in the style of another era, is my economic
credo for the atomic half of our century:

I believe it is possible in this country to increase the general
standard of living and at the same time to enable people to provide
for themselves a larger measure of security provided we play our
cards right. To achieve these objectives I believe individuals must
be enterprising, diligent, thrifty, self-reliant. Both big business
and big labor must adopt responsible, objective, long-run attitudes
favoring increased production in a competitive system which is
constantly rejuvenated and expanding.

But if big business lacks incentives to improve and expand, if it
is non-competitive or less than efficient or progressive, if it is
callous towards the welfare of its employees; — or if big labor
insists on more and more while producing less and less, if it
becomes monopolistic, if it helps to further an inflation which
already undermines the savings of millions of our citizens, if
in the name of job security it stifles the energies or the am-
bitions or in the name of social security it shifts to either busi-
ness or government, the personal responsibilities of the individual;
—and if, moreover, big government taxes to the point where it
discourages dynamic enterprise, if as perpetual Santa Claus it
creates an army of chiselers, if an ineficient bureaucracy increases
inflation while ingnoring a public debt of already astronomical
proportions, if its rdle is to rob productive Peter to pay parasitic
Paul;

THEN, it seems to me, not only do we sap the sources of our
strength at home, but we make it impossible to meet our commit-
ments abroad and we thus lay ourselves wide open to attack from
another economic system which, instead of preaching the softness
of a nation which has arrived, is practising rather the aggressive
hardness of a nation grimly determined to force its way to the top.

That attack could well signal the beginning of the end of our
unique well being and of the heritage of freedom which were

[ 988 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

achieved here with so much effort, but which we now would risk
gambling away in the quest of an alluring but illusory Utopia.

+ THOMAS CARROLL VAN STONE

BORN: Oct. 2, 1902, Denver, Colo. parents: George Harvey Van Stone,
Mary Roberts Hurt.

PREPARED AT: Santa Fe High School, Santa Fe, N. Mex.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH. ENGIN, Cus laude, 1926,

UNMARRIED.

DIED: Sept. 18, 1935, Glendale, Calif.

ON SEPTEMBER 18, 1935, at Los Angeles, Thomas Carroll Van
Stone, aviation engineer for Vultee Aircraft, was taking out for
trial one of the first copies of the now famous high-speed Vultee
transport, adaptable for military use as a bomber. Ahead and
below him were the wires of a high tension power line. Trying
to avoid them, he attempted to regain the airport, but the ship
staggered and crashed, killing Van Stone and his one passenger,
aviation engineer Dugald Blue, Examination of the wreckage
indicated that motor failure probably had been due to an air
pocket in the feed-line.

“Van Stone was a brilliant test pilot. He had flown this par-
ticular plane from Glendale to Los Angeles for inspection by De-
partment of Commerce officials, and it was dear to him because
with Dugald Blue and two other engineers he had designed and
built it.

Van Stone was born in Colorado but his family moved to New
Mexico where his father served as state bank examiner. His
mother was a noted transcriber and collector of Southwestern
folk-songs, and curator of the Santa Fe Art Museum. He at-
tended the Santa Fe public schools. In high school he was top-
ranking student throughout his course, was president of his senior
class, captain of track, basketball, and football, and valedictorian.
He came to Cambridge as holder of the scholarship of the Harvard
Club of New Mexico and in 1924-25 was granted a Bowditch
Scholarship. While in Engineering Schoo] he was elected to the
honorary society Tau Beta Pi, of which he served as secretary,
and to the Engineering Society, of which he was treasurer. He
belonged to Kappa Sigma fraternity and was grand master of his
chapter in our senior year.

[ 989 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

During our junior year he had already become interested in
aviation and was taking the ground-school course at the Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology. Among the first twenty-five
in his class there, he was offered the opportunity to join the
United States Naval Reserve, which he did, learning to fly at the
Squantum Naval Air Base and at Rockaway Field on Long Island.

Upon graduation he went to work for the Westinghouse Elec-
tric Company in Philadelphia. He resigned his position in 1928,
however, in order to undergo a year’s active service in the Navy.
There his ability attracted the attention of Lieutenant Com-
mander Emile Chourre, noted aviation engineer, who arranged
for Van Stone to become chief engineer of the Emsco Aircraft
Corporation at Downey, California, after his year of duty had
ended. Later Van Stone transferred to Vultee in Glendale.

JOSSELYN VAN TYNE

HOME appress: 405 Awixa Rd., Ann Arbor, Mich.
orFice appress: Museum of Zodlogy, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,

Mich.
BorN: May 11, 1902, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Claude Halstead Van Tyne,

Isabel Joslyn.
prepareD aT: Culver Military Academy, Culver, Ind.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; PH.D. (Univ. of Michigan),
1928.
annie: Helen Belfield Bates, Sept. 15, 1933, Ann Arbor, Mich.
HARVARD BroTHER: Claude Halstead Van Tyne, Jr., ’29.
occupaTion; Zoologist.
orrices HELD: Editor, The Wilson Bulletin, 1939-48; first vice-president,
American Omithologist’s Union, since 1948.
PUBLICATIONS: About seventy articles and notes, mainly on ornithology.
THESE few years that have passed since graduation have been
rather uneventful but most satisfying. I have been incredibly for-
tunate and have been employed that whole time working at my
favorite hobby, the study of birds. Except for a ten-month leave
in 1928-29, when I accompanied a Field Museum expedition to
French Indo-China, I have worked for the University of Michi-
gan. My work has been the study and teaching of ornithology,
at present as curator of birds in the Muscum of Zodlogy and asso-
ciate professor in the department of zodlogy. In addition to the
satisfaction I have had in building a fine research department (with

[ 990 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

really splendid backing from public and private sources), I have
had the great pleasure of field work which has taken me to Panama,
British Honduras, Guatemala, Yucatan, the Bahamas, Europe, and
other interesting parts of the world.

The only complaint I have to register concerns these miserably
short days we have to work with. They force one to leave undone
so many perfectly fascinating jobs.

EDWARD THOMSON VAN UMMERSEN

HOME ADDRESS: 71 Virginia Rd., Waltham 54, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Metropolitan Ice Co., 71 Rosedale Rd., Watertown 72, Mass.

BORN: June 5, 1903, Somerville, Mass. parents: Richard Wan Ummersen,
Mary Thomson.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Hazel Marjorie Freeman, Sept. 14, 1929, Somerville, Mass. crtr-
DREN: Judith, May 4, 1931; Luther, July 19, 1935.

occupaTiIoN: Operating committee, manager of frosted foods division, Metro-
politan Ice Company.

ON JUNE 1, 1925, I accepted a position with the Metropolitan

Ice Company at their Waltham plant and, later, was made assistant

operating manager in charge of the Waltham, Watertown, New-

ton, Wellesley, and Milton divisions. I am with the same firm now,

but since 1941 have been engaged in the distribution of frosted

foods. This new venture has proved interesting and has resulted

in the development of a new refrigerated food service for deep-

freeze owners.

Upon marriage in 1929, my wife and I purchased a home in the
Cedarwood section of Waltham, off the Boston Post Road, where
our two children have grown up. Judy entered Dickinson College
in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, in the fall of 1949 and is a member of
Zeta Tau Alpha. Lu is in his last year at Waltham Junior High
School,

FRED ASHTON VIDEON

HOME AppREsS: 668 Taylor St., Craig, Colo.

OFFICE apprEss: Carpenter, Videon & Mosely, Bank Building, Craig, Colo.

BORN: May 16, 1904, Denver, Colo. parents: Fred Francis Videon, Alda Lee
Sipe.

[991 ]

ee “ : fees eS AT ME ENC RENE ALN ATEN AM men

-HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

PREPARED AT: East Denver High School, Denver, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; LL.B. (Denver Univ.), 1928.

marrigD: Marjorie Sult, July 28, 1928, Denver, Colo. CHILDREN: Mary Jo-
anne, June 29, 1932; Fred Francis, Oct. 4, 1934.

occuPaTION: Attorney-at-law.

OFFICES HELD: Deputy district attorney, 1929-32; town attorney for Hayden,
Colo., 1930-39; city attorney, Craig, Colo., since 1945; county attorney,
Moffat County, since 1944; member board of governors, Colorado Bar

Association, 1946.
MEMBER OF: Colorado Bar Association; American Bar Association; Masons,

Craig Lions Club.
MY LIFE since 1925, though highly satisfactory to me, has been
anything but newsworthy. I haven’t any honors or great achieve-
ments to report, but I have been and am supremely happy and
life has been good to me. First and foremost of all my blessings
is a perfect wife and two children who have been a constant
source of happiness.

We live in a part of Colorado within 50 to 100 miles of some
of Colorado’s grandest scenery, and much of our time in the sum-
mer is spent in fishing, hiking, and camping in a country of in-
describable beauty.

With the mind, body, and spirit so constantly refreshed and
inspired, with a life rich in family, friends, and pleasure in every-
day work, from my contacts with my fellow-man, I have a firm
belief that man will not destroy himself and that we can take
courage from these words in Browning’s poem:

Grow old along with me
the best is yet to be.

CHARLES WADSWORTH VIRGIN

HOME ADDRESS: 3562 Rainey Ave., Hopeville, Ga.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hardware Indemnity Insurance Co., 101 Marietta St. Bldg.
Atlanta, Ga.

BORN: July 19, 1903, Montgomery, Ala. PaReNTs: Ira Holden Virgin, Jennie
Elizabeth Wadsworth.

PREPARED AT: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922. DEGREE: 8.B. (Alabama Polytechnic Inst.), 1926.

MARRIED: Annie Laura Penn, Nov. 2, 1926, Apalika, Ala. (died March 8
1941); Thelma Irene Clutts, April 21, 1943, Meridian, Miss. CHILDREN:
Penn, Sept. 6, 1928; Charles Wadsworth, 2d, Dec. 19, 1944; Edward
Warren, 3d, Aug. 30, 1946.

[ 992 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Field supervisor, Eastern Scaboard, Hardware Indemnity and
Hardware Mutual Insurance Companies.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant, 1927-41, Field Artillery (honorable
discharge because of medical history).

AFTER I had spent a wonderful year at Harvard as a freshman,

mv family moved back south to Montgomery, Alabama. I en-
rolled at Georgia Tech in the school of engineering. After attend-
ing Georgia School of Technology three years, I attended Auburn
(Alabama Polytechnic Institute) where I received my S.B. degree
in engineering. While at Auburn I met and married Annie Laura
Penn of Five Points, Alabama, the mother of my son, Penn.

My businesses were varied: cotton mill superintendent, firse
lieutenant in the Field Artillery, and cotton brokerage office with
my father in Montgomery and Dothan until that line of business
took such a great slump, Then, in tg4o, I received instructions in
the insurance field and moved to Meridian, Mississippi, in the same
year. My wife, Ann's, health had been failing for several years
and she passed away on March 8, 1941.

After a period of readjustment I met and married my present
wife, Thelma. We have two lovely children, Charles, four, and
Ed, three.

Since June, I have been ficld supervisor for my company. I
enjoy my work, which takes me to some of the most beautiful and
historic places in the South, covering the Eastern Seaboard from
Washington, D. C., to Miami, Florida.

We are all members of the Episcopal Church, in which my wife
is very active as a member of the Altar Guild and the Auxiliary.

My wife’s eldest son, Harold E. Byrd, ninetecn, is in Alaska as
part of a Navy L.S.T. unit. He is a splendid chap, of whom I'm
very proud also.

This hits the highlights, but since my line of work is enginecring
to a degree, and not literature, I hope it will suffice.

SPENCER GLADWIN VOCKE

HOME apprEss: Massasoit Avenue, Sudbury, Mass.

OFFICE AppRess: Boston Insurance Co. Boston, Mass.

BorRN: Nov. 4, 1901, Boston, Mass. parents: Frederick Charles Vocke, May
Gladwin.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

[993 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREE: A.B., 1925 (26).

marriED: Lillian Louise Lowden, June 30, 1942, New York, N. Y.

occuPATION: Insurance.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Inducted Aug. 26, 1942; discharged Jan. 31, 1946;
served with Military Police.

MY LIFE has been rather quiet and uneventful. Immediately

upon graduation I became associated with the Boston Insurance

Company and, with the exception of about three and a half years

when I was in the service, I have been with it ever since, now with

the title of engineer. |

I attempted to enlist in the Signal Corps but was rejected be-
cause of a physical ailment. However, I was accepted in the draft
a few months later and spent my years in service with the Military
Police.

In June, 1942, I was married in New York City, Although we
have no children of our own, I do have a stepdaughter and two
small grandchildren, a girl and a boy.

Our home was in Boston until a year ago last February when
we bought a small house in Sudbury. We like living in a small
community very much and would not for a moment consider
returning to the city.

BERNARD VORHAUS

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 2030 Oakstone Way, Hollywood, Los Angeles, Calif.

BORN: Dec. 25, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: Louis Jacob Vorhaus, Jo-
hanna Cohn.

PREPARED AT: DeWitt Clinton High School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924, DEGREE: A.B. 7agna cum laude, 1925.

MarRiED: Hetty David, Nov. 6, 1933, London, England.

VORHAUS has been carried as a “lost’? man on our records since
December, 1945.

JULIUS WADSWORTH

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 2304 Massachusetts Ave., N.W., Washington 8
D.C.

BORN: May 11, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: Clarence Seymour Wads-
worth, ’96, Katharine Fearing Hubbard.

PREPARED AT: Fay School, Southboro, Mass.; St. Mark’s School, Southboro,

Mass.
[994 ]

\

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREE: AB, 1925 (26).

MARRIED: Cleomé Carroll, Oct. 20, 1934, Middletown, Conn.

HARVARD BROTHER: Seymour Wadsworth, ‘31.

occuPATION: Diplomacy and finance.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served as 2d licutenant, training C.MLT.C, Fort
Ethan Allen, Vt, summers of 1925 and 1927; assistant public relations
officer, First Service Command, Boston, for Major General Sherman
Miles, 1942; duty with Military Intelligence Division, War Department
General Staff, 1942-45; discharged as major; awarded War Department
citation and A.C.R.

oFFices HELD: Vice-consul, consul, 3rd secretary of Legation, chargé d'affaires
with State Department.

MEMBER OF: Formerly: Country Clubs in Caracas, Bogota, and Shanghai,
Royal Sailing Club, Oslo; Racquet Club, Washington, D, C. Currently:
Knickerbocker Club, New York; Metropolitan Club, Washington, D.C.

puBLicaTions: Weekly World News Connnentaries, Boston, 1942.

AFTER graduating I spent a dozen years in the foreign service
of the State Department as vice-consul, consul, secretary of lega-
tion, chargé d’affaires (Oslo, 1932), and foreign service officer, in
La Guaira, Caracas, Panama, Bogota, Oslo, and Shanghai. After
serving as American consul at the Free City of Danzig for two
years before the war, I resigned (September, 193) and went to
the U. S. Virgin Islands to recuperate.

I travelled around the world to marry Cleomé Carroll at my
home in Connecticut, leaving Shanghai in September, 1934, going
via North China, Manchuria, Siberia, and Russia, and returning
via the Pacific. While travelling trans-Siberia | had better meals
by using my own sterno outfit and canned goods acquired in
Shanghai. I bought eggs or bread or walked during the twenty-
minute stops made about every two hours for fuel and water. I
travelled second class to facilitate meeting more Russians. ] have
made other trips to Japan (five), the Philippines, Hong Kong,
Singapore, Ceylon, India, Egypt, Central Europe, and North Cape
(Arctic Circle), and have crossed the United States repeatedly on
trips to Mexico and the West Coast.

I spent 1940 in the Virgin Islands where I bought Denis Bay
Plantation on the Island of St. John. I tried to make it self-sufficient
by converting it from sugar and cattle to fruits and vegetables.
But I couldn’t compete with six-month droughts and my wartime
and other absences, so we rebuilt the residence, landscaped the

[995]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

place, and rent it seasonally. (For pictures and text see Vogue,
April 1, 1948.)

I returned to Connecticut to help organize Civilian Defense.
Then I served in the Army ‘from April, 1942, to December, 1945.
During most of 1942 I was an assistant public relations officer in
the First Service Command, Boston, making speeches for Major
General Sherman Miles, writing and publishing the Weekly World
News Commentaries. 1 spent the rest of the war with the War
Department General Staff, Military Intelligence Division, with the
principal duty of accurately locating prisoner of war camps in
Japan and Japanese-occupied territory.

Since the war I have been taking care of my various investments
and interests in the United States, Virgin Islands, and Mexico. I
keep up my commission (major MI) by serving in the 3ooth Mili-
tary Government Unit (lectured last summer at “camp”). I am
interested in church activities and thoughts, especially those of
Rev. Leslie Glenn of St. John’s Church, Washington, and Bryan
Green. My hobbies are landscaping and sculpturing (heads
mostly),

FRED GEORGE WALE

HOME ApDpRESS: P. O. Box 1169, San Juan, Puerto Rico.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Department of Education, San Juan, Puerto Rico.

BORN: Aug. 13, 1899, Portsmouth, England. parents: Alfred Wale, Jane
Prentice.

PREPARED AT: Mt. Hermon School, Mt. Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923, 1927-1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1925 (34).

MARRIED: Helen MacGregor, June 25, 1925, Manchester, N. H. cHIcpren:
Jane, March 31, 1926 (m. Christopher Faegre, Feb. —1§, 1949); Margit,
July 23, 1930; MacGregor, Aug. 17, 1931.

OCCUPATION: Education.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcoRD: World War I: Ambulance driver in Italy, Janu-
ary, 1918-May, 1919.

FOR ten years, from 1925 to 1935, I taught school in and around
Boston. I began to raise a family and wake up in the matters of
social, economic, and political import. An arrested development,
some would call it. From 1935 to 1940, I did educational work for
the Farm Security Administration, mostly in the Southern States
and from 1940 to 1947 I was Director of Education for the Julius

[996 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Rosenwald Fund with offices in Chicago, but again with the work
in the South. In 1947 we went to live in New York, bought a
house in the Village and tried to get some roots started under the
old city’s pavements. In the fall of 1949, however, we came to
San Juan to work in the Department of Education, directing a
program of Community Education with films, booklets, and

ters made here in Puerto Rico by Puerto Ricans on local sub-
jects. These will be the dramatic center around which the com-
munities of the island can develop and grow.

PHILIP WALKER

HOME AND OFFICE ADpRess: Washington, Conn.

BoRN: Dec. 3, 1900, Lexington, Mass. paresrs; Amasa Walker, ‘g7, Anne
Blashfield Babcock.

preparen aT: Scarsdale High School, Scarsdale, N. Y.; Roger Ascham School,
White Plains, N. Y., Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.; Brookline High
School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREZ: 8. ctor laude, 1914.

marrieD: Dorothy Chaterton Schroeder, Oct. 6, 1931, Paris, France, cit:
Judith, Dec. 11, 1933.

OCCUPATION: Investment engineering.

MEMBER OF: Washington Club of Connecticut, Lions Club; Hook, Line &
Sinker Club of Washington, D. C.; Harvard Club of Boston; Elarvard
Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; (erstwhile) Society of American Magicians; New
York Camera Club.

PusLicaTions: “Some Problems of the Investor, with Special Reference to
Relations with the Investee”; “Occulation in the Acceptance of Reality
and the Establishment of Character”; “Life and Habits of the Soap Fish.”

AFTER having been “welcomed to the fellowship of educated
men” that June day, I unnerved my family by intimating that I
wanted to know more about other marginal forms of the human
species — a want which I sought, with some satisfaction to myself,
to cure as a reporter for the Providence Journal.

A year of this was followed by a year at Harvard Law School,
a year which served to prove that my native credulity had been so
sadly dented by assorted bootleggers, prohibition agents, and civic
welfare sponsors that I could no longer “take it,” even from the
good men of the Harvard faculty.

Thence, in step with the times, I joined the staff of Bodell &
Company as a fledgling security salesman. Here my academic

[997 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

education got in the way, for I found I could not accept the pre-
vailing dogma that the great sleigh ride then in the making was
destined to carry us all to the stratosphere. Under such circum.
stances a nice guy doesn’t sell securities with gusto.

But good fortune overtook me. I parted friends with my em-
ployers, cashed my modest chips, and headed eastward via Lon-
don and Paris for the “old Moulmein pagoda,” with vague ideas
of Everest, or what have you. At the right time it doesn’t take
long, as many have discovered since, to find that the homelands of
the dung economies are far more congenial in retrospect or pre-
served between the covers of a book than they are coming
through the window.

Along with a changed outlook I also brought back reams of
35mm. “stills” shot with a small automatic movie camera (a Sept,
for those in the know), which perhaps made me one of the first
“candid” photographers — as opposed to the then popular “can-
died” style. (One pun ought to improve this, for the printer
anyhow.)

On my return I accepted a position with the public relations
department of the New York Telephone Company, and felt that
the world was mine, or at least that my title to it was as perfect
as I had any need for. The tall buildings shimmered for me in
the haze, like proverbial castles in Spain, each a monument to the
blood pressure of its sponsor, while below gobs of humanity were
squirted from place to place by assorted means of transportation.

This time it was the contrariness of events that intervened, for
the great débacle at last caught up with me and made operative
the rule of “last in, first out.” Followed the depression, and a
period of meeting classmates and others in the most unexpected
places, a form of conviviality I terminated by dispatching for
Paris, there to pursue the language at the Alliance Frangaise until
events should right themselves a bit.

While I was there Miss Dorothy Chaterton Schroeder, late of
the Yale Alumni Office and George Pierce Baker’s transplanted
workshop, arrived just in time for her wedding at the American
Church, a ceremony I attended as groom. After a few months as
demi-left bankers and a brief tarry in New Haven, we took up
residence in California, first at Berkeley, later in Marin. While at

[998 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the former, Miss Judith Walker established her claim to native
daughtership and our hearts.

By 1940 it appeared advisable to return east, and good fortune
landed us here in Washington, Connecticut (not to be confused
with any other place of the same name). It appeared that no place
could be found for me in the armed establishments during the
war, in spite of my best efforts, but Mrs. Walker was very active
in Red Cross, air watch, victory gardening, bundles for Britain,
and so on. My contribution was confined to attempting to fur-
ther one or two ideas, and so, except for minor inconveniences
the holocaust passed us by, for which we are reverently thankful.

The only distinction attained by the family was by Miss Judith,
alias “the Wog,” who accumulated a nationwide fan mail as a
result of an article describing her as the country's youngest mail
carrier and setting forth some of the details of the horseback mail
delivery to some of our gasoline-conscious neighbors carried on
by the seven-year-old miss during two summers. She was even
asked to autograph a few covers for the rarity-consctous philati-
cally-inclined!

As of this writing, my time is divided among investment engi-
neering, the Evaluation Institute, duties incidental to a ten-acre
estate-let, local club and social activities, family matters, etc, To
some I am kindly known as “the philosopher,” to others as “the
squire”; all in all it is good, as the great currents carry this bit of
flotsam twisting and turning onward.

Achievement? Well, perhaps I have managed to do my bit
towards undermining the dictum that “you can always tcll a
Harvard man, but you can’t tell him much” — if you have any-
thing to say worth listening to, that is.

JACOB BERTRAM WALLACH

HOME ADDRESS: 235 E. 73rd St., New York 21, N.Y.

OFFICz aporESS: 392 Fifth Ave, New York 18, N.Y.

BorN: June 15, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: Solomon Jacob Wallach,
Bertha Lichtenstadter.

PREPARED AT: The Hun School, Princeton, N. J,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925. DEGREE: 8.B., 1925.

MarrieD: Gisela Jahncke, May 14, 1943, New York, N. Y,

[999 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

occuPATION: Business news editor, The New York Sun; managing director,
Retail News Bureau, New York, Chicago, Los Angeles.

PUBLICATIONS: Regular writing stints; contributor, articles on business sub-
jects to national business and consumer publications; daily column, New
York Sun (syndicated nationally to newspapers in the U, S. and Canada
by the North American Newspaper Alliance).

TWENTY-FIVE years ago, it seems to me, I had a few more
illusions, hopes, and ambitions. These have passed with time,
albeit not unpleasantly. A quarter-century of deadlines and head-
lines leaves one with little leisure for introspection, and a feeling
that sufficient unto the day is the story thereof.

Shortly after departing one June day in 1925 from Cambridge,
I debarked at Liverpool, and there began an unhurried tour of
England and the Continent. A few months later, I returned to my
native shores and soon thereafter encrusted my typing fingers
(both of them) with their first soil of toil.

By the turn of 1930, I launched my own business and, despite
the vicissitudes of the depression, was fortunate enough to bask
in fortune’s smile. There were many long hours and anxious
moments. Early in 1949 I absorbed my remaining competitor and
experienced the satisfaction of knowing I had excelled in my
chosen field. Since that autumn of 1925, when I plunged into the
writing of five daily newspaper columns, I have turned out mil-
lions of words of copy. They have appeared in textbooks, maga-
zine articles, news stories and reports. They have been heard from
rostrums and microphones. Happily, I have the faculty of for-
getting them after birth.

My life otherwise has not been particularly distinguished. I
have travelled as time and means permitted. In recent years, |
have managed spring holidays in Bermuda, and a summer domicile
in Southampton promises to become habitual.

As business news editor of the New York Sun, I write a daily
column that is syndicated nationally. Sometimes, friends in other
cities have informed me, it is practically unavoidable. I also pre-
pare a weekly business newsletter which has been well and numer-
ously received. I still turn out a magazine article when the urge
is irresistible.

Time has refined rather than changed my tastes and interests.
At Cambridge I collected Japanese prints. Upon quitting Apley,
I bequeathed them to my feminine distraction of the period and

[ rooo |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have never since inquired into their fate. Today, old New York
prints crowd my office walls and overflow into storage bins, Con-
temporary American paintings hang in profusion at home. Minia-
ture Parian figures line a mantel, and English lustre ware fills
hanging shelves, Miniature portraits and other paintings punctu-
ate foyer walls and a collection of Rowlandson prints and draw-
ings is hidden in a closet comer.

My wife aids and abets in these acquisitive splurges. Our other
forms of escape from monotony are golf, fishing, photography,
and the theatre. My wife, who was born in Cairo of an Feyptian
father and German mother, danced with notable success on Con-
tinental and American stages. Her lifetime terpsichorean project
is to complete my acquaintance with the samba.

Before infirmities halt my steps and age dims my eyes, I should
very much like to relinquish my activities gradually and devote
myself to the unrestricted pursuit of personal interests and enjoy-
ments. Like Mr. Rhodes and Mr. Marquand, I feel there are many
things to do, people to know and places to visit, and so Jittle time.

Material success for its own sake is a mockery, and greed is the
greatest cheater of all. Too many of us die rich in worldly goods
and poor in life’s most cherished satisfactions.

Harvard bestowed upon me a sense of valucs, call it discrimina-
tion if you choose, wherted an unquenchable intellectual cu rosity,
freed me from intolerant opinions, prejudices if you will, and
taught me to reason logically, objectively, and dispassionately.
Moreover it broadened my vision, led me to the first step to
knowledge, awareness of my ignorance, and enabled me to make
the most of any native abilities I possessed. My debt is incal-
culable and my gratitude is boundless. To Harvard I owe no less
a saneness and balance that have stood me in good stead in human
and business relationships. Knowledge has made for understand-
ing and forebearance, and reason has suppressed the impulses that
so often breed animosity and conflict.

I am not vain enough to believe that Harvard's gifts to me were
unique. I believe they were tendered to us all, and accepted ap-
preciatively by most. I cite them gratefully only to acknowledge
my enduring indebtedness.

Harvard’s blessings have been surpassed only by the affection
and devotion of my parents, and the love and loyalty of my wife.

[ roo1 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925,

To be worthy of such priceless experience is truly the semnum
bonum of life, and the source of all true happiness.

DONALD DEVENISH WALSH

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

BORN: Oct. 31, 1903, Providence, R. J. parents: John Francis Walsh, Cathe-
rine Matilda Devenish.

PREPARED AT: High School of Commerce, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: S.B. magna cum laude, 1925.

UNMARRIED.

occupation? Head of Spanish Department and assistant director of studies,
The Choate School.

OFFICES HELD: Examiner in Spanish, since 1941, College Entrance Examination
Board; director, 1942-45, president, 1950, New England Modern Lan-
guage Association, associate editor, since 1943, New England Modern
Language Bulletin, vice-president, 1948-49, American Association of
Teachers of Spanish and Portuguese, advertising manager, 1945-49,
acting editor, 1949, editor, 1950, Hispania.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association, American Association of Teach-
ers of Spanish and Portuguese, New England Modern Language Associa-
tion; Asociacion de Escritores y Artistas Americanos.

PUBLICATIONS: Cuentos y versos americanos, 1942; Seis relatos americanos,
1943; text edition of Arturo Uslar Pietri’s Las lanzas coloradas, 1944;
Introductory Spanish, 1946; text edition of Jesus Goytortta’s Pensativa,
1947; Repaso, 1948, Cuentos americanos con algunos versos, 1948; text
edition of Jesus Goytortia’s Liuvia roja, 1949, A Brief Introduction to
Spanish, 1950; articles and book reviews in New International Year Book,
Revista Iberoamericana, Inter American, New England Modern Lan-
guages Bulletin, Commentary, Modern Language Journal, Hispania.

AS I note the number of entries I have had to leave blank (mar-
ried, children, Harvard sons, Harvard brothers, military or naval
record, wartime government posts), I am increasingly aware that
I— and my parents — have left undone many things that should
have been done, and the converse is equally true, though I won't
go into that here.

My life has been quite restricted, geographically and pro-
fessionally. I have been teaching at Choate since 1928 and my
interests have been the Spanish language and the Hispanic litera-
tures. In 1941 two events jolted me out of my pleasant but nar-
row rut. I was appointed an examiner in Spanish of the College
Entrance Examination Board, and the chicf examiner, Professor
Edith Helman of Simmons College, suggested that I edit an an-

[ 1002 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

thology of Spanish American short stories and verse for W. W.
Norton and Company. My first, second, and even third reaction
was that I couldn’t possibly add anything more to what I then
thought was a full life, teaching and running a dormitory in a
boarding school. But Professor Helman persisted, and I began
the first of a series of textbooks that have brought me a great deal
of intangible satisfaction, and, tangibly, have brought those famous
ends closer to a meeting.

~The second event was the Anthology of Contemporary Latin
American Poetry, edited by my colleague and classmate, Dudley
Fitts. He wanted me, an arch anti-poet, to translate some poetry
for him. To please him, I made a half-hearted effort which, under
the guidance of his poetic, critical, and editorial genius (hi, Dud-
ley!), became whole-hearted, and even rhapsodic. Out of these
two jolts to my placid contentment with things as they were have
come an increasing interest and participation in cultural inter-
change between Anglo and Latin America, culminating in my
recent election as editor of Hispania, the quarterly journal of the
American Association of Teachers of Spanish and Portuguese.

Non professional enthusiasms and devotions are bridge, talk
(yes, I know they are contradictory), books, music, the New
Deal, racial and religious equality, and Mr. Willkie’s One World.

THOMAS PAUL WARD

HOME ADDRESS: 31 Florence Ave., Oyster Bay, Long Island, N. Y.

- OFFICE ADDRESS: Farm Journal, Inc., 420 Lexington Ave., New York, N. Y.

Born: Nov. 4, 1901, Lyon Mountain, N. Y. parents: Lester Watson Ward,
Susan Davis Rice.

PREPARED AT: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925, DEGREE: A.B. 1925,

marrieD: Winifred Vernon Underhill, Nov. 3, 1933, Syosset, Long Island,
N. Y. cump: Vernon Underhill, June 22, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert George Ward, '28,

occuPATION: Advertising salesman.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Coast Guard Reserve.

SINCE 1925 my business activities have revolved pretty much
around buying, merchandising, and advertising. I spent several

years managing retail stores as well as buying men’s and boys’ wear
for groups of retail stores. I also taught a summer school course

[ 1003 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925 |

at the University of Florida on the history, origin, and develop-
ment of men’s fashions.

My son is entering the Gunnery School at Washington, Con-
necticut, this fall, with his mind already made up to become a

doctor.
My hobbies are baking cherry stone clams on the beach of Long
Island Sound and wood carving.

ARTHUR ALDEN WARNER

HOME ADDRESS: 82 Hyde St., Newton Highlands, Mass.

Born: Aug. 18, 1903, Dorchester, Mass. parents: Arthur Harold Warner,
Alice Mary Heim.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.

OccUPATION: Retired.

UPON leaving college I worked as an accountant for the Stand-
ard Oil Company of New York, in their Boston office. Ten years
later, my eyesight failing, I was obliged to discontinue this type
of work. Since 1946 I have become totally blind. I take daily
walks with my dog in the vicinity of my home in Newton High-
lands.

HENRY WARNER

HOME AppREss: Lincoln Road, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 84 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 24, 1902, Lincoln, Mass. parents: Henry Eldridge Warner, ’82,
Henrietta Edla Slade.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. DEGREE: A.B., 1925 (26).

MARRIED: Ruth Preble Ware, Nov. 2, 1934, Westwood, Mass. CHILDREN:
Henry Eldridge, 2d, July 1, 1937; Joseph Storer, Dec. 7, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Real estate. .

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member, Lincoln Ration Board; chief rent
examiner, Eastern Massachusetts Defense Rental Area Office, O.P.A,
Boston, Mass.

OFFICES HELD: Former secretary and former director, Massachusetts Associa-
tion of Real Estate Boards,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; City Club Corporation; Boston Real
Estate Board; Massachusetts Real Estate Association; National Associa-
tion of Real Estate Boards; National Institute of Real Estate Brokers.

[ 1004 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER receiving my degree from Harvard, I found myself, like
so many others, faced with the problem of how to put it to prac-
tical use. Having no particular leanings towards any specialized
field of endeavor, I followed the more or less traditional line and
started in the investment banking business with a well-known
State Street firm.

Three years in various departments made me long for broader
fields, but the sales manager kindly informed me that he did not
think that I was suited to selling securities. 1 remember feeling
very resentful at the time, but as I look back over the years, |
realize that he was right, and I am grateful for his frankness, for
it stimulated me to get out of what | now know would have been
a very routine rut.

After I spent several years in the textile field, the depression
caught up with me, as with many others, and I was again faced
with the everlasting problem. However, early in 1932 1 found
the answer, when I started in the real estate business by becoming
associated with the firm of R. M. Bradley & Company, Inc. This
venture proved to be unexpectedly satisfactory, for it has pro-
vided unlimited opportunities for success, with unusual freedom
to use my own initiative in whatever direction I desired.

In November, 1934, I married Ruth Preble Ware, and after a
temporary period of apartment life in Cambridge, we settled into
a home of our own in Lincoln, where we enjoy the freedom of
life in the country while being close enough to the city. We have
two sons, Harry, now 124%, and Joe, recently 9, They are en-
thusiastic Boy and Cub Scouts, and have already made their own
plans to go to Harvard in due course.

My activities during the recent World War were not as glamor-
ous as many others’, but were full of interest. As a member of
our local Ration Board I came to know my neighbors better chan
formerly, and derived much pleasure from being able, in many
instances, to help them solve the complicated problems which
bureaucratic red tape forced upon them.

The same was also true of my work in the Boston Office of
Price Administration. No one who has never endured working
in a government position can fully appreciate just how complex
and cumbersome our vast governmental structure really is. If
more of our people could go through this mill at some time early

[ 1005 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

in their lives, I believe that it would be a good thing for the
country, for their eyes would be opened and they would insist
upon effectively improving a system which not only tolerates,
but at times seems actually to foster a surprising amount of in-
competence and extravagance. .

At the earliest opportunity after the end of actual fighting, ]
resigned from government service and returned to my real estate
work, which I find most congenial. It brings me into constant
association with all kinds of interesting people, all having their
own particular problems and hoping that I can help solve them.

I find it a fascinating occupation, full of opportunities for crea-
tive thinking. I have given numerous lectures in real estate courses
given by the Massachusetts Department of Education through its
Division of University Extension, and from time to time have
been asked to address various civic organizations whose members
are interested in some phase of real estate.

I count myself fortunate that my work is in a field which pro-
vided so much interest and enjoyment, for these are essential to
success in any endeavor. If the next quarter-century provides as
much variety as the last has, those of us who foregather at our
Fiftieth Reunion should indeed have much to look back upon
and tell each other.

EDWARD STEVENSON WASHBURN, II

HOME ADDRESS: 1022 Arno Rd., Kansas City 5, Mo.

OFFICE AppREss: United Film Service, Inc., 2449 Charlotte St., Kansas City
8, Mo.

BORN: June 27, 1902, Berlin, Germany. parents: James Murray Washburn,
’95, Helen Bartlet Van Brunt.

PREPARED AT: Francis W. Parker School, Chicago, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: ,S.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Beatrice Southwood Morse, June 27, 1928, St. Louis, Mo. cHILpREN:
Edward Stevenson, 3d, May 26, 1930; Kenneth Morse, July 3, 19335
Stephen Murray, March 18, 1936; Christopher Hiram, Aug. 5, 1941.

occuPATION: Vice-president, United Film Service, Inc.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant commander, U. 5.
Naval Air Force, handling procurement of Naval Aviation Cadets in
Kansas City. Duty in Saipan and Okinawa, Air-Sea Rescue Squadron
VH3; awarded Bronze Star.

OFFICES HELD: Previously: president, Wiedenmann-Simpson Coal Company;
Missouri Coal Association, Harvard Club of Kansas City. Currently:

[ 1006 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

vice-president, Morse Investment Company; secretary-treasutcr, Plastic

Pressed Forms, junior warden, Se. Andrew's Fpiscopal Church,
MEMBER OF: University Club of Kansas City.
AFTER graduation I went south to the cotton mills of North
Carolina to make my fortune. I didn’t make a fortune but, more
important, met my future wife. We were marred in 1928 and
lived in Chicago until 1930, where I was employed by Butler
Brothers. With the depression, utilities looked good so TE went to
work for Insull’s Midwest Uulities and was sent to Kansas City as
assistant to the president of the City Ice Company. W hen the
Insull empire folded up I was able to buy the coal departinent of
the Ciry Ice Company and combined it with the Wiedenmann-
Simpson Coal Company, and later became president of the latter,

In 1942 I went into the Navy doing naval aviation cadet pro-
curement work in my own home town for nearly two years, That
was followed by interesting and active work w ith an air-sea rescue
squadron i in the Pacific. Among other dutics the outfit covered
B2g missions against Saipan. After lwo Jima we went to Okinawa
and were there from the landing until the atomic bombs were
dropped in Japan.

While overseas I sold my interest in the coal company. Shortly
after my return to this country I went with United Film Service,
Inc., of Kansas City. We manufacture and distribute motion pic-
ture advertising films. My particular end of the business is the sale
of advertising programs to national manufacturers and the later
management of the programs.

My eldest boy is a junior at Hamilton College, Clinton, New
York. The other three bovs, my wife, and I live in a house we
built in 1932 in a pleasant section of Kansas City. We are active
in community, scout, and church work of various kinds. We like
Kansas City, our friends and my work, and I fecl particularly
fortunate in having an especially fine family. We hope you will
come to Kansas City and will look us up.

ERIC ARTHUR WATSON

appress: Amalgamations, Ltd., 0: Mount Rd., Madras, India,
BORN: June 30, 1902, Brisbahe, Australia. parents: Arthur Watson.
PREPARED AT: Brisbane Grammar School, Brisbane, Australia.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1923.

OCCUPATION: Engineering.

{ 1007 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.
Watson did not return a questionnaire.

HENRY MILLER WATTS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 691 Meetinghouse Rd., Elkins Park, Philadelphia, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mitchel, Whitmer, Watts & Co., 14 Wall St., New York,
N. Y.

BoRN: March 13, 1904, Philadelphia, Pa, PARENTS: Henry Miller Watts,
Laura Esther Barney.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, } N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921~1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

marRIED: Maxine Wieczorek, Aug. 21, 1935, Long Beach, Calif. (separated),
cup: Infant daughter, born and died April 11, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Pepper Watts, 35.

occupation: Member New York Stock Exchange; partner in floor commis-
sion firm.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant (j.g.), U. S. Naval
Reserve, July 22, 1940; entered active duty, June 2, 1941; naval intel-
ligence and radio and cable censorship, 1941-43; beachmaster, Amphib-
ious Service, 1943-45; participated in assaults on Normandy, Omaha
Beach, with 6th Beach Battalion, U. S. Navy, June 6-July 1, 1944;
division beachmaster, Transport Division 38, U. S. Navy, Purple
Beach, Okinawa, April 1-6, 1945, awarded Bronze Star; released from
active duty as commander (D), U. S. Naval Reserve, Dec. 15, 1945.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Philadelphia; Racquet and
Tennis Club, New York.

DONALD VINCENT WEAVER |

HOME ApprEss: 1617 Calhoun St., Seattle 2, Wash,

BORN: Oct. 18, 1900, Cambridge, Mass. parents: William Edgar Weaver, ’98,
LeElla May Rogers.

PREPARED AT: Flushing High School, Flushing, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1925 (26).

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ralph Rogers Weaver, ’21.

OccUPATION: Teacher.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Student pilot, Canadian R.A.F., Toronto, Septem-
ber-December, 1918.

MEMBER OF: Econometric Society; American Economic Association; Royal
Economic Society.

I WAS a math major. Something new was added at the end of
the college menu by W. L. Crum’s course in statistical analysis,

[ 1008 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

seasoned for me by the need of liaison workers in neglected border

areas of the separate sciences. My first job afterwards was in

Irving Fisher’s statistical laboratory in New Haven. As economic

analysis and policy gave promise of being a fruitful field of in-
quiry, I set out in 1928 on a long voyage of intellectual discovery.
‘A period of graduate study and research at the University of
Chicago and Brookings Institution was followed by several years
in economic and statistical research and administration. in the
federal government. During the war I taught freshman mathe-
matics and physics at Cornell. Since then I have continued teach-
ing. At present I am engaged in graduate study of mathematics
and allied fields.

HAROLD SCHULZE WEBER

HOME Appress: 512 28th St., Cairo, IIL.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Weber Dry Goods Co., 501-503 Commercial Ave., Cairo, Ill.

BORN: May 2, 1904, Cairo, Ill. parents: Herman Weber, Edith Katherine
Schulze.

PREPARED AT: Staunton Military Academy, Staunton, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: 8.B.4 1925; M.BiAy 1927.

MaRRIED: Mary Frances Schaefer, May 11, 1946, Tamms, Ill. cuttp: Harold
Herman, Sept. 2, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lester Herman Weber, '29.

occupation: Vice-president, Weber Dry Goods Company.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Co-ordinator of information, Emerson Electric
Manufacturing Company, Defense Plant, St. Louis, Mo., 1942~45.
oFFices HELD: Member, Lutheran Church Council; president Lutheran

- Brotherhood.
MEMBER OF: Engineers Club, St. Louis; Elks Club; Egyptian Golf Club.
Pusiications: Articles in the Merchants Guide, 1936-38.

IN ORDER to become well grounded in making a livelihood I
started in the real estate business with Joseph P. Day, Inc., in New
York City immediately after graduation and continued in that line
until September, 1925. At that time I entered the Harvard Grad-
uate School of Business Administration for a two-year postgrad-
uate course. My prolonged residence in Cambridge consequently
enabled me to keep in touch with both graduates and undergrad-
uates as well as to reconcile academic theory with facts in the
realm of business. Between Business School sessions, during the
summer of 1926, I worked in the real estate business again and

[ 1009 ]

- ee EDEN Esser: ERAGE PAAR AARON AE So NON SIT

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

further correlated my studies with the facts of experience. Leav-
ing the Business School with my M.B.A. as scheduled in June,

1927, I re-embarked upon a much longer voyage over the seas of

commerce.

After resuming real estate as an occupation during the summer
months I became successively interested in investment trusts and
retail merchandising. I weighed anchor in time to avoid the
maelstrom of 1929 and deemed it advisable to utilize the fruits of
experience by taking an active part in the wholesale business,
namely, Weber Dry Goods Company at Cairo. At that time the
surrounding territory was still feeling the effects of floods in the
Mississippi Valley. After working in the wholesale business for
several years and making an uphill climb I branched out by assist-
ing my father with other investments such as the ferryboat busi-
ness connecting the three states of Illinois, Missouri, and Ken-
tucky. Later I became similarly interested in the hotel business
after the construction of modern bridges had outmoded the ferry-
boats as a main artery of Transportation. The hotel business was
sold in 1946.

During World War II, I engaged in defense. work with the
Emerson Electric Manufacturing Company at St. Louis. As co-
ordinator of information I answered complaints, thus reporting to
the Army and Navy officials as well as to the president of this
company. In this capacity my two years as an undergraduate in
the Harvard Engineering School and my trip to Europe during the
summer of 1922 had helped to qualify me considerably. After the
war I returned to Cairo and took part in a reorganization of the
Weber Dry Goods Company, becoming vice-president.

After the feverish activity of the war years had subsided, |
doffed the cloak of bachelorhood because it was pretty well worn
out and embarked with a fresh outlook on. the matrimonial sea. I
was married on May 11, 1946, to the best girl I had ever met and
on September 2, 1949, our first-born son arrived. Now instead of
golf my family is my hobby, and I have settled down as the head
of this little group, viewing it as life’s principal business.

LOUIS kK. WECHSLER

HOME appress: 164 W. ogth St. New York 25, N. Y.
OFFICE appress: Boys High School, 832 Marcy Ave. Brooklyn 16, N. Y.

[ 1010 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sorN: Aug. 7, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Adolf Wechsler, Henrietta

_ Siegel. 7
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922. DEGREES: A.B. (Coll. of the City of New
York), 1925; A.M. (Columbia Univ.), 1928.

MARRIED: Tatyana Podryska, 1929, Montreal, P. Q., Canada. CHILDREN: An-
tonia Carol, Jan. 11, 1940, Jeffrey Bruce, Oct. 2, 1941.

occuPATION: Education; head of Department of English and Speech.

OFFICES HELD: President, Association of First Assistants (heads of depart-
ments) in New York City High Schools, 1947-49.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Society for Ethical Culture in the City of New
York.

pusLications: Reviews in High Points and Brooklyn Eagle.

WHILE I am aware of the laudable purpose underlying these

Class Lives, I have found myself oppressed by a deep-seated re-

luctance to write my Class Life whenever, after receiving a gentle

reminder or “goad,” I prodded myself into making an attempt.

I have sought many times to determine the cause of this an-
tipathy. It is not that [am shy and averse to being autobiograph-
ical. I believe all expression is essentially autobiographical, I
make my living by encouraging others to express themselves
clearly and individually and in the process express myself often
and generously.

I suspect it is this very experience in autobiography by others
and myself that is at the root of my repugnance. Perhaps because
I have enjoyed the intimate taste of true autobiography, which
consists in my experience not of events, but of unique reactions
to events. The most informal and “self-revealing” of anniversary
class lives seem to me to partake too much of the nature of obit-
uaries, and it isn’t easy or pleasant to write one’s own obit. Date of
birth — end of story, and in between the things that happen to
almost all of us, even alumni of Harvard — jobs, spouses, off-
spring, triumphs, defeats, joys, griefs, and irrecoverable losses.
Human history, but not autobiography.

The outline of my history up to the present may be traced in
the preceding vital statistics; the details omitted can be imagined.
" My real autobiography won't fit here. Part of it has been
drowned in the current of the years, in forgotten moments and
thoughts and moods and in unrecorded lectures and conversations;
what is left goes on in the remembrances of my thousands of
students, in my occasional reviews, in my unpublished writings

[ torr |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

and journal, in fragments towards an autobiography which oc-
cupy rare hours of leisure, and in free talk with friends over a

convivial cup.

OSCAR VINCENT WEDERBRAND

HOME apprEss: 6 Gillen Terr., Gloversville, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rohm & Haas Co., Philadelphia, Pa.

BorN: March 22, 1904, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Oscar Svante Wilhelm
Wederbrand, Jenny Elizabeth Koren.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925.

MARRIED: Lillian Caroline Rankin, Sept. 2, 1933, Peabody, Mass. CHILDREN:
Susan Elizabeth, Feb. 11, 1937; Robert Eric, Sept. 6, 1940; Jon Curtis,
Nov. 6, 1948. , .

occupation: Leather chemist; sales service and demonstration of chemicals
to the leather industry.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: New York State Guard, three years.

MEMBER OF: American Leather Chemists Association, Mayfield Yacht Club,
Harvard Club of Eastern New York; Joseph Webb Lodge, A-F. & A.M.

GRADUATION in 1925 left me without anything to do —ex-

cept to find a job. All the standbys—the telephone company,

sorry, no vice-presidencies open; the United Fruit — bananas
grow upside down in Central America, Dennison’s psychological
wooden blocks found me out — sorry.

Finally the A. C. Lawrence Leather Company in Peabody,
Massachusetts, took a chance. I started as an apprentice in the
ancient art of leather making by unloading raw cowhides from
freight cars. I used to soak my hands in hot water every morning
to uncurl my fingers. The smells washed off easier when I grad-
uated to dry work and discarded the rubber boots and apron.

Life on the North Shore was far different from the rotogravure,
revolving around movies, dates, and especially church suppers
where we could stuff to capacity for fifty cents — that is, if we
liked ham and escalloped potatoes. We saw the social rooms of
almost all the churches around during a winter season.

Then I met THE girl and life began. A penurious paymaster
kept us apart until a new job came along in 1933. We were mar-
ried and moved to Philadelphia to work for Rohm & Haas Com-
pany. Six months later we moved to Gloversville, New York,
the glove center of the country, among the lakes and foothills of

[ 1012 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the Adirondacks. Susan arrived in 1937; Robert in 1940; and Jon
in 1948.

My job is to sell, service, and demonstrate leather-making
chemicals to the tanning industry. This may involve the entire
procedure of making leather from the raw ‘skin, or be nothing
more than matching a new color for a lady’s Faster wardrobe. |
visit tanneries from Buffalo, New York, to Worcester, Massachu-
setts. Until farmers can breed standardized cows, sheep, and goats,
my work will always be intriguing, and at times exasperating.
The only trouble with it is that it takes me away from home
quite a bit.

Life in Gloversville has been comfortable. Winters of thirty
degrees below zero with snow banks five feet high are no stran-
gers. Our summers and falls are beautiful, despite the old native’s
description of “seven months winter, August, and four months
damn poor sleighing.” In the summer we picnic and sail on the
lakes nearby — fifteen minutes from the office to a fragrant, cool
pine grove fronting on a crystal clear lake. Winters we have our
bridge clubs, lodges, P.T.A.’s, etc. and now we've taken up
square dancing. It keeps us young, we hope!

Cambridge seems so far away, another world entirely, to which
I hope to introduce my family, as well as mysclf, next June. I
wonder if the old “transmittendum of Holworthy 5” still exists
and how many curious men have dug up the loose brick in the
fireplace to find it.

*

ALONZO ROGERS WEED, JR.

HOME aporess: 94 Village Ave, Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Bird & Son, Inc. East Walpole, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 16, 1904, Newton, Mass. parents: Alonzo Rogers Weed, ‘87,
Charlotte Ford Atwater.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.; Phillips Academy,
Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925, DEGREES: A.B. 1925; M.B.A., 1927.

MARRIED: Virginia Sheehan, Sept. 17, 1930, Newton Center, Mass. cHILpreN:
Patricia, March 31, 1932; Marcia, Aug. 28, 1933; A. Rogers, 3d, July,
19373 Wirginia, Oct. 5, 1938.

occupation: Division sales manager, Building Material Division, Bird &
Son, Inc.

[ 1013 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925 -

SINCE I had completed requirements for a college degree in
January of our senior year and had no particular plans for a
career, I entered the midyear class at the Business School. Upon
finishing the two-year program there in February, 1927, I started
to work i in the sales department of Bird & Son, Inc., within the
month, and there I still am at this writing. .

That simple chronology, perhaps, keynotes the intervening
years. I suspect statistically rather few members of the Class in
the business world have been with one employer since leaving
college. Certainly that course, as compared to more varied | em.
ployment, provides ground for discussion.

My employment took me for a couple of years into Central
Pennsylvania, then for a time to Rhode Island, after which I re-
turned to our general offices in East Walpole for some eight years.
During this interval I was married, and after the arrival of our
first child, we lived in East Walpole for six years. Two more
children with another on the way crowded us out to larger
quarters in Dedham, where we have lived ever since.

The years have gone by only too quickly, involving prin-
cipally work and the pleasures of raising four children. This
family plus age precluded active military service and I have
found that the irregularity of travelling in sales work makes
difficult much participation in civic affairs.

Thus my twenty-five-year span has had little of the spec-
tacular. Many would consider it a rather prosaic, certainly pro-
vincial life, but it has been enjoyable, reasonably fruitful, and
not without its highlights.

TALBOT WEGG

HOME AppRESS: Box 171, Route 1, Bellevue, Wash.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Victor N. Jones & Associates, Republic Bldg., Seattle, Wash.

BORN: Jan. 12, 1904, Sewickley, Pa. paRENTs: Donald Russell Wegg, 'o3,
Florence Talbot.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1925.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Zimmerman, Dec. 7, 1935, Arlington, Va. CHILDREN:
Talbot, Jr., April 23, 1937; Donald William, Jan. 28, 1939; Stephen,
Jan. 31, 1942; Susan Hamill, June 13, 1944; Elizabeth, Jan. 28, 1947.

occupaTION: Architect.

[ 1014 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Director for development, Federal Public
Housing Authoriry, Region VII, Seattle, Wash.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; American Institute of Plan-
ners (associate).

pusLications: “Preface to City Planning,” Virginia Quarterly Review,
July, 1934; Homes for Workers, Government Printing Otfice, 1937;
Housing Comes of Age, Oxford University Press, 1938

THIS is a checkpoint — the midway of one's productive life —

and a disturbing responsibility to telescope and set down the

facts of one’s being and doing for twenty- -five years. You can

choose the path, bur its directions, and your progress along ir,

are affected greatly by chance.

In my senior year I chose architecture and it has been an in-
teresting path which, to date, has taken me to Paris (1926-28,
study years) to Fairbanks, Alaska (1yg2, war housing), and most
recently to Bogota, Colombia, with at least a hundred cities
throughout the United States in between. I first saw Seattle in
1942 and was so taken by the beauty and opportunity for a
rich, yet simple, life that we sold the Virginia homestead, piled
our brood into the old Dodge covered wagon, and made for
the promised land.

Despite the uprooting of all ties, the choice was wise. We had
spent eight years in Washington, D.C., fine exciting years of
the New Deal, but Washington is a transient town with a de-
bilitating climate. After eight years, the excitement ceased to
compensate for the emotional turmoil of annual reorganizations
of the office, moving from one rented house to another, the
horrible enervation of Washington summers, and the constant
feeling of impermanence.

In Seatrle the assets are: a house on the lake, where five tanned
and husky kids swim daily from May to October, a stake in
the building of new communities where almost any man, re-
gardless of race, creed, or color, has a chance; country which
has beauty that never becomes commonplace, a wife who is, to
say the least, a full partner in the enterprise and whose com-
panionship has had a constant value for fifteen years, good health
and an ever-growing satisfaction in simple accomplishments such
as Carpentry, sailing a boat, and maintaining a house and acre of
ground.

Our life is not without liabilities, and the greatest of these is

[rors ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

insufficient time. Simply getting through the day with five kids,
feeding them, getting them to school and getting them to bed
is a problem in discipline and logistics which might well have
taxed Eisenhower's genius for organization. We dream of a
utopia with thirty-six-hour days in which conscientious parents
can finish the day’s work with the satisfaction of having lost no
ground during the day.

It seems unlikely that the three boys will have the same edu-
cational career as their old man. To them Harvard is no more
than a name, whereas the Washington crews train right in their
front yard. They would get lost in the Boston subway, but
they’ve sailed the length of Puget Sound in a nineteen-foot sloop.

For most of us, values and objectives must have changed a
lot in twenty-five years. For myself, I am relieved to realize
I no longer must put up with the bright boy of 1925, who knew
all the answers because he had just graduated from Harvard.
(It might well have been the same, had I graduated from the
seminary in New Haven or even West Dakota A. & M.) It has
been enlightening to learn that there are fine guys among C.O.
organizers, that many politicians are both competent and honest,
and that, in large parts of these United States, people live con-
_ tentedly with no concern for the fluctuations of the New York
Stock Exchange.

For the affirmative, I suspect that I am among the minority of
classmates who believe that Franklin Roosevelt will stand up,
in the long run, beside George Washington and Abraham Lin-
coln. I think that in the past twenty-five years we have made
great progress towards the goal of a democracy, given such
pious lip service, and not much else, by the more articulate view-
ers-with-alarm.

In the Pacific Northwest, thanks to God’s bounty of fish and
forests, to man’s achievements of cheap power and almost uni-
versal trade unionism, and to a tolerance on racial and religious
differences, I think we are closer to democracy than are many
other parts of the country. And I hope that, during my lifetime,
the bitter, recurring conflicts of the East and South, which are
deep-rooted in unthinking prejudice, may be resolved as they
have been here. I hope, and believe, that my lads will enjoy an
even finer country than I have seen but I expect to be around

[ 1016 |

2$TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

for a while yet, in spite of occasional shormess of breath and
shining pate, to have my share of the fun, too.

Some day, when the kids are out from under, we're going to
cut loose from shore and move onto a thirty-five-foor yawl and

nd our declining years sailing Puget Sound and the endless
inlets of British Columbia. We might even make the fortieth
reunion of Harvard ’25 via the Panama Canal, provided we're
allowed to make a side trip through the Windward and Leeward
Islands of the Caribbean en route (a project I've had on my mind
for some time, but which seems to get sidetracked by the per-
sistent and perpetual demands of our vigorous brood),

JULIAN HACKETT WEISS

HOME AporESss: 452 S. San Vicente Bivd., Los Angeles 36, Calif.

OFFIce aporess: 315 VW. Ninth Sc, Room 923, Lous Angeles 15, Calif.

porn: April 3, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Irving Martin Weiss,
Pauline Berger.

PREPARED AT: Masten Park High School, Buffalo, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B, 1925, LL.B, 1929.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered active duty, Aug. 10, 1942, U.S. Ariny;
commissioned second lieutenant, Feb. 3. 1943, Signal Corps, served,
October, 1943, to February, 1945, England with 8th Air Force, France
with 314th Signal Service Battalion, relieved from active duty March
20, 1945.

AFTER graduating from college, a disagreement with my family

as to my future career resulted in my finding myself employed

at Bloomingdale Brothers in New York City and ateending night
law school at New York University. After a few months of
this, my father, who was a lawyer and objected to my following
that profession, relented and I discontinued my part-time studies
and entered the Harvard Law School in 1926, graduating in

1929. I was admitted to the New York Bar in Scptember, 1929,

and went into the practice of law in association with my father

at Buffalo, New York. His untimely death in March of the
following year left me as the sole surviving member of the firm

and I carried on until January, 1935.

During that period I was active in the Socialist Party. Sadly,

I watched the influence and prestige of my political group de-

[ 1017 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925 ©

cline. Apparently, the unoriented liberals found Mr. Roosevelt’s
reinforcement of capitalism, via the New Deal, more enticing
than the more fundamental program of the Socialist Party.

In January, 1935, I decided to take advantage of the much

advertised climate of Southern California and moved to Los
Angeles where I was admitted to the Bar of California in July.
I continued to practise law in Los Angeles until the war, and
in the early part of 1942, I applied for a commission in the
U.S. Navy. After having satisfied the physical and educational
requirements, I was called in and interviewed by a naval officer
who cross-examined me extensively upon my political beliefs.
I informed the officer that I had first started to fight Fascism
at the time of Mussolini’s march on Rome and apparently that
was twenty years too soon for the U.S. Navy. I was then politely
informed by letter that the Navy had no available vacancy for
a man of my qualifications.
, Shortly thereafter, I entered the Army of the United States
as a buck private, via the Selective Service. I am informed that
I made a very unmilitary soldier. However, my superior intellect
fortified by two Harvard degrees apparently impressed my
superiors and they permitted me to attend Officers’ Candidate
School at Fort Monmouth, New Jersey, where I was commis-
sioned a second lieutenant in the Signal Corps in February, 1943.
I then found myself being transferred around from one or-
ganization to another, always as surplus personnel, and eventually
landed in England where I did odd jobs with the 8th Air Force
and later with the 3104th Signal Service Battalion in Paris.

In the early part of 1945, I finally found that my advancing
senility became an advantage for the first time in that I was able
to obtain my release from active duty as an over-age officer for
whom no suitable assignment existed, and, in March of that year,
I return to civilian life and resumed the practice of law in Los
Angeles, where I have continued uneventfully since that time.

My love life has been to date unsuccessful, or eminently suc-
cessful depending upon the point of view. I am still a bachelor
and prospects of my changing that status seem to be rather
remote. They say that the reason a bachelor doesn’t get married
is that as he grows older he becomes more particular and less

desirable.
[ 1018 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN MORSE WELLS

HOME apprEss: Eastford Road, Southbridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Harvey-Wells Electronics, Inc, North Strect, South.
bridge, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 14, 1903, Southbridge, Mass. parents: Joel Chency Wells,
Florence Winifred Morse.

PREPARED AT: Fay School, Southboro, Mass.; Sc. Paul's School, Concord, N.H,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-19724. DEGREE: A.B, 1925.

Marrigp; Sylvia Shippen, May 19, 1928 Boston, Mass. curoren; John
Shippen, Nov. 1, 1929; Florence, April 17, 1g3t; Natalie, July 23, 1932.

MARVARD SON: John Shippen Wells, '51.

OCCUPATION; President and treasurer, Harvey-Wells Flectronics, Inc. (radio
and electronics manufacturer); Commusuoner of Acronautics for Massa-
chusetts.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Senior lieutenant, U.S. Naval Reserve, 1923-41;
member Wing Staff, Massachusetts Civil Air Patrol.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member, Radio Technical Planning Board,
Special F-1 Aviation Communications Comnuttce, Board of War Com-
munications.

OFFICES HELD: Executive and trustee, American Optical Company, president
and treasurer, Harvey-Wells Electronics, Inc.; Commissioner of Aero-
nautics for Massachusetts, director, Southbridge Water Supply, member
advisory committee, Worcester County Trust Company, trustee, Quine-
baug Forestry Corporation, Harrington Memorial Hospital, Old Scur-
bridge Village, Wells Historical Museum, president and director,
Southbridge Invesement Company.

MEMBER OF: Cohasset Country Club; Union Club of Boston, Harvard Club
of Boston; Institute of Radio Engineers, Optical Society of America;
American Radio Relay League; Rotary Club, Order of Quiet Birdmen
(Boston Hangar), Sportsman Pilots Association; Aircraft Owners and
Pilots Association; Aviation Country Club of Long Island; Signa Alpha
Epsilon (fraternity); Mc. Washington Observatory Association, Wings
Club; American Free Order of Masons; Aeronautic Association of
Boston; Megantic Fish and Game Corporation.

Pustications: Technical article (radio transmitter) in Magazine QST,
June, 1926.

GOING over the sample autobiographies of the distinguished
Class of 1924, hoping to glean some brilliant ideas for preparing
this brief sketch, I find myself quite humble in the realization
of the things I have not done in the twenty-five years since our
graduation. Sul, in taking stock, it seems there never has been
a dull moment. For those of you who have reached as far as
the W’s in this Class Report, and those other few of you who are

[ 1019 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19265 .

that be in the Navy Department in Washington, I resigned my
commission as senior lieutenant in the Naval Reserve in order
to go all out in the electronic business, since that we deemed so
important to an impending war situation.

Then came Pearl Harbor and the Harvey-Wells Electronics,
like every other electronic manufacturer, was told “no civilian
business now, only war work.” Now every day a busy one,
with none of this forty-hour New Deal stuff. Also joined the
Civil Air Patrol for occasional duty with them which included
a special three-day mission to fly the then Senator Truman and
Senators Brewster and Kilgore who were making a “Senatorial
inspection trip” of military airports in Maine. This, in my single
engine Beechcraft with Truman in co-pilot seat!

Besides the electronic business here in Southbridge we had to
cope with the usual “report center,” “airplane spotting,” Red
Cross work, ration stamps, gas coupons, shortages, bond rallies,
etc, Also, the children were becoming teen-agers, and you who
have had to deal with the problem this brought up know just how
we began to worry then!

During the war, one highlight was a business trip to California

with our general manager on which our two wives came along,
too, Just after we finished our business and were in hopes of
four or five days’ vacation in that sunny State, we men took to
our beds with trained nurses and all, with a local harassed doctor
diagnosing it as two kinds of pneumonia. Our wives certainly
had a time, but we eventually recovered and got back home to
find things really piled up.
_ The last year of the war we had expanded to 550 or more
employees, and did a total sales volume of three and a half million
dollars. (The profit on this vanished after our session with the
government in their “voluntary” renegotiation proceedings. We
did win the Army-Navy E, however, which was awarded only
to about 4% of the war plants in the country, and perhaps that
was satisfaction enough.)

Since the war, we have been trying to salvage the pieces in
our radio business. This industry was so over-expanded as a
result of the war that we still are operating under most difficult
conditions. Certainly the government, in spite of its political
promises to help business (especially the small ones), has done

[ 1022 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

anything but this, with its something-for-nothing philosophies,
its inefficiencies, its bureaucratic controls, its overnight changes
of laws, its red tape, etc. With all these obstacles thrown in our
way, it's a wonder we have been able to survive at all! What's
in the road ahead? The answer to this can be told only some
years from now by historians who will write factually just what
happened to America during this period. We are too close to
it now to see the forest for the trees, but certainly big changes
are going on.

Another small highlight occurred in June, 1947, while T was
working on amateur radio equipment in my atuc laboratory, our
house again caught fire, but this time we discovered it in a matter
of minutes. Flowever, it spread so rapidly that when the fire
department arrived they had to lay several hoses and kept them
going for hours — with the result that the water created such
havoc throughout the house that we were again homeless for
months.

Religion? We both seem to have had plenty in our younger
days, but now mostly try to live by the Golden Rule and ‘Ten
Commandments, and must confess we only occasionally attend
church, preferring to spend our weekends at our log cabin “hide-
out” just over the border in the woods in Connecticut.

At the present writing, our son Jerry, is in the Class of "51 at
Harvard, daughter Florence, Class of ’ 52 at Middlebury, Ver-
mont, and daughter Natalie, Class of ’50 in the Wheeler School
in Providence, Rhode Island.

With all of this, we are a happy family, full of health and
looking forward to the future, and especially the 1925 Reunion
in June.

GEORGE BLUNT WENDELL

HOME aporess: 5 Cherry Lane, Westfield, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Wheatena Corp., Rahway, N. J.

BORN: Sept. 27, 1902, Milton, Mass. parents: George Blunt Wendell, Lucy
Seward Eaton.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

MarRiED: Elizabeth Phillips, June 6, 1939, New York, N. Y. (died April 20,
1943). cHttp: George Blunt, Jr, April 20, 1943.

[ 1023 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Eaton Wendell, ’32.

OccUPATION: Vice-president, Wheatena Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Wheatena Corporation, since 1934, Industrial Build-
ing and Loan Association of Rahway, since 1938, Rahway National-Bank,
since 1939; manager, Rahway Savings Institution, since 1944.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Jersey (treasurer, 1946-49, vice-presi-
dent, 1949-50); Harvard Club of New York; Holland Society of New
York; Saint Nicholas Society of the City of New York; New Jersey
Order of the Founders and Patriots of America; New York Chapter of
the Colonial Order of the Acorn; Ancient and Honorable Artillery
Company of Massachusetts; Echo Lake Country Club, Westfield, N. J.

SINCE 1925 I have been with the Wheatena Corporation. The
first five years were at Highspire, Pennsylvania, mostly in the
mill, occasionally in the office. Then I was transferred to sales
work in the cereal division, in the Midwest and New England;
and three years later I came to the cereal processing division and
main office at Rahway, New Jersey.

One boy, aged seven, keeps me busy and interested in a variety
of subjects ranging from model kits to baseball, to say nothing of
attempting to find the answers to the usual “whys,” “whats,” and
“wheres.”

Over these years my political affiliations have remained the
same — still Republican.

ARTHUR HILDING WERNER

HOME ADDRESS: 1198 Framington Ave., West Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kingswood Country Day School, West Hartford, Conn.

_ BorN: Oct. 26, 1903, Somerville, Mass. parents: Erik Werner, Hilda Char-
lotte Carlson.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; A.M., 1934.

marrieD: Helen Elizabeth Fitzpatrick, March 24, 1932, Arlington, Mass.
CHILDREN: Robert Frederick, May 19, 1933; Richard Arthur, June 4,
1940, Arthur Hilding, Jr., Jan. 22, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Instructor in history and Latin.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: War bond supervision, Pratt & Whitney
Machine Tool Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Connecticut.

PUBLICATIONS: Evolution of Nations in Europe; Stranger Than Fiction.

AFTER my four years at Cambridge, like Thomas Hooper, I
sought greener pastures in Connecticut. But, unlike that worthy

[ 1024 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

gentleman, I arrived in Hartford only after having spent two

rears aS an instructor of Latin and history in a small boarding
school in Brookfield, in the southwest part ‘of Connecticut, called
the Curtis School. In 1928, after an interview with Mr. Nichol-
son, an English scholar who had founded Kingswood Countr
Day School in 1916 (and remained its head until his death in
1947), I settled ac West Hartford and have just completed my
twenty-first year as an instructor there.

After four years of bachelor life there, my car began to wear
of its weekly flying trips to Arlington, Massachusetts, so in March,
1932, I returned there to wed my fiancée since college days,
After a two weeks’ trip to Bermuda we scttled in a sinall apart-
ment on Farmington Avenue in West Hartford. Some fifteen
months later, my eldest son, Robert, was born, which necessitated
our moving into a large house on Vera Srrect. Seven years later
our second son, Richard, appeared and we moved to Brace Road
where we remained eight years.

The outbreak of World War II found me just above draft
age, but I put in all my spare time —sumincrs, weckends, nights,
etc. — in war work at Pratt & Whitney, where I was in charge
of war bonds and worked in the pay roll and accounting de-
partments.

In the midst of the war, a double blow hit me: I was stricken
with appendicitis and evicted from our house, which was sold
at that time. After I parted with my appendix, we were fortunate
in purchasing our present home at 1198 Farmington Avenue,
where our third son, Arthur Hilding, Jr., arrived in 1947 and
where we have known much happiness.

In the meantime, I resumed work on two publications begun
earlier, The Evolution of Nations in Europe (a short history of
England, France, Germany and Italy), and Stranger Than Fic-
tion, a series of oddities in history.

In 1943 my son Robert entered Kingswood, as the Kingswood
Scholar, where he was elected to the Cum Laude Society and
became a fullback on the soccer team. This year, as a senior,
he will be editor-in-chief of the Kingswood News, He hopes
to enter Harvard College as a freshman in September, 19950.

As for hobbies, I play lots of tennis and bridge and enjoy
watching and listening to football and baseball games. We always

[ 1025 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

see Harvard play at least one football game at Cambridge and the
Harvard-Yale game is a ritual.

t EDWARD GOODWIN WESSON

BORN: Jan. 2, 1904, Savannah, Ga. PARENTS: David Wesson, Mary Matilda
Moore.

PREPARED AT: Montclair High School, Montclair, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. #agna cum laude, 1925; LL.B. 1929.

DIED: Sept. 29, 1932, Norlina, N. C.

EDWARD GOODWIN WESSON prepared for Harvard at the
Montclair High School. His principal interests in Cambridge,
outside the classroom, centered about debating and the Liberal
Club. He debated both as a freshman and on the university team,
served as a member of the executive committee of the Debating
Union, and was for three years on the Debating Council. He was
also for two years a member of the executive committee of the
Liberal Club. His record as a student was a brilliant one, and he
received his degree with our Class, magna cum laude in govern-
ment, After graduation he attended the Harvard Law School,
from which he received an LL.B. in 1929.

For several years Wesson lived mostly abroad, returning at
intervals to an island in the St. Lawrence River. He reported to
the Secretary, at the time of our Sexennial, that he had “acted as
a trustee, done some research in Boston, practised English compo-
sition, and sought to improve his knowledge of other languages.”

FREDERIC MELVIN WHEELOCK

HOME ADDRESS: 53 Spring Hill Rd., Roslyn Heights, N. Y.

OFFIcE apDREss: Brooklyn College, Bedford Ave. and Ave. H, Brooklyn 10,
N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1902, Lawrence, Mass. PARENTS: Franklin Major Wheelock,
Etta Robinson Goldthwaite.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1925; A.M., 1926;
PH.D., 1933. :

marrieD: Dorothy Elizabeth Rathbone, Aug. 14, 1937, Hampton Falls, N. H.
CHILDREN: Martha Ellen, Sept. 24, 1941; Deborah Ann, July 16, 1945

OCCUPATION: Teacher.

[ 1026 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: American Philological Association; Classical League; Classical
Association of the Atlantic States, New York Classical Club; Hempstead
Harbor Club.

pustications: “The Manuscript Tradition of Probus,” (Harcad Sraties in
Classical Philology, XLVI, 1936); “Leto’s Hand and Tasso's Horace"
(Harvard Studies in Classical Philology, LU, tage); “One Year of Latin
in College” (Classical Ouclook, XXII, 1945).

THE year after graduation was devoted to the acquisition of an
A.M. Armed with this, I fared forth in quest of teaching ex-
perience (to see whether Vd really like it!) — and a salary. It
was my great good fortune to find both during a three-y car
(1926-29) stay at Haverford College, where my chief, Harv ‘ard-
man Dean P. Lockwood, was ever so kind and helpful to the
tyro. The summer of 1928 provided the great experience of
the first trip to Furope, with the main stop at the American
Academy in Rome for the Classical Summer Session course under
Professor Showerman. Convinced by tyzy that EP should stick to
teaching (despite the headaches!) T returned to Elarvard and
during the year 1929-30 lived a double life of instructor and
tutor on the one hand and student on the other. Then, deciding
against this double role, | went underground and emerged with
a Ph.D. in 1933. The most inspiring experience of this period
was the unforgettable privilege of working under the great and
beloved Professor E, K. Rand, whose virtues and accomplish-
ments no paeans of mine can ever equal.

The award of the Corey Fellowship nexe made possible an
invaluable year of study and travel in Europe. To be sure, the
travel had to be done that year on the proverbial shoestring be-
cause of the devaluation of the dollar, but that shoestring travel
provided not a few advantages which a more luxurious mode of
locomotion would have lacked and it was made to stretch all the
way from England to Fgvpt and Palestine. It was a glorious year
and I feel greatly indebted to the Corey Fellowship for the
opportunity to commune with ancient monuments and books and
institutions. On the other hand, political atmosphere in many
places was stifling, even during 1933-34, and in the end I was
glad to return to the fine free atmosphere of my own country.

Back in the United Srates the old quest of a teaching position
began again and ended with my going to the College of the City
of New York. There the students won my interest and Athens

[ 1027 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925 >

still demanded my devotion; but another goddess asserted herself
and I married Dorothy E. Rathbone of Exeter, New Hampshire.
Finally in 1938, I came to Brooklyn College where I have been
ever since. During the past years besides the academic duties,
work as a counsellor in the Veterans’ Counseling Office has en-
larged my understanding and appreciation of the college and has
provided many interesting experiences.

In 1941 my family became three and in 1945, four.

To seek escape from the academic wear and tear, last summer
I built myself a sail boat and sailed it on Long Island Sound.
That did me a lot of good but a few weeks ago I decided that
I had better take a long-due sabbatical to complete a project
undertaken a while back. So on February first, I'll be off with
the family to Mexico, where American dollars are said to have
a comfortable degree of elasticity. I regret missing the Twenty-
fifth Reunion but erstwhile book-reviewer for the Boston Eve-
ning Transcript, Tommy Lester, can be counted on to give me
a meticulous and colorful report.

GEORGE WILLIAM WHEELWRIGHT, Il

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Green Gulch Ranch, Star Route, Sausalito, Calif.

Born: March 12, 1903, Ware, Mass. parents: George William Wheelwright,
Jz., ’90, Emily Green Balch.

PREPARED AT: Evans School, Mesa, Ariz.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924; 1927-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1925(30); AM.
1933.

Marriep: Gertrude Cuthbert, Dec. 31, 1927, New Orleans, La. (divorced
1945); Hope Iselin Livermore, Sept. 29, 1945, Reno, Nev. CHILDREN:
George William, 4th, June 13, 1931; Michael Cuthbert, April 18, 1934.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Balch Wheelwright, ’28.

OCCUPATION: Rancher.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U. S. Navy, Feb. 11,
1942; in charge air navigation training devices, Washington, D. C,, at-
tended Naval Air Navigation School, September-December, 1943; navi-
gator and navigation officer, WRI Squadron, Naval Air Transport
Service, Patuxent River, Md.; promoted lieutenant commander, April,
1944; in charge navigation project tactical test center, September-June,
1946; promoted commander, Nov. 5, 1945; permanent commander,
Naval Reserve; member Volunteer Aviation Reserve; lecturer, in Navi-
gation, 12th Naval District.

[ 1028 ]

[

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFices HELD: Assistant lecturer, Physics Department, Harvard, 1930-32;
vice-president, Land-Wheelwright Laboratories, 1930-38, Polaroid Cor-
poration, 1938-42.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; American Physical Society;
Society of Motion Picture Engineers; Institute of Navigation,

PUBLICATIONS: Monograph on stercoscopy, Navexos P-371.

I LEFT college magna cum celeritate at the end of my sopho-

more year because of financial reasons. Contrary to general im-

pression, I anticipated the dean and was merely on probation, a

position I was unique in maintaining for the next seven years,

I did a tour of duty on a United Fruit Company boat touching

at Elavana, Colon, Costa Rica, and other Central American points.

I learned many valuable things, including how to slecp on watch,

how to clean dishes rapidly after a midnight snack (throw them

out the porthole) and how to drink @ bottle of beer in a single
gulp (you can get it free that way).

Following this there was tutoring one summer and then I ac-
companied the family to Santa Barbara. Here I started a summer
camp for boys which led to an interesting and lucrative business
that continued through 1929. This camp resulted in a teaching
job at Deane School and later to a trip around the world, My
boss was taking color pictures (lumicre autochrome) for the
National Geographic. This led to all manner of situations, some
Serious, many ludicrous. The latter included an cpisode on a
Dutch boat when by mistake, I took a bath in the room marked
“Dammen.” Needless to say this was accidental as a Dutch bath
is no place for romance. In the spring I returned via [larvard
to Santa Barbara and was successful in weaning my brother from
the gin mill at Cambridge to work for me that summer.

That fall I was married to Gertrude Cuthbert of Denver and
we returned to College in 1928 at midyears. George IV and
Michael were born during this Cambridge sojourn,

A science requirement changed my concentration from music
to astronomy, physics, and mathematics in which I got my A.B.
1930 (as of ’25) and my AM. in 1933. From 1930 through
1932, I was instructor in physics, learning through teaching the
courses to which I had already been exposed.

During the years 1929 on, I became closely associated with E.
Land and together we started a laboratory in Wellesley, later
removed to Boston. Land had produced some extremely promis-

[ 1029 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925 :

ing areas of a polarized material, later to become Polaroid.
Various applications of this material were explored and developed.
Shortly after this our first commercial contract with Eastman
Kodak became a reality in the use of material as a polarizing
filter for cameras. A contract with American Optical followed
and from this came the Polaroid goggles, glasses, and visors for
removal of sunlight glare on water, road, and snow, New de-
velopments occurred rapidly. English contacts were made. The
commercial advantages occurring from the first unique and prac-
tical control of polarized light became evident. We continually
increased our facilities and research during this period and in-
deed during the war and up to the present time, this policy has
remained in force, thanks to Land’s foresight.

In 1938 the Wolves of Wall Street having put up the necessary
capital, we formed Polaroid Corporation and emerged from the
experimental pilot plant stage into the more formal position of
business on the one hand, and research on the other. Several
busy and exciting years passed during which business expanded
and displays at the New York Museum of Science and Industry
and at the New York and San Francisco Fairs made many thous-
ands of people familiar with the phenomena of controlled polar-
ized light. oe |

At the war’s beginning, in common with many of my Class,
I felt that active participation in the Navy was indicated. Called
to Washington for my specialized knowledge, as I thought, I
learned what we all had to discover. In such a large organization
in the time of war, what you are called for and what you do
are two different things. After more than a year of saluting and
saying “Yes Sir,” and often thinking the reverse, I resolved to
get more active duty for the mind and body and less for my
right arm. After a series of vicissitudes, I was sent to Hollywood,
Florida, to navigation school. There I enjoyed the distinction
of being the oldest and slowest would-be navigation student.
After seeing most of Florida through a drift meter, we grad-
uated in December, 1943. I was sent to Naval Air Transport
Service Squadron VRI at Patuxent River, Maryland. To those
unfamiliar with this charming spot I can only say it is a veritable
fugitive from a hell hole.

During the next year and one-half, I personally made some

[ 1030 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

38 round trips across the Atlantic to England, Africa, Italy,
Malta, and France via Azores, Greenland, Newfoundland, Ice-
land, and other places too fierce to mention. For a great part
of this we flew as a team which was a fine experience I shall
never forget.

Being naturally lazy, 1 was horrified at the amount of work
navigation involved and helped develop a system where we could
predict in advance where we would come out. Having proved
thar this system worked, we had more time to devote to the
much more pleasant occupation of sleeping en route. At the
war's end I was assigned to research on this type of flight for
six months and hundreds of hours of flight in a B-24, the most
uncomfortable type of plane man’s ingenuity has yet devised.
This system has been thoroughly and boringly described in a
fascinating pamphlet entitled “Single Heading Flight, Navexos
P-371.” Several transatlantic airlines, notably Pan American
and Transworld Airlines, use modifications of this system today.

I find myself still in the Naval Reserve (with the fond hope that
this will scare the Russians into passivity), still lecturing on
navigation.

During the World’s Fair days, I had fallen in love with San
Francisco and determined to live there eventually. 1 was mar-
ried again just afcer the war and, on being released to inactive
duty, took the opportunity to settle out here and bought a ranch
on which I am raising beef cattle. These quadrupreds have a
strange fascination for me. They possess all the characteristics
inherent in mankind. They are so reminiscent of people I have
known that I have succumbed to the temptation of naming them
after old friends due to endearing qualities (and their reverse).
A number of them have as yet evaded my every effort. It is
she desire to fill this blank and name every last one of them,
hat drives me to revisit Cambridge and my erstwhile classmates
‘his spring.

ALEXANDER MOSS WHITE

ome appress: Oyster Bay, Long Island, N. Y.
FFICE Appress: White, Weld & Co, go Wall St., New York, N. Y.

oan: March 24, 1904, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Alexander Moss White,
’92, Elsie Helen Ogden.

[ 1031 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory Country Day School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B., 1925.

marriep: Mary Evelyn Lanman, April 26, 1930, New York, N. Y. crtcpren:
Sheila Ludlow, June 22, 1931; Alexander Moss, Jr., Aug. 21, 1933; Elinor,
June 18, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ogden White, ’31.

occupaATION: Investment banking and brokerage.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served in Squadron A, New York National
Guard, 1926-29; commissioned lieutenant (j.g.), U. S. Naval Reserve,
1940; ordered to active duty, February, 1941; duty afloat with Atlantic
Fleet as commanding officer of USS. Heroic, USS. Admirable,
U.S.S. Knave (minesweepers), 1942-43, and of U.S.S. Ira Jeffry and
U.S.S, Haas (destroyer escorts), 1944; assigned to Industrial Readjust-
ment Division Staff, Office of Secretary of the Navy, Washington,
1945; discharged as commander, November, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, 1929-41, president, 1939-41, Brooklyn Children’s Aid
Society; trustee, Polytechnic Preparatory Country Day School, since
1937, Brooklyn Bureau of Social Service, since 1948; director, Brooklyn
Trust Company, 1930-35, trustee and member management board,
American Museum of Natural History, since 1946.

THIS is the nightmare that has haunted us since being handed

(or mailed) our degrees in 1925: the recording of successes and

failures in the intervening years. What can be set down that

we dare reread in print — what that will not bore our classmates
or cause our immediate families to call in the psychiatrist?

Leaving Cambridge in February of senior year, I spent several
carefree months abroad with Pelly Curtis touring the Continent
in a Model T. After one session at the Business School there
followed a long summer on a Wyoming ranch and a trip through
the Canadian Northwest, at the end of which I returned to New
York to take up bachelor quarters with several similarly situated
Harvard friends. Until 1930 I pursued various activities (includ-
ing a hitch in the publishing business with Scribner’s).

In May of that year I bade farewell to my fellows to join the
married ranks. This was the luckiest move in my life, if not in
my wife’s. We have three fast-growing children who provide
all the satisfaction and confusion that parents could ask. Just to
make sure that our house does not seem under-populated, there
are also five dogs actively in residence. After a honeymoon in
Europe I backed, rather than charged, into a Wall Street career,
with no enthusiasm whatsoever. To my amazement the invest-
ment banking business proved much to my liking with the result

[ 1032 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

that White, Weld & Company has been the scene of my working
days ever since (except for five years of Navy duty in the war).

As for hobbies, well — the normal oncs I suppose. My weak-
nesses are too numerous to list but if fully indulged would re-
quire that I spend far more time sailing, golfing, hunting, and
fishing.

I believe it was Lady Astor who, in reply to @ reporter’s qucs-
tion as to her political classification, described herself as a red-hot
capitalist. In these days when our system of private enterprise
is under so much attack from those who would hke to sce it fail,
I find myself not at all ashamed to be tagged a Wall Streeter,
Possibly my lack of devotion to the theories of the welfare state
springs from my real enthusiaun for the way of living in the
State of Maine, where the opiate of federal aid as a solution to
all problems finds little support.

Since 1937 our family has had the great good fortune to own
and vacation ona Maine island some eight miles off the coast from
Rockland. Known as Leadbetter’s, it lies near Vinalhaven and
boasts an old white house on a hill overlooking Hurricane Sound.
For a contrast with Long Island and the bustle of New York,
the peace and beauty of the Penobscot Bay area is refreshing
to say the least.

Like everyone who was in the war I came to know all kinds
of people and places I would not otherwise have known, A part
of those service years was ine completcly w asted, but there
were enough high spots to make me realize my fuck in par-
ticipating.

If the clock could be turned back again to freshman year I
hope I would have the good sense to absorb more of what Har-
vard offers to all who want to Icarn, and be Jess satisficd with
acquiring the helter-skelter variety of education that is suitably
graded “passing.”

ROBERT CLARKE WHITE

HOME appress: 22 Haseltine Sc. Bradford, Mass.

OFFice aporess: Bradford Junior College, Bradford, Mass.

Born: March 16, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Edward Hale White, Lilian
Clarke.

PrepareD at: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

[ 1033 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude, 1925; am,
1926,

MARRiaD: Dorothy Onthank, Aug. 23, 1928, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Mar-
garet Hale, June 29, 1931; Christopher Clarke, June 24, 1937.

occupaTion: Instructor in English.

MEMBER OF: Monday Evening Club, Haverhill, Mass.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor and preface writer, “zoth Century Continental Novels,”
Good Reading (A Guide to the World’s Best Books).

FOR all its headaches, life, I feel, is a great privilege and I have

been fortunate in my parents, the schools I have attended, my

wife, my children, and my career. The last-named has been far

from spectacular, but I have faith that it has been of some profit

to others while, certainly, it has been edifying and amusing to

me. I believe that the end of life is to discover what one’s own

duties really are (they will change and aggrandize, of course)

and to pursue them — cheerfully.

I take pleasure in reporting my opinion that when Duty whis-
pers low “Thou Must,” it is usually the adult who replies first
and most firmly, “I can.”

Maybe some of you know my brother, Bill. He is director of
the Day Division and dean of instruction at Northeastern Uni-
versity.

For several years now my family has spent its summers in
paradise — local address: “Meadowslopes,” West Newbury, Ver-
mont, where we own a cottage—summer kitchen — shed —
barn together with a spring and fifteen-acres more or less.

ROBERT WINTHROP WHITE

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Traill St.. Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 64 Plympton St., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 17, 1904, Brookline, Mass. parents: William Howard White,
°80, Katharine Dana.

PREPARED AT: Wellesley High School, Wellesley, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE:. 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1925; AM.
1926, PH.D. 1937.

marrieD: Margaret Ley Bazeley, Nov. 28, 1940, Uxbridge, Mass. cHitpREN:
David Winthrop, May 16, 1943; Timothy Ley, June 11, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Dana White, ’21.

occupation: Lecturer on clinical psychology and director of the psycholo-
gical clinic, Harvard University.

[ 1034 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

oFFices HELD: Instructor in history and government, University of Maine,
1926-28; instructor in psychology, Rutgers University, 1930-33; in-
structor in educational psychology, New England Conservatory of
Music, 1936-38; secretary, Massachusetts Society of Clinical Psycholo-
gists, 1944-46.

MEMBER OF: American Psychological Association, Massachusetts Socicty
of Clinical Psychologists.

PUBLICATIONS: Twelve papers in professional journals; The Abnormal Per-
sonality, 1948.

WHEN I graduated it was my plan to become a school or college
teacher and a church organist. The plan went into etfect when
I began to teach history at the University of Maine and to play
the organ at St. John’s Fpiscopal Church in nearby Bangor.
Though happy in this dual life, I soon came to realize that my
interest in the past and its problems was not so strong as my
interest in living individuals and their problems. Fortunately |
was able to indulge this change of interest by shifting to graduate
study in the field of psy chology. I studied for two years, then
taught psychology for three at the women’s college of Rutgers
University, and finally returned to Cambridge for further study
and the writing of a thesis for the Ph.D. Meanwhile I continued
the dual life with positions as organist at the First Parish Church in
Malden and the First Congregational Church in Wellesley Hills.
Not until I received the doctorate in 1937 did I face the in-
evitable decision that one cannot carry on two professions at
once. Thereafter music stepped down to the status of a hobby
but a very satisfying and important hobby.

My professional life seems to have centered almost wholly in
the Harvard Psychological Clinic. This institution did not exist
in our undergraduate days, It was founded by Dr. Morton
Prince in 1926 and then continued for fifteen years by Dr.
Henry A. Murray in the yellow house at 64 Plympton Street.
When I entered graduate work in psychology, it was the clinic
that seemed to be most in line with my interests. 1 wanted to
understand human motivation, the course of development, the
causes of emotional handicaps and abnormalities, and, equally,
the causes of emotional maturity and creative strength, These
were the aspects of psychology that were discussed and inves-
tigated at the psychological clinic, and it was accordingly there
that I began my own research and wrote my thesis. In 1937 I

[ 1035 ]

Re ERROR aS inrnteA ec tern een NO

spicata

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

became instructor, later research associate, then in 1943, when
Dr. Murray left for military service, acting director of the
clinic.

The war had a profound effect on my profession. Military
psychiatrists became sharply aware of the importance of neuro-
psychiatric casualties in the service, but because of the shortage
of medically-trained workers psychologists were called upon to
assist in dealing with these problems. As a result an essentially
new profession came into being, that of clinical psychologist,
meaning a person trained to the Ph.D. level who brings the
special skills of research and psychological testing into the sphere
of work with disordered individuals and who may even serve
as a helper in their treatment. In 1946 the faculty decided to
create a four-year program leading to the Ph.D. specifically in
clinical psychology, and I was offered the opportunity to es-
tablish this program and serve as director of the psychological
clinic. Though averse to administrative work, I found this an
irresistible challenge and accepted it at least for a term long
enough to get the program in full motion. I am glad that I did
so for it has been an immense satisfaction to share in the building
of a teaching program that produces men and women who can
both add to our knowledge of human nature and utilize this
knowledge for human betterment.

I am now just at the end of that chapter, having refused to
serve longer as administrative head of the clinic. After four
years of strenuous activity, broken only by trips to the little
rebuilt farmhouse in Marlboro, New Hampshire, where my
family and I like to go for occasional weekends and part of the
summer, I feel a need to think again, to do some perhaps more
general writing, and to plan out how a middle-aged student of
human nature can best put in the remainder of his time. Class-
mates who think of the University as an ivory tower would be
very much surprised at the Grand Central Station effect of our
postwar college and graduate schools. For me, at least, it is
impossible to stay there steadily and still achieve the detachment
that is necessary to criticize what I am doing and look to the
future. Thus I am about to lighten my university duties and
Square away for the next enterprise, whatever it proves to be.

I believe that psychiatry and psychology, for all their service

[ 1036 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to ill and maladjusted people, have scared ordinary people more
than they have helped them. What interests me most now is
to work at the preventive and constructive sides of the psycholo-
gist’s task. More than we have done thus far, we psychologists
ought to be able to help parents and teachers to guide and en-
courage the constructive forces in human nature that make for
confidence, balance, fair-mindcdness, and richness of experience;
that make, ultimately, for more effective citizenship in the mod-
ern world. That is the territory that scems to me most worth
exploration.

BROOKS WHITEHOUSE

HOME appress; 3 Carroll Sc, Portland, Maine.

orrice apprsss: Vernil, Dana, Walker, Philbrick & Whitchouse, 57 Ex-
change St. Portland, Maine.

porn: April 21, 1904, Portland, Maine, rarrsis: Robert Treat Whitchouse,
"gt, Florence Brooks.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. EI.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 5921-192§. DEGREES: AB, 1915, 11.8., 1978.

marzisp: Anne Bradstreet Darling. July 21, 1926, Gardiner, Maine. cutt-
DREN: Priscilla Brooks, Aug. jo, 1927, Anne Bradstreet, Feb. 6, 1930;
Brooks, Jr. March 24, 1932.

HARVARD Brotiers: William Penn Whitchouse, 2d, 17, Robert Treat White-
house, Jr. '19.

occupation: Lawyer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Gasoline rationing board, president, War
Chest, 1945.

orrices HELD: Director, Community Chest, Child & Family Services, Animal
Refuge League, vice-president, Maine Committee to Defend America;
president, Harvard Club of Maine.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association.

IT IS hard to realize chat twenty-five years have gone by. I
can remember my father's twenty-fifth reunion when I, a child
of twelve, regarded the assembled classmates as old men. Now
I am one of them.

After graduation I spent the usual three years at law school
and since then have been steadily engaged in the gencral practice
of law with the same Jaw firm, in what I believe to be one of
the better places in this world — the state of Maine. About eight
months of the year I live in the lake country, twenty-five miles

[ 1037 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

out of Portland, and commute. There I am able to pursue my
principal hobby, gardening, with due attention to fishing and
hunting in season. To me it is an ideal life.

Although I have never gone into politics, I do give a moderate
amount of time to civic matters. I am registered as a Republican
and generally vote that way though I consider myself a liberal
one — but not liberal enough to go for the welfare state.

All of which sounds very dull and ordinary. If being happy
is ordinary, I plead guilty.

BARTLETT JERE WHITING

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Prescott St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Warren House, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 17, 1904, East Northport, Maine. parents: Manasseh Barzillai
Whiting, Harriet Louise Wadlin.

PREPARED AT: Belfast High School, Belfast, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. Summa cum laude, 1925; AM,
1928; PH.D., 1932. .

MARRIED: Helen Dinsmore Wescott, June 27, 1928, Belfast, Maine. cum:
Jere Wescott, July 19, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Teacher.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant instructor in English, 1926, to professor of English,
1946, Harvard; chairman, English Department, Harvard, since 1947.

MEMBER OF: American Dialect Society; Mediaeval Academy of America
(fellow); Modern Language Association of America; Philological Club;
Signet (associate).

PUBLICATIONS: Chaucer’s Use of Proverbs; Proverbs in the Earlier English
Drama, early section in A College Survey of English Literature, articles,
notes, and reviews in various journals.

WHEN a man has begun to have the sons of his classmates in his
courses, he will do well to be wary of gay exuberance in writing
about himself for his Class Report. My life has been both un-
eventful and pleasant. In 1926, after returning from a year in
Europe on a Sheldon Fellowship, I became a graduate student and
tutor in English at Harvard and I have been associated with the
English Department since that time. The courses which I have
taught have been mainly in Old and Middle English, especially
Chaucer. My principal excursion from the earlier field included a
few years of the survey course, which was English 28 in our
time, but is now a one-man performance rather than what one

[ 1038 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of our classmates irreverently called “a Cook’s Tour of the Eng-
lish Department.” During the war I did a few sections of English
A to the probable surpnise, if not delectation, of a number of
unusually youthful freshmen. A drawback which often accom-
panies advanced and graduate courses is that the teacher loscs
touch somewhat with the undergraduates. In my case, as in so
many others, this has been remedied by the House Plan, and 1
count it among my positive advantages that 1 have been a non-
resident tutor of Lowell House since its opening.

There has been no time that I have regretted being a teacher,
nor, to tell the truth, have I ever had reason to be haunted by the
thought that I might have won wealth or fame in some other field
of endeavor. I can say less for the administrative work which is
the almost inevitable fate of the college teacher, and when I end
my term as chairman of the department I shall echo Charles Lamb's
“T have left the India House for Ever! Give me great joy.”
Naturally much of my time has gone to reading, sometimes called
research, and wnting. The things which I have written have been
neither as many nor as good as TE could wish, but the efforts have
usually amused me and have undoubtedly kept me out of some of
the disorders, such as public prophecy, into which the academic
is lured now and then by goodwill and enthusiasm,

Membership in various societies has taken me occasionally as
far afield as Chicago or even New Orleans, but in gencral I have
moved only between Cambridge and the place in Maine where we
spend our summers. Though I have lived the greater part of
twenty-nine years in Cambridge, I fecl more at home in Maine.
We have a farm, unfarmed, with fifty acres of swamp to breed
mosquitoes and hundreds of bats to eat them. After fifteen years
of domestic peace, my wife, who is head cataloguer at the Peabody
Museum, and I had the quict of our ways broken by the advent of
a son imbued with boundless and inconsiderate energy. Above
Maine’s other virtues is the fact that it gives him more range than
an apartment can for his ingenious noisiness. Despite all this, we
find that what the pediatricians sweetly call “elderly parenthood”

has its marked advantages.

 

[ 1039 ]

rte er rey gen eorerenenene=

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

LORING WHITMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 134 Douglas Rd., Chappaqua, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: International Health Division, Rockefeller Foundation, 49 W.
49th St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 15, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: William Whitman, Jr., ’gy,
Ruth Loring.

PREPARED AT: Westminster School, Simsbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. cuz laude, 1925; M.D. cum laude,
1930.

mMarrieD: Alain Slocovich, Aug. 18, 1933, Richmond, N. H. cHiLpren: David
Loring, May 30, 1935; Yolanda Laurence, May 10, 1937; Randal Loring,
May 19, 1940; Alan MacDonald, Nov. 26, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Whitman, 3d, ’22 (deceased).

occuPATION: Medical research.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned captain, Medical Corps, A.US,
January, 1943; served in division of virus and rickettsial diseases, Army
Medical School, Army Medical Center, Washington, D. C.; discharged
as major, Medical Corps, February, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Rockefeller Foundation.

MEMBER oF: American Society of Tropical Medicine; Royal Society of
Tropical Medicine and Hygiene; Alpha Omega Alpha (medical fra-
ternity).

PUBLICATIONS: Papers dealing with yellow fever, especially those phases re-
lating to the mosquito transmission of the disease; papers dealing with
other virus diseases such as herpes, influenza, and equine encephalomye-
litis; papers on experiments dealing with malaria.

SINCE graduating from the Harvard Medical School in 1939, I
have spent my entire time in medical research. Following post-
graduate studies in Basel, Switzerland, I joined the International
Health Division of the Rockefeller Foundation of which I am
still a member. The years 1935 through 1940 were spent in Brazil
doing laboratory and field studies on yellow fever. During this
period, three of my four children were born in Rio de Janeiro.
Following our return to the States life has been more static, in-
cluding three years in the Army spent at the Army Medical
School at Washington, D. C. Since getting out of uniform, I have
been at the Foundation’s New York Laboratory as part of a unit
investigating the biochemistry of the malaria parasite. Because I
had achieved an interest in and respect for mosquitoes during my
stay in Brazil, my part in our present studies is directed towards
finding out just why malaria parasites get along so well with some
mosquitoes and not with others.

[ 1040 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Insofar as we have been in one place for the last four years,
I find that my hobbies are beginning to take on a domestic tinge,
namely gardening and home repairs, with a little residual photog-
raphy thrown in.

HUGH WHITNEY

HOME aporess: 42 Beacon St, Boston, Mass.

poan: Aug. 21, 1903, Beverly, Mass. parests: Hlugh Whitney, Eleanor
Shattuck.

prepaaep at: Se. Mark's School, Southbora, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: ALB, 1926) AM. 1927, PILD, 1914,

UN MARRIED.

MILITARY O@ NAVAL afooap: Enlisted as private in Infantry, March 18, toga;
received basic training at Camp Croft, S.C, April tg July 14. i943;
assigned 22nd Infantry, 4th Division, Camp Gordon, Gay transferred
to Military Intelhgence Section, War Department, Washingron, D.C,
Sept. 2, 1942; promoted corporal, Oct. 1, tg4g2, sergeant, Nov. 02, 1942,
staff sergeant, Jan. 15, 1943, fire heutenant (Infantry), April 1g, 1043,
captain, Sepe. 1, 1944; discharged Scpr. 7, 1945.

MEMBER oF: Somerset Club.

THE terrible quarter-century now ending has been colored for

me by no such adventures as might, in microcosm, have reflected

its tragic march. So far as [ am personally concerned the most
important event of all those years took place on Christmas Day,

1925, when I made my First Communion in the Church of Se. Paul

which chimes its Angelus above 9 Bow Strect, where I lived as a

junior.

Though I had been baptized a Catholic, I was not so brought
up. During my college course, however, I became increasingly
convinced that the faith was crue, and that I must accordingly
profess, and endcavor to practise it. My initial instruction
readily disposed of the few “intellectual” difficultics which had
previously caused me to hesitate. Bur obviously it could not en-
dow me, after some short weeks, with as much knowledge and
understanding of my religion as I felt F ought to seck. For that
reason, since I was not obliged to support myself, I devoted several
years to the study of philosophy at Harvard.

Professor Gilson, the great historian of medieval thought, in
those days a frequent visiting lecturer from France and now a
member of the French Senate, introduced me to the Catholic

[ 1041 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

philosophical tradition. And in 1936, on my presentation of a
thesis which inquired into the relation between Aristotle’s concept
of God and the Christian one as formulated by St. Thomas
Aquinas, I was granted my doctorate. My first oral examination,
let me note, proved a fiasco, at which I found myself. barely able
to speak. If a second opportunity did not reproduce that disaster,
I have to thank the extreme patience of my examiners, Professors
Wolfson, Bixler, and the late Professor Whitehead. The last, with
characteristic incomparable kindness, busy as he was, arrived half
an hour early to set me at ease by his gently sparkling conversation
about anything he had in mind, except philosophy.

Prior to 1939 I was fortunate enough to travel repeatedly in
Europe, and during the winter of 1927-28 I perambulated the
Mediterranean coasts, from Spain, through North Africa and
Egypt, to the Holy Land, Constantinople, Athens, and Rome. My
war service did not take me abroad. It was, as indicated by the
outline above, for the most part clerical and sedentary.

Your classmate has, at various intervals, further been responsible
for a small quantity of poetry. Some of it has the author’s en-
thusiastic admiration. Unhappily few, even of the handful on
whom it has been imposed, share much in his enthusiasm. Among
their polite comments to him the word “obscure” is painfully
recurrent. He cannot think why!

TRAVIS HARVARD WHITNEY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 212 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn 2, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Whitman, Ransom, Coulson & Goetz, 40 Wall St., New York
5, N. ¥. .

BORN: Jan. 29, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Travis Harvard Whitney,
’o0, Rosalie Loew.

PREPARED AT: Brooklyn Friends School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.),
1929.

marrieD: Doris Pinkham, Feb. 21, 1930, Wollaston, Mass. CHILDREN: Joan,
Dec. 2, 1930; Mary-Jane, Feb. 8, 1932; Doris, Jan. 29, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Loew Whitney, '28; William Thomas Whitney, ’3:.

OccUPATION: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Bankers Club; Manhattan Club;
Municipal Club, Brooklyn; Old Town Country Club, Newbury, Mass.

[ 1042 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SINCE my graduation from Law School, I have been a practising
lawyer, in the same law firm, and a very busy one, which has in-
volved me in almost all types of legal matters. It has at times been
hectic, at times routine, but, by and large, interesting and satisfy-
ing. It has occasioned some travel which, with vacations, have
taken me to Europe, Canada, and the South and West. Such
journeys certainly changed any pre-existing routine,

Recent vacations have been spent in New England, near New-
bury port, getting reacquainted with some of the pleasures of rural
life. There I have actually spent mose of my aime leisurely navi-
gating the nearby waters, enjoying fishing and, more important,
away from the possibility of being within reach of a@ ringing
telephone.

In Brooklyn, I take an interest in local Republican politics and
try to keep abreast of current local problems, [join Mfrs, Whit-
ney in her active participation in Settlement House affairs,

My two elder daughters — Joan and Mary-Jane— are now
attending Skidmore and Smith Colleges, second and first years,
respectively. The third, Doris, is in the seventh grade at Friends
School, Brooklyn. Needless to say, the girls themselves, with their
varied interests, keep me mighty busy.

JAMIFS PAGET WHITTALL

HOME AND oFFick apoarss: go N. Bagham Hill Rd, North Grafton, Mase,

Born: July 25, 1903, Worcester, Mass. parents: Matthew Percival Whittall,
"g8, Betsey Whitin.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark's School, Southbaro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1915. DEGRTE: AM, 191.

MaRRieD: Milicent Ewell, June 7, 1930, Ipswich, Mass. (divorced 1946). cHit-
pakn: Edgeworth Paget, April 17, 531; James Paget, Jr, July 15, 1932;
Milicent Barrett, Dec. 8, 1933; Arthur Woolsey, Oct. a1, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: Matthew Joho Whittall, 2d, ‘40.

occupation: Manufacturing.

MILITARY om NAVAL ReconD: Reserve officer, 1925-35.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, M. J. Whitrall Associates, Inc.

MeMaer of: Harvard Club of Worcester, Worcester Club.

AFTER leaving college, I spent a year travelling in Europe and
around the world. Upon my return in 1926, I went to work at
the M. J. Whittall Associates, Worcester, makers of rugs and
carpets. I remained in their employ until 1937 when I received

[ 1043 ]

ie ee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

a fractured skull which incapacitated me for two years. In 1939
I joined the Mayflower Airlines, a transport airline authorized by
the C.A.A, to operate in the Boston—Cape Cod area. After this
company collapsed, I went to work for the Norton Company of
Worcester, They make abrasives and abrasive machines. I left
there in 1943 to concentrate on volume farming to help the war
effort to a greater extent than I was doing at the Norton Company.
Divorced in 1946, I have remained at my farm and now might be
called a gentleman farmer.

During the passage of time since graduation I have attended
three summer camps at Fort Ethan Allen as a Reserve officer.
During the war I was physically unacceptable for enlistment due
to permanent injuries suffered when I fractured my skull. I
learned to fly in 1926 and during the eleven years of my flying
experience I bought four airplanes and piloted them something
over 1600 hours, all privately. I gave up plane ownership and
operation because that which the private plane offers does not
compensate for the expense and care required.

In 1935 I became interested in big game fishing and pursued
this activity quite actively for five years. During that time I
caught swordfish, tuna, marlin, and smaller salt water gamefish
on rod and reel. Although I have done but little of this type of
fishing of late, I hope to take up this sport again in the not too far
distant future, if conditions permit.

BERNARD WIESMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 4022 25th Rd., N., Arlington, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of State, Washington 25, D. C.

BORN: May 26, 1904, Clinton, Mass. PARENTS: Anton William Wiesman,
Elizabeth Ellen Murphy.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1925.

Marrigp: Anne Louise Lawless, Nov. 14, 1942, Boston, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Anton William Wiesman, ’27.

occuPATION: Assistant labor adviser to the assistant secretary for economic
affairs, Department of State.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Information specialist for labor activities, War
Production Board, 1942-43; chairman and public member, New Case
Committee, National War Labor Board, 1943-44; chief, International
Labor Organizations Branch, Department of State, Jan. 1, 1945.

[ 1044 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pusLicaTions: “The Political Theories of Father Robert Parsons, S.J.” The
Catholie Historical Review, October, 1926, and January, 1927.

AT PRESENT and presumably for at least the next few months

I am Assistant Labor Adviser to the Assistant Secretary for Eco-
nomic Affairs in the Department of State. The record since tg25
begins with three years in the Boston Chamber of Commerce, in
the civic, commercial, and publicity bureaus, A year as assistant
general manager of the Boston Madison Square Garden convinced
me that I could perhaps be healchicr and happier if 1 did not try
to make a million. Six depression y years in the commercial, pub-
licity, and adverusing departments of the New Fogland ‘Tele-
phone Company were followed by six vears of regional labor and
general information work for the Social Sec unity Board in New
England. This led to Washington and the War Production Board,
where I arrived in tgg2 to handle all labor information work,
The following year [joined the National War Labor Board as
chairman and public member of the New Case Committce. On
January 1, 1945, I began my present work for the State Depart-
ment.

Avocationally, | began in 1g30 to contribute my pen or pencil
at night and on weckends to help promote social legislation and
trade unionism. It began simply because [had some proficiency
in writing on such matters Icft over from the Chamber of Com-
merce and because my telephone company work left my mind
ready for exercise when T reached the rather isolated farin in
Hamilton where I lived from igzg until after my parents died.
This activity became a major interest and a very time-consuming
way of spending aftcr-office hours, It also resulted in my becom-
ing one of the earliest employees of the Social Security Board and
led to my subsequent assignments. I gave a lor of time and Icarned
enough for at Icast a doctorate in practical trade unionism and
enjoyed an active but unobtrusive partnership with some Grade
A Americans — many of whom have had to turn in their time-
cards very early, Icaving big gaps in the line. From them, I, as a
“labor man,” learned enough to be regarded by some of my pro-
fessional colleagues in 1945 and 1946 as a “red-baiter’”!

Such activities have been supplemented by a peasant’s zeal for
zardening, for building and for puttering, Witness: for 15 months
| have been building a small addition to our (also) small house in

[ 1045 ]

ete eg ee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

Arlington, Virginia, digging a cellar, laying bricks and cement
blocks laboriously, and putting on a roof very gingerly. Maybe
it will be finished before June?

Since my wife and I did not meet until the end of 1941 I should
not be criticized for having failed to marry until 1942. We are
Roman Catholics and we go to church on Sundays — and some
other days, too—and are glad we can do so. We are happy
together and don’t regret the thinness of the checkbook or ab-
sence from the inner circle which revolves so giddily in this area.
We've enjoyed assignments to International Labor Conferences
in London, Geneva, Mexico City, Montreal, and San Francisco,
especially the fact that one of them permitted a very short visit
to Rome and an audience with Pope Pius XII. Lest there be any
misunderstanding, it should be added that the Department makes
no financial provision for the wife of a lowly adviser. So, at this
stage, I have much for which to be thankful, including a con-
ceit-restraining awareness of many fumbles of my own. And 1
have a faith which I hope will keep my head clear whether I am
up or down or in the middle.

It is not that I scorn SUCCESS, as it is measured in this world’s
dollars or bureaucratic rank or what have you. I certainly could
use more of both. However, I think I’m not suited to the ways of
getting them except by work. I can be satisfied at a spot fairly
far from the top but I want my judgment, my ideas, my compe-
tence, to have the influence I think they deserve. I seem to have
the sort of conceit which makes me want to do my own job well
enough so that it will win its own acceptance and praise. The
formula, I should add, has often netted some other reactions from
city boys. This system often has kept me struggling with chores
and a late quick lunch while an assistant arranged and cultivated
contacts at luncheon.

One observation in conclusion. It is time for us all to realize
what is at stake today. We must promote a practical democracy
in economics as well as in politics. We must refuse to indulge in
fatuous liberalism or rheumatic reaction. We've got to be adults
and face reality. All the decent ideals we live under and the faith
we live by, whether Christian or Jew, Hindu or Moslem or Bud-
dhist, are being assailed today by the perverted conspiracy of
communism, It’s not a contest of skills or a game of chance. It’s

[ 1046 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

as dangerous as the Hitlerism of 1939-40 — and seems even more
so. Its blasphemous evil may foul up most of mankind for many
generations if we let it, but it has never faced a fair fight and it ts
terribly afraid of Truth. Ic is a fraud which can be exposed and
exploded. So— it’s up to us to pray and to work intelligently
to avert the evil — and to thank God that we, here, have been
granted the time and the freedom to do se.

The foregoing paragraph i is written by one in his character as
a member of the Class of ’:5 and not in any way as a spokesman
for his present employer. In fact "tis presumptuous perhaps for
such a hired hand even to offer this disclaimer.

ARTHUR WILD

apoarss: 310 W. ogth Se, New York ag, N.Y.

oan: May 23, 1903. Boston, Mass. paaests: Richard Wild, Finily Farle.
PREPARED AT: Lake View High School, Chicago, Hl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-192}, 1924-1926. DEGKER: AB, 191$ (16),
OCCUPATION: Advertising.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary's files, Wild
did not return a questionnaire,

ARTHUR DUDLEY WILDFS

HOME ADoREsS: 3 Spruce Sc, Boston 8, Mass.

orrice aporess: Public Welfare Department, 43 Hawkins St. Boston, Mass.

Born: Dec. 18, 1903, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Llewellyn Wildes, Ruth
Curtis Tebbers.

preparsp at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLFGE: 1921-1915. DECRrEs: Aw, 1916416); 8.1.8. 1929,

marntep: Sara May Hilton, April 7, 1942, Boston, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Jarnes Oris Wildes, ‘29.

occupation: Social worker.

DONALD RUSSELL WILLIAMS

HOME aporess: 2347 E. Glenoaks Blvd., Glendale, Calif.

OFFICE appress: Wm. Simpson Construction Co. 8:6 W. Fifth St, Los
Angeles 13, Calif.

BORN: June 14, 1903, Monrovia, Calif. parents: Manly Russell Williams,
Josephine Sanford.

PREPARED AT: Manual Arts High School, Los Angeles, Calif.

[ 1047 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925. DEGREE: S.B. IN C. ENGIN., 1925(26).

MmarrieD: Martha L. Smith, Oct. 16, 1929, Long Beach, Calif. carpren:
Martha Jean, March 4, 1934; Donald Manly, Jan. 29, 1937.

OccuUPATION: Assistant general superintendent of construction.

SINCE graduating I have busied myself primarily with the pur-
suit of engineering and construction work, spending several years
in Chicago and finally coming west to get married. During the
war I was away from home most of the time on Navy construction
projects.

What time my work does not occupy now is pretty much taken
up by my family activities and my connection with a neighbor-
hood Methodist Church where I hold several positions. I have a
woodworking shop and a photographic dark room to keep me out
of mischief and my boy is continually pulling me in on his exten-
sive model railroad which I must confess is not too hard to do,
We find time as a family to take trips each summer and hope some
one of these days to get back to Cambridge.

So far as my political convictions are concerned, I can hardly
remember when last I voted for a winning President. I am most
happily married, have passed my twentieth anniversary, and am
looking forward to another thirty years.

PAUL WHITCOMB WILLIAMS

HOME ADDRESS: 950 Park Ave., New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREsS: Cahill, Gordon, Zachry & Reindel, 63 Wall St. New York
5, N. Y.

BORN: July 12, 1903, Rochester, N. Y. parents: Henry B. Williams, Lillian
Gray White.

PREPARED AT: Edward Little High School, Auburn, Maine; New Bedford
High School, New Bedford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1925; 11-8,
1929.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve,
March, 1942; served in South Pacific with vice-admiral Aubrey W.
Fitch, commander of aircraft, South Pacific Force, under vice-admiral
Halsey and participated in campaigns of Guadalcanal and Munda, 1942-
43; taught at Naval Air Station, Miami, 1944; headed contract termina-
tion for Bureau of Aeronautics, New York; returned to inactive duty
with rank of commander, 1945; awarded Commendation Ribbon.

[ 1048 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chairman, Navy Deparonent Board of Con-
tract Appeals, i945.
offices HELD: Assistant U.S. sttomey for Souther District of New York,
1931~33; president, New York Young Repubhean Club, 1936; Republican
Candidate for Congress in ith Congresmonal District. King’s County,
1946; chairman, Minimum Wage Board for Sate of New York, Con-
fecuonary Industry, 1947, director, Van Diver & Crowe, Inc, Howard
Hoyt, Inc. Goodwill Industries Inc; member executive board, Man-
hatran Council Boy Scouns of America, chairman, Section on ‘Trials
and Appeals, Bar Awociation of City of New York.
mMemper oF: Racquet and Tennis Club, University Club of New York, Pip-
ing Rock Club, Down Town Awocianen, New York County Lawyers
Asociauon, Asociauon of Bar of City of New York, New York State
Bar Assocation, Amencan Bar Awociaton, Harvard Law School As.
sociagon; Phi Beta Nappa Sooety, member Committee on Medical
Junsprodence, member commttce on Post Admusson PT egal Fdueation,
Kane Lodge (Masons); Tnune Chapter, Kaimet, Diger Post, Amencan
Legion, Veterans of Foragn Wars, Columbian Commandery; Society
of Colonial Wars, Pips of United Sates.

pumcations: “The Religian of the Undergraduate,” in The tyrh Century
and After, wgis, “Legitimate Targets im Aerial Bombardment.”
American Journal of Internatiunal Law, 1g:y.

in
PHAVE a distinct aversion to writing my memoirs when my life
is, I hope, in midstream. Perhaps this aversion arises from the
fact that I have accomplished so litle, compared with what Thad
hoped.

Iam a lawyer and proud of my profession, My job as a partner
in a typical Wall Street firm is principally the trial of corpor: ate
and financial lingation. [am active in the various Bar awociations
and try to make t up for shirking married life and the responsibility
of children by doing my share in civic, political, and  philan-
-hropic work.

To go back, upen graduation T received the Lionel de Jersey
farvard Studentship for study at Emmanuel College, Cambridge.
his Studentship is supported by the Associated Harvard Clubs
or the purpose of sending a Harvard scholar to Fmmanuel from
which John Harvard came to found Harvard College, The }ar-
ard student is furnished rooms in the Old Court where John
Jarvard himself is reputed to have lived. There is the fireplace
¢ used, and the same carpet, apparently, is on the floor. I studied
‘rernational law, rowed on the college crew, and travelled ex-
nsively in Europe.

[ 1049 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

I returned from Cambridge to enter Harvard Law School. At
the same time, I became an instructor in government and tutor in
the department of history, government and economics in Harvard
College. I also rowed for the Union Boat Club of Boston and
coached the Harvard Debating Team.

Upon graduation from Law School in 1929, I became associated
with the law firm of Cravath, de Gersdorf, Swaine & Wood in
New York.

In 1931 I was appointed Assistant U. S. District Attorney for
the Southern District of New York and served under George Z.
Medalie, the U. S. Attorney and Thomas E. Dewey, then Chief
Assistant U. S$. Attorney. There I ran into such characters as
“Legs” Diamond and “Dutch” Schultz and had a glimpse of the
New York underworld of the pre-Dewey days.

In 1933 I became associated with the firm of Cotton, Franklin,
Wright & Gordon — now Cahill, Gordon, Zachry & Reindel —
in which I was made a partner in 1939.

After Pearl Harbor I volunteered for service in the United
States Navy and received a commission as lieutenant in March,
1942. After a brief period of training I was sent to the South
Pacific to join the staff of Vice-Admiral Aubrey W. Fitch, Com-
mander, Aircraft South Pacific Force. I spent a year on the sea-
plane tender Curtiss and on the beach at Espiritu Santo and
Guadalcanal. Like everybody else who was out there, I have no
desire to return. | remember making one resolution; it was that
if I ever came back alive, I would never complain about anything
again. Every once in a while I have to remind myself of this
resolution, but I try to stick to it.

In June, 1944, I was appointed head of the Contract Division
of the Bureau of Aeronautics, General Representative in New
York. In this position I organized the Contract Termination and
Property Disposition Sections.

A year later I was appointed by the Secretary of the Navy,
chairman of the Navy Board of Contract Appeals, a three-man
board which decided all appeals involving disputes of fact which
were appealable under Navy contracts to the Secretary of the
Navy.

In 1946 I ran for Congress on the Republican ticket and lost the
election. I have served by appointment of the Governor as chair-

[ 1050 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

man of the Minimum Wage Board for one of the industries in
this Srate. -

For the last three years I have been chairman of the professional
division for the Boy Scout Drive in New York and Tam also a
member of the exccutive board of the Manhattan Council of the
Boy Scouts.

From time to ume IT have travelled to Russia, Norway, and
Sweden and I have made many trips to Fngland, France, and
Italy, as well as to Mexico.

DONALD BECKLES WILSON

HOME apoarss: 10 Deer Park Crescent, Toronto, Ont, Canada.
poan: Nov. 4 1902, Summit, N. J. parents: Robert Cade Wilson, Ada

Bibb Bell.

prepaneD at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

VEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1926. OfoerE: A.B, 19256(16),

maargiep: Marion Sherwood Kelley, May 19. 1914. Boston, Mass, cH paens
Kerry Beckles, Oct. 14, 1915; Robert Cade, Nov. 24, tgq2.

HARVARD BRoTHER: John Kenneth Collier Wilson, 'y1.

occuPaTION: Advertising.

MEMBER OF; Harvard Club of New York.

ANDREW NICKERSON WINSLOW, JR.

HOME aponEss: 64 Chestnut St, Boston, Mass.

OFFice appress: 24 Federal Sc, Bostun, Mass.

BorN: Oct. 8, 1902, Newton, Mass. parenrs: Andrew Nickerson Winslow,
‘96, Gertrude Laverack.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.; Loomis School, Windsor,
Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922,

marriep: Elinor Condit, Aug. 29, 1925, Gloucester, Mass. cuitoren: Sears C.,
Dec. 7, 1927; Peter L., Nov, 14, 1930, Judith, May 8, 1945,

HaavarD BrotHERs: Walter Thacher Winslow, '29, Richard Sears Winslow,
"30.

OccuPaTION: Investment business, Perrin, West & Winslow, Inc,

orrices HELD: Vice-president and treasurer, Chase-Shawmut Company (elec-
trical manufacturing business), Newburyport, Mass.

AFTER leaving college, I entered the investment business and
have been in it ever since, forming my own firm in 1938. I have
also been in the electrical manufacturing business since 1935,
manufacturing fuses.

[ 1051 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

JOSEPH BERNARD WOLBARSHT .

HOME ADDRESS: 549 Centre St., Newton 58, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 82 Devonshire St., Boston 9, Mass.
BORN: Aug. 23, 1904, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Jacob Lewis Wolbarsht,

Sarah Esther Schindler.
PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922~1925. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1925; 11-B., 1928.
marrigD: Lenore Levin, Nov. 11, 1941, Boston, Mass.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Archie Wolbarsht, ’30; Abraham Wolbarsht, ’33.
occuPATION: Attorney.
WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Selective Service Advisory Board.
OFFICES HELD: President, New Century Club, 1943-44; chairman, executive
committee, Jewish Big Brother Association of Boston.
MEMBER OF: Shawmut Lodge, AF. & A.M.; New Century Club; Newton
Squash and Tennis Club; Tau Epsilon Phi.
JUST as I was about to despair of “my Life,” Allan Higgins,
Chairman of the Committee, called me on the telephone to inform
me that I had been appointed secretary of the executive committee
in charge of arrangements for the Twenty-fifth Reunion. Surely
this must be the equivalent of a minor “H” at least. I must confess
that the reason for my selection still remains a mystery to me.

Strangely enough, all of the significant events in my life seem
to have been rather delayed. So it was with my marriage, upon
which sacrament I entered on Armistice Day in the year 1941.
The delay proved to be most fortunate, however, for over and
above all the virtues which she possesses my wife has added great
lustre to my name by her distinguished contributions in philan-
thropic and communal work. The temptation is to write about
her for she is indeed the most important part of my life but some-
where in the land there may be a classmate who is interested in
things that I have done personally and thoughts that I have
gathered along the way. And so I proceed.

All that I am, or am not, I guess I owe to my eighth grade
teacher, for it was her insistence, provoked by my argumentative-
ness, which first implanted in my mind the idea of becoming a law-
yer. In any event, I did go to the Harvard Law School from which
I was graduated in 1928. Should I add that while I was at the Law
School I was elected to the Harvard Legal Aid Bureau? It really
isn’t very important but since I don’t have much to brag about I
might as well let it stand. After a brief spell in private practice

[ 1052 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I was named, in 1934. as Counsel for the New Enyland Agency of
the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, The expenence which
I had there was most interesting but the alca of being a wand of
the government for life had not ver become popular or widespre wt
In 1937 T resigned and resumed the private practice of law i
which P have achieved a modicum of success and carned enn
money to enable me co attend the foorhall games repularly without
mortid resentment over the financial cost of withewiy the weekly
debacle.

In recent years my work has been to a large esrent inthe ficht
of labor relanons, and while Phave found at constaictive, and ina
sense creative, and for that reason more sansfyine than other
branches of the law, it has also deepened my anvicnes about our
Amencan pohocal sem. The craven surrender of our pavern-
ment to labor and other organved blocs will eventually re sult in
a monolith of the masses which can be a opproasive as any proup
of individuals who have ever governed of nied the destiites of a
nation, [know the faulo of manayement and its recard of ev.
ploitation but the atrempred beanncanen af the working man -~ as
someone eulted by his status — is bunk, pure bunk! Virtue and
vice are equally dierboread between the tuo clases and povern-
mene muse abandon the mle of parman if truly democratic and
free society is to survive in thes country,

I am never quite sure that, had Pimy hfe to live over again, |
would have followed the ame career. Surely not for its monetary
rewards. Since that was hardly an important conuderaton in my
original decision P must add that the sprrrual rew ards have proved
to be noe much more satisfving. The digmety and honor of the
legal profession have heen scnously dchased, Perhaps this i
merely the reflection of modem souety whose spint and. sensi-
bilities have been traumatized by recurrent wars and economic
upheavals. The world needs a philosophy co live by and Harvard,
once famous for its Department of Philsophy, nught well dedi-
cate itself to this formulation.

Despite its strewes and disappointments, life has not been un-
pleasant. I have found pleasure in my work and hobbies, as well
as in the many valuable friends [have met along the way. Football
is my favorite spectator sport, while squash and tennis offer out-
lets for active exercise. I'm still the tennis champ in my family and

[ 1053 J

RNR rE a tererin nde ce ene re RI

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

there is very little time for Lenore (Brough) Wolbarsht to dis-
place the crown before old age retires me to the veteran’s class.
Since my marriage I have also become a dilettante in music —at
least I go to the Symphany occasionally to be seen in the company
of other “cultured” people.

One of our generation cannot write a “life” without a statement
or apology of his war record. The Army and Navy both felt that
they could dispense with my services in the active lines, and while
I did have an opportunity to “join the Navy” and wear a pretty
uniform with several stripes, the world they offered me was
Washington, D. C., and I had seen it several times. So I sat the
last one out, although not entirely, since I served at the Informa-
tion Center and won my wings. I had visions of being a hero one
day when I was summoned to plot an aerial invasion but it turned
out that the radar system had gone screwy. My only concern now
that the war is over is — how can we earn enough to support our-
selves and the veterans in the style to which they are eager to
become accustomed?

In politics I must confess to being somewhat of a maverick. I
was a Wilson Democrat before I could vote and I suspect that is
what I remain today. While I fully approved of Roosevelt’s pro-
gram in substance, the shadows scared me. Twenty-five years
after leaving the ivory towers I should be more pragmatic — but
I am still doubtful that the end justifies the means. I wonder, do
not the means sometimes pervert and corrupt the ends desired?

I have tried to fulfill my responsibilities to the community wher-
ever I could be of service. One of my principal interests has been
the Big Brother movement which I regard as an effective instru-
mentality for preventing juvenile delinquency and helping trou-
bled boys to grow into healthy manhood. I am proud to have
stood in the vanguard with those who fought to ultimate success
for the establishment of the State of Israel, a new and brilliant star
in the firmament of nations.

A quarter of a century has passed into eternity. What is a
“Harvard Man”? Have we collectively lived up to the ideal?
This morning’s paper announces a survey to be undertaken at the
college to reach a definition. It should be very worth-while. I
shall avidly read the reports of our classmates to see if I can find
any clues. In any case I am proud to be one, whatever one may be.

[ 1054 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LEONARD MARCUS WOLPER

orrice aporess: Sears, Roebuck & Co, Monroe Ave., Rochester, N. Y.
porn: Feb. 30, 1905, Boston, Mass. paresis: Isaac Wolper, Nettie Wolfe.
parpanrp at: Athol High School, Athol, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925, DEGRER: AB, 1924.
marrizp: Elizabeth C, Campbell, June 25, 1939, Philadelphia, Pa.
occupation: Group Manager, Sears, Roebuck & Company.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECoaD: Served with Ais Corps July, 194g3-Ovtober, 104s.
| ATTENDED law school for three years and after law school I
practised law for three months. Then I went into the merchandise
field with Saks 34th Sercet and Saks Fifth Avenue in New York.
On March 25, 1929, | went to work for Sears, Roebuck & Com-
pany as a traince. I travelled over the country for the company as
a trouble shooter until January, 1934, when PE was appointed man-
ager of one of Sears’ larger retail units in Camden, New Jersey.
In July, 1942, T entered the service in the Air Corps where I serv od
until October, 1945. T then returned to Camden as Scars store
manager and, in September, 1949, was promoted to group manager
in Rochester.

If any of you are travelling through Rochester, feel free to call
me at Sears, Roebuck & Company, and maybe we can hoist one
together.

BENJAMIN SMITEE WOOD

HOME aporess: Weston, Mfass.

porn: May 19, 1905, Waltham, Mass. pasewrs: Henry Austin Wood, '78,
Anna Wharton Smith.

PREPARED aT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Freter, N. H.

YRARS IN COLLEGE: 19121-1975. DFLREFS: AB, 1925; M.D., 1930.

maratep: Annette N, Wright, Nov, §, 1930, Gwynned, Pa.; Barbara Rogers,
1940. CHILDREN: Benjamin Smith, Jr. March jo, 1932; T. Rodman,
March 9, 1934; Letitia E.. July 27, 1936.

HARVARD BrotHrR: Henry Austin Wood, Jr. "24.

occupation: Physician.

THE period following graduation was occupied in medical train-

ing: four years at the Harvard Medical School, a summer with the

Grenfell Mission in Labrador, and three and a half years of intern-

ships in Boston at the Massachusetts General, the Boston Lying-in

Hospital, and the Free Hospital for Women. Then followed nine

[ 1055 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

years of general practice in the Weston and Waltham area. In
1943 I swung out of general practice into obstetrics, received cer-
tification as a specialist at the American Board exams in 1946, and
was appointed chief of the obstetrical department at the Waltham
Hospital. In spite of the ending of the heavy wartime load and
the easing of the medical needs of the community, there continued
to be far too little time and energy left from the demands of prac-
tice to carry on the medical-psychological research which had
become my major interest. I therefore stopped all medical prac-
tice in 1947 to engage in joint research with my wife, who, after
a number of years as a psychotherapist, also had been led to the
greater need for research in this field. I am still giving my whole
time and interest to this work.

JOHN RUSSELL WOOD

HOME ADDRESS: 10 Stratford Rd., Port Washington, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lever Brothers Co., 80 Varick St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 27, 1904, Cambridge, Mass. PaRENTS: John William Wood, '98,
Alice Minot Russell. .

PREPARED AT: Rindge Technical School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: S.B., 1925; M.B.A., 1928.

MARRIED: Dorothy M. Cochrane, Dec. 28, 1937, Toronto, Ont., Canada.
CHILDREN: Janice Russell, June 26, 1943; John Cochrane, May 19, 1944.

OccuPATION: Assistant field manager, Lever Brothers Company.

AFTER a great many years of being a proper (?) Bostonian, I

have just taken unto myself the task of becoming a New Yorker.

As Daniel Webster said about a certain unmentionable locality

“It is a small place, but there are those who love it,” and I assume

that in time I shall, too.

Looking forward to our 25th, I remember very vividly the
corresponding reunion of my father’s class (1898) which occurred
while we were in college. Those calm, dignified, grey-haired
gentlemen, returning to Cambridge for a glimpse of their de-
parted youth! To think that ’98 has passed its soth, and we are
now the Elder Statesmen who will waddle down to Soldiers Field
in blue coats and white pants, followed by an admiring contingent
of wives and children. It just isn’t possible. Let’s put it this way
— there may have been Harvard classes who added more to the
academic lustre of the university; there may have been Harvard

[ 1056 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

classes who added more to the athletic prestige of the College,
buc has there ever been a class that, upon the occasion of its
Twenty-fifth Reunion, felt any younger than we do? NEVER!

JOHN SUMNER WOOD

HOME ADDRESS: Woodbyme Farm, Germantown, Md.

orrica apowgss: Rockville, Md.

porn: March 2, 1902, Milford, Mass. pases: Isaac Sumner Wood, Oc-
tavia Byrne.

pasparep at: Central High School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. Decades: 8.8, 1915, L.8. (George Washington
Univ.).

marairp: Mary Leftwich Rawlings Aug. 4 i926 Washington, DD, Co (died
Dec. 31, 1935); Peggy Angel, July 23, 1934, Silver Spring, Mad, cut
paren: John Sumner, Jr, July 23, 19:9, David Eliab, sth, Dec. ta, ty yo;
Judson Rawlings, May yo. 1934; Wriley Creath Angel, Nov. 5, 1937;
Brooks Crosby Byme, Feb. 1, iggt; Peggy Octavia, Sept. 14, 1946.

HaRgvARD 90N: David Ehab Wood, sth, ‘sa.

OccuPATION; Lawyer, trustee, and farmer,

MEMaER oF: Society of Mayflower Descendants; Masons, Bar Awociations
of Washington, D. C. and Montgomery County, Maryland, Rotary
International.

pustications: Malta, “Laws Evervone Should Know,” The American Citi-
zens; Handbook, National Educanon Association,

SOME of my classmates may be five-star generals but fam a six-

star father. My wealth is my family — wife and six children, my

hobby is the education of the five Wood brothers, doctors, and my
little three-year-old daughter, Peggy Octavia Wood, is my pride
and joy. That, in a line, is my hfe. For two years my five good
sons literally dragged me out of bed every Sunday morning to go
ten miles to Sunday School where I played the organ and looked
down upon their happy faces. Actually | am not so good, but my
wife and children are loyal Fpiscopahans. A year on the vestry
convinced me and everyone that my liberal theology fits no one
denomination. Many blame that on Harvard, which I appreciate
as a compliment. In politics I am an unimportant independent

Democrat, who voted against that man, Roosevelt, four times.

Many blame my concepts of social justice on Harvard, and to that

indictment I am proud to plead Harvard guilty,

The five Wood brothers want to be doctors, so I may make a
lawyer out of my baby daughter who has already demonstrated

(1057 ]

SAE caemeR te nemnier ease me YEN nN A A

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

her ability to win all decisions from her brothers, while her mother
and I mind that baby around the clock. We live on a farm near
Seneca, not far from the Potomac River and what was once the
C & O Canal. And from my library window I can look out over
steers and dairy cows, grazing into the wind on neighboring pas-
tures, which in the distance appear to become greener. On some
fifteen miles beyond is the graceful Sugar Loaf Mountain, title to
which is now in Gordon Strong, Harvard ’89, but actually its
beauty belongs to all the people in this part of Montgomery
County. Each day my children have to be transported from our
backwoods retreat twenty miles to their respective schools: St.
Albans School for Boys, Friends School, and St. Angela Hall, and
now two of my pre-medical boys make longer journeys on to
Yale and Harvard, to be followed later, I hope, by their three
brothers.

I would like to tell you, my classmates, many good things about
Yale, but David, my Harvard son, refuses to polish any more Eng-
lish for me if I do, so . . . But Yale is most friendly to parents
and liberal to students, possibly because they have Lux et Veritas?
Sumner, leader of the five Wood brothers, doctors, at sixteen went
to study and experiment at the National Cancer Institute where
he returned the following summer. As a sophomore at Yale he
was permitted to work on a cancer project at the Yale School of
Medicine. As a junior he is now taking most of his college work
and continuing his cancer research on mice at the Yale Medical
School, and at the end of three years at Yale he will lead his
brothers into medical school.

Well, at this point you should stop, read on, and perhaps come
back, as here I Jaid this self-portrait away in my desk, for this
happy November day Woodbyrne Farm, all covered with colors
of red and of gold, is bursting in the autumn air with shouts of
cheer and laughter. [ll tell you what has made for this rejoicing —
even Ferdinand has strolled over to bow to Dr. Doolittle. Word
has just come that Sumner has been accepted by the Harvard
Medical School. Also, on the same November r7th, he was ac-
cepted by the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine.
Dat Yale bird will come to the Harvard roost in September, 1950.

I am reluctant to fill this Class Report with so much about my
children, but Allan Higgins asked for it, and all I am is a father of

[ 1058 ]

Oa

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

six stars. David, hoping to complete Elarvard College in three

years, is also interested in cancer surgery; Judson, another surgeon,

sharpening his Latin, is the family athlete, sport and farmer;

Wrilev will become a giant in size and a charming bedside doctor,

while Brooks is going to Yale and follow his brother Sumner’s
attern.

Now gentlemen, give that five-star general his army, our bishop
his cathedral, our literary genius his best seller, our Sterling Dow
his Greek, and our Mason Hammond his Latin, but 1 prefer to
remain a moon shining among my six stars, bowing to the two
mothers who placed me in the ‘sky so high, and to my own mother
and stepfather, whose hard work and guiding hands made of mea
Harvard man.

LUTHER HFRBFRT WOOD

HOME Apoaess: 325 E. gist Sc, New York 19, N.Y,

orice avoress: Sullivan, Sauffcr, Colwell & Bayles, 437 Fifth Ave, New
York, N. Y.

porn: Nov, 28, 1902, Greenficld, Mass. panesas: Herman Leir Wood, Mar-
garet Louise Sark.

parparen at: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Maw.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 121-1925. DELRIE: OB, i925,

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Advertising.

memper of: Harvard Club of New York.

WHAT would you write about a fellow who has spent all of his
life in one business (most of ie with one firm), who has never
stopped long enough to get married, who enjoys a couple of
martinis before dinner, who likes to place a bet on the horses now
and then, but who is fundamentally a conservative at heart?

After Business School [ went to work for Ruthrauff & Ryan
dusting off the magazine files. Then into research and account
work. I've been with Sullivan, Stauffer, Colwell & Bayles since it
started, as an account executive and vice-president in charge of
research. There I've had the satisfaction of developing a couple of
new copy-testing techniques that are helping to sell goods.

One interesting anecdote (to me, at least) concerns a Yale man
who had bought a share in a show which, at that time, was not
much more than a script and a hope. He wanted to unload part of

[ 1059 J

saat tasieeteeetaearamenata aanaaeeanesssmemn needa indninieaiainanamameniemamaminaameimetia aie ee 1 gE 2 PAREN OE AEE

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

it and so put me down for it. He figured that I had lost money in
so many other ways I might as well round out my experience by
losing it as an “angel.” The show was Kiss Me, Kate. It all seems
so easy that I’m now taking a flier on the new Hartman show
which, by the time this little publication appears on the stands,
will either be on Broadway as an established hit or off Broadway
as a tax reduction.

WALTER KEEN WOOLMAN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 500 Williamson Rd., Bryn Mawr, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Red Comb Mills, Inc., Marine Terminal, Wilmington, Del.

BORN: Feb. 3, 1904, Philadelphia, Pa. Parents: Walter Keen Woolman,
Mabel F. Woodward.

PREPARED AT: William Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925. —

MarrieD: Katherine A. Shankland, May 20, 1932, New York, N. Y. cun-
DREN: Louise, June 15, 1934; Robert S., April 9, 1936; Ingrid, July 9,
1940.

OCCUPATION: Manufacturer of poultry and dairy feeds.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Red Comb Mills, Inc.; president, Gladwyne
Free Library.

MEMBER OF: Flarvard Club of Philadelphia; Merion Golf Club; Bay Head
Yacht Club.

AFTER spending eight years in a New York bank, during which

T acquired excellent experience and a most satisfactory wife, I left

the city to try to improve the slow motion financial returns that

the average persons receive in an early banking career. I found
that there was a better living to be had in agriculture and I have
been giving it the closest attention for the past fifteen years. It
has been fascinating to be part of a new industry (commercial

poultry raising) which has grown to enormous proportions in a

very few years.

On vacations my wife and I have been fortunate in being able
to travel extensively each year. I believe that visiting different
places and being with people far away from home is most bene-
ficial and stimulating. The list of trips is still very long. At home
we try to keep fit by playing golf and we attempt to do some sail-
ing on the New Jersey coastal waters in the summer. There never
seems to be enough time to do either very well, but we like both
activities too much to give them up.

[ 1060 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My wife took our children co look at colleges last June. We
hope that when they are ready to enter, in three or four years,
they may even have a choice instead of struggling with the present
entrance problems.

I am looking forward to the events of the next few years with
great interest. An Austrian, who had lived under the Nazis and
Russians, said to me recently that one cannot imagine how it feels
to be free. Now we have all heard that story before, but his
tremendous emotion on the subject made me think that we are
taking too much for granted in this country and should make
ourselves do more than we are to keep individual opportunities
alive. I hope I can do something effective.

JAMES HENDON WRIGHT

LAST KNOWN apoarss: 38) Madson Ave, New York, N.Y,

Boan: Jan. 3, 1902, Neenah, Wa. paaente: James Harry Wright, Elizabeth
Post.

prepare at: Kalamazoo High School, Kalamazoo, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922.

marrieD: Gladys R. Peters, May 6, 1929, Glens Falls, N.Y.

occupation: Advertising.

THIE information printed above is from the Secretary's files,
James Wright did not return a questionnaire.

THOMAS CLARKE WRIGHT

HOME aAporFss: 20: W. Vernon Ave, Fergus Falls, Minn.

orFicg apoarsss: Orter Tail Power Co, Fergus Falls, Minn.

BorN: Dec. 13, 1901, Lincoln, Mass. parents: Vernon Ames Wright, Grace
Tilestone Clarke,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1927. DEGRFR: 6.8. IN B. ENGIN. AND BUS. ADMIN. Cum
laude, 1927.

Marriep; Catharine Wilson, March 31, 1928. cumpren; four girls; one boy.

OccuPaTiION: President, Otter Tail Power Company.

OFFIces HELD: President, Board of Trustees, George B. Wright Memorial
Hospital, 1949; chairman, 1948-49, Red River Valley Section, American
Insucute of Electrical Engineers.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Electrical Engineers, Minneapolis Club;
Minneapolis Athletic Club.

[ 1061 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

JOSEPH WILLARD WYATT

HOME ADDRESS: 216 Belle Haven Rd., Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Tower Bldg., Washington 5, D. C.
BORN: May 26, 1902, Huntington, W. Va. parents: Charles Russell Wyatt,

Sarah Paisley Sloan.

PREPARED AT: Huntington High School, Huntington, W. Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1925; LL.B. (Univ. of Wesz
Virginia), 1929.

marrieD: Dorothy Lillian Georgens, Sept. 20, 1933, New York, N. Y.
cup: Dorothy Jane, March 5, 1936.

occupaTion: Partner, Lord, Day & Lord, law firm.

ARTHUR HOBART WYMAN

AppREss: % George Wyman, 80 Lewis Rd., Northport, Long Island, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 23, 1903, Mount Vernon, N. Y. PARENTS: Joseph Gray Wyman,
Martha Nichols Hobart.

PREPARED AT: White Plains High School, White Plains, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: A.B. 1925.

OCCUPATION: Government service.

THE information printed above is from the Secretary’s files.

Wyman did not return a questionnaire.

ELIAS MOSES YOOD

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 23 Gilbert Ave., Haverhill, Mass.
BORN: Sept. 4, 1903, Southend, England. parents: Hyman Marim Yood,

Dinah Levine.
PREPARED AT: Haverhill High School, Haverhill, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192 I-1922.
YOOD has been carried as a “lost”? man on our records for many
years.

HENRY IRVING ZIMMERMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 17 Regent Circle, Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Charles Corey Shoe Co., Haverhill, Mass.

BORN: June 28, 1903, Hartford, Conn. parents: Harry Zimmerman, Ida
Rapaport.

PREPARED AT: Hartford High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1925.

[ 1062 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

magrtep: Bona Brunn, Sept. 13, 1934 Forest Hills, Long Island, N. Y. camt-
pren: Gretel Bambi, Aug. 22, 1943; Walter Evan, July 29, 1947.
occupation: Merchandise manager, Charles Corey Shocs.

RECALLING “Goad” Goodspeed as the chap who related his
total history in the Decennial Report laconically as “Bookseller,”
I shall content him and myself now by not much more: shoe
merchandising, first in New York, then in Michigan, and for the
past thirteen years back in the shadow of Cambridge in which I,
together with my wife, take continued pleasure.

ISADORE JACOB ZIMMERMAN

HOME apoarss: 70} Maple Se. Manchester, N. 1.

orrice appears: 1458 Fim Se, Manchester, N. HL.

moan: May 20, 1903, New York, N.Y. paneste: Samucl Zimmerman, Lena
Koplow.

peepaaep at: Public Laun School, Boston, Mass.

YRARS IN COLLEGE: 1g2t-s975. pecmess: am, tgzg, Mo (Tufts Medical
School), 19:9, Msc. (Univ. of Pennsyly ania).

maraieo: Lucille Cummings, May 31, 1914, Philadelphia, Pa.

occupation: Urologist.

ovrices HELD: Member board of directory New Hampshire Vermont Physi-
cians Service; member execuuve committee, New England Section,
American Urological Association, toqs-47; urologist, Sacred Heart
Hospital, Manchester, consulung urologist, Memorial Hospital, Nashua,
N. H., Fnsbie Memonal Hospital, Rochester, N. HE.

MEMBER OF: Manchester Medical Association; Hillsboro County Medical
Associanon; New Hampshire Surgical Club; American Urological Ap
sociation, New England Section, American Urological Association, New
Hampshire Medical Association, American Medical Association (fel-
low); American College of Surgeons (fellow), American Board of
Urology (diplomare).

puauicaTions: Papers in the New England Journal of Medicine, Journal of
Urology, Urologic and Cutaneous Review.

CHARLES ALFRED ZINN

HOME apogEss: 752 Convers Ave. Zanesville, Ohio.

OFFICE ApoRESS: 305 First National Bank Bidg., Zanesville, Ohio.

Boan: April 24, 1903, Ostheim, Germany. pasents: Karl Gottlieb Zinn,
Lina Schleisinger.

preparen at: Zanesville High School, Zanesville, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1923. Decuge: LLB. (Ohio State Univ.), 1917.

MaraieD: Martha Anna McCullough, June 22, 1929, Zanesville, Ohio. cup:

[ 1063 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925
Charles Alfred, Jr., July 10, 1938.

occuPATION: Lawyer.
OFFICES HELD: President board of trustees, Y.M.C.A.; president, Zanesville
. Community Chest, Muskingum County Bar Association, Rotary Club;
vice-president, Ohio State Bar Association; exalted ruler, B.P.O.E.; di-
rector and general counsel, Mosaic Tile Company; trustee, Abbot Home
for Aged Men, Zanesville Art Institute, Helen Purcell Home; district lay
leader, Methodist Church.
MEMBER OF: Rotary Club; University Club; Elks; Masons; American Judica-
ture Society; Muskingum County Bar Association; Ohio State Bar Asso-
ciation; American Bar Association.

LETTERS from Neil McElroy and Allan Higgins and repeated
Goads finally brought the realization that either I force clients to
wait and perform this chore of reminiscence or be omitted from
the Class Report entirely. Since life is more than bread and the
body more than raiment, I concluded to turn the clock of time
and join with you in “taking stock” on this 25th Anniversary.

Father’s sudden death near the end of my second year caused a
complete reversal of plans and I forthwith entered the Law Col-
lege of Ohio State University and plunged into the study of
Blackstone, Holmes and the tiresome cases of the past.

Graduation and admission to the Bar of Ohio in 1927 opened
the way to the practice of the law in Toledo, Ohio, in the firm of
Marshall, Melhorn, Marlar & Martin, a typical “law factory.”
Here I received my first real initiation into legislative draftsman-
ship when I served as secretary of the Blue Sky Law Committee
which was preparing securities legislation for the Ohio Legislature.

Late in 1928 ] determined to be my own boss and returned to
Zanesville, starting on my own. This demonstrated to me that the
law is indeed “a jealous mistress” and that the hardest taskmaster
anyone can have is oneself. My marriage on June 22, 1929, was
the usual happy event and little did we realize that it was a signal
for the major economic crash of our times. The early thirties were
the usual struggle for survival.

With the Public Works Program came an opportunity to de-
velop a flood control program for Zanesville and the Muskingum
Valley. We organized the Muskingum Watershed Conservancy
District and I served as associate counsel for this political sub-
division, Fourteen large flood control dams were built and half of
them contain permanent lakes for water conservation and the

[ 1064 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

development of recreation areas. If you come to Fastern Ohio
I promise you good fishing. Soil conservation practices also were
widely initiated and as a result of these combined intluences,
Louis Bromfield wrote an article in the Saturday Evening Post in
March, 1950, with the title “I Live on the Fdge of Paradise.” This
is a slight exaggeration, in which an author's license perhaps en-
atles him to indulge.

I maintained my Zanesville office and organized my own law
firm where I have been gradually spec ializing i in labor, tax, and a
general corporate practice which docs take care of life's necessi-
ties and Icaves 8 lictle for enjoying life's amenities, such as a yearly
vacation, some artendant travelling, photography, and even phi-
lately.

A month on Cape Cod with its surging surfs or in the Berkshires
with their majestic beauty, always revives a person, not only
physically, but spiritually. In the turmoil of this atomic ayre and
business treadmill, it is well co take stock of one's life and ambi-
tions and to face the Frernal and follow Elis admonition “Be still
and know that Lam God.” Without this faith life indeed becomes
empty despite all so-called modem advances and material posses-
sions. Our civilization can survive only if all of us turn to the
precepts of the Bible and make them an integral part of our lives
and the life of our cities, states, nation, and the world at large. If
we fail in this, our civilization may well go the way of all civiliza-
tions founded on the sands of materialism, and rightly so. Then
out of the chaos of war — civil or international — there will arise
a new and berter world where men will not only pay lip service to
the Golden Rule but will actually use it as a way of life.

With sound basic religious beliefs, we accept people for what
they are, whether tycoons of industry or Jabor Icaders, or whether
natives of India or the United States. In some strange way this is
of tremendous assistance in the solution of problems and contro-
versies where people are involved. My justification for the “testi-
monial” is the request of the Class Secretary for social, political,
and religious convictions.

With such a sermon, some skeptic may rightly ask, what are you
doing? For the past ten yearsa Sunday School Class of high school
boys has been my constant challenge and believe it or not, I get as
much personal good and satisfaction out of teaching as the boys

[ 1065 ]

\

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925

do out of listening. To instill in these future citizens sound Chris.
tian ideals and to aid, abet, and encourage them to go to College
and then to see them take responsible positions in society is one of
life’s compensations that no amount of money or material success
can purchase. My service as District Lay Leader of my church for
five years also brought a feeling of spiritual solidarity and it is an
experience I recommend to you all. In many ways Philip Cabot,
one of Harvard’s more illustrious sons from one of Harvard's
illustrious families, has more aptly expressed what is essentially my
philosophy too, in his article “The Conversion of a Sinner” which ‘
was originally published in the Atlantic Monthly and recently re-
published in the book Atlantic Harvest. 1 feel that this article
could well be republished in pamphlet form for a wider distri-
bution.
I close in order to meet the deadline, in the hope that, with the
Lord’s permission, I can join with you all when the soth Class
Anniversary Report is published.

NEE NE NIN REE H PLAN IT ROM Te ee AS

 

JESSE E. ZOFNASS

HOME ADDRESS: 322 Marsh St., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 32 Green St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 24, 1904, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Emil Zofnass, Jennie Daniells

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1925. DEGREE: S.B., 1925. a

MaRRIED: Helen Cynthia Aronson, Feb. 2, 1945, Merrimac, Mass. CHILDREN:
Paul Jesse, April 18, 1947; Joan Susan, Oct. 19, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Manufacturer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S. Coast Guard Reserve (T), 1943-45.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Special industrial consultant, U. S. War De-
partment.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, Associated Bedding Manufacturers of New
England; past zone director, trustee, chairman board of trustees, Na-
tional Association of Bedding Manufacturers; past member board of
directors, Child Welfare and Family Service; trustee, Hecht Neighbor-
hood House; past member board of governors, Boston Automobile Club.

MEMBER OF: Belmont Country Club; Rotary Club; Ancient and Honorable
Artillery Company; Institute of Navigation, U. S. Power Squadron,
Sharon Fish and Game Club; Belmont Police Gun Club; New England
Police Revolver League, U. S. Revolver Assoctation.

ST Re a a,

EPPS RIOT BN PA BEREAN ESE IS ne!

[ 1066 ]

In Memoriam

The names of men whose deaths have been reported since our
Quindecennial Report are in italics.

Herbert Spencer Abel, died Dec. 3, 1934, at Providence, R. 1.

Louis Alpert, died Aug. 17, 1947, at Middicboro, Mass.

Jobn Denison Baldwin, died Sept. 26, 1946, at Sydney, Australia,

Benjamin Franklin Rice Bassett, died March 12, 1y5o, at Elouston,
Texas.

Henry Abraham Winchester Beck, died Feb, 18, 1939, at Wash-
ington, D.C

John Henry Berry, died Feb. 23, 1923, at Watertown, Mass.

Lawrence Black, died Apnil 21, 1950, at Boston, Mass.

Henry Morgan Bohlen, died Dec. 25, 1934. at Boston, Mass.

Murray Eugene Borish, died Jan. 19, 1943, at sea.

Richardson Brown, died about Feb. 4, 1938, at Hull, Mass.

Stephen DeValson Brown, died Jan. 21, 1938, at Glens Falls, N. Y.

George Edwin Cary, died Feb. 24, 1950, at Malden, Mass.

Jack Portman Chesney, died Feb. 6, 1931, at Kansas City, Mo.

Wilmon Blackmar Chipman, dicd Dec. 26, 1943, at Winchester,
Mass.

John Edward Crowley, Jr. died Dec. 12, 1938, at Boston, Mass.

Daniel Joseph Danker, Jr. diced July 5, 1944, at Beverly ELills,
Calif.

Charles Henry Davis, died Dee. 1, 1939, at Cincinnati, Ohio,

Henri de Castellane, died March 7, 1937, at Paris, France.

Joe de Ganahl, killed in airplane crash, July 24, 1943, near Sitka,
Alaska.

Arthur Patrick Donovan, died Jan. 31, 1938, at Peabody, Mass.

Jobn Paterson Duncan, died Feb. 10, 1948, at New York, N.Y.

James Lawrence Dunham, died May 2, 1933, at Cambridge, Mass.

Jefferson Fletcher, died July 19, 1929, at Portsmouth, N, H.

Adrien Gambet, died Nov. 29, 1948, at Long Island City, N. Y.

Bernard Barrett Gilman, died May 31, 1941, at Boston, Mass.

Malcolm Whelen Greenough, died May 1, 1948, at Boston, Mass.

Edmund Carl Felix Herrmann, died Nov. 1, 1935, at Massillon,
Ohio.

[ 1067 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1925
Ernest Laurence Hill, died July 9, 1925, at Wellesley, Mass.

Unbay Hsu, died April 22, 1941, at Lishui, Chekiang, China.
Andrew Crozier Knox, died Aug. 12, 1940, at London, Ont,

Canada.

George Henry Kotok, died Oct. 15, 1927, at Vineland, N. J.

Stephen Van Praag Lee, died April 27, 1931, at San Marino, Calif,

Charles Frederick Lingham, died Feb. 26, 1949, en route to Lock.
port, N. Y.

Eldridge Johnson MacEwan, died March 22, 1941, at Bryn Mawr,
Pa.

James Jay Mapes, died Aug. 9, 1925, at Paris, France.

Charles Marx, Jr., died Feb. 5, 1927, at New York, N. Y.

Charles Coffin Mason, died Aug. 13, 1931, at South Hadley, Mass,

Morrison Mills, died Sept. 25, 1940, at Chestnut Hill, Philadel-
phia, Pa. ‘

Claud Nicholls, died Dec, 29, 1933, at Quincy, Mass.

Jacob Vincent Nissenson, died Aug. 16, 1922, at St. Faustin, P.Q, =~
Canada.

Joseph Anthony O’Connor, died March 14, 1948, at Jackson,
Mich.

Dexter Selden Paine, died Nov. 3, 1932, at Cambridge, Mass.

Alexander Kyle Powell, died April 18, 1949, at El Paso, Texas.

Jobn Earl Purdy, died March 31, 1941, at Brooklyn, N. Y.

Martin Quinn, died Dec. 16, 1942, at Palm Beach, Fla.

Harold Richard Robinson, died Oct. 23, 1942, at West Newton,
Mass.

John Randolph Robinson, died Sept. 2, 1930, at Capri, Italy.

Leon Mark Rome, died June 9, 1946, at Buffalo, N. Y.

Murray Morris Rubin, died Feb. 25, 1944, at Springfield, Mass.

Edward Adams Sawin, died Jan. 15, 1946, at Philadelphia, Pa.

Louis Moffatt Scarr, died July 6, 1935, at Boston, Mass.

Thomas Arnold Barrett Scudder, died Jan. 11, 1931, at Chicago,

Ill.
John Loftus Scully, died Sept. 3, 1924, at New York, N. Y.
Jim Chapman Sherman, died Sept. 7, 1934, at Augusta, Ga.
William Denison Sleeper, died Jan. 19, 1930, at New York, N. Y. :
Frank DeLarme Smith, Jr., died April 13, 1933, at Washington,

D.C.

EAN a ALOE RARDIN 8

[ 1068 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Peter Van der Meulen Smith, died Nov. 17, 1928, at Berlin, Ger-
many,

William Hayes Soule, died Feb. 15, 1949, at San Francisco, Calif,

Alfred Max Stern, died May 23, 1929, at Cincinnati, Ohio.

Harold Sherburne Stevens, died Aug. 26, 1933, at Ridgewood,
N. J.

Robert Emlen Sunmer, died Sept. 17, 1941, at Norwalk, Conn,

Thomas Carroll Van Stone, dicd Sept. 18, 1935, at Glendale, Calif.

Edward Goodwin Wesson, died Sept. 29, 1932, at Norlina, N. C,

As this Report went to press the Secretary was informed of the
death of Nathan Gabricl Abrahamson on May 17, 1950, at
Brighton, Massachusetts.

It has also been reported that Elias Moses Yood died in 1932 at
New York City.

| 1069 J

ee aerate onrterea-verarreeryrienreg-rer arrestee ste et

