*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

ARVARD COLLEGE
Class of 1926

=wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

 

Cambridge

Printed for the Class
1951

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

RECORDS OF THE CLASS
SO

JACQUES LEON ACH

Home Address: 1354 Westminster Drive, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Office Address: Jacques L. Ach & Co., 608 Traction Bldg., Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

Born: Aug. 11, 1904, Dayton, Ohio. Parents: Ferdinand J. Ach, Carrie Kahn.

Prepared at: Moraine Park School, Dayton, Ohio.

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degrees: LL.B. (Univ. of Cincinnati), 19303
C.P.A. (Ohio), 1942.

Married: Ruth M. Herman, June 12, 1929, Cleveland, Ohio. Children: Janet
Carolyn, June 20, 19313 Jacques Leon, Jr., Jan. 6, 1938; Judith Ann,
March 14, 1944.

Harvard Brother: Eugene Ludwig Ach, 716.

Occupation: Attorney-at-law; certified public accountant.

Military or Naval Record: Commissioned Ist lieutenant, Quartermaster Corps,
September, 1942; stationed at office of the Quartermaster General,
Washington, D. C., as (1) Chief of Controlled Materials Plan Section,
Procurement Division, (2) Assistant for special problems to General
Doriot, Military Planning Division, (3) Chief of Production Schedul-
ing Section, Procurement Division; separated as major, January, 1946.

Offices Held: Scoutmaster, Troop 11, Cincinnati Council, Boy Scouts of Amer-
ica, since 1929; board of directors, Jewish Vocational Service, Cincin-
nati, since 1940; president, Cincinnati Lodge #4, B’nai B’rith, 1947—
48; board of trustees, Isaac M. Wise Temple, Cincinnati, 1949-513 ex-
ecutive committee, Civic Club of Cincinnati, 1950-51.

Member of : Cincinnati Bar Association; Cincinnati Lawyers Club; Ohio State
Bar Association; American Bar Association; American Institute of Ac-
countants; Ohio Society of Certified Public Accountants; Masons; Amer-
ican Jewish Committee; American Council for Judaism; Harvard Club
of Cincinnati; Reserve Officers Association; American Legion; American
Veterans Committee ; Pearlcasters; Losantiville Country Club.

Publications: “Operating Manual for the Controlled Materials Plan in Quar-
termaster Depots,” Washington, 1944; various editorial notes, Cincin-
nati Law Review, 1927-30; articles on Movements at Duplicate Bridge,
The Bridge World, 1934.

Surrounded by tax returns (completed and otherwise), befuddled by
Excess Profits Taxes and Price Stabilization Orders, and with the Ides
of March staring me in the face, I find it difficult to remember what
happened this morning and next to impossible to review a span of twen-

[3]

Harvard Class of 1926

ty-five years. I will admit that the situation is self-created. It would
have been so easy to prepare and submit this report last summer. But
the habits of a lifetime are not easily changed. English A themes writ-
ten on the table at Wadsworth House or theses started the midnight be-
fore the deadline seemed to have a freshness and vitality not present in
more carefully prepared works, Furthermore there was the feeling of
suspense as the deadline approached and the thrill of triumph when we
actually met it.

So, after five ““Goads” from Ben Thorndike, three phone calls from
_ Red Rauh, and two wise cracks from Art King, I attempt on the last
possible day to compress twenty-five years into a reasonable number of

ages. .

, My legal career started in 1930 when I hung up my shingle. That

historic moment passed without any noticeable excitement on the part

of my public. A few years later, I was of counsel in litigation which
turned on highly complex and technical accounting questions. In the
course of this litigation, I discovered that most lawyers knew very little
about accounting and most accountants knew very little about law and
it seemed reasonable to assume that there would be a field for someone
who knew more than a little about both. This assumption, plus my old
fondness for mathematics, led me into the study of accounting. In 1942
I became a certified public accountant and expected to engage in the
combined practice of law and accountancy. The late unpleasantness
caused a slight change in my plans and, for a three-year period, Uncle
Sam became my only client. As my practice developed after the war, I
found problems in the fields of taxation and accounting requiring most
of my time and attention. At the present time, my organization is de-
voted exclusively to those fields.

How can you summarize a family in a paragraph or two? Mine is
that precise combination of joys and exasperations that constitute a fam-
ily. In 1929 I married the girl I had been raving about in 1926. And
after all these years, she is still the same girl. Janet, our first-born, is a
young lady now, with a charm, personality, and mind of her own, We
play in bridge tournaments together on occasion with uniformly good
times — and bad scores.

We call our man-child “Butch” because he looks as if he ought to be
called “Butch.” He is a fine swimmer, He also plays good enough foot-
ball so that when he promises me seats on the fifty-yard line for you-
know-where and you-know-when, I know that the validity of his
promise depends merely on mundane details like Algebra and Latin.
He is a First Class Scout in my troop. We went to the Jamboree to-

[4]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

gether last summer and, with the troop, have gone camping frequently.
I’m not sure, but I think we are rather proud of each other.

Judy came from Walter Reed General Hospital as a by-product of
the war. She thinks that we should go back in the Army so that we can
have another baby. We don’t think that is a very good idea, but we
think she was one of our best ideas,

Hobbies? I’ve had lots of them over the years. The one that has
lasted the longest and which, at the moment, seems the most important
is the Boy Scouts of America. Scouting is brotherhood, Scouting 1s
building citizens, Scouting is friendship, Scouting is fun! . . . For de-
tails see the Boy Scout Handbook or, better still, pay a visit to your nearest
troop.

I don’t have much time for bridge any more but [ still play occasion-
ally. Years ago I designed (in collaboration with Charles T. Kennedy,
"19) a system of movements which were supposed to revolutionize
bridge tournaments, They didn’t. Other hobbies: golf, bowling, math-
ematics, civic activity.

In matters of religion, I adhere to the faith of my fathers, which was
Reform Judaism. I am active in the affairs of my synagogue and of the
Jewish community in general.

Politically, I have always considered myself a Republican. In 1932
I was a Republican who voted for F.D.R. with misgivings and as the
lesser of evils. I thought, and still think, that his first term was one of
the most magnificent achievements in American history. In 1936 I was
a Republican who voted for F.D.R. without misgivings. It was, and is,
my opinion that the 1936 election returns gave the gentleman delu-
sions of grandeur. I firmly believe in the concept of constitutional de-
mocracy under a government of limited powers as generally under-
stood in this country prior to 1937. Beginning with the attempt to pack
the Supreme Court in 1937 and continuing throughout his second,
third, and fourth terms, I believe that F.D.R. and friends did every-
thing in their power to destroy that concept. As a result, I believe that
in I951 we are perilously close to a police state. I disagree with Mr.
Taft on almost every issue except the paramount one of constitutional
democracy. I have regretfully come to the conclusion that Mr. Taft, as
the lesser of evils, represents our best chance for the preservation of
constitutional democracy, and the salvation of this nation. In my opin-
ion, he is the only man in public life today who is at one time both
honest and intelligent.

[5 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

JOHN McKEAN ADAMS

Home Address: 36 Belvidere Ave., Holyoke, Mass.

Born: Nov. 20, 1904, Northampton, Mass. Parents: Walter Henry Adams,
Agnes McKean Hobart.

Prepared at: Northampton High School, Northampton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degree: A.B., 1926 (27).

Unmarried.

Military or Naval Record: Air Force, 1942-45 ; weather service, mainly as non-
commissioned forecaster; service at several air bases in the United States.

Member of : Elks; American Bridge League.

It is with reluctance that I expose a wasted existence in company
with such a group of intellectual, cultural, and business leaders as the
1926 Class of Harvard College. Due to the misfortune of a small in-
heritance, gainful occupation has not been thrust upon me as yet (alas
the diminished return on investments). The amount of money was not
large enough to require dissipation in its spending. So I have passed
twenty-five years in harmless indulgence of my tastes for travel, read-
ing, golf, tennis, and bridge with a few feeble interludes of employ-
ment.

The world is no worse for my passage through it. But a Harvard
education should yield better returns. A more ruthless admission policy
should see to it that there are few biographies as futile as this in future
classes. ‘The nation needs an educated élite.

JOHN WRIGHT ADIE

Home Address: Route 1a, York Harbor, Maine.

Office Address: Townsend, Dabney & Tyson, 30 State St., Boston, Mass.

Born: July 6, 1904, Chestnut Hill, Mass. Parents: Andrew Adie, Lila Darracot
Wright.

Prepared at: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: §.B., 1926.

Married: Mary Louise Almy, August, 1928, South Dartmouth, Mass. (di-
vorced 1932); Helen Bayley King, Sept. 7, 1934, York Harbor, Maine.
Children: Joan W., Feb. 3, 1930; Appleton King, Sept. 8, 1930 (step-

son).

Harvard Son: Appleton King, 54.

Occupation: Investment banking; partner, Townsend, Dabney & Tyson.

Military or Naval Record: Coast Guard, ensign, operations D.C.G.O. 1st Naval
District, Sept. 3, 1942—Feb. 1, 1943; LsT 308, training, Coast Guard
Yard, Curtis Bay, Md., February—April, 1943; tsr 166, South Pacific

[6]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

and Central Pacific, April 12, 1943~Aug. 19, 1944; Merchant Marine
Hearing Unit, D.C.G.O. 3rd Naval District, Sept. 1, 1944—Sept. 15,
19453 discharged lieutenant; participated in landing and occupation,
Treasury Island, Empress Augusta Bay, Bougainville and Green Island,
Solomons, Saipan; received American Theatre Ribbon, Asiatic-Pacific
Ribbon with two Bronze Stars, and Naval Unit Commendation.

Offices Held: Assessor, York Harbor Village Corporation, Maine, 1946-48;
Budget Committee, Town of York, Maine, 1947-50; member, Volun-
teer Veteran Fireman’s Association, York, Maine, 1936-50; member,
Board of Governors, Boston Stock Exchange, 1936-38, 1938-40.

Member of : Racquet & Tennis Club, New York; Newcomen Society of Eng-
land; York Harbor Reading Room; Agamenticus Yacht Club, York Har-
bor, Maine.

Many of us clearly remember as though it were yesterday that June
day of 1926 when we sat in Sever Quadrangle for the last time as an
undergraduate class. Had we been able to foresee the events of the in-
tervening years upon which we now look back, most of us then would
have jumped into the Charles without bothering to pick up our degrees
at Memorial Hall. We are probably lucky that we cannot foresee what
will happen between now and our Fiftieth!

In the fall of 1926 I entered the employ of the New York Stock Ex-
change firm of Townsend, Anthony & Tyson on State Street as a mes-
senger. In September, 1929, a partnership was offered to me and I ac-
cepted. No one need relate the happenings of the ensuing months or
years. Many of us were struggling young marrieds with small children,
but somehow we survived those dark years, though many changes oc-
curred in our way of living and our methods of thinking.

In 1934 our firm absorbed several branch offices in the State of
Maine from other firms which were going out of business. It became
my job and responsibility to look after these branches. During that year
I was married for the second time and took up my residence in Maine.
My wife, as a child, had spent most of her summers at York Harbor, so
it was quite logical that we should settle there within commuting dis-
tance of Boston.

In 1940 we bought an old house and restored it, but before the ten
surrounding acres could be brought back, the war intervened. Having
always spent my spare time either cruising or small boat racing, it was
quite natural that my first consideration for duty was with the Navy.

After having been turned down ona physical, I enlisted in the Coast
Guard and within five months was assigned to the Amphibious Forces.
The usr on which I served as first lieutenant was commissioned at

[7]

Harvard Class of 1926 \

Evansville, Illinois, on the Ohio and proceeded down the river to
New Orleans and out to the South Pacific via the Panama Canal, the
Society Islands, Samoa, Fiji, and Noumea to Guadalcanal. For over a
year with the grd Fleet, we participated in the various landings of the
Solomons campaign. At its conclusion, the ship was assigned to the 5th
Fleet, Central Pacific, in time for the landing at Saipan. Complete
modernization and overhaul necessitated a return to the West Coast
which resulted in reassignment for all original hands.

The balance of my service consisted of some very interesting duty
under the Marine Inspection Section of the Coast Guard, the Mer-
chant Marine Hearing Unit, at New York. Investigations of Marine
casualties and acts of misconduct by members of the Merchant Services
were our functions.

Many of us begrudged the time and hardship which the war years
exacted, but there are few indeed who can say that they did not benefit
from the new associations, ideas, friendships, and all-round experience
gained, as well as seeing other parts of the world.

Readjustment to most of us came hard. To pick up the threads and
interests of prewar days was a terrific task. After five years back at the

old desk, we are all asking the same question — Where do we go from
here?

HAROLD JOSEPH ADLINGTON

Home Address: 15 Pleasant St., Saugus, Mass,

Office Address: Boston University, Boston, Mass.

Born: Feb. 28, 1902, Saugus, Mass. Parents: Winslow Duffield Adlington, Ida
Mae Berrett.

Prepared at: Saugus High School, Saugus, Mass,

Years in College: 1922-1924, 1926-1928. Degrees: A.B., 1926 (28); A.M.,
1939-

Married: Iva Louise Handy, June 24, 1943, Saugus, Mass. Children: Robert
Winslow, July 13, 1944; Ellen Louise, Dec. 28, 1945.

Occupation: Assistant professor of English, Boston University.

Military or Naval Record: Entered Army as private, June 19, 1942; separated
as first lieutenant, Dec. 27, 1945.

JAMES ALBERT

Home Address: 35 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

Office Address: 31 State St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Sept. 2, 1905, Boston, Mass. Parents: Morris Benjamin Albert, Sarah
Epstein.

[ 8 ] -

LT wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Prepared at; English High School, Boston, Mass.; Lowell Textile Institute,
Lowell, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B., 1926 (27); LL.B. (Northeastern
Univ.), 1930.

Married: Mildred Levine, June 19, 1928, Boston, Mass. Children: Justine
Iris, June 29, 1930; Jeanne Marian, June 7, 1931; Robert Alan, May
29; 1933-

- Occupation: Lawyer.

Member of : University Club of Boston; Kernwood Country Club; New Cen-
tury Club; Massachusetts Law Society; Boston Bar Association; Temple
Ohabei Shalom; American Jewish Committee; New England Left-
Handed Golf Association.

After graduating from college, I went immediately into business
with my father selling silks to the dress trade of Boston. It was neces-
sary that I go to New York every other week for five days, but during
the weeks that I was in Boston I attended the Northeastern Night
School of Law and in 1930, much to my surprise and everyone else’s
disappointment, I passed the Bar. No doubt some recall that at this time
we had a slight business recession and, therefore, I went into the prac-
tice of law and have been in it ever since. I am now associated with a
large group of lawyers on the top floor at 31 State Street, and among
my associates is a classmate of mine, Harry Olins. Life for me has not
been catastrophic, but I still possess all the bad habits that I had in col-
lege, including golf, contract bridge, poker, bourbon (Oh, where can
you get some good bourbon now? ), Locke-Ober Cafe, and I have,
since college, added the bad habit of officiating as master of ceremonies
for various organizations whenever they have installation of officers. I
am now concentrating in business law of all descriptions.

As for my family, I have been extremely fortunate in having for a
wife one who has always been very industrious and has been busy in her
own work ever since we have been married. She originally taught pos-
ture to the nurses at the Massachusetts General Hospital, and during
the last war formulated the physical fitness tests for the Waves and
Wacs. During the past fifteen years she has been successfully conduct-
ing a school for young ladies at 35 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston,
called the Academie Moderne, Inc.

As for my children, the two girls have been extremely fortunate in
having quite a liberal college education. The elder one, Joy, spent her
first college year in Mexico City, the second in California, and the
third and fourth in Paris. The younger girl, Jeanne, spent her first col-
lege year in California, her second in Paris, and is now attending Mt.

[9]

Harvard Class of 1926
Holyoke in South Hadley, Massachusetts. The elder one will be twen-

ty-one and the younger one will be twenty by the time we have our
Reunion in June, and I do hope many of my classmates turn out with
their eligible sons.

With regard to our son, Robert, he is now finishing at Exeter Acad-
emy where he made an agonizing impression in the Glee Club and has
been on the football, baseball, and basketball teams. He is preparing to
enter Harvard in the fall unless the armed services claim him before-

hand.

MANOOG DER ALEXANIAN

Home Address: The Riviera, 270 Huntington Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

Office Address: Boston Daily Globe, 242 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

Born: March 24, 1894, Palu, Turkey. Parents: Garabed Der Alexanian,
Mariam Habigian.

Prepared at: Bridgewater State Normal College, Bridgewater, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B.f 1926.

Unmarried.

Occupation: Proofreading.

Military or Naval Record: Private 1st class, World War I; eight months’ over-
seas service with Medical Unit No. 27, U.S. Army; length of service, at
home and abroad, twenty-four months; honorable discharge with excel-
lent character.

Offices Held: Chairman, executive committee, Armenian National Library of
Boston, Armenian General Benevolent Union (worldwide charitable
organization)*.

Member of: Boston Y.M.C.A.; Harvard Club of Boston (formerly) ; News-
papermen’s Post No. 305, Anterican Legion.

During the first few years after graduation I made earnest attempts
at U.S. Consular Service, free-lance writing, teaching and insurance,
without success; finally I settled down to proofreading. I was two years
with the Lowell Courver-Citizen. In 1932 I got a job with the Boston
Daily Globe, and since then I have been with that newspaper.

T have travelled half of the United States and Canada. My ambition
is to see the whole of the U.S.A. My hobbies are reading, occasional
visits to the art galleries and the Boston Museum of Fine Arts, and at-
tending Symphony concerts. I am a member of the old and venerable
Armenian Apostolic Church, founded in 300 A.D.

By nature, instinct, and training I am a conservative. I believe in
law and order and gradual, orderly progress by constitutional means.
Being an independent voter, I vote for the candidate best qualified for

[ 10 ]

T'wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

the office. I believe in the democratic form of government under which
individual initiative, enterprise, and resourcefulness are encouraged,
and the dignity of the individual and his rights are respected. Regi-
mentation, compulsion, and coercion in any form or degree thwart the
individual, while freedom helps him to follow his natural bent. Only a
free man in a free society can do his best for himself and for his country.

I am deeply grateful to Harvard for disciplining my mind, freeing
me from superstition and prejudice, and for giving me the ability to see
things in their true perspective and as a whole. Harvard education is
priceless.

ALFRED REGINALD ALLEN

Home Address: 1158 Fifth Ave., New York 29, N. Y¥.

Office Address: Metropolitan Opera Association Inc., 147 W. 39th St., New
York 19, N. Y.

Born: March 22, 1905, Philadelphia, Pa. Parents: Alfred Reginald Allen,
Helen Johnson Warren.

Prepared at: William Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Helen Huntington Howe, May 31, 1946, Los Angeles, Calif.

Occupation: Business administrator and secretary, Metropolitan Opera Asso-
ciation, New York.

Military or Naval Record: Lieutenant, U.S.N.R.; indoctrination, Harvard,
July—August; Washington, September—October; ACI School, Quonset
Point, November—December, 1942; Scouting Squadron 22, January—
June 1943, uss ladependence, June, 1943—October, 1944 (Marcus and
Wake Island raids, Rabaul raid, Tarawa & Palau support); lieutenant
commander, Staff Com. Car. Div. 7, uss Enterprise, November, 1944—
April, 1945 (Philippine Liberation, Luzon support, Tokyo raid, Iwo
Jima support, Okinawa support) ; with Staff Com. Car. Div. 7, uss Bon
Homme Richard, off Tokyo Bay at war’s end.

Member of: Racquet Club; Penllyn Club; Academy of Natural Sciences;
Zoological Society (all of Philadelphia) ; Harvard Club of New York;
Grolier Club; The Players (N. Y.) ; Academy of Motion Picture Arts and

Sciences.

Considering how complete was my indecision regarding postgradu-
ate activity during my four years at Harvard, it surprises me a little as
T look back on the last twenty-five years to note what a straight line my
activities were able to assume. When I started in as a freshman, I ap-
plied for honors in chemistry, an application I dropped the second year
although I continued in that field of concentration, Yet in spite of this

[1 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

field, I took my degree as a Bachelor of Arts, illustrating the perplexity
with which I faced the choice of a vocation.

Friends suggested the advertising business as a good ground for help-
ing me to make up my mind so, after an extremely enjoyable summer
in Europe, during which my diploma reached me in care of American
Express, Rome, the fall of 1926 found me working as a sort of glori-
fied office boy in the advertising department of the Victor Talking Ma-
chine Company in Camden, New Jersey. Little did I realize when I
bootlegged myself into Music I, through the musical ability of my
roommate, Ben Thorndike (he could read notes; I couldn’t) that this
course would be the field of my business career.

From the advertising department at Victor, I became associated with
those who were responsible for advertising the Red Seal records, and
particularly the records of Leopold Stokowski and the Philadelphia Or-
chestra. Presently I prepared some of this material myself, and later
was brought to the attention of Mr. Stokowski, for whom I did a
number of special pieces of promotional writing.

Early in the spring of 1930 I resigned from the Victor Company
and joined the De Schauensee South African Expedition for the Phila-
delphia Academy of Natural Sciences. I had a thirty-day freighter tip —

down to Cape Town. The rest of 1930 was spent in southwest Africa
and the long return trip up the east coast. Ours was an ornithological
expedition but gave me an opportunity to collect a lot of other things
besides birds, as I have always been an “omniverous” natural history
field collector.

By the time I reached my home town of Philadelphia late in the fall
of 1930, the depression was in full swing. I was fortunate in making a
connection with the copy department of N. W. Ayer, the advertising
agency which I had come to know during my Victor days. I continued
doing special writing for Mr. Stokowski and in 1933 was elected to the
board of directors of the Philadelphia Orchestra. Shortly thereafter, I
moved to New York to join the newly formed advertising agency of
J. M. Mathes; and I stayed there for 214 years until my return to
Philadelphia to take up the post of manager of the Philadelphia Or-
chestra.

With the Philadelphia Orchestra, I had an opportunity to travel ex-
tensively in the United States on two transcontinental tours, and to get
to know personally most of the leading artists and concert managers.
Thad, even while in the advertising business, made overtures in Holly-
wood, and it was, therefore, not an illogical decision for me to accept
an offer to go out to Universal Pictures as part of an independent pro-

[ 12]

T'wenty- fifth Anniversary Report .

duction unit formed there by the late Harry Edington. I resigned from

the Philadelphia Orchestra in June, 1939, and moved west. Shortly

thereafter, my duties at Universal were changed, and I became the
‘head of the scenario department with supervisory control over the en-
gagement of writers and the purchase of story properties. This life was
interrupted, as were all our lives, by the war. I joined the Navy in
1942, and, to my great surprise, found myself back at Harvard in the
first indoctrination school which opened in July, 1942. My “‘berth”
was in the “top deck” of Stoughton. From here I was commissioned
lieutenant, and after a short assignment in Washington, was sent to the
ACI School at Quonset Point. I was graduated from here in December,
1942, and was assigned to Scouting Squadron 22, then in training for
the aircraft carrier Independence.

I was transferred later to the Ship’s Company as ship’s Air Combat
Intelligence Officer and served in that capacity for about a year and a
half in the Pacific. Then I was made a lieutenant commander and
transferred to the staff of Admiral Matt Gardner, whose flagship, the
Enterprise, headed the first night carrier task group. At the war’s end I
was with this same staff, then under Admiral Ballentine aboard the

Bon Homme Richard, off ‘Tokyo Bay.

I joined the inactive ranks of the Navy in December, 1945, and
headed again for Hollywood, where I held the position of Pacific Coast
representative of the J. Arthur Rank organization, British film group.
In the spring of 1946, I married Helen Howe, novelist and monolog-
st, daughter of M. A. DeWolfe Howe, ’87 (my own great-uncle).
We lived in Beverly Hills until the spring of 1949, when the Rank or-
ranization closed its office on the Pacific Coast, and I moved back east
o become business administrator and secretary for the Metropolitan
pera Association, the position I now hold.

As to outside interests: since the war I have discontinued tennis,
vhich till 1942 used to be my wholly absorbing outdoor activity. Ever
nce Fine Arts 5-E days, I have been interested in bibliography and
ook-collecting and have specialized in the field of Gilbert & Sullivan.
Ty collection grew quietly over this twenty-five-year period until I
slieve it is now the largest in the world. Last year I became a Fellow
‘the Pierpont Morgan Library, New York, and my collection is on
-rmanent deposit at that library to which I am giving it. It recently
rmed the nucleus of an exhibition at the library which, I think, was
e most comprehensive ever put together, This Gilbert & Sullivan col-
‘tion and occasional ventures in ‘natural history field-collecting for
> Academy of Natural Sciences occupy what spare time the Metro-

[ 13 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

politan Opera Company leaves me — which is lately not much, in fact
not enough to get this biographical note written for Ben Thorndike
until the last deadline.

DONALD TAYLOR ALLEN

Home Address: 157 Boylston St., Shrewsbury, Mass.

Office Address: Allen Contracting Co., Inc., 157 Boylston St., Shrewsbury,
Mass.

Bera: Feb. 29, 1904, Worcester, Mass, Parents: Robert Chase Allen, Florence
Akers Taylor.

Prepared at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degree: A.B., 1926 (28).

Married: Dorothy Belle Strong, Dec. 21, 1929, Longmeadow, Mass. CAzl-
dren: Judith Frances, Oct. 6, 1933; Louise Chase, Aug. 15, 1937.

Harvard Brother: Charles Albert Allen, 2d, ’28.

Occupation: President and treasurer, Allen Contracting Company, Inc., under-
ground conduits, driveways, etc.

Asan alumnus of Harvard, I was looked upon by my father as an un-
known quantity. He was graduated from Worcester ‘Tech with a de-
gree in engineering and had carried on a construction business in which
he hoped that I would join him. What had Harvard taught me? Could
I be useful to him with my smattering of knowledge in the arts and
sciences? I was to get a job and hold it for a year as proof that it had
not been all in vain. Thus I found myself an employee of a chain of
stores dealing in everything from candy and lipsticks to hammers and
buzz-saws. After being shifted approximately every month from one
store to another around New England and New York, I finally at-
tained the title of assistant manager in one of the smaller stores. This
meant that | was eligible to work any number of hours a week for no
extra pay and to do all the heavy work which was beneath the man-
ager’s dignity.

After eight months of this, my father called me to come and join
him. I was to take over the Boston end of the business. It was in Boston
that I met my lovely wife and slowly we dug our roots into Metropoli-
tan Boston’s historic soil. First we rented an apartment in Cambridge,
and then successive single houses in Newton and Weston. It was in
Newton that our two daughters were born. Here also we formed the
friendships that have endured through the years.

The family business, like most others, had its ups and downs, and
during the depression the downs were more frequent than the ups.

[ 14 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Business did pick up considerably during the late thirties and early for-
ties, and things were looking comparatively brighter, when the war
stopped all unessential construction. ‘That meant our work. The Bos-
ton business was closed down altogether and the Worcester end was on
a standby basis.

In November, 1942, I went to work for the Raytheon Manufactur-
ing Company in Waltham, making radar for the Navy. This was most
interesting work and was my first experience in working with a large
group of all kinds of people. It was during my stay at Raytheon that we
moved to Weston where, I believe, the whole family really enjoyed life
to the utmost. ‘To be sure, I worked so many hours at the plant that the
children had to be introduced to me from time to time, but as the war
wore on, the hours worked were less and less, and I had more time to.

enjoy my family, my garden, and the unbelievably congenial neighbors
whom we found in Weston.

My father died in 1944 and I had to take over what business there
was. I arranged to take one day a week from my job and go to Worces-
ter to keep the wheels turning with the help of my mother who had
given invaluable aid to my father in his later years. By 1946 our busi-
ness had picked up to the point that it needed full-time supervision. We
therefore jerked the well-established roots out of Weston’s friendly soil
and transplanted them among the rocks and gravel here in Shrewsbury.
We have been here four years now, my daughters are growing up, and
our compass needle is gradually shifting from Boston to Worcester. My
elder daughter, Judy, is a student at the Bancroft School in Worcester

and is headed for college a year hence. Louise is enjoying life in the
Shrewsbury schools and will be entering high school in the fall of 1951.
oth girls are excellent students.

The construction business had two or three good years but with the .
ossibility of another war in the offing the outlook is at best a bit uncer-
ain. But with a loving, loyal wife, and two daughters, the apples of
neir father’s eye, reaching young womanhood, how can a man look
ito the future with anything but pleasure and confidence?

JOHN WOODFORD ALLEN

‘ome Address: 9 Paradise Rd., Bronxville, N. Y.
fice Address: 79 John St., New York 7,N. Y.

rm: Nov. 17, 1903, Bronxville, N. Y. Parents: Timothy Field Allen, Laura
Isabelle Wood ford.

épared at: St, Pau!’s School, Concord, N. H.
[15 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

ices were requested as Chief of the Tank Branch in the Philadelphia
Ordnance District, and in May, 1942, I was commissioned a major,
AUS. In December of that year I was promoted to lieutenant colonel
and at the same time became executive officer to General Hausman. In
August, 1943, I was given a field command at Camp Carson, Colo-
rado. Later I convoyed my battalion to Tennessee maneuvers and fol-
lowing that, went to the Hawaiian Islands to fight a pineapple engage-
ment. There I languished on Diamond Head until recalled to the
States a few months before hostilities ceased.

After my terminal leave had expired, I joined the Baldwin Loco-
motive Works near Philadelphia, as general sales manager. I resigned
after thirteen months for various incompatible reasons, and then en-
gaged in another equally fruitless venture in plastics.

During the summer of 1947 I enjoyed my home in Cohasset with
all the rewarding benefits of that lovely spot. In December, 1947, I
was appointed general manager of the electrode division of Great Lakes
Carbon Corporation. This appointment returned me to the steel indus-
try where I had had my early training and had developed a wide ac-
quaintance. Although my headquarters were in Niagara Falls, we re-
tained our home in Cohasset and I became a weekend commuter. In
December, 1948, I was appointed vice-president of Great Lakes Carbon
Corporation in addition to my other duties and shortly thereafter as-
sumed the management of our largest plant in Morganton, North Caro-
lina. I now operate the two plants, and having sold my home in Cohas-
set, [am residing in Morganton. We asa family have fallen hard for this
lovely State and are becoming “Southern Yankees” as fast as these good
people will assimilate us.

At the present time we are madly engaged in the production of
graphite electrodes for the electro-metallurgical industry and anodes
for electrolytic cells in the electrochemical field. Our products are high
priority essentials, as you can readily imagine. This is perhaps the most
absorbing business experience I have ever had, and I am completely
contented with my assignment.

During all the foregoing years, I have taken the time to retrogress
from bad to worse in golf. A steadily bulging waistline suggested tennis
and handball, and for a period I balanced my golf with these two
sports. When the children were young and we were living in western
Pennsylvania, we bought a farm in Vermont, and for fifteen years re-
turned to the Green Mountains each summer. There the children grew
sturdily and received a physical training that resulted in minimum ail-
ments. Despite the foregoing, my principal hobby has been photogra-

[ 18 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

phy, and my principal urge at this writing is to build a darkroom in my
home in Morganton.

I hope that any classmates travelling in this direction will stop over
in Morganton and pay us a welcome visit. This is a wonderful land
where “people nod who ain’t never shook” and where there is always

time “to howdy and set a while.”

DAVID BOYD ALTER, JR.

Address: 3890 Poinciana Ave., Coconut Grove, Miami 33, Fla.
Born: May 9, 1905, New Bloomfield, Pa. Parents: David Boyd Alter, Daisy

Myr! Harman.
Prepared at: New York Military Academy, Cornwall, N.Y.

Years in College: 1922-1928. Degree: A.B., 1926 (28).
Married: Alice C. Martin, Oct. 18, 1926, Alexandria, Va. Child: David

Boyd, 3d, Aug. 23, 1930.
Occupation: Vice-president and trust officer, First National Bank, Maimi, Fla.
‘The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Alter
lid not return a questionnaire.

PAUL FREDERICK AUGUST ALTMANN

‘ome Address: 617 E. Lincoln Ave., Mt. Vernon, N. Y.
fice Address: New York Telephone Co., 4770 White Plains Rd., New

York 66, N. Y.
vm: Sept. 20, 1904, New York, N. Y. Parents: Gustave Adolph Altmann,

Wilhelmina Grossmann. :

epared at: Richmond Hill High School, Richmond Hill, N. Y.

ars in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B. in C.E. cum laude, 1926.

ried: Sarah Adele West, Feb. 24, 1934, Somers, N. Y. Children: Paula
Diane, Oct. 16; 1935; Eric West, April 1, 1939; Virginia Jean, April
17, 1940.

upation: District plant superintendent, New York Telephone Company.

ince graduation in 1926 I have worked for the New York Tele-

ne Company, except for a brief period in 1927 when I worked for

Texas Company. Although the ‘Iexas Company is a fine concern,

J not like its work methods and policies as well as those of the Bell

=m so J returned to my former job. In telephone work I have al-

; been assigned to supervisory and administrative duties in plant

-. Providing and maintaining equipment necessary to give good

[ 19 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

telephone service is very interesting. Except for time devoted to my
family, this has absorbed most of my time, often including evenings and
weekends.

It has been said by many persons that one will never become wealthy
working for the Telephone Company. I can vouch for the truth of
that statement and also add that it is a very satisfying life too, The
work is so absorbing that lack of finances to permit expensive hobbies or
long trips does not even enter my thoughts. Keeping up with develop-
ments and advances in techniques is interesting.

It is not until a time like this, when I am asked to summarize the
past twenty-five years, that I realize that my world is bound by two
principal items, my family and my work. Others might think this a
narrow and confining outlook. Perhaps it is. But I like it and hope to
continue at it for many years.

This is a simple philosophy, but I firmly believe that if more of us
felt the same, all of the new philosophies, including the New Deal, Fair
Deal, Cradle to the Grave, etc., would atrophy and we would have a
better world in the future for ourselves and our children.

FISHER AMES

Home Address: 821 N. W. 38th St., Oklahoma City, Okla.

Office Address: Ames, Ames & Daugherty, 1122 First National Bldg., Okla-
homa City, Okla.

Born: July 6, 1905, Oklahoma City, Okla. Parents: Charles Bismark Ames,
Elizabeth Pear] Allen.

Prepared at: Washington Central High School, Oklahoma City, Okla.

Years in College: 1923-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B. (Univ. of Okla-
homa).

Married: Jewell Turner, Nov. 5, 1934, Oklahoma City, Okla. Children:
Judith, Jan. 31, 1936; Sarah, Nov. 3, 1942.

Occupation: Attorney; member firm, Ames, Ames & Daugherty.

Military or Naval Record: U.S. Navy, World War I, four years; commander
U.S.N.R.

Offices Held: Director, Prudential Fire Insurance Company; president, Okla-
homa County Bar Association. |
Member of: Harvard Club of New York; Oklahoma City Golf and Country

Club; Beacon Club.

[ 20 ]

LPwenty-fifth Anniversary Report

OLIVER AMES

Home Address: West Street, Beverly Farms, Mass,

Office Address: 81 Ames Bldg., Court Street, Boston, Mass.

Born: May 20, 1903, North Easton, Mass. Parents: Oakes Ames, ’98, Blanche
Ames.

Prepared at: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degree: A.B., 1926 (27).

Married: Ellen Poore Moseley, March 21, 1944, Virginia Beach, Va. CAil-
dren: Oliver, Jr., March 1, 1945; Angier Moseley, 1947.

Occupation: ‘Trustee.

Military or Naval Record: Commissioned lieutenant, U.S.N.R., Naval Aviator,
May, 1941; instructor at Naval Air Stations, Pensacola and Jacksonville,
Fla.; lieutenant commander, assistant Air Officer, uss Liscome Bay, 1943;
commander, Air Officer, uss Card and uss Core, 19443; commanding
officer, Carrier Aircraft Service Unit #23, 1945; placed on inactive
duty, January, 1946.

Member of : ‘Tennis & Racquet Club; Myopia Hunt Club.

In 1941 I reported that I was a contemporary enemy of Roosevelt,
Hitler, and Mussolini, At that time I hoped for a change. Now I re-
alize that the game is much the same; maybe a little more disorgan-
ized. The old players have gone; the new players are worse. O tem-
pora! O mores!

BENJAMIN RUFUS ANDERSON

Home Address: 3829 Wakefield St., Berkley, Mich.

Office Address: 3750 W. Eleven Mile Rd., Berkley, Mich.

Born: Sept. 2, 1902, Mooresville, Ind. Parents Eli Henry Anderson, Lucile
Nysewander.

Prepared at: Mooresville High School, Mooresville, Ind.

Years in College: 1922-1923, 1924-1926. Degree: 5.B., 1926,

Married: Marguerite H. Hallam, Oct. 20, 1923, La Grange, Ky. Children:
Mazo, Feb. 4, 1925 (m. Al Onufrey, 1943) 3 Judith, July 10, 1937.
Occupation: Vice-president, C. E. Anderson Company, distributors of Jawn
equipment and supplies for Michigan.
Member of : Sigma Chi fraternity; Masonic Order.

Mine has been, more or less, an uneventful life since graduation.
Dissatisfaction with any current niche in the business life has prompted
many changes, particularly since the thirties. By the time the depression
had ended, I realized I would have to act fast to secure a fairly good
economic status. This realization led me to plunge into a business of my

own after World War II.
[ 21 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Home life occupies my leisure time and I care not for social activities.
Hunting and fishing comprise most of my vacations and any travelling
is limited to this country. Though born in a Quaker family, I have no
deep religious convictions and am not a member of a church.

PAUL ERNEST ANDERSON

Home Address: 365 New York Ave., Brooklyn 13, N. Y.

Office Address: c/o F. 1. Dupont, 1 Wall St., New York, N. ¥.3; 2 King St.,
Middletown, N. Y.

Born: Oct. 19, 1897, New York, N. ¥.. Parents: Paul L. Anderson, Marie von
Ritter.

Prepared at: Springfield Central High School, Springfield, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1924, 1925-1927. Degree: S.B. cum laude, 1926 (27).

Married: Naomi Gottlieb, Sept. 6, 1930, Paterson, N. J. Children: Michael
Paul, March 21, 1934; Judith Linda, Oct. 28, 1939.

Occupation: Business consultant; mainly economics and business forecasting
and analyses, special surveys and studies.

Wartime Government Posts: Regional Wage Analyst, Region If (New York and
New Jersey) in charge of all statistical and economic preparation of
wage and occupational data for government agencies, the military, and

ublic.

Oficd Held: Chief statistician; head analyst, Labor Advisory Board N.R.A,,
1934-36; senior economic field investigator, Railroad Retirement
Board, Washington, D. C., 1936; in association with Walter Nikolas
Polakov, author of Power Age and other works in New York and Washing-
ton, D. C.; Deputy Director of Office Machine Study; Technical and
Economic Adviser, Coal Mechanization Study for Coal Industry and
Union, 1937-41.

Member of : American Statistical Association; American Economic Association.

Publications: Numerous articles in financial, investment, business, and trade
magazines, as well as technical; associated with radio commentator,
“Gentleman from Indiana” and with “Pettengill Says” column in more
than 200 newspapers, twice weekly, during 1947-49; editor of [udu
trial Relations Yearbook for 1947.

Conversation at 24 Milk Street

Ben: Paul, we haven’t been seeing you these many years. Nor hearing
from you. What we have heard, or read, particularly in our previous
Reports, arouses our curiosity. Naturally, along with others, we want
to know about your social, political, or religious convictions, Come, let
us draw up a chair and talk together and I promise to listen — as I have
been doing with all the other good classmates, (Thorndike sits down.)

Pauc: (Pulling up his chair and sitting dawn na relaxed position, and talking

[ 22 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

in @ quiet tone.) You ask about my political, social, and religious convic-
tions. These are all very big things, luxuries as it were for a man. Don’t

you agree?
BEN: Well, Paul, we ask these things to get a line on how the men in

our Class look out on life and their place in relation to what’s happening

inside themselves.
Pau: I understand, and I don’t mean to be critical — only humble. I

think, if you will permit me, I can give a brief summing up by quoting
from the Mathnawt of Jalalud-din Rumi.

Ben: Mathnawi? Ah, wait a moment. I recall. That is the book they call
the “roots of the roots of the roots of the Mohammedan religion,” isn’t
it? I heard about it recently in a very fine magazine, American Fabrics,
where they have been running a very remarkable series of presenta-
tions on men like Ouspensky, Gurdjieff, and various scriptures.

Pauc: Yes, Ben, you are quite right. I’ve enjoyed that series myself and
found it very profitable. One of them sums up very well for me what
I'd like to say but probably couldn’t say as well or as pointedly.

Ben: Can you recall it? Let’s hear it. (Leans back to listen.)

Pauw: (Recalls very haltingly. )

~ “The being of Man is a Jungle: be on your guard against this being

if you wish the Divine Breath.
“In our being there are thousands of wolves and hogs: there 1s

goodly and ungoodly, fair and foul.
“To the disposition that is preponderant in you belongs the decision

as to what you are; when the gold is more than the copper, the mixture
is gold.

“The manner of acting that preponderates in your nature .
same form you must needs rise from the dead.

“Wisdom, knowledge, and excellence can pass from Man into the
ox and the ass.

“The stumbling, restive horse becomes smooth-paced and docile;
the bear dances, the goat also salaams.

“Volition passes from human beings into the dog, so that he becomes

a shepherd, or a hunter, or a euardian.

“Into Man may pass from the Teachers a moral disposition, so that
he can become a seeker of God.

“From that marvelous Jungle there is a hidden way to the beasts
which have ensnared the spiritual prey.

“Oh you who are less than a dog, steal the spiritual pear] from with-

.. from within the breasts of them that know God.
“As you must steal, at any rate let it be that lovely pearl; as you are

[ 23 ]

.. in that

Harvard Class of 1926

going to bear a burden, at any rate let it be a noble one.” (There follows
a moment of silence between Thorndike and Andersen, then Thorndike breaks
it to ash a question.)

Ben: Get the quotation corrected and send it on to me. It is not only
extraordinary, but I think it answers the questions we want to have an-
swered in a way that has much meaning. As I remember, Paul, was
not Jalalud-din Rumi a member of the Whirling Dervish group who
inspired the building of the Taj Mahal, actually designed and executed
its construction?

Paut: I believe you are correct, Ben. Quspensky was very much moved
when he visited the Taj Mahal, terming it the monument of the living
soul of the Empress Mumatz-i-Mahal. You remember the account in
his book, New Madel of the Universe, in the section entitled, “In Search
of the Miraculous? ” ,

Ben: (Nodding.) Yes; is that also the title of another of his books, the
one in which he tells about his teacher “G”?

Pavt:Itis, Ben. Did you find that a useful book? :
Ben: I did, but I'd have to study it a great deal to get what is in it. It is
remarkably clear and unbiased, an impartial view of his teacher, ““G.”
The other day, in Widener Library where we have our Class office, I
picked up Ouspensky’s most recent book, The Psychology of Man’s Pas-
sible Evolution, I like that word “possible” in there. It shows the point of
view. Have you seen it, Paul? (Paul nods assent.) It seems to be on the
practical level, addressed to modern western men like ourselves and our
classmates. I would like to know more about his teacher, “G’ —.
Paut: (Jnterrupting.) You mean G. I. Gurdjieff?

Ben: Yes, I recall the name now. Do you happen to know the title of
his book, the one they say he was years writing!

PaAuL: All and Everything.

The End

WILBERT FRANK ANDERSON

Address: 38 Bradford Rd., Hastings-on-Hudson, N. Y.

Born: Jan. 11, 1905, Jamestown, N. Y. Parents: Frank Anderson, Ida Sand-
berg.

Prepared at: Jamestown High School, Jamestown, N. Y.

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Erma Antoinette Quenon, Nov. 11, 1933, Greenwich, Conn.
Children: Genevieve Rose, Feb. 6, 1936; Erma Quenon, Jan. 20, 1938.

[ 24 ]

LT wenty- fifth Anntversary Report
Occupation: Chemica] manufacturing; plant manager.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Wilbert
Anderson did not return a questionnaire.

JAMES ALVAN ANDREWS

Home Address: 301 Orange Ave., Cranford, N. J.

Office Address: Andrews & Wells, Inc., 70 Pine St., New York, N. Y.

Born: Dec. 26, 1904, Laurel, Miss. Parents: Adolphus Garner Andrews, Grace
Montgomery.

Prepared at: Laurel High School, Laurel, Miss.

Years in College: 1922-1926,

Married: Barbara Tompkins, 1929, Quito, Ecuador. CAildren: Patricia, July
29, 1930; James Montgomery, Sept. 25, 1935.

Occupation: President, Andrews & Wells, Inc., dealers in state and municipal
bonds,

Member of: Municipal Bond Club of New York; Bond Club of New Jersey;
Lawyers Club, New York.

BURR TRACY ANSELL

Home Address: 107 W. Bradley Lane, Chevy Chase, Md.

Office Address: Ansell & Ansell, Tower Bldg., Washington, D. C.

Born: July 8, 1906, West Point, N. Y. Parents: Samuel Tilden Ansell, Elmeda
Tracy.

Prepared at: Mercersburg Academy, Mercersburg, Pa.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B., 1929.

Married: Anna Dodge Sturgis, Sept. 12, 1931, Washington, D. C. (died
April 15, 1932); Mary Elizabeth Waesche, Oct. 8, 1934, Baltimore,
Md. Children: Ann Sturgis Tracy, April 3, 1 93 2; John Putnam, Nov. 5,
1935-

Harvard Brother: Samuel Tilden Ansell, Jr., ’33.

Occupation: Lawyer. .

Offices Held: Assistant counsel, division counsel, section counsel, chief legal ad-
viser to administrator, National Recovery Administration, 1933-353
general solicitor, National Bituminous Coal Commission, 1935-36.

Member of: Chevy Chase Club; Columbia Historical Society; Washington
Criminal Justice Association (director); American Judicature Society;
American Bar Association; Bar Association of District of Columbia;
Lawyers’ Club (New York).

My life with my family and among my friends has been happy ex-
cept for the death of my first wife, the lovely sister of Arthur Sturgis,

[ 25 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

shortly after we were married. Our daughter was graduated from
Madeira last spring and is now at Smith. My second wife professes to
look darkly upon all Harvard affairs, including its graduates. Our son
is in the third class at Middlesex, however, and I still have some hope
that before long he may enter Harvard.

Outside my personal orbit, I am dismayed. It seems to me that most,
if not all, of our present mess is the product of the transfer of the “‘do
good” urge from the individual to the State. Instead of striving to di-
rect our own lives along the paths of morality, we now satisfy our con-
sciences by delegating that responsibility and authority to government.
And, quite in accord with the escapist influence leading us to avoid our
obligations by bestowing them upon government, our government in
turn attempts to impose and enforce its views as to what is right and
what is wrong upon every other government. Thus, we produce as end
results, in the domestic field, a powerful and arbitrary federal executive,
an obtrusive Congress, and insignificant courts and, in the broader field,
perpetual war. The by-products of these end results are class struggle,
militarism, lawlessness, high taxes, funny money, scarcity of supplies,
inflation, the Atlantic Charter, the Marshall Plan, U.N., destruction,
fear, and death. Civilization may yet survive but only by quick aban-
donment of the “Big Brother knows best” philosophy and restoration
of supremacy to the concept of individual freedom.

EDWARD CAMPBELL ASWELL

Home Address: 11777 Hardscrabble Rd., Chappaqua, N. Y.

Office Address: McGraw-Hill Book Co., 330 W. 42nd St., New York, N. Y.

Born: Oct. 9, 1900, Nashville, Tenn. Parents: McCoy Campbell Aswell, Carrie
Letitia Campbell.

Prepared at: Hume-Fogg High School, Nashville, Tenn.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. magna cum laude, 1926.

Married: Anna Vera Vaughn, Nov. 7, 1927, Nashville, Tenn. (divorced
1934); Mary Louise White, Jan. 1, 1935, Penllyn, Pa. (divorced
1946); Knyvett Lee, June 14, 1947, Chappaqua, N. Y. Children: Ed-
ward Duncan, Sept. 3, 19363 Mary Elizabeth, June 4, 1940; Elizabeth
Lee Durgin, May 5, 1934 (stepchild) ; Helen Knyvett Durgin, Sept. 5,
1936 (stepchild).

Occupation: Book publisher; vice-president of McGraw-Hill Book Company;
editor-in-chief of general (or trade) books for McGraw-Hill.

Offices Held: Member, Overseers’ Committee to Visit Harvard College,
1927-40; assistant editor, Forum magazine, 1926-30, Atlantic Monthly,
1930-35, Harper & Brothers, 1935-43; editor-in-chief and director,

[ 26 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report
Harper & Brothers, 1943-47; trustee, 1940~46, president, 1945-46,

Chappaqua Public Library; vice-president and member of the executive
committee and editor-in-chief of the trade department, McGraw-Hill
Book Company, since 1947; administrator, estate of Thomas Wolfe,
since 19473; member, Yale Committee to publish the private papers of
James Boswell, since 1949.
Member of : Harvard Club of New York; Century Association, New York.
Publications: A few magazine articles of no importante.

The past twenty-five years have gone too quickly and have been
rather too full of busy-ness of one kind or another to be wholly savored
by a certain paradox in my life which seems more worthy of comment
than anything else that has happened to me,

My business life has all been spent in publishing, first magazines, and
then books; and in retrospect it surprises me to discover that my career
has followed a straight line. It was not planned that way. It just hap-
pened. In contrast, the straight line which I did try to plan in my per-
sonal and private life turns out to have been a jagged one, with three
marriages and two divorces to mark my deviations from the ideal.

I greatly envy those of my classmates who will be able to glow with
pride in contemplation of a single marriage of unruffled connubial bliss.
Being of a skeptical nature, I shall give such boastings a fair discount.
From observations of one’s friends one is frequently reminded that a
really happy marriage is a rarity in our cockeyed world, and that many
couples remain together for no better reasons than force of habit, fear
of what people will say, or resigned acceptance to situations which may
constitute a complete denial of all the values for which the i institution of
marriage exists.

In principle I deplore divorce as much as anyone, but I also deplore
some other things even more, and I have small patience with those
moralists who ignore the causes of marital discord and preach only
against their effects. For example, those groups in our society which
take the most intransigent position against divorce are the same groups
which consistently oppose adequate sex education. They appear to be
committed to the doubtful proposition that virtue depends on ignorance.
I can only say that I think they are gravely mistaken. Experience dem-
onstrates, at least to my satisfaction, that knowledge in this depart-
ment as in all others is greatly to be preferred to ignorance; and that
what is built on knowledge — especially knowledge acquired the hard
way, through trial and error — has the best possible chance to endure.

So far as I know, I am the only member of the Class whose house~
hold includes the children of a classmate as well as his own. One might

[ 27 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

suppose that such an unorthodox arrangement would produce difficulties,
but it has not proved so. The two sets of children have shaken down
perfectly together and are now as cohesive a family unit as one could

hope to have. I am quite as fondly proud of Jim Durgin’s two beautiful
and intelligent daughters as he must be.

MONTGOMERY MEIGS ATWATER

Home Address: 6150S. 231d St., E., Salt Lake City 7, Utah.
Office Address: U.S. Forest Service, Alta, Utah.

Born: Oct. 21, 1904, Baker City, Oregon. Parents: Maxwell Wanton Atwater,
Mary Adams Meigs.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.; Lincoln High School,
Seattle, Wash.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.

Married: Esther Jane Whigham, July 2, 1928, Helena, Mont. (divorced
1939); Alice Rutland, July 31, 1942, Camp Roberts, Calif. CAild:
James Engen, Sept. 22, 1946.

Occupation: Author; forester; avalanche and snow observer.

Military or Naval Record: Inducted April, 1942; assigned to 87th Mountain
Infantry Regiment; graduated from Infantry School, 2d lieutenant,
October, 19423 promoted Ist lieutenant, December, 1943; Mountain
and Winter Warfare adviser to Brig. Gen. Frank L, Culin, Jr., Asst. Div.
Co. roth Mountain Division; promoted captain, 1944; CO 87th Recon-
naissance Troop (Mecz.) ; retired September, 1945.

Offices Held: Past Master, Basin Lodge, No. 60, A.F.&A.M.

Member of : Basin Lodge, No. 60, A.F.&A.M.

Publications: Government Hunter, Macmillan; Flaming Forest, Little, Brown;
Shi Patrol, Hank Winton, Smokechaser; Smoke Patrol; Avalanche Patrol,
Random House; S# With Sverre, New Directions; The Alta Avalanche
Studies, U.S. Forest Service.

My reaction upon contemplating the past twenty-five years is: I
don’t believe it. How did they go by so fast?

But they did go by and I can sum them up quite briefly. My career
since college days falls into two distinct parts, The first is a varied, often
painful, and always interesting history of tackling propositions about
which I knew practically nothing, It ended, as one might expect, with
a Harvard graduate, flat broke financially and of the opinion spiritually
that he was finished. In the second period some of the experience gained
in the first began in a mild way to pay off, even though not as originally
intended.

Between 1926 and 1939 I was successively football coach, fur
farmer, trapper-guide-hunter, cattle rancher, dude wrangler, and fi-

[ 28 J

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

nally author. So endeth the first part. I can name the date: November,
1939. At this point I had a cabin in the mountains of northwestern
Montana, plenty of fuel for the price of a little axe work, enough food
to last me until spring, and damn little else.

Ever since I'd written “C.T.C. with an A under” on the cover-
page of a theme, I’d harbored the notion that I could be an author. It
seemed a logical time to find out for sure. So I wrote a book that winter
and it was published — the first solid accomplishment out of thirteen
years of battering away. In the next three years I became a fairly suc-
cessful scribbler, At least I had a good car, no debts, and could, within
reason, go anywhere or buy anything I liked, and I did.

In 1942 I got involved in the difference of opinion as to who’s going
to rule the world —still very much undecided at this writing. I have
few comments. We did an outstandingly lousy job of selling our war to
the people who actually fought it. I never believed one man could be
alternately so bored and so scared, My signature on a pay voucher and
portions of the Mountain and Winter Warfare Manual were all the
writing I did.

I nevertheless managed to acquire the Army method of expression,
a serious disease for a creative writer. In military lingo everything is a
direct statement, unqualified and unadorned. You capture yonder ter-
rain feature, you comport yourself in a military manner, you accom-_
plish your mission. (I know of only one exception: a sentence in a
booklet handed out to raw recruits which reads — “The soldier’s day
begins about 6 A.M.” To my mind this is the all-time masterpiece of
understatement.) ‘Then you go all around hell’s half-acre trying to ex-
plain what happens if things don’t turn out that way, without admitting
that they could.

The editors who were kind enough to remember me after three
years of silence didn’t care for the military style a bit. So, to complete
the circle, as every good story plot should, I tackled one more proposi-
tion I didn’t know too much about — for the U.S. Forest Service, ava=
lanches, the causes, behavior, and control of. On this project I do
have an advantage; no one else knows much about it either.

If this thumbnail biography proves anything, it is that you can no
more outguess life than you can the Army. I’m alive, have a wonderful
wife and son, a home, and, barring accidents, an acceptable future prin-
cipally because of the more grievous things that happened to me earlier.

So there it is, classmates. In winter I bust avalanches for the Forest
Service. In summer I pound the typewriter for Random House. I’ve
achieved tolerance to this extent. There are three or four guys in the

[ 29 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

world I’ll punch in the snoot if I ever meet them. But I won’t go out
looking for them. I’m content to this degree, that envy noone. But I
wish I could write like Walt Edmonds. I’m not looking for windmills
any more; but I can still thrill to a bar of music; a phrase, a picture, or
an idea.

I think maybe I’ve grown up.

ALLEN VAN ARNUM AUSTIN

Home Address: Amadeo 210, La Lucila FCGM, Argentina.

Office Address: Florida 99, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Born: July 23, 1904, Davenport, Iowa. Parents: John Austin, Agnes Estelle
Van Arnum.

Prepared at: Central High School, Grand Rapids, Mich.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926.

Married: Margaret Lynn Wheat, May 30, 1936, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil,

Children: Elizabeth Lynn, July 3, 1937; John Van Arnum, June 23,
1940; Susan Gwynne, Nov, 28, 1941.

Occupation: Sub-manager, First National Bank of Boston, Buenos Aires

Branch.

Member of : Harvard Club of Boston; American Club, Buenos Aires; Squash
Club; San Isidro Golf Club.

After graduation I started to work for the First National Bank of
Boston and that good institution is still providing our groceries after
nearly twenty-five years. Since 1930 I have been located in the Buenos
Aires Branch, which is the largest American bank outside of the
United States. Contrary to the popular concept, my work as loan
officer consists more of building up business than of sayin g “no.” This
country has had its ups and downs, but mostly downs in recent years,
and inflation is still rampant.

While in the States on vacation, I met Margaret Lynn Wheat and
we were married in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in 1936. Our three chil-
dren include a brunette, a blonde, and a red-head which makes an in-
teresting variety. They are equally at home in English and Spanish,
and our elder daughter has, as well, an English accent, acquired at
school, which she turns on and off at will.

Our schedule calls for vacations home every three years and the re-
cent ones we have spent principally in Ipswich, Massachusetts, which
the children regard as a second home.

Here in Argentina we live in a pleasant suburban house overlooking
the River Plata with a swimming pool which is the center of activities
for more than five months of the year.

[ 30 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

PHILIP RHODES AVERELL

Home Address: 411 West Ave., Darien, Conn.

Office Address: American Cyanamid Co., Stamford, Conn.

Born: Dec. 16, 1905, Boston, Mass. Parents: Fred Gilbert Averell, Harriet
Hoit Richardson,

Prepared at: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; A.M. (Columbia Univ.),
1933; Pu.D. (ibid.), 1937.

Married: Grace M, O’Brien, June 16, 1933, New York, N. Y. Children: John
Philip, Dec. 23, 1934; Richard Alan, Oct. 22, 1937.

Occupation: Chemistry; group leader, analytical research laboratory 5 ; develop-
ment of analytical methods.

Member of: American Chemical Society; American Scientific Afhliation;
Sigma Xi; Phi Lambda Upsilon.

Publications: “Coprecipitation of Barium Sulfate and Permanganic Acid,”
Journal of the American Chemical Society 59 906 (1937) 3 “Solubility of

"Melamine in Water,” Industrial &@ Engineering Chemistry 35 137 (1943);

“Determination of Nitrogen Oxides in Air,” Analytical Chemistry 19
1040 (1947); “Estimation of Small Amounts of Parathion,” Azalytical
Chemistry 20 753 (1948); “Determination of Parathion in Technical
Grade Material and in Dust Preparations” — in press.

This is one of the times in my life when I have wished that I had
concentrated in English rather than in chemistry, so that I could reel
off with facility an autobiography such as this. However, my experience
with themes in English A was enough to stop any ideas I might have
had along that line, so this will be in my native rambling style.

‘Two weeks after emerging as an A.B., fully prepared to cope with
any chemical problem which might present itself, I became an assistant
in general physiology at the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research
in New York City, where I spent four pleasant years, but unprogressive
ones so far as my career in chemistry was concerned. The next step
was to. Columbia University, where I succeeded finally in completing a
piece of research which, while not earth-shaking, was sufficient to earn
the coveted Ph.D. which is a big help in getting a position in the field
of chemistry. During these years I managed to make ends meet by the
aid of assistantships in various chemistry courses at Columbia. At the
end of this time, I came to work in the analytical] laboratory of Ameri-
can Cyanamid Company, first at Linden, New Jersey, then at the
Stamford research laboratory in Stamford, Connecticut. In 1940 I
was asked to organize the analytical research laboratory of which I have
been group leader ever since. The work is very interesting, as the title

[ 31 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

of the group might imply — or does it? The search for new methods
of analysis has covered a wide variety of compounds, mostly organic,
and of late years has had more to do with the newer synthetic insecti-
cides than any other single classification. My only claim to fame, if any,
is in being co-author of a method for the determination of residues of
“parathion” left on plants sprayed with this very effective insecticide
(plug for A.C. Co.); this method is widely used all over the country
and in other countries. Otherwise my place in the scientific world has
been very humble.

Hobbies? I can’t say that I pursue any sideline to the extent that it
could be called a hobby. However, much of my time outside of the
laboratory is taken up with church activities. During most of the four-
teen years we have been in this area we have attended a small Evan-
gelical Congregational Church, where I have served at different times
as choir director, song leader, Sunday school superintendent and teach-
er, and deacon. J am now serving on a committee for the revision of
the constitution and by-laws, as well as on the pulpit committee which
is to find a new pastor. This keeps me plenty busy.

Of course my family also occupies a bit of my time. The elder boy is
a junior in Darien High School, very musical — French horn and
piano — and goes out for football in a mild way. He is also a top stu-
dent, which pleases his parents no end. The younger boy, in seventh
grade, while not such a natural at studies, works hard at them and
makes out all right; he also plays the French horn, and goes out for
football quite seriously — look out for him in high school by 1956, and
I hope in college after that. Oh yes, I have a wife as well; I got the
best, so she has a life job with me, and since she has put up with me for
nearly eighteen years, I guess she intends to stick at it, too.

My “travels” have been few, and perhaps of minor significance —
just a couple of vacation drives to and around Quebec and Nova Scotia,
and a trip to Chicago to the American Chemical Society convention. It
was either on the latter occasion or on a similar visit to Boston (not
counted as travel) that I met Newell Bigelow, who was a laboratory
mate in several chemistry courses at college. The only other classmate
I recall meeting during all the years is Dick Baltzly, also a fellow-
chemist. I did have an interesting exchange of letters with Bob Allen
when he was a Congressman for Pennsylvania. I also tried in vain to
get in touch with Fred Bates in connection with our high school class
reunion (Dorchester High School, ’22); the intervening war seemed
to have taken him from his last recorded address. I hope to see him as
well as other old friends at the Reunion.

[ 32 ]

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Well, I gave advance warning of my rambling style, but let my ram-
blings end here — until the Reunion.

EDWARD STURGES BABBITT

Home Address: 140 E. g2nd St., New York 28,N. Y.

Office Address: Western Newspaper Union, 310 E. 45th St., New York, N. Y.

Born: June 12, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Irving Babbitt, ?89, A.M.
93, Dora May Drew.

Prepared at: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; M.B.A., 1934.

Married: Cecile Reynolds Fey, Aug. 1, 1942, Newtown, Conn. Children:
Edward Sturges, Jr., July 14, 1943; Jane Reynolds, Sept. 23, 1948.

Occupation: Controller, treasurer, administrator, Western Newspaper Union.

Military or Naval Record: World War II: entered first lieutenant; Post Ex-
change Officer, Scott Field, Ill., May, 1942, to August, 1943; Combat
Intelligence Officer, various U.S, stations, September, 1943, to Febru-
ary, 19453 overseas, Guam, Mariana Islands, with 39th Bomber Group,
Very Heavy (B-29’s), 20th Air Force, March—October, 1945}; termi-
nated captain, December, 1945.

Member of: Controllers Institute of America; Harvard Business Schoo] Club
of New York (Placement Committee); Harvard Club of New York;
New York Young Republican Club; West Side Tennis Club.

First I must commend our Report Committee on their selection of
“Sample Lives” from the class that has just gone before. J am sure that
these selectees scored high above the proverbial gentleman’s “C” in
English A. Also their philosophical treatment of such problems as rear-
ing our young has such an excellent universal appeal that my wife and
I have decided that it should be incorporated by reference into our own
history. This may sound like a dodge but as a tired business man, a
more simple factual round-up of the last twenty-five years appears to be
my best way out.

_ My selection of a business career doubtless reflects the experience of
many of my classmates. In a pre-aptitude test era, one’s selection was a
somewhat hit-or-miss process of elimination. If one’s leanings tended
away from one of the established professions, then “business” offering
many new vistas of interest, as well as beckoning with the golden fin-
ger, became a most logical choice. I might add that my father, well-
known to many of you, had never encouraged me to follow in his foot-
steps as a teacher. His reasoning was simple but I believe to the point.
As an undergraduate you had to have the enthusiasm to make A grades
in your chosen field in order to continue and develop towards the objec-

[ 33 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

on his part in disposing of a waiting list, clinched the deal for us. Just a

year ago we got things out of storage and as Cele says, “We have fi-
nally begun to live.”

The job problem was complicated by the fact that so many changes
had taken place in my prewar company that a return to my old position
offered very little inducement. Public utility holding companies were
being liquidated under the Jaw and hence a backwash of competent ac-
countants was created that the operating units couldn’t possibly hope to
absorb. Hence at this point I came to the conclusion that I should shift
into the industrial field, preferably to a small or medium-sized com-
pany.

This was accomplished in the spring of 1946, when I accepted an
administrative accounting job with my present employer. Two years
ago I was advanced to general auditor and acting comptroller in charge
of all the company’s accounting activities. I won’t attempt to describe
in detail the diverse operations of Western Newspaper Union. The
company is well known to the printing and publishing trades on a na-

tion-wide basis, while roughly one-half of its customers are the 10,000
publishers of weekly newspapers.

Besides romping with kids, tennis is still my most consuming hobby
interest. Also in the nature of a hobby interest has been my job-counsel-
ling work done for the most part among friends who are seeking new

positions, My basic training in these endeavors was with Carl Boll and
his “Thursday Evening Group” now legend to all Harvard Business
School graduates, My good friend and classmate, Roland Lee, I might

add, has been doing a tremendous counselling job for many years and

most certainly was an influence in getting me started in it.
IT have also gained much satisfaction in counselling younger men.

Possibly this was because of the lack of vocational direction that I had

had in my earlier years. I believe this is indicated in the first part of my

narrative. At least, I can close on the note that I now have a few good

words of advice for the generations to come based entirely on life’s ex-
periences during these past twenty-five years.

JOAQUIN EDUARDO BACARDI

Address: Apartado 381, Santiago de Cuba, Cuba.

Bors: Oct. 28, 1901, Habana, Cuba, Parents: José Bacardi, Carmen Fer-
nandez.

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degree: S.B., 1926 (27).
Morried: Caridad Bolivar, Oct. 28, 1931, Santiago de Cuba, Cuba. Children:

{ 38 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Carmen, Oct. 6, 1934; Joaquin, March 8, 1937; Alberto, June 6,
1938; Jorge, April 9, 1944.
Occupation: Brewing; head master-brewer.
The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Bacardi
did not return a questionnaire.

ELIOT BAILEN

Home Address: 1920 Pine St., Philadelphia, Pa.

Office Address: Goodwin, Rosenbaum, Meacham & Bailen, 824 Connecticut
Ave., N.W., Washington 6, D. C.; 347 Madison Ave., New York, N. Y.

Born: Dec. 11, 1905, Boston, Mass. Parents: David Bailen, Anna Jennie

_ Gordon.

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. summa cum laude, 1926; LL.B.,
1930.

Married: Frances Leftovith, Aug. 23, 1932, New York, N. Y. (divorced
1941) ; Elise Elgin Thompson, Dec. 28, 1946, New York, N. Y.

Occupation: Lawyer; partner, Goodwin, Rosenbaum, Meacham & Bailen.

Military or Naval Record: Commissioned captain AAF, April 19425; promoted
lieutenant colonel; attached to staff of commanding general, Air Trans-
port Command,

Wartime Government Posts: Transferred in January, 1945, from Air Transport
Command to post of special assistant to administrator of the Foreign
Economic Administration.

Offices Held: Officer and director of various business organizations.

Member of : Phi Beta Kappa.

On graduation from the Law School in 1930, I joined a Wall Street
law firm. During my first day as a law clerk, I was assigned, fortui-
tously, to the tax partner. That determined the course of my life. I be-
came a tax lawyer, and have practised that specialty almost exclusively
for twenty years, barring three years in the Army. I may daydream of
becoming a statesman, a tycoon, an author, or of some other heralded
career, but at heart I expect eventually to give up my ghost still ex-
quisitely refining the tax aspects of a complicated reorganization. In all
fairness, however, I wish to record that I have found the field of taxa-
tion rewarding in many ways.

I suppose that the careers of most of the members of the Class are,
like my own, divided into three parts, with the war in the middle. I
trust that they found, as I did, that the war had, in many ways, a salu-
tary effect on our contemporaries, not only in taking them out of the
ruts into which they had fallen during the depression, but also in broad-

[ 39 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

ening their vistas and quickening their interest in the problems of so-
ciety. Perhaps I was exceptionally fortunate in getting a berth as a staff
officer with the Air Transport Command, but my observation gener-
ally among my friends 1s that, despite lament about interrupted careers,
the war did them no end of good.
My principal non-professional activity is in 1 Philadelphia politics. In
1947 my wife and I espoused the cause of Richardson Dilworth, the
Democrat’s white knight, in his assault on Philadelphia’s notorious mu-
nicipal corruption. The battle for the last three years has been furious.
In the 1950 elections, Dilworth swept the city for a second time, but
lost the race for governor by a narrow margin. My wife was a candi-
date for State Senate on the same ticket, and although unsuccessful in a
traditionally Republican area, the ardor of her campaign left no doubt
as to her political competence. She is a crusader for the underdog, and
her enthusiasms have so infected me that at the recent football game
between Princeton and a favored Cornell, I even cheered for Prince
ton!

I lose no opportunity even now to preen myself on my summa cum
laude in the Classics. However, to have been such a good Greek scholar
has its drawbacks. In a political discussion, I sometimes find myself ir-
resistibly driven to interrupt with the derivation of some loosely used
word. Or I may detract from somebody’s delight in a Broadway show
by evaluating it in terms of Aristotle’s Esthetics. This visibly annoys
many of my friends, and I must bring the habit under proper control.

RALPH SARGENT BAILEY

Home Address: 43 Bellingham Lane, Great Neck, Long Island, N. Y.

Office Address: American Garden Guild, Inc., 444 Madison Ave., New York
22,N.Y.

Born: March 10, 1904, Wollaston, Mass. Parents: Charles Waldo Bailey, Mabel
Elliott Smith.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922—1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Elizabeth Lewis Finney, Oct. 19, 1935, New York, N. ¥. Children:
Lewis Herbert, Oct. 18, 19373 Jotham Wade, May 27, 1942; Thomas
Tilden, March 1, 1947.

Harvard Brother: David Washburn Bailey, ’21.

Occupation: Vice-president and executive editor, American Garden Guild, Inc.

Offices Held: Chairman, Building Committee, Board of Education, Union
Free School, District #7, since 1948,

[ 40 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Publications: Magazine articles and miscellaneous writing, chiefly in the course
of business.

‘The past is receding so rapidly that my only interest in it, before it
is out of sight, is to draw from it such good as may be useful in the pres-
ent and of possible significance for the future. Like everyone else, I
don’t presume to live only for this moment. Twenty-five years have ac-
quired a pattern, most of which is absorbing, at least to me, and much
of which seems good for one reason or another, also chiefly to me.
~ Since this is a report to a college, it may be appropriate to say that one
of my chief preoccupations is public education. Too often its fundamen-
tal currents have been muddied by flash floods of expediency (as, for
example, trebling a budget in five years, or multiplying public indebted-
ness by twenty in a building program which in three years has involved
about $9,000,000). Among the most challenging, however, is that
which results at the time when public education meets or merges with
private education.

Harvard, along with a handful of comparable institutions in the
world, harbors strengths indispensable to the preservation of social free-
dom, Yet Harvard is one of those few private educational entities a
large part of whose best usefulness is now being dissipated in a mean-
ingless competition for an objective long since embalmed in mere tra-
dition, Much of its effort is spent in re-playing an old recording of the
“liberal arts” theme song, with attendant needle scratch. I doubt that
the majority of its students (our sons included) get more out of this
music as played at Cambridge than they would at any of hundreds of
other ivy-draped cloisters. Yet they sap the strength of a giant in the .
attempt. The corollary concerns those whose ears are able and must be
permitted to hear the music in full fidelity, yet who are now sitting at
educational juke boxes for want of anything better. |

While there is still time, the giants must somehow be freed to trans-
mit their own strength to more and more of those best able to develop
and use it, so that in turn the common strength may be increased in
degree and broadened in purpose.

The implications are manifold, and I am not sure the whole question
has as yet even been properly phrased; certainly I don’t see any good
answer. For the moment, I know the question is in the making, and
that the answer has to follow. I believe the mice are laboring.

[ 41 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

+ DAVID WALLER BAKELESS

Born; Aug. 23, 1903, Bloomsburg, Pa, Parents: Oscar Hugh Bakeless, Sarah
Harvey.

Prepared at; Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.

Died: Nov. 20, 1927, Reading, Pa.

While in college David Waller Bakeless was particularly interested
in undergraduate athletic and musical activities. He was elected man-
ager of the lacrosse team and served on the minor sports council.
Gifted with a fine voice, he was a member of the Pierian Sodality. His
most active interest, however, was the Kex Club. During our senior
year he was treasurer of this group.

After graduation he entered hotel work, a field in which he had evi-
denced interest and ability while managing undergraduate club affairs.
He became a junior executive of the Daniel Boone Hotel in Reading,
Pennsylvania, and was thus engaged at the time of his death.

RICHARD CLEVELAND BAKER

Home Address: §52 Sills St., Des Moines, Lowa.

Office Address: Drake University, Des Moines, Lowa.

Born: Sept. 23, 1903, Coxsackie, N. Y. Parents: Alberti Baker, Nona Pearl
Vrooman.

Prepared at: Albany Academy, Albany, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; A.M. (Cornell Univ.),
19273 Pu.D, (Columbia Univ.), 1941.

Married: Mary Kathryn Schaeffer, Aug. 20, 1931, Schoharie, N. Y. Child:
Kirby Lamar, Aug. 3, 1935.

Occupation: Associate professor of political science, Drake University.

Member of : American Bar Association; New York State Bar Association; Amer-
ican Political Science Association.

Publications: The Tariff Under Roosevelt and Taft; in process, a book dealing
with New York State government; articles in American Bar Association —
Journal, American City Magazine, Iowa Law Review.

After graduating from Harvard, I went to Cornell University to
obtain a Master’s degree in history and government. While there I was
American History Fellow. At the end of two years I transferred to
Columbia where I received my doctorate in 1941, In the intervening
years I taught at Hastings College, Hastings, Nebraska, and studied
New York law in my spare time. In 1938 I was admitted to the New
York Bar, though I had never attended law school. I owe my admit-

[ 42 ]

T'wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

tance to the Bar to the six weeks’ cram course which Justice Harold R.
Medina used to give in New York City before each Bar examination.

On the death of my father, who was a lawyer, I practised for five
years in his old office at Schoharie, New York. However, law practice
in a small community did not appeal to me, and in 1943 I returned to
teaching at Allegheny College, Meadville, Pennsylvania. In 1946 I
went to the University of Pittsburgh, and after a year, came to my
present position as associate professor of political science at Drake Uni-
versity.

- J have not reached the high estate in life to which I aspired when I
was sixteen or even twenty-six, but on the whole I am satisfied. The
good Lord has endowed me with an excellent wife and a fine son, and
has given us all good health. What more can a man ask for? We have
a summer home in the Catskills to which we retire for three months
each year. With it I enjoy tinkering and toying. When I am not en-
gaged in these pursuits, my son and [ are visiting the major league ball
parks or I am inviting the boys in for a little game of five, ten, and a
quarter. I spend some of my leisure time writing articles for various
legal and political science magazines and making myself available for
speaking engagements before civic groups and organizations.

My career up to date may not be designated as a success story, but
nevertheless I have enjoyed every minute of it.

WALLACE VINCENT BAKER

Home Address: 280 Elder Ave., Millbrae, Calif. |

Office Address: 180 New Montgomery St., San Francisco, Calif.

Born: July 20, 1902, Chicago, Ill. Parents: Eldred Raban Baker, Nettie Louise
Brown.

Prepared at: Riverside High School, Riverside, Ill.

Years in College: 1922-1923.

Married: Elizabeth Hopf, Sept. 12, 1948, Millbrae, Calif. Child: William C.
Godfrey, March 27, 1931 (stepchild).

Occupation: Accountant, National Park Service, Department of the Interior.

Wartime Government Posts: Auditor, Comptroller’s Division, Office of Alien
Property Custodian, Chicago.

Career History: A quarter-century of juggling figures for business
corporations and certified public accountants (Chicago) and the Fed-
eral Government (Chicago and San Francisco).

Family: Small and select.

Travels: United States, Canada, and Mexico,

Hobbies: Photography, motor boating, and prospecting.

[ 43 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Social Convictions: Liberal.
Political Convictions: Independent voter.
Religious Convictions: Protestant.

CHARLES EDWARD BALDWIN, JR.

Home Address: 17 Westland St., Worcester, Mass.

Office Address: State Mutual Life Assurance Co., Worcester, Mass.

Born: April 6, 1905, Staten Island, N. Y. Parents: Charles Edward Baldwin,
*99, Marianne Moseley Perry.

Prepared at: Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; M.B.A., 1928.

Married: Gwendolyn Maddocks, June 14, 1930, Winchester, Mass. Children:
Charles Edward, 3d, Nov. 7, 1932; Beverley, Sept. 6, 1934; John Mad-
docks, July 15, 1936.

Harvard Son: Charles Edward Baldwin, 3d, ’54.

Harvard Brothers: Oliver Hazard Perry Baldwin, ’27; Lawrence Perry Bald-
win, 34.

Occupation: Assistant treasurer, manager of mortgage Joans, State Mutual Life
Assurance Company.

Offices Held: Trustee, Worcester Five Cents Savings Bank; former member
executive committee, Harvard Club of Worcester; former president,
Harvard Business Schoo] Club of Worcester; former treasurer, Worcester
Children’s Friend Society.

Member of: Tatnuck Country Club; Admirals’ Club— American Airlines;
Worcester Ski Club.

Twenty-five years seems a long time. I must say I definitely ex-
pected to feel and look much older than I do today. After all, I had
attended my father’s Twenty-fifth and knew from first hand observa-
tions how old we would look this year. But time does funny things. Ap-
parently it is only as we look ahead that twenty-five years seems a long
time. In retrospect it is but yesterday — gone before we know it!

My life during the period differs little from that thought. One job
— one wife — three children. All have been fascinating, but little of
importance to my classmates has occurred from day to day.

Since our Twentieth Report my life, both business and personal, has
continued unchanged. In fact, the same has been true since our Tenth
Report. I am still with the same insurance company doing the same
work. Responsibilities have inevitably increased in direct proportion to
my greater specialization. No longer do I have time to assist in general
security investments, Watching over a portfolio of approximately fifteen
thousand loans, totalling over $160,000,000 invested throughout the

[ 44 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

continental United States now confines my interest solely to mortgage
loans and real estate.

Thus it is that I still travel 35,000 to 50,000 miles a year. With im-
proved air transport the great majority of that mileage is covered by
air, not only for economy of time but also for greater personal pleasure.
This has afforded me an unusual opportunity to view our national
shrines, although there are still many specific places which my schedules
have not yet let me include. In answer to the often asked question as
to how I like to travel, I have to answer frankly “I love it — because I
make it interesting — but I hate to be away from home.” —

To help maintain my interest, I pursue my old hobby of photography
— both black and white and color. My thousands of pictures are all
. enlarged, mounted, catalogued, etc. — whatever is necessary. With
them I can relive many a happy day —a part of the past brought to
life. Everywhere I find something new to be photographed — or
something already photographed to be retaken with greater artistry.
Under such circumstances travelling could seldom be dull to a camera
fan.

Then, too, I still enjoy good food despite my tendency to put on
weight. My “‘little black book” may not be the equal of Duncan Hines’
but it has some grand restaurants listed in it.

My exercise is confined to golf, badminton, and skiing. I do much
too little of any of them. At times I have tried golfing and skiing en
route. They too afford an excellent way to enjoy places and people.
However, I have had to leave my skis at home of late — one broken
leg at Aspen at the start of a three weeks’ business trip to the Pacific
Coast being a little embarrassing!

My family has changed only in age since our last Report. Last year
was a banner one for us though, with a son being accepted for Har-
vard, The other two still have a few years to go before deciding where
they will matriculate. However, Mother is filling in as a “Freshman”
again as she resumes her studies in art at our fine Worcester Art Mu-
seum.

We continue to live in the same house in Worcester, close to down-
town. Consequently, the children walk to school as I walk to the office
— when in residence (and just to prove the thesis — this article is being
written in Richmond, Virginia, and the confidential questionnaire was
written en route from San Francisco to Seattle).

All in all these twenty-five years have been exceedingly good to me.
In retrospect, I have certainly accomplished considerably “Tess than I
expected as a neophyte in the business world. Yet now I’m sure I have

[ 45 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

had more pleasure than most people —and I look forward to more of
the same. Being in a good “rut” isn’t too bad a life!

RICHARD BALTZLY

Home Address: 122 Mile Square Rd., Yonkers, N. Y.
Office Address: Wellcome Research Laboratories, Tuckahoe, N. Y.

Born: Aug. 6, 1906, Hudson, Mass, Parents: John Baltzly, Mary Whiteside
Baugher.

Prepared at; Shead Memorial High School, Eastport, Maine.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; A.M., 1928;
Pu.D., 1931.

Married: Edith Marie Hall, Aug. 12, 1933, New York, N. ¥. Children: Mary
Ellen, Feb. 19, 1945; Edward Alexander, Sept. 4, 1947.

Harvard Brother: Alexander Baltzly, ’12.

Occupation: Chief organic chemist, Wellcome Research Laboratories; adjunct
professor, Polytechnic Institate of Brooklyn.

Member of : American Chemical Society.

Publications: About forty papers on scientific subjects, most of them published
in the Journal of the American Chemical Society.

After graduating I continued in the Department of Chemistry,
emerging in 1931 with a highly-prized degree which did not seem so
valuable after I had it, especially in 1931. I was attached to the Depart-
ment of Pharmacology at the School of Medicine of Vanderbilt Uni-
versity for three years, and then settled in New York with my wife,
Edith, but without much income. Most of the next years was spent
in the Biochemistry Department of Columbia’s Medical School, and,
after a year in a consulting house, I landed in the Wellcome Research
Laboratories of Burroughs, Wellcome & Company, in March, 1937.

It is not an original idea that luck has some influence in our affairs;
in my case the influence is quite apparent. Had my superior chosen to
leave soon after I came, he would have been replaced by someone else.
As it happened, he departed in January, 1942, and I succeeded him as
chief organic chemist. At the same time I took over the evening course
in advanced organic chemistry which he taught at the Polytechnic In-

stitute of Brooklyn. This course is one of my most prized possessions —
if it can be called such a thing. It takes a good deal of time but is a nota-
ble preventive against intellectual arteriosclerosis, an ailment to which
my advancing age must make me liable. I have also been so fortunate
as to pick up several thesis students who have been able to work on

problems I could not have assigned to my staff at the Wellcome Re-
search Laboratories.

[ 46 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Our research organization is not large and, perhaps because of that,
we enjoy an unusual degree of freedom in our work. Aside from obvi-
ous limitations of time, we take as problems pretty much what we wish.
‘These have turned out to the advantage of the firm sufficiently often
that I believe that the policy has thoroughly justified itself. My own
time is less available for laboratory work than I should wish because of
unavoidable paper work. Aside from usual administrative duties that
fall to anyone in charge of other people, I have had thrust upon me the
task of becoming a sort of second-line patent expert.

As may be imagined from the above, we live very quietly outside of
professional activities. I still play some tennis and can stand three sets
of singles, but cannot expect to improve, or to play enough to be really
in practice. Before long I hope to start teaching Master Ned, whose
present ambition is to have a big racquet when he is a big boy. At pres-
ent he manages with an old squash racquet and can produce a fair fore-
hand provided the ball comes where he expects it.

Our foreign travels have been limited to a trip to Mexico in 1938.
Politically, I consider myself independent, having little regard for gen-
eral principles not connected with specific measures — and these I con-
sider ought to be judged on their merits rather than on how they fit
into preconceived schemes, or on the basis of sponsorship. I particularly
dislike the general political habit of argument by name-calling, and de-
plore the tendency, almost invariable among politicians, of recommend-
ing the choice of an alternative which does not in fact exist. Very fre-
quently the real alternatives are unattractive, but the sensible thing is to
accept that fact and make the best of it.

As for hobbies, aside from tennis, I play chess and bridge with con-
siderable pleasure and some facility, but definitely as an amatedr.

L. RICHARD BAMBERGER

Home Address: §3 E. 75th St., New York 21, N.Y.

Office Address: 65 Broadway, New York 6, N.Y.

Born: July 11, 1903, Trenton, N. J. Parents: William Bamberger, Matilda
Cecelia Bloch.

Prepared at: Cutler School, New York, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B. cum laude, 1926; A.M., 1928.

Married: Aline Rhonie Hofheimer, Feb, 28, 1928 (divorced 1930); Helen
Louise Thatcher, May 11, 1933 (divorced 1950). C4ildren: Joan
Thatcher, Feb. 27, 19343 Susan Thatcher, May 19, 1936.

Occupation: Finance; member, New York Stock Exchange; floor broker.

Military or Naval Record: U.S, Navy; entered lieutenant, April, 1942; second

[ 47 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

class at Quonset, R. I., 21 months’ service Pacific Area in Air Operations
at Naval Air Stations, Pearl Harbor, Johnston Island, and Puunene,
Maui; separated as lieutenant commander, Oct. 16, 1944; present status,
lieutenant commander, U.S.N.R. (inactive).

Offices Held: Member of the Overseers’ Committee to Visit the Department of
Anthropology and the Peabody Museum, Harvard University.

Member of: American Association for the Advancement of Science; American
Anthropological Association; Harvard Faculty Club; Harvard Travellers
Club; Outrigger Canoe Club, Honolulu; Society of American Wars.

Except for the fact that I was a member of the Boy Scouts of Amer-
ica during my youth and have been a member of the New York Stock
Exchange since 1928, the above is my autobiography in capsule form.
The ingredients have been for the most part sweet, and on occasion
somewhat bitter.

I look forward to seeing each and every one of you on the ‘I'wenty-
fifth Anniversary of our Class at Harvard College. Possibly we shall
meet again in Cambridge in 1976? If not there, maybe on a nice warm
radio-active cloud?

RICHARD BANCROFT

Home Address: Woodleigh Road, Dedham, Mass,

Office Address: Putnam, Bell, Dutch & Santry, 60 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

Born: Oct. 22, 1905, Gardner, Mass. Parents: Alvin Warren Bancroft, ’95,
Emily Washburn.

Prepared at: Gardner High School, Gardner, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B., 1929.

Married: Helen Evelyn Mason, Aug. 13, 1938, Dedham, Mass. Children:
Frances Mason, Aug. 6, 1940; Emily, April 15, 1943; Helen Wash-
burn, April 27, 1946.

Harvard Brother: Raymond Washburn Bancroft, ’22 (deceased) .

Occupation: Attorney-at-law; member, Putnam, Bell, Dutch & Santry.

Offices Held: Chairman, Finance Committee, Town of Dedham, 1951.

Member of: Boston Bar Association, Massachusetts Bar Association, American
Bar Association,

After college I spent three busy years at the Law School. Since then
Ihave been practising law in Boston, a career of much interest to me. I
find that my attitude towards things in general has been greatly
changed by the acquisition of a wife and three daughters. I feel towards
ttle boys the way Ogden Nash does,

It is hard for me to imagine what the world would have been with-
out Harvard. Seven formative years there, and never out of its shadow.

[ 48 J

T'wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

We certainly chose an interesting though hazardous time to be born
into. However, most of my concern is with the elementary but impor-
tant business of raising a family. There are side expeditions into local
activities —a term of service on my town’s finance committee, of
which I am, at the moment, chairman, after two years under Tom
Jansen’s chairmanship, a study in local government, some administra-
tive work for the First Church of Dedham (Unitarian), and various
bar association committees intended for the public good.

No books written yet, and nothing in mind at the moment.

BERNARD BANDLER, II

Address: Boston Psychoanalytic Inst., Inc., 82 Marlborough St., Boston 16,

' Mass, |
Born: Aug. 9, 1904, New York, N. Y. Parents: Leon Bandler, Miriam Haas.

Prepared at: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: 8.B. magna cum laude, 1926 (27); A.M.,
1928; M.D. (Columbia Univ.), 1938.

Married: Louise Silbert, July 13, 1942, Brookline, Mass. Children: Kate, Sept.
18, 1933 (by previous marriage); Barry, Feb. 13, 1935 (by previous
marriage) ; Susan, Oct. 13, 1943; Jane, Oct. 1, 19453 Judith, Sept. 4,
1946; Deborah, Jan. 22,1951.

Occupation: Psychiatrist.

Questionnaire received too late for inclusion of biography.

BENJAMIN MAX BANKS

Yome Address: 15 Rangely Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.

D fice Address: 416 Marlborough St., Boston, Mass.

3orn: Nov. 12, 1906, Chelsea, Mass. Parents: Isaac Banks, Bess Blostein.

-repared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

fears in College: 1923-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; M.D., 1930.

Aarried: Alice Zack, Aug. 18, 1929, Boston, Mass. CAildren: Joanne Ruth,
Jan. 23, 1935; Peter Alan, March 28, 1936.

farvard Brother: Henry Herman Banks, ’43.

iccupation: Physician, specializing in digestive diseases.

lilitary or Naval Record: Entered U.S. Army as major, March 17, 19415
served as chief of medical service at General Hospitals in United States
and India; Legion of Merit decoration; discharged as colonel, 1946.

ffices Held: Clinical associate in medicine, Harvard Medical School; associate
visiting physician, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston; consultant, Mt. Auburn
Hospital, Cambridge, Veterans Administration Hospital, West Roxbury,

[ 49 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Mass.; American Board of Internal Medicine; trustee, Hille] House
(Harvard), Cambridge, Mass,

Member of: American Gastro-enterological Association; Massachusetts Medical
Society; Belmont Country Club.

Publications: Scientific papers.

For a reason which now escapes me and could never bear rational
scrutiny I hurried to take my Bachelor’s degree in three short years and
crossed the Charles River to the august quadrangle of the Harvard
Medical School in Boston. The transition from the detached academic
environment of an undergraduate in the Yard to the stark reality of life
and death, of suffering and devotion, and of heroism and sacrifice, ma-
tured me almost overnight. There began for me the long and arduous
struggle for weapons and skill to meet and overcome the challenge
which is old as man himself. With perhaps two-thirds of my life behind
me I begin to perceive still far from clearly the significance of the leg-
end engraved on the corner-stone of one of the Medical School build-
ings — “Life is short, and the art long. Experiment perilous, decision
difficult. The occasion instant.”

In 1929 the young medical student, short of funds and with a future
at once promising and uncertain, took unto himself a wife. Alice
brought with her a wisdom timeless as the ages, a sweetness which
leavened the bitter bread of the day’s defeats, and an integrity of soul
which shone more brightly as the growing shadows of the thirties deep-
ened into the black-outs of another World War. Our two children,
Joanne and Peter, somehow have withstood the fragmentary existence
of semi-orphans following their soldier father from camp to camp, the
anguish of several leave-takings for extended duty overseas, and the
trials of re-establishing home and practice once hostilities had come to
an end, Joanne, now taller than her mother, divides her time not al-
together equitably between preparation for college and the manipula-
tion of puppets who suddenly come to life on weekends as escorts to
the school dances or the football games, Peter, again taller than his
father, is now at Roxbury Latin School, spending his winters somewhat
grudgingly on the humanities and his summers more graciously in ten-
nis and sailing at Cape Cod.

My professional endeavors have very little to distinguish them from
those of my colleagues. Following the usual internship in medicine and
an assistant residency at the Beth Israel Hospital in Boston, I went west
to the Mayo Clinic as a special fellow for training in digestive diseases.
Here I found so happy a union of clinical medicine and scientific re-
search that it soon became evident that I would never be happy with

[ 50 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

either alone. On my return to Boston in 1933, I entered upon a way
of life composed of practice, research, and teaching which is best de-
scribed as a voluntary bondage that is both blissful and merciless. For
I belong to the great group of “part-time men” who serve on the
teaching faculties of medical schools, bringing to the students the prac-
tical experience of bedside medicine, dabbling in clinical investigation
to keep alive the spirit of inquiry, and withal carrying the burden of
round-the-clock professional care for the community. Like the pro-
verbial three-legged stool, we feel that we want and need each of these
activities to round out our professional existence, yet in thus defying the
physical limitations imposed by nature and reason we fall apart all at
once and all too soon.

The hobbies that give flavor and balance to our unchanging daily
fare have been elbowed aside and stand as wistful reminders of delica-
cies once tasted in a more carefree hour. Chess and the violin were all
but abandoned in medical school. Amateur photography to catch the
beauties of line, shade, and color, gave way to X-ray —a practical
sublimation of diagnostic vivisection. Now it is golf, a psychological
game of mind over muscle, which brings me nearer at last to the green
earth from which I came.

To one whose life in retrospect has been a long forced march with
full pack, interrupted by sudden alarms and battles fought at the en-
emy’s terms and time, the philosophy of the welfare state, jurisdictional
labor disputes, and feather-bedding, all strike an unfamiliar and dis-
tasteful note. In like measure the unconscionable Goliaths of industry
who down-grade their products, increase the price to the consumer,
and amass net profits of astronomical magnitude, seem equally abhor-
rent. The brash play and counterplay in the great poker game of poli-
tics, with the “ins” and the “‘outs” as a brief and adequate description
of the basic difference between most of the players, make me at times
both distrustful and ashamed of the electorate and the representatives
it chooses. Our own moralizing to the far-flung nations of the world
seems impious and hollow as we confuse our potential friends and de-
light our avowed enemies with the inopportune spectacle of procrasti-
nation in approving the Bill of Human Rights of the United Nations,
of reluctance to adopt the genocide convention, and of obstruction to
the passage of legislation designed to promote racial equality within our
own borders.

One may gather that there is very little of the contemporary scene
that is to my liking. Of the comforts that remain to me I can count
the classical tradition, the intellectual freedom, and the search for truth

[si ]

Harvard Class of 1926

that the men of Harvard in generations past preserved to hand on to
me one bright September day in 1923. These I can and will cherish, in
gratitude and reverence, for all my days.

LEIGHT FULLER BARBER

Home Address: goo5 Bradley Blvd., Bethesda, Md.

Office Address: Room 201, 815 Connecticut Ave., N.W., Washington, D. C.

Born: Nov. 23, 1904, Morgantown, Ky. Parents: Guil Barber, Mary Elizabeth
Fuller.

Prepared at: McKinley High School, Washington, D. C.

Years ta College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Lucille Carolyn Maxant, Oct. 23, 1930, Ayer, Mass. Children:
Pamela Sue, Jan. 15, 1944; Peter Leigh, Feb. 20, 1946.

Occupation: Liaison officer, Economic Cooperation Administration, Washing-

‘ton, D.C.

After graduation from Harvard I attended George Washington
University Law School and was admitted to the D. C. Bar in August,
1928. I practised law in Tulsa, Oklahoma, until March, 1934, when
I entered government service with the N.R.A. In June, 1935, I was
transferred to the Federal Emergency Relief Administration and was
with that agency and its successor, the Federal Works, until June,
1948. During that tme I headed regional offices of the investigation
division at Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, and Washington, D. C, Since be-
ing transferred to the Economic Cooperation Administration, I have
served as liaison officer.

My government employment has taken me over much of the United
States, but now, with two children in school, I’m glad to have a per-
manent home. We have just taken over the job of restoring an old
farmhouse outside Washington, and my hobbies of golf and fishing will
undoubtedly suffer for the next year or so.

My political views might be termed conservatively democratic which
is perhaps strange in the light of my long association with the New and
Fair Deal agencies. I have no strong religious convictions. I’ve been
reasonably happy in my work and, for a government employee, mod-

erately prosperous. Looking backward, I find many things for which to
be thankful,

[ 52]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

RAFAEL FELIPE BARBOSA

Home Address: Ignacio arsuaga St. #7, Carolina, Puerto Rico.

Office Address: Bernard Garcia St. #50, Carolina, Puerto Rico.

Born: Feb. 6, 1903, San Juan, Puerto Rico. Parents: José Celso Barbosa, Belén
Sanchez.

Prepared at: Central High School, San Juan, Puerto Rico.

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degrees: S.B., 1926 (27); LL.B. (Boston
Univ.), 1929.

Married: Mercedes Sanchez, June 30, 1933, San Juan, Puerto Rico (died
March 2, 1949). Children: Rafael F. and Jesus M. (twins), Dec. 9,
19343 Roberto C., Feb. 23, 1937; Guillermo A., Nov. 10, 1939.

Occupation: Lawyer.

Offices Held: Secretary, District Court of Bayamén, Aug. 6, 1935, | to Feb-
ruary, 1939; municipal judge of Carolina Municipal Court, February,

1938, to June, 1943.

LrBARON RUSSELL BARKER, JR.

Home Address: 222 E. 71st St., New York, N. Y.

Office Address: Doubleday & Co., Inc., 14. W. 49th St., New York 20, N.Y.

Born: Jan. 13, 1904, Plymouth, Mass. Parents: LeBaron Russell Barker, 98,
Amy Hutchins.

Prepared at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Mary Pope, June 30, 1926, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1932) ; Leslie
Greenough, Sept. 14, 1934, Osterville, Mass. (died Aug. 30, 1939);
Eileen Lange, April 10, 1941, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1950). CAil-
dren: LeBaron Russell, 3d, July 6, 1928; Randolph, Dec. 23, 1929;
Leslie Lindsay, Sept. 14, 19375 Jeffery Lange, Jan. 29, 19435 Stephanie
LeBaron, Dec. 31,1945.

Harvard Brother: George Gardner Barker, °32.

Occupation: Book publishing; executive editor of Doubleday & Company.

Offices Held: Vice-president and director, American Institute of Graphic Arts,
1947-49.

Publications: Co-author, Addlegrams, Houghton Mifflin Publishing Co., 1934.

Ever since those early bucolic days in Haverhill, Massachusetts, I have
been fascinated by women. Even during my Macmillan period when I
played an important part in discovering Gone With The Wind, I—
(My Gosh! I’m writing Jim Durgin’s autobiography, not my own!)
Well, Durgin or Barker, Marshall or Field, Sears or Roebuck, it’s all
the same, for you who read this will not think of me or Durgin as we
are now. You will not believe that we are bank presidents (as indeed

[ 53 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

we aren’t) or that we are happily married (again you’re right). We
can boast of our children (and by heaven we’ve got children), of our
connection with books and authors, of our temperance, our chastity, or
our continuing ability to whip into a fast game of croquet. But the
words are empty, signifying nothing. To most of you, Jim Durgin and
Yid Barker are a couple of guys who graduated with you yesterday. It
was twenty-five years ago, but it’s still yesterday.

In your eyes at least we are eternally young, if not a little adolescent,
still bent on performing deeds of valor or sheer lunacy which have now
assumed heroic proportions. The casual purloining of a red Jantern in
Scollay Square which resulted in the arrest of Bill Nichols and Yid
Barker by a shabby old policeman is now recalled as an act of oppression
in which the entire Boston police force was involved, only to be thwart-
ed by the resourcefulness of Governor Keyes.

Thank heavens for your excellent memories at a time when we are
having difficulty convincing people that we were ever young. Our chil-
dren and those bright young people in our offices have long since come
to the conclusion that we were born prematurely old and, strangely
enough, a little mad.

But you who know us well won’t stand for talk like that. Why,
there’s no one in the Class past his middle twenties, except possibly “Tip
LaT ulippe!

What have we been doing since 1926? Oh, who cares. That was
such a short time ago.

ARNOLD DEFORREST BARTON

Home Address: 120 N. Main St., Sharon, Mass.

Office Address: 100 Boylston St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Oct. 20, 1905, Forest Hills, Mass. Parents: Burnham DeForrest Barton,
Annie Laura MacDonald.

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1923. Degree: D.M.D., 1927.

Married: Angelina M. Fraser, Dec. 20, 1929, West Roxbury, Mass. CAzldren:
Arnold DeForrest, Jr., Dec. 30, 1930; Margaret Anne, Dec. 16, 19315
Carol Jane, Dec. 25, 1934.

Harvard Brother: Basil Egbert Barton,’19, M.D.,°22.

Occupation: Dentist.

An uneventful life. Since I spent only one year at Cambridge before
going to the Dental School —it’s different now — my affiliation with
the University has been through the Dental School rather than the

{54 ]

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

College — especially since the H.A.A. considers me in Dental ’27
when it comes to dealing out football tickets.

I am happy to have served for a few years as instructor in the Dental
School and am now working away to make a living and send my kids
to school. I haven’t won many elections down through the years — can
hardly vote for the right man in a primary and so can’t be blamed for
the way the Democratic party has sold us down the river and has tried
to give the rest of the world to Russia.

FRANCIS LOWELL BARTON

Home Address: 20 Coolidge Hill Rd., Cambridge, Mass.

Office Address: 35 Newbury St., Boston, Mass.

Born: June 4, 1903, New York, N. Y. Parents: Frederick Otis Barton, ’81,
Mary Lowell Coolidge.

Prepared at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; M.B.A. cum laude, 1935.

Married: Elizabeth Harris, Feb. 24, 1930, Scarsdale, N. Y. CAildren: James
Harris, April 10, 1934; Elizabeth, May 13, 1937.

Harvard Brother: Otis Barton, ’22.

Occupation: Journalist.
Member of : Concord Country Club; Harvard Club of New York; Oyster Har-
bors Club.

When asked for a general point of view on education and life, I find
that I keep on producing the same old idea which pops up each time
like the familiar bottle from the Coca-Cola machine. It was worth a
nickel yesterday, it may be worth a quarter tomorrow, but it’s always
much the same product.

I wonder how many will remember a fine fighting speech made by
Jack Potter at one of our reunions. Our late classmate, who will cer-
tainly be much missed this year, had recently been made president of
Hobart. He believed that the influence of Harvard was still strong in
the smaller colleges, and he put in a plea for keeping the emphasis at
Harvard on the humanities, rather than on the natural sciences. In my
view that was a very good speech.

As my experience has been mostly that of a newspaperman and gen-
eral journalist, I have had to think now and then about what people are
and why they do what they do, I think I can see that our knowledge of
ourselves is extraordinarily inadequate. We are the generation that has
learned to blow up the world. We have so little knowledge of the hu-
man beings who will be the ultimate cause of any explosion. Yet the

[55 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

knowledge is probably attainable. If clear minds can turn outward to
count the galaxies and inward to analyze the atom, we can probably
also understand why people do what they do. I know that I am not alone
in holding this idea and I do not know under the current inflation

_ whether it should be priced at five cents or a quarter. But it is the best I
have to offer.

ROBERT BROWN MORISON BARTON

Home Address: 15 Chestnut St., Salem, Mass.

Office Address: Parker Brothers, Inc., 190 Bridge St., Salem, Mass.

Born: Aug. 19, 1903, Pikesville, Md. Parents: Randolph Barton, Jr., Eleanor
Addison Morison.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B., 1929.

Married: Sally Parker, Oct. 3, 1931, Peterborough, N. H. CAsidren: Randolph
Parker, Sept. 15, 1932; Sally Bradstreet, Dec. 26, 19333 Richard Mor-
ison, May 24, 1939.

Occupation: President and general manager, Parker Brothers, Inc., manufactur-
ing and publishing.

Military or Naval Record: Harvard Naval Training School, July 1 to Sept. 1,
1942; Division of Naval Aviation Training, Special Devices Section,
September, 1942, to July, 1943; officer-in-charge, Special Devices
Dept., New York City, July, 1943, to October, 1944; guest officer, uss
Tra Jeffrey, DE, July to September, 1944.

Offices Held: Vice-president, Salem Hospital.

Member of: Eastern Yacht Club; Tedesco Country Club; Harvard Clubs of
Boston and New York; Metropolitan Club, Washington, D. C.

My father, an eminent Baltimore attorney, has frequently told me
that if he could live his life over again in any period of his choice that he
would choose to be a well-to-do country gentleman in nineteenth-cen-
tury England. His love of horses, country life, and an ordered exist-
ence makes his choice logical; yet my love of boats, a sailing life, and at
least some degree of economic stability does not make me wish to have
escaped the past twenty-five years, They have been, with all of their
difficulties, superb and I hope that the next twenty-five are of the same
caliber.

After three years in the Harvard Law School, which I hated as only
a Harvard College graduate can hate it, I began the practice of law in
Baltimore on October 1, 1929. In line with then-prevailing ideas, this
was to be merely a sideline, since living was to be had for the asking in
the stock market. Three days later my views were quickly changed and

[ 56 J

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

thereafter, whether by choice or necessity, I began to enjoy the practice
of the law as much as I had hated the law’s study.

The next three years were happy and successful ones for me. My fa-
ther’s firm was more than generous financially, my work was varied
and interesting and I secured a position in the Bureau of Legislative
Reference in our state government at Annapolis and another position
as a law teacher in the University of Baltimore Law School. Baltimore
life was good after eight years away, and I enjoyed it all in spite of the
times.

In October, 1931, I married, and late the following fall moved with

my wife to Salem, Massachusetts. The new work I undertook was in
the manufacturing and publishing field. I jumped from the law to
games and kindergarten supplies and did so at a time when all businesses
were very low. It was a good time to start, as I learned much and had
the great interest of working back to an even keel with an old and well-
established firm.
- Two children, first a son, and then a daughter, arrived fifteen
months apart, and life became even more interesting. The sea at my
door beckoned and I bought a boat and then another one, which I am
still learning to sail. ‘The Maine coast became my summer playground
and a trip to Europe with my wife brought back happy memories to us
both. Another son came along in 1939 and my life became more settled
and even happier.

One September morning that fall I was lying in my bunk on board
my yawl in Hadley Cove, one of the prettiest harbors on this coast. It
was quite early, about three in the morning, and being unable to sleep,
I turned on the radio. It was thus that I heard Mr. Chamberlain’s
original speech advising that once again Europe was being plunged into
war. Three years later I was a lieutenant in the U.S.N.R.

In July and August of 1942 I went back to Cambridge and at-
tended the Harvard Naval Training School. It was neither interesting
nor enjoyable, and Harvard was not Harvard any more. Afterwards I
joined a unit called Special Devices which was a part of naval aviation
training. My first nine months were spent in Washington; then I com-
manded this unit’s station in New York. In the summer of 1944 I re-
ceived two months’ duty on a Destroyer Escort doing convoy duty be-
tween New York and North Ireland. Some months later I was returned
to inactive duty.

My war years were intensely interesting and filled with technical
duties which were too involved and numerous to become a part of this

C57 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

report. Suffice it to say that looking back on them I consider that I was
highly privileged at my age of life to have been permitted to serve my
country and to wear it’s Navy’s uniform. In gratitude I have joined a
Naval Reserve unit and still attend drill two nights a month.

Since the war, business has prospered and my children have grown
up. Even my young son is old at eleven, and his elder brother registers
for the draft this September. I am still at heart an old-fashioned liberal
Southern Democrat who votes Republican in Massachusetts for obvious
reasons. They do not run my type of presidential candidate any longer
so I guess that I shall vote for Taft in desperation. My views on most
things reflect my upbringing, my years at Harvard, and my environ-
ment during the last twenty-five years. Brilliance is not a part of this
picture, but happiness is, and in full measure,

FREDERICK DICKINSON BATES, JR.

Home Address: 3516 Newark St., N.W., Washington 16, D.C.

Office Address: Munitions Board, Pentagon Bldg., Washington 25, D.C.

Bora: April 19, 1905, Boston, Mass. Parents: Frederick Dickinson Bates,
Georgia Forée Guilford.

Prepared at: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; A.M., 1927.

Married: Rebekah Gardner, Feb. 23, 1935, New York, N. Y. Children: Alice,
March 28, 19393 Frederick Dickinson, 3d, Feb, 22, 1947.

Harvard Brother: Freeman Field Bates,’31,A.M., 732.

Occupation: U.S. Government Service, Dept. of Defense, Munitions Board;
chief, Chemicals and Rubber Branch.

Military or Naval Record: Navy; entered lieutenant, May, 1943; anti-subma-
rine warfare instructor; training, Boston, San Diego, Woods Hole, to
October, 1943; operational training command, Atlantic Fleet, Guan-
tanamo Bay, Cuba, to September, 1944; commissioned lieutenant com-

mander, October, 1945; Office of Procurement and Materials, Washing-
ton, D.C., to July, 1946.

In reviewing the turning points which have determined the shape of
my life since leaving Harvard, they seem an interesting combination of
personal decisions and fateful chance. First, there was my choice of em-
ployment in the research department of the S. D. Warren Company,
paper manufacturers near Portland, Maine, leading to my marriage to
a Maine girl thus welding more firmly the bonds I had already formed
there of pleasant associations in a semi-rural community, and the ab-
sorbing interest of making paper to meet the ever-changing require-

[ 58 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

ments of printing. Turning the pages of a bound volume which required
some fancy juggling of the available ingredients as well as the tricks of
forming and drying a sheet of paper, provided compensation for the
sometimes long working hours; raising chickens and vegetables on the
side supplied delusions of grandeur of the gentleman-farmer variety. In
short, had it not been for delusions of a different nature entertained by
an obscure character named Adolf Schickelgruber, I should without
doubt still be leading the same sheltered existence. But, as the war pro-
gressed, I became convinced that I should make a more direct contri-
bution than making Army map paper, and I joined the Navy. After
training on both the east and west coasts I was finally assigned as an
anti-submarine warfare instructor at the Naval Operating Base at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. There followed a somewhat frustrated year,
due to the facts that first, the German submarines had long since de-
parted, and second, my skipper just didn’t issue the frequent passes to
Miami we had envisioned when Becky closed up the farm and made the
long trip to Florida that winter.

In the fall of 1944, someone in the Bureau of Naval Personnel no-
ticed that my records referred to a chemical background and I was
transplanted to a new field —the Washington merry-go-round. My
reactions to my year’s duty as Navy liaison to the Chemicals Bureau of
the War Production Board were normal — we civilians in uniform told
each other that it was fine and necessary for people from private indus-
try to help run the government during the war, but as soon as it was
over we'd get out of Washington at the first opportunity. However, in
my case, it happened that I was one of the last of my group to be re-
leased. By mid-1946, it had become alarmingly apparent that demo-
bilization had been over-emphasized and that the job of holding the
line for a possible re-mobilization including the retention of surplus war
plants for future use and the stockpiling of strategic materials, was
sadly in need of an experienced staff. In short, having once been bitten
by the bug of patriotism and public service, I found myself unable to
shake off the inoculation, and have been working ever since for the
Munitions Board, in charge of chemicals and rubber. As with a host of
predecessors and contemporaries, J have found government service to
be a somewhat frustrating career, especially to one used to the ways of
rugged individualism, and to looking rather scornfully at anyone on a
public payroll. Prior to Korea it was not too easy to get backing for
defense planning, and since then there has been no Jack of criticism for
what we did not accomplish. There is, though, the satisfaction of work-

[59 ]

nce - | |

Harvard Class of 1926

ing hard at a tremendously big and vitally important task, and of view-
ing the results, however small, as accomplishments which might not
otherwise have been brought about.

My work in Washington has involved a wealth of association with a
host of interesting people, and some stimulating travel — notably to
London in 1949 and Paris and Brussels in 1950, as representative of
the Department of Defense on the United States delegation at meet-
ings of the International Rubber Study Group. We have found Wash-
ington a very pleasant place to live in. We bought a house here as soon
as we decided to stay, after the war —right in the District, but unbe-
lievably suburban —and have added a son to the family, one of those
seemingly rare humans actually born in Washington. And, in spite of
living in the world’s prime atomic-bomb target and working every day
in the Bull’s eye —the Pentagon —I find myself setting out on my
daily chores with surprising nonchalance, with little thought to the
possibility that I might not return in the evening.

CHARLES HERBERT BEALE

Home Address: 17 Rosemary St., Needham Heights 94, Mass.
Office Address: Warren Brothers Roads Co., 38 Memorial Drive, Cambridge,
Mass,
Bora: March 21, 1901, Rosario, Argentine Republic, $, A. Parents: William
Herbert Beale, Mary Ann Robb.
Prepared at: Collegio Nacional de Tucuman, Argentine, S. A.
Years in College: 1922-1926.
Married: Helena Elizabeth Cook, June 11, 1929, New Orleans, La. Children:
Robert James, Jan. 14, 19323 Arthur Cook, April 12, 1940.
Occupation: Superintendent, Warren Brothers Roads Company, pacing con-
tractors.

This marks a quarter of a century in my efforts to help pave the way
for others to travel on.

WALTER EUGENE BEER, JR.

Home Address: 815 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.

Office Address: Beer, Richards, Lane & Haller, 70 Pine St., New York, N. Y.

Born: Nov. 17, 1904, New York, N, Y. Parents: Walter Eugene Beer, 90, Bella
Nathan.

Prepared at: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn,

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B., 1929.

[ 60 J

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Married: Florence Louise Fay, Sept. 2, 1930, Greenville, Pa. CAildren: John
Walter, Feb. 11, 1932; David Wells, June 29, 1934.

Harvard Son: John Walter Beer, ’5 4.

Occupation: Lawyer; partner, Beer, Richards, Lane & Haller.

Wartime Government Posts: Legal staff of the War Production Board.

Offices Held: Trustee of Montefiore, since 1948; Committee on the Surro-
gate’s Courts, since 1948, Committee of Federal Legislation, 1947—50,
Association of the Bar of the City of New York.

Member of : Harvard Club of New York; Keene Valley Country Club; Associa-
tion of the Bar of the City of New York.

Immediately after graduating from Harvard College, I spent three
years at the Harvard Law School, graduating from there in 1929. In
the fall of 1929 I went to work for the law firm of Simpson, Thacher
& Bartlett in New York City and remained there until December,
1941. I found practising my profession very interesting for the most
part as I was able to do a little of almost every kind of work handled by
the office, including some work in drafting the New York City Charter
and in setting up the first non-profit insurance corporation in New York
City formed to take care of all or part of the doctors’ bills of the insured
and his family in return for small periodic payments. During this pre-
war period I, and my family as acquired, lived in Manhattan, for the
most part in the Greenwich Village section, except for two years spent
in Scarsdale} in Westchester County, New York.

Two days after Pearl Harbor I went to work on the legal staff of
the government agency which shortly thereafter became the War Pro-
duction Board. My work had largely to do with the conservation and
allocation of various metals, including copper, aluminum, and magne-
sium. This was by all odds the most difficult job that I ever had to
tackle and I worked harder there than I ever did before or since. We
lived in Bethesda, Maryland. ‘The boys went to school at the nearby
Landon School and the good wife went on a bicycle to work at the
Bethesda Naval Hospital as a Grey Lady whenever the necessary
housekeeping or sick children did not prevent it. All and all, it was a
fairly normal, though busy, life except for the difficulty of seeing the
many friends then in Washington who lived out of range of rationed
gasoline.

Late in 1944 I was asked to return to New York to help ready a
plan for voluntary health insurance before the end of the war and the
release of the doctors from the armed services. Since the problem of the
War Production Board had become one of relaxing controls, a problem

[ 61 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

with which I had had no experience, it seemed sensible to try to wrestle
with a public problem with which I had had considerable experience,
So to New York I came, by great good luck finding an apartment with
space enough for all of us, where we still live.

My connection with what turned out to be the Health Insurance

Plan of Greater New York was very short-lived. In June, 1945, I was
joined in New York by two contemporaries at the Harvard Law School
and at the War Production Board, and we started the small law firm
in downtown New York of which we had been dreaming for some
time. The law firm has been going ever since. In 1949 we were joined
by Chester Lane so that you may expect to see 50% of the firm at the
Reunion.

I have found that being my own boss is worth all the dollars it un-
doubtedly costs. The variety of work is even greater than it was at
Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett. We are something of a cross between a
small town office and one in a large city. We mix the drawing of a lot
of wills and the buying and selling of houses for friends with corporate
financing jobs; we have cases in the New York City Municipal Court
and those which we hope will reach the Supreme Court of the United
States; and we have trademark work for businesses owned by indi-
viduals as well as similar work for what certain segments of the press
refer to as “giant corporations.” At the moment I am doing consider-
able work in the voluntary health insurance field, as I still tepresent the
organization I helped to put together before the war and am also hard
at work on what, I believe, is the first plan to apply the same general
set-up to dentistry.

During the first ten years after leaving the College, I played a great
deal of squash racquets and some tennis. Nowadays I get what exercise
I can from walking, playing tennis in the summer, and gardening in
and about the new home we built in 1948 in Keene Valley, New York,
in the heart of the Adirondack Mountains, This place is a very impor-
tant part of our family life. Some member of the family is there all
summer and sometimes all four of us; and Florence and I manage to
get up there four or five other times a year for periods varying from
two to ten days. It is never very far from our thoughts at any time of
year. |

Tn politics I am a Democrat, although I have strayed. For example,
I took an active, if minor, part in two of LaGuardia’s campaigns for
mayor of New York City. To atone for these lapses, I also did some
work before the war for various Democratic candidates, I am in favor
of the income tax, I think that the estate and gift taxes should be

[ 62 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

raised rather than lowered, but that the longer educational and chari-
table institutions can exist without governmental support and control
the better; and I am convinced that there is nothing wrong with our
form of government that would not be taken care of by having more
able people elected and appointed to office. Like a number of other
people, including some judges, I do not believe that the jury system is
infallible, a belief that has been fortified as a result of our firm’s repre-
senting my law school classmate and friend, Alger Hiss, since the end
of his second trial. However, I can suggest no system of trying criminal
cases better than the jury system, let alone one that is infallible. I also
believe in the theory of sending all children to public school, but I am
very glad that one of my boys had, and the other has, the advantage of
going to Phillips Exeter Academy for his high school work.

WILLIAM NICHOLS BEGGS

Home Address: 17 Stowell Rd., Winchester, Mass.

Office Address: 572 Main St., Winchester, Mass.

Born: Aug. 17, 1903, Winchester, Mass. Parents: William Earl Beggs, 97,
Flora Augusta Nichols.

Prepared at: Tabor Academy, Marion, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B. (Boston Univ.),

1930.

Married: Elizabeth Fessenden, June1 8, 1930, Winchester, Mass.

Occupation: Lawyer.

Offices Held: Board of Selectmen, Winchester, 1934-36; Unitarian Society,
Standing Committee, 1935-38; member of Corporation of Winchester
Home for the Aged.

Member of Delta Upsilon Fraternity, Harvard Chapter; Phi Delta Phi, legal
fraternity, Boston University Chapter; Harvard Club of Boston; Har-
vard Club of Eastern Middlesex; Winchester Rotary Club; Winchester
Historical Society ; Winchester Country Club,

My life, on the whole, has not been overly eventful and I have not a
great deal to add to the above information. I am happily married and
practising as a small-town lawyer in my native town. I have not
achieved fame or fortune but have learned a great amount about peo-
ple. I enjoy reading both history and detective stories and my principal
hobby is the collection of firearms. I have been engaged in this since I
was a boy and have a fairly good collection of which the oldest piece
dates back to the late sixteenth century. I also have a very small num-
ber of medieval edged weapons.

Since graduation my travelling has been confined to a trip to Cali-

[ 63 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

fornia by sea in 1928, and a trip to Europe in 1929. Since then I have
not covered any great distance,

For eight years (1934-42) I was chairman of the local Salvation
Army drive, and during the war did some airplane spotting.

I have nothing more to say except that I am looking forward with
pleasure to the Twenty-fifth Reunion.

GEORGE MERRILL BEMIS, JR.

Home Address: 568 Beech St., Manchester, N. H.

Born: Aug. 24, 1903, East Brookfield, Mass. Parents: George Merrill Bemis,
Fanny Niles Cole.

Prepared at: Salem High School, Salem, Mass.

Years tn College: 1923-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.

Married: Marcia Lewis Leach, June 15, 1931, New York, N. Y.

Occupation: Investment analyst and consultant.

Wartime Government Posts: Statistician, Requirements Branch, Military Plan-
ning Division, Office of Quartermaster General, Washington, D.C.

Publications: Numerous articles on various leading companies, including large
industrial and railroad corporations, published by a long established fi-

nancial publication.

Soon after graduation I entered the investment banking business
with one of the oldest stock exchange firms in Boston, and the next
year I became a financial writer for the United States Investor. I was
transferred to their New York office, after a short time, as correspond-
ent and interviewer and handled numerous inquiries from subscribers
to their Inquiry Department, and also wrote articles for publication
from 1927 to 1928. I then became statistician for the Investors’ Coun-
cil of America, one of the first investment services, continuing in this
work and as analyst and in charge of the record department of Cox
Trainer, investment counsel, in New York City, until the partnership
was dissolved in 1930. From 1930 to 1933 I was with the Electric
Bond & Share Company, in the statistical department, and this position
included various statistical work, research, and assisting the statistician
who later became vice-president of the National Power & Light Com-
pany and several other large companies. During 1933-34 I did much
investment research and wrote articles for publication concerning large
corporations. I also began publication of the Investment Outlook for in-
vestors and business readers. Then in 1935 I became an investment
consultant in Washington, D. C., and assisted private clients with in-
vestment problems, Later I returned to New York and New England,
where I was with Babson’s Reports, Inc., on the staff of their advisory

[ 64 ]

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

department, assisting the vice-president from 1936 to 1940, and I wasa
correspondent, handling a large number of inquiries from clients and
assisted many clients with investment problems.
_ Mrs, Bemis and I were married in New York City on June 15,
1931. A graduate of Columbia University, Mrs. Bemis is the author of
a book of poetry and her poems were published by leading newspapers
and magazines, including the New York Times. Later she continued the
publication of The Circle, a well-known poetry magazine founded by
her mother, Mrs. Leacy N. Green-Leach, who was editor for many
years.

We have spent many of our vacations in New England, especially in
_ later years, although Mrs. Bemis is from the South; but she has en-
joyed our visits to northern New England and Canada. I have been
much concerned about her recent illness.

I was appointed as statistician with the Office of the Quartermaster
General, Requirements Branch, at Washington, D. C., in 1945, and
was there until later the following year.

PAUL TORGNY EMANUEL BERGLUND

Home Address: 27 Walker Lane, West Hartford 7, Conn.

Office Address: ‘Travelers Insurance Co., 700 Main St., Hartford, Conn.

Born: March 26, 1906, Worcester, Mass. Parents: Carl Anton Berglund, Olivia
Sophia Rydberg.

Prepared at: North High School, Worcester, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.

Married: Theodora Caroline Rundell, June 28, 1930, Adams, Mass. Children:
Karen, Sept. 24, 1934; Kristin Elisabeth, March 26, 1936; Paul Rag-
nar, Feb. 15, 1937.

Occupation: Chief underwriter, Casualty Department, Travelers Insurance
Company.

While many do not welcome the realization that twenty-five years
ago we were starting to fashion a place in the world, true facts cannot
be ignored. Hours, days, and weeks have flowed on; nothing can be
changed but the actual happenings could not be foreseen.

Since leaving college I have been associated with a large corporation.
During the first few years, other fields seemed greener but no change
was made. Others of the Class, who started when I did, moved on;
but in July, 1951, I expect to complete twenty-five years of service
with the Travelers. Being part of a Jargé organization has been inter-
esting, but far from adventurous or spectacular. Progress is slow, as-
signments are changing, but there can be no claim to distinction. A

[ 65 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

more complete résumé would involve the history of casualty insurance
for the past quarter-century, interesting primarily to those in that field.

Marriage four years after graduation changed the future. As chil-
dren arrived we progressed from an apartment to a small house and
then to our present quarters with adequate space for all. As the young-
sters grow through various stages, we as parents have gone along re-
living the many problems of the children. This is a major undertaking,
as it also entails keeping up with three different parent-teacher organi-
zations.

During the last war my size was more than the armed forces could
absorb. However, spare time was utilized making quartz crystals for
the Coast Guard, Navy, and Army. Unless current conditions change,
it may be necessary to brush up these skills once again.

LEOPOLD BERKOWITZ

Home Address: 67 Woodchester Drive, Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

Office Address: South End Hardware Corp., Boston, Mass.

Born: Aug. 6, 1906, Boston, Mass. Parents: Morris Berkowitz, Julia Wax.

Prepared at: English High School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1923-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; M.B.A., 1928.

Married: Selma Billow, Aug. 14, 1937; Nashua, N. H. Cdild: Peter, May 21,
1938.

Occupation: President and general manager, South End Hardware Corporation,
retail and wholesale hardware.

FREDERICK BERNHEIM

H ome Address: Woodridge Drive, Durham, N.C.

Office Address: Duke University, Durham, N.C.

Born: Aug. 18, 1905, West End, N. J. Parents: George Benjamin Bernheim,
Alice Marion Rheinstein.

Prepared at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,; Ethical Culture School,
Brooklyn, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1925. Degrees: A.B., 1926 (25); Dr. Pru. (Univ. of
Cambridge).

Married: Mary Hare, 1928, London, England. Child: Cecily Ann, Aug. 12,
19

Occupatizn: : Professor of pharmacology, Duke University,

Publications: “Interaction of Drugs and Cell Catalysts.”

[ 66 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

DANIEL BERKELEY BIANCHI

Home Address: 250 Bacon St., Waltham, Mass.

Office Address: Little, Brown & Co., 34 Beacon St. Boston, Mass.

Born: Nov. 1, 1904, Waltham, Mass. Parents: John Bianchi, Frances Pamelia
Farwell.

Prepared at: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Unmarried,

Occupation: Book publishing; manager, printing and binding operations, Lit-
tle, Brown & Company.

Military or Naval Record: Commissioned lieutenant (j.g.), U.S. Naval Reserve,

'. March, 19423; indoctrination at University of Notre Dame; attended
General Ordnance School, Naval Gun Factory, Washington, D. C., and
Aviation Ordnance School, Naval Air Station, Jacksonville, Fla.; duty at
Bureau of Ordnance, Washington, D. C., and on board uss Bon Homme

_ Richard and Boxer; promoted lieutenant, March, 1943; lieutenant com-
_ mander, October, 1945; released to inactive duty, April, 1946.

Member of : Society of Printers, Boston; The Bookbuilders, Boston; American
Institute of Graphic Arts, New York; the Typophiles, New York; Biblio-
graphical Society of America; Harvard Club of New York.

Publications: Infrequent contributions to trade publications.

My life since graduation from college seems, like Gaul, to have been
divided into three parts—— prewar, war, and postwar. During the ini-
tial period, I was with the Merrymount Press continually. This world-
famous press was established by the late D. B. Updike in 1893, and
was operated as a partnership by Mr. Updike and my father during my
connection with it, until the death of the former in December, 1941.

All sorts of letterpress printing were produced there but book print-
ing always comprised the major part of the output. The reputation of
the Press derived in large part from superior taste, quality of design,
excellent types, and precise workmanship, but in important degree also
from the authoritative and scholarly writings of Mr. Updike in the
field of printing.

I began my work there immediately following Commencement, at
first doing many of the tasks required by a small printing office — set-
ting type, reading proof, cutting paper, shipping and delivering com-
pleted work, and a miscellany of jobs that no one else was specifically
delegated to perform. As time passed I worked more and more inti-
mately with Mr. Updike and my father in planning the work. In 1936
I commenced representing the firm in Boston and New York, and

[ 67 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

shortly was making monthly trips to New York in the interests of the
Press, while at the same time broadening my responsibilities in the man-
agement and design phases of the work.

Immediately following Mr, Updike’s death, my draft status altered
radically and, faced with inevitable military service, I joined the Naval
Reserve in 1942 as an aviation ordnance specialist. My duty over a pe-
riod of four years consisted mainly of a long tour at the Bureau of Ord-
nance in Washington, and after that as Air Ordnance Officer aboard
the aircraft carriers, Bon Homme Richard and Boxer, in the Atlantic and
Pacific.

Upon release from the Navy I returned to the Merrymount Press,
picking up the threads which had been dropped four years before. In
the latter part of 1948, when the building which the Press occupied
changed hands, the problem of continuing the business suddenly be-
came acute. Generally rising costs resulting from the war had made
the maintenance of standards of quality ever more difficult. Now the

choice between a sharply increased rental and the prohibitive cost of
moving to other quarters forced the hard decision to liquidate.

Since the closing of the Press in February, 1949, I have been with
Little, Brown & Company, book publishers. In some ways it is work
with which I have long been familiar but in its purely publishing phases
there are problems and angles of an entirely new kind.

I hold membership in several graphic arts organizations in Boston
and New York and am currently vice-president of the Society of Print-
ers of Boston. I am also an inactive member of the Naval Reserve, a
connection which, as I write, could have an important bearing on my
destiny. In 1948 and 1949 I was special lecturer in a course on Pub-
lishing Procedures at the Radcliffe College Summer School.

“Order,” wrote Barrett Wendell, “though credibly declared the
first law of heaven, is by no means the rule on earth. Our experiences
come to us pell-mell. Even those things in life which possess in them-
selves elements of the most orderly kind — our meals, our professional
work, our devotions, our studies —are really, in experience, things as
broken, as discontinuous, as confusingly intermingled with one another
and a thousand things else as are the separate installments of a serial
story —a kind of composition that most of us leave unread until it is
published complete.” It is useful that we write a preliminary draft of
this story on the occasion of our Twenty-fifth Reunion and, for some
of us, perhaps fortunate that parts of the serial are still to be written.

[ 68 ]

T'wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

LOUIS KIMBALL BIGELOW

Home Address: 52 Walnut St., Natick, Mass.

Office Address: Guana Island Club, Tortola, British Virgin Islands.

Born: Jan. 30, 1904, Natick, Mass. Parents: William Reed Bigelow, ’89, Mary
Louise Bigelow.

Prepared at: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degree: A.B., 1926 (27).

Married: Mary Elizabeth Gillis, Jan. 7, 1934, Moscow, U.S.S.R. Children:

. Louis Kimball, Jr., Feb. 22, 1941; William Reed, 2d, Aug. 24, 1943.

Harvard Brother: William Frances Bigelow, M.B.A., a3.

Occupation: Resort business; manager and trustee, Guana Island Club.

Wartime Government Posts: Assistant division manager, Bayeaux Division, man-
ager, Limbe Subdivision, Société Haitiano-Américaine de Développe-
ment Agricole.

Offices Held: Member, development and planning committee, British Virgin
Islands.

Member of : Estate Constant Club, St. Thomas, V. 1.

Having been relatively retiring in these reports during the past
twenty-five years, perhaps it is apropos now to describe as briefly as
possible a way of life which is a little different from most, especially
since many other people are finally moving down here to enjoy it. In
our case, it is one that has given pleasure and rewards to many others
as well as ourselves.

' Largely (in our case again), this has been due to my wife, a gradu-
ate of Michigan and one-time reporter for the New York Tunes in
Moscow. Her enthusiasm for the “island life,” her liking for people in
general, and her ability to cope with her major source of supplies some
1400 miles away in New York must, in anybody’s language, call for
unusual adaptability and resourcefulness. Some come to wonder but all
that I know of stay to admire.

With our two sons we live alone (except for workmen and servants)
on this semi-tropical island about three months of the year. The rest of
the time we have visitors from the States — members of the Club, their
guests and others we know in one way or another. We see them at their
best, away from their normal worries, relaxed, and recharging the
batteries as some of them put it. Entertaining them always combines
business with a lot of pleasure for us.

It has never been an easy life despite the romantic belief to the con-
trary. During the past fifteen years I have had either to build or re-
build six boats, starting with our first small native sloop and ending up
with our present sixty-three-foot Diesel cruiser, I also had to learn to be

[ 69 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

our own architect, contractor, engineer, electrician, plumber, and gen-
eral mechanic. Our houses are located on a hill. All the materials for
rooms for twenty guests, each with bath (plus our own rooms and the
main house rooms) had to be brought up on donkey back. Reliable wa-
ter and power supplies — the latter for lights, freezer, radio, telephone,
etc, — are taken for granted in most places but 1 never again will be by
me.

Getting even a small part of our thousand mountainous acres pro-
ductive has also not been easy, for most everything that grows here
must be dug out by the roots; otherwise it regrows. At last, though, we
can support three hundred sheep and half a dozen “dairy” cattle. We
can catch fish at any time, can grow our own oranges, bananas, pine-
apples, etc., as well as all kinds of vegetables, and can reach out the bar
window and pick a lime off the tree to make a drink. We live out of
doors practically all the time, on terraces, some roofed and some open,
with flowering trees and bushes on them. Through a vista of other
islands we see St. Thomas, the main port of the Virgin Islands, some
twenty miles away.

Things were just starting to roll nicely when the last war came
along. We left here in 1942 and went to Haiti where I tried to get
some twelve thousand Haitian workmen to produce rubber. About
forty-five American families were sent there, twelve of which were in
our division. Practically all the men were graduates of western agricul-
tural colleges, Despite the fact that I knew how to grow rubber as well
as get on in the “bush” (which they generally wanted no part of), a
few of them resented having a Harvard graduate over them, for who
ever heard of a Harvard man being anything but a gentleman farmer?
Before we left, three years later, I had learned that the white man’s
burden has nothing on the Harvard man’s burden in some parts of the
world!

When we finally got back here, we had to cut our way up to the
houses and practically start all over again. That was much harder than
starting in the first place.

Our sons have never asked us “what is there to do now?” Other
children come down every winter and summer to share their donkeys,
boats, books, music, etc. My wife teaches them by Calvert School, an
excellent school in Baltimore used by many Americans living outside
the country.

Sailing, fishing, swimming, riding, camping trips, photography, and
practically everything else we do here are connected in some way with

[ 70 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

what we call work, so apparently we have no hobbies — except that we
still enjoy all of them. Perhaps my main hobby, therefore, can be de-
fined only as watching the sea from the terraces, with a cool drink at
hand, while contemplating the desperate state of the world.

I still vote on election day, making a sixty-mile round trip by boat to
do so by absentee ballot. Most others do not have to go to that much
trouble but apparently a lot less is more than many can handle —one
of the main reasons why American politics have been at such a low
point. Even the laziest and stupidest are apparently waking up to the
fact that unless we can successfully combat now a philosophy so savage
that it is difficult to believe that others take it seriously, the future for us
and especially our children will be more problematical than any ever
faced by Americans before.

As far as I am concerned, the end | result of living where and as we
do is that life has been eminently happy, pleasant, and satisfying, all of
which makes up for its not being really prosperous in the usual meaning
of that word. We feel that we have been very lucky —theére are few
people we envy or would think of changing places with. And there are
few regrets —on my part, only that in going to Harvard, unsuited for
it in almost every possible way, I got out of it only a small part of what
I should have, and made the acquaintance of only a few of my class-
mates. There is nothing I would like better than a chance to catch up
on that. If any of you ever plan to come down this way I hope you will

‘Jet us know.

NEWELL MEADE BIGELOW

Home Address: 207 South Rd., Lindamere, Wilmington 274, Del.

Office Address: Chambers Works, E. I], duPont de Nemours, Deepwater, N. J.

Born: June 1, 1904, Salem, Mass, Pareats: Wilbur Brooks Bigelow, Elizabeth
Bailey Meade.

Prepared at: Salem Classical and High School, Salem, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; Pu.D., 1930.

Married: Elizabeth Louise Gradwohl, March 7, 1936, Wilmington, Del.
Children: Wilbur Brooks, July 26, 1942; Barbara Ann, Jan. 30, 1945.

Harvard Brother: Edwin Amos Bigelow, 718.

Occupation: Head of Alcohol Area Laboratory, Chambers Works, duPont, han-
dling control and research work related to the manufacture of alcohol.

Member of: American Chemical Society; Alpha Chi Sigma; Harvard Club of
Delaware. .

Publications: Several patents and a few publications in scientific periodicals.

[71 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

After graduation from the College in 1926, I remained at Harvard
until 1930, when I received the degree of Ph.D. in organic chemistry.
I spent the next year in Germany studying at the University of Leipzig.
On my return home I worked for two years at the Rockefeller Insti-
tute for Medical Research in New York. Since 1933 I have been asso-
ciated with E. I. duPont de Nemours in Wilmington. My life has been
an average one, but a happy average; I might say that life has given
me gentlemen’s grades since I left the University.

ASA WHITE KENNEY BILLINGS, JR.

Home Address: 63 Longfellow Rd., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass,

Office Address: Gillette Safety Razor Co., 15 W. First St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Sept. 20, 1901, New York, N. Y. Parents: Asa White Kenney Billings
’95, Edna Peabody. :

Prepared at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1923. Degree: S.B. in Anco. (Massachusetts Inst. of
Technology).

Married: Doris Colburn, June 5, 1926, Boston, Mass. CAildren: Doris Alden,
May 23, 1929; Kenney, Nov. 26, 1933.

Occupation: Export manager, Gillette Safety Razor Company.

Military or Naval Record: Captain G—-2, 26th Infantry Division, National
Guard, Jan. 16, 1941; assigned to gth Infantry Division in England
as G—5; transferred to XII Corps; landed Normandy D-Day-+-3; dis-
charged Jan. 16, 1946, as colonel.

Member of : Salmagundi Club, New York; Down Town Club, Boston; Rio de
Janeiro Yacht Club, Brazil; Bidou Club of the World.

Publications: Miscellaneous articles for professional magazines.

After my school days, I built up a fairly satisfactory practice in archi-
tecture which was abruptly ended in 1940 when Sam got me into the
Army full-time. I was sprung five years later and joined the Gillette
Safety Razor family of which I am at the present moment export
manager, due, no doubt, to my inborn peculiarities, I dislike Commu-
nists and Democrats. Although I spent only one year at dear Harvard,
I shall always remember it for the fine associations I made and the
elegant rest I got. If I had my life to live over again, I would spend
four years at Harvard. You can’t learn bridge in one year. My kids,
like yours, are grown up so I am no longer my own boss. In fact, I
never was because I got married before they were born. Toujours gai,
Archie, and J hope you’re enjoying old age as much as I am.

[72]

Twenty-fifih Anniversary Report

HARRY LORIN BINSSE

Address: Pointe au Pic, Charlevoix, P. Q., Canada.

Bora: March 26, 1905, Madison, N. J. Parents: Henry Bancel Binsse, Eliza-
beth Hewlett Scudder.

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degree: A.B. magna cum laude, 1 926.

Married: Fairfax Fuller, Jan. 8, 1939, Flushing, N.Y. |

Occupation: Publishing.

‘The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Binsse
did not return a questionnaire.

LOUIS WILLIAM BLACK

Home Address: 316 Tappan St., Brookline, Mass.

Office Address: Goulston & Storrs, 50 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

Born: June 4, 1905, Rochester, N. ¥. Parents: Abraham William Black, Anna
Lea Liberman.

Prepared at: East High School, Rochester, N. ¥.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926, Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; A.M., 1927;
LL.B., 1930.

Married: Helene F. Brosseau, July 23, 1936, Winthrop, Mass.

Harvard Brother: Myron L. Black, ’27.

Occupation: Attorney.

Military or Naval Record: Entered service as apprentice seaman, U.S. Coast
Guard Reserve (T), Aug. 12, 1943; terminated ensign (T), Sept. 30,

1945. .
Offices Held: Sponsor, The Boston Printmakers; counsel, New England
Branch, Artists Equity Association.
Member of: American Judicature Society; Boston Bar Association ; Harvard
Law School Association; Bibliographical Society of America; Friends
of Contemporary Prints; Institute of Contemporary Art.

As I am in no way interested in the precocious achievements of the
children of my classmates or in the recreational activities of their wives
or girl friends, it is fair to assume, I believe, that in truth they are like-
wise unconcerned with matters that are essentially irrelevant to a Class
Report. What we do all want to know is how we have withstood the
shocks and stresses of the past years, and what each of us has become
and is today.

Speaking for myself, I find that there is singularly little of interest to
relate. I am proud, and at times boastful I fear, that there was nothing
I could do ten years ago that I cannot do now, either physical or mental.
I have the same wife, the same friends, the same occupation, the same

[ 73 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

interests, and practically the same amount of hair on my head that I
used to have. Whether all this indicates a commendable personal integ-
rity or only an undesirable conservatism is an open question. I have been
assured that I ought to be psychoanalyzed for my own salvation, but
also that the job would take a minimum of six years with no guaranty
as to the result. Alas, as I have neither the necessary time nor money, I
must struggle along in status quo. Perhaps in another twenty-five
years...

LEO ALFRED BLACKLOW

Home and Office Address: 100 Leonard St., Belmont, Mass.
Born: Sept. 1, 1905, Malden, Mass. Parents: Harry Blacklow, Lillian H. Her-

shenson.

Prepared at: English High School, Boston, Mass. .

Years ia College: 1922-1926. Degrees: 8.B. cum laude, 1926; M.D., 1930.

Married: Clara Cumenes, June 21, 1931, Boston, Mass. CAildrez: Robert
Stanley, June 24, 1934; Neil Richard, Feb. 26, 1938.

Occupation: Medicine. |

Offices Held: President, Waltham Hospital Staff, 1937-39, Belmont Medical
Club, 1935-38; physician, Waltham Hospital, 1934—50, Mt. Auburn
Hospital, 1937~—50; councillor, Massachusetts Medical Society.

Member of : Massachusetts Medical Society; New England Dermatological So-
ciety; Minute Man Golf Club; Beaver Lodge of Masons.

After maneuvering through Harvard Medical School and three
years of hospital internships, I decided to enter the lists of the forgotten
medical man — the general practitioner, where I have remained with
special interest in dermatology, sharpened by four years of attendance
at the Massachusetts General Hospital. This combination of general
practice and specialization has given me a unique perspective and ap-
preciation of the problems confronting each. The modern family doctor
must be on his toes constantly to practise good medicine. His life is un-
reasonably rushed, and packed with complaints, His only salvation
would appear to be “group” practice which has developed so success-
fully outside of New England.

My home life has been all that could be desired. My wife is an at-
tractive snappy girl who shares my interests in golf, baseball, Boston
Symphony and Tanglewood concerts, and Theatre Guild plays. To-
gether with our two sons (16 and 12) we have enjoyed several vaca-
tions in the late winter on a couple of occasions in Bermuda, as well as
down south; in the summer, in Maine and in the fall on the Cape
(Nantucket) and along the lower Canadian border. My wife is a good
violinist and has given several performances for local groups. Both boys

[74]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

have participated in choral, dramatic, and music groups, as well as in
basketball, football, and baseball at the Belmont High School which
they attend. .

The Blacklows are lookin g forward to participation. in the Reunion
festivities with great enthusiasm.

SIDNEY BLACKSTONE

Home Address: 2314 W. 112th St., Chicago 43, Ul.

Born: June 17, 1903, Chicago, Ill. Parents: Louis Blackstone, Anna Lieberman.

Prepared at: Chicago Public Schools, Chicago, Ill.

Years in College: 1921-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.

Married: Elizabeth Horvath, Sept. 1, 1931, Lake Placid, N.Y. Children: Joan,
Ruth, Lorraine, Rosette, Annette. .

Occupation: Retired. |

Member of : Acoustical Society of America.

Publications: Articles for semi-technical journals.

I entered the Harvard Engineering School in 1921 and after two
years in this department, I discovered a severe case of cacoethes scribendi.
(Since these are about the last words I remember from my languages
T’ll translate them into “writer’s itch.”’)

Such rather diametrically opposed drives, aptitudes, or inclinations
were certain to lead to trouble. They have torn me ever since that fatal
course in writing in my junior year —and they have led me at times a
merry, but mostly tragic, chase from pillar to post ever since, somew hat
complicated by five daughters!

After fifteen years of writing plays and verse, I went into manufac-
turing and sold out this year. One volume of verse that I'd like to for-
get about was published. One play was “tried out” but not produced.
My last play is still kicking around Broadway.

My family, psychiatrists, much less I myself, have been unable to
shed any light on the reasons for these cross-purposes which at once
have brought tremendous variety, fascination, bitterness, and frustra-
tion to me. Since I have not really made a “success” of anything, and
when compared to the very imposing records of my classmates, I must
count myself one of the greatest failures in Harvard history.

While I count it in myself and not in my stars that I am an under-
ling (though I have never been responsible to anyone), I have looked
around at humanity and the world and tried to view myself as one of
the many dislocated psyches on a disintegrating or revolutionary planet.

While our amenities are perhaps the greatest the world has ever

[75 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

known, and while I feel I have fought, and in a sense won, a desperate
battle to explore everything that was in me, I (and many others) also
feel an almost schizophrenic unrelatedness to the world (such as I had
when I still had religion ).

My conclusion in this year of grace-lessness and our ‘I'wenty-fifth
Anniversary is that in the so-called “‘superstructures” described in the
titanic and almost messianic Das Kapital, humanity may yet realize its
most complete integration and self-realization. (That is, if the H-bomb
mentioned in this Korean dilemma doesn’t beat us to it! ).

GEORGE FOWLER BLAIR

Home Address: 204 Glenburn Drive, Pittsburgh 27, Pa.

Office Address: G. C. Murphy Co., 531 Fifth Ave., McKeesport, Pa.

Born: Feb. 26, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parents: James Thomas Blair, Bessie Given
Graham.

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1921-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Emily M. Browning, Feb. 14, 1935, Scranton, Pa. Child: Graham
Kevin, Sept. 1, 1941.

Occupation: Buyer, G. C. Murphy Company, variety chain stores.

Member of : Masons, Shrine Syria Temple, Pittsburgh.

After graduating I tried several different fields of endeavor. I was
just starting out in the chain store business when the 1929 crash hit. I
stayed in this business and in 1934 became associated with the G. C.
Murphy stores. In 1939 I became a buyer, a position I now hold.

I have a home in Pittsburgh and a summer home at Stone Harbor,
New Jersey. My hobbies are fishing, home movies, and travelling.

JOHN ADRIAN BLAIS

Home Address: 105 Bartlett Rd., Winthrop, Mass.

Office Address: Hollingsworth & Whitney Co., 60 Batterymarch St., Boston,
Mass.

Born: April 29, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Charles Adrian Blais, Mary
Agnes Hurley.

Prepared at: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Acad-

, emy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Winnifred M. Pritchard, Oct. 11, 1929, Winthrop, Mass, CAildren:
Nancy, April 15, 19313 John Adrian, Jr., April 22, 1933.

Occupation: Cost accountant for a paper manufacturing company,

Member of : Cottage Park Yacht Club.

[ 76 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Following graduation I went to work for the Travelers Insurance
Company at their home office in Hartford. In 1928 I returned to Bos-
ton to become an agent, later expanding my activities to deal as a general
broker in insurance lines. Although I managed to outlast the depression
years in a field that required the acme of sales ability, I came to realize
that selling was not my forte. What was more decisive, however, was
the fact that my experience in developing insurance programs for clients
whetted a hitherto unrecognizable appetite for figures. Mathematics
was a very subordinate subject in my school curricula, merely meeting
the requirements. But this latent trend, plus an innate sense of orderli-
ness in the organization of things and the occasion of helping an old
friend and classmate in the analysis and budgeting of his financial affairs,
led me into the field of accounting.

For awhile I was with Wadsworth, Howland & Company, becoming
office manager in 1942. I became associated with my present firm in
1943 and am now cost accountant. Accounting for pulp and paper costs
is a fascinating and challenging occupation, replete with the most com-
plex problems to solve. To crown these efforts and at the gentle urging
of my wife, I boned up on Finley, Montgomery, etc., and last year
passed the Massachusetts C.P.A. examination.

Through the years I have not maintained my ties with the Class and
the College as much as I should have liked, but I do remain a perennial
football optimist. And one recent thrill was treading the stadium turf
once again at the band reunion two years ago, It isn’t often that son and
daughter have the opportunity to witness the pleasure of my reliving the
past.

Our two fine children bring to my wife and myself the greatest joy
we have today. It has been gratifying, sometimes baffling, sometimes ir-
ritating, but always exciting to watch them grow and now mature into
distinct ‘individualities. As a family we find most of our entertainment
within our home, in reading, in music, in radio and television, and in
conversation. We never find it dull; and to Harvard I owe much for this
ability to find something interesting and provocative in almost every-

thing.

ROBERT BLANEY

Born: July 20, 1903, Bar Harbor, Maine. Parents: Dwight Blaney, Edith
White Hill.

Prepared at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.; Evans School, Mesa, Ariz.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Died: Aug. 18, 1926, near Folkestone, England,

[77 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Robert Blaney received the A.B. degree with our Class and shortly
after graduation took a trip through Germany, Switzerland, and
France. He was returning by way of England when he was killed in the
crash of a passenger plane at Folkestone. He had planned an n architec-
tural career.

While at Harvard he was active in undergraduate sports. He was a
member of the freshman rifle team, University rifle team, and, in his
sophomore year, the pistol team. For several years he was a member of
the 150-pound crew. He participated in the activities of both the Mid-
dlesex Club and Evans School Club, serving as secretary-treasurer of
the latter in his final year. He was a member also of the Cercle Francais

and an officer in the U.S. Army Reserve Corps.

SEYMOUR BLAUNER

Address: c/o Mrs. Martha Blauner, 25 Central Park, W., New York, N. Y.
Born: Oct. 1, 1905, New York, N. Y. Parents: Isidore Blauner, Martha Jacobs.
Prepared at: Townsend Harris Hall, New York, N. Y.

Years im College: 1922-1924.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Blauner
did not return a questionnaire.

ELMER JARED BLISS, JR.

Home and Office Address: 76 Mt. Vernon St., Boston 8, Mass.
Born: ‘May 18, 1904, Brookline, Mass. Parents: Elmer Jared Bliss, Lina Hard-

Prepand at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

Years ta College: 1922-1927.

Married: Edith Sears Bartow, Nov. 29, 1934, South Orange, N. J. C4ild:
Henry Thompson Woodland, Jr., May 12, 1929 (stepson).

Occupation: Retired.

Wartime Government Posts: Chief of procurement, distribution, and storage of
Army footwear, Office of the Quartermaster General, 1941-45.

Offices Held: President and director, Regal Shoe Company, 1933-45.

Member of: Edgartown Yacht Club (commodore); Southern Massachusetts
Yacht Racing Association (president); New York Yacht Club; Cruising
Club of America; Storm Trysail Club; Royal Swedish Yacht Club; Stage
Harbor Yacht Club; North American Yacht Racing Union; Harvard
Club of New York; Harvard Club of Boston.

A very short time after leaving college, I reported for work as an ap-

{ 78 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

prentice shoe salesman in one of the San Francisco stores operated and
owned by the Regal Shoe Company. This company had been founded
by my father and grandfather in the 1890's. I subsequently was trans-
ferred to work in our stores in Oakland, Portland, Seattle, and Tacoma,
and then finally was made manager of a small Regal store in San Fran-
cisco.

In the early part of the year 1929 I was shipped back to the home of-
fice and my weekly stipend increased to sixty, repeat sixty, dollars a
week. As I had started working at twenty-two and one-half dollars per
week, I felt that I was getting somewhere until I renewed contact with
my eastern classmates. Many of them, far abler men than I, had astutely
entered the brokerage business and were making millions. They owned
residences in Southampton and Florida, yachts, and polo ponies. I had
fallen far behind.

In the next ten years I too worked hard and finally rose to be presi-
dent of our firm which now operated eighty stores. Occasionally I was
able to help out some of the millionaires of the previous decades.

In June, 1941, I was called by the War Department to serve as a
shoe consultant in the office of the Quartermaster General. I was placed
in charge of all procurement, distribution, and storage of Army foot-
wear. The Secretary of War presented me with the medal for “Excep-
tional Civilian Service,” the Army’s highest civilian award.

After the war and following my father’s death, it was necessary to
sell the Regal Shoe Company in order to settle his estate.

Our family life has been a very happy one. While in part this is due to
the three charming individuals who make up this family, the fact that
our hobbies, travels, sports, and social life all tie in with affairs nautical
is a contributing factor. My stepson was a member of the junior crew
that won the national championship racing for the Sears Cup. My wife
has become an authority on housekeeping afloat and is a regular con-
tributor of articles to Yachting Magazine.

I have managed to participate in the activities of several yacht clubs,
including the Cruising Club of America and the New York, and Royal
Swedish Yacht Clubs, and I am president of the Southern Massachusetts
Yacht Racing Association and commodore of the Edgartown Yacht
Club. The Marine Museum at Mystic, Connecticut, is another interest.
Principally I am trying to assist in the promotion and organization of
sailing events for juniors.

Politically, while still basically a Republican, I seem to be headed for
the independent group. Issues that formerly appeared, at least, to be
purely national are now obviously international in scope. Ve all must

[79 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

work at top speed to elect and support a government that will and is able
to face the facts.

+ JOHN DEWEESE BLOSSER

Bora: Nov. 12, 1904, Chillicothe, Ohio. Parents: Peter Jacob Blosser, Kath-
erine Mae DeWeese.

Prepared at; Chillicothe High School, Chillicothe, Ohio.

Years in College: 1922~1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Margery Ann Courtright, Dec. 29, 1934, Circleville, Ohio.

Died: March 21, 1935, Chillicothe, Ohio,

John DeWeese Blosser was a member of the Phoenix, S.K., and
Speakers’ Clubs as an undergraduate at Harvard. He participated in
crew activities and was a member of the Freshman Glee Club. Follow-
ing graduation with our Class he studied law at Harvard. At the end of
three years he was qualified for work in two fields, anthropology and
law, anthropology having been his first interest. For a brief period he
did special research work in anthropology for Harvard and for Ohio
State University, at the Ohio Museum, and assisted in the opening of
the Seip and other prehistoric mounds in Ohio. However, he decided to
make law his career, was admitted to the Ohio Bar in the summer of
1929, and began to practise in Chillicothe that autumn. He served as
special counsel to the attorney general of Ohio, and on two occasions as
acting prosecuting attorney of Ross County. He was a member of the
Ohio Society of Mayflower Descendants, the University Club of Co-
lumbus, the First Presbyterian Church, the Sunset Club, and the ad-
visory board of directors of the First National Bank of Chillicothe.

Blosser suffered serious injuries in an automobile accident in the
spring of 1933. He seemed fully recovered for a while but some time
later a minor ailment developed complications which caused his death.
He was survived by his wife.

CHARLES EDWARD BOGAERT, JR.

Address: 15 Sherwood Pl., Greenwich, Conn.

Born: Oct. 22, 1903, Waterbury, Conn. Parents: Charles Edward Bogaert,
Margaret Hawthorne Mullen.

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; A.M., 1927.

Occupation: Education.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files, Bogaert
did not return a questionnaire.

[ 80 ]

 

Rey eRe

kes veg ang cok arg msgwase ua! eo gepi pate - BLEND IEEE A cca — ne Oe
ate tert le hob Sale, WES aes Sa Th SO EO ORES) chal SUE ca CUD ERR IR Hang arp age tam

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

LOUIS BOHMRICH

Home Address: 1 Thompson Pl., Larchmont, N. Y.

Office Address: United States Mission to United Nations, 2 Park Ave., New
York 16, N. Y.

Bora: April 19, 1904, Milwaukee, Wis. Parents: Louis Bohmrich, Stella
Knauber.

Prepared at: Riverside High School, Milwaukee, Wis.

Years in College: 1922-1923, 1925-1928. Degree: S.B. cum laude, 1926 (28).

Married: Elizabeth Spalding, Dec. 23, 1934, Boston, Mass. Children: Harriet
Wheeler, Jan, 24, 1936; Elizabeth, April 20, 1938; Lois, March 25,
1940; Roger Conant, Oct. 11,1948.

Occupation: Permanent staff in New York (US. Mission to U.N. ) represent-
ing U.S. in U.N. activities.

Wartime Government Posts: Secretary (Administrative Officer), Overseas Mis-
sions of the Office of Lend-Lease Administration; chief, administrative
operations, Overseas Missions of the Foreign Economic Administration ;
chief, Field Operations Staff, Overseas Missions of the Office of Foreign
Liquidation Commissioner.

Offices Held: President, S.E.C. Employees Federal Credit Union, 1935-
36, Washington, D. C., Central Federal Credit Union, 1937, Parkway
Village Community Association (Housing Center for 600 U.N. families
from §2 nations), 1949.

Member of ;: Manhattan Torch Club.

Publications: Various publications in magazines and house organs of official
speeches given before civic, professional, and social clubs and organiza-
tions; “Global Village,” special article in Colléer’s, Feb. 25; 1950.

What a twenty-five years!

On the stress and strain side: A fantastic boom, a devastating depression,
a horrible world war, a brief period to catch a breath and then — remo-
_ bilization, in the hope that our increasing power to retaliate will cause
the foe to wonder whether the game is worth the gamble.

On the pleasanter personal side: An expanding family circle with all the
intensity, joys, aches and surprises that four vigorous children can pack
into 24 short hours each day. A work program, both interesting per-
sonally and sustaining economically, with several years in Boston in the
investment counsel field followed by a long career in the federal gov-
ernment — first with the §.E.C. in Washington, later the Lend-Lease
Administration, then the Foreign Economic Administration and, since
1946, in New York on the participation of the U.S. in the manifold
activities of the U.N.

On balance: These twenty-five years keep reminding me of Wells’

[ 81 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

prophesy, “a race between education and catastrophe,” with the lead
passing from side to side with agonizing frequency. Sometimes I feel we
are all merely historical mid-wives for some kind of new world trying
so hard to be born, a world in which —through wider application of
science and a genuine democratic respect for man — our great poten-
tials may be realized.

LYON BOSTON

Home Address: 315 E. 68th St., New York, N. Y.
Office Address: Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 33 Liberty Stes New York,
N.Y.

Bora: Sept. 26, 1904, West Orange, N. J. Parents: Charles Anderson Boston,
Ethel Lyon.

Prepared at: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. magna cum laude, 19265 LL.B.,
1930; Diplomate (Rutgers Univ.), 1946.

Married: Barbara I. Hudnut, Oct. 3, 1931, Boston, Mass.

Occupation: Attorney, Federal Reserve Bank of New York.

Wartime Government Posts: Special attorney, Federal Reserve Bank of New
York, representing Army, Navy, Maritime Commission on war produc-
tion loans, since 1943; chairman, regional advisory board and later of
local board #32, New York City, Selective Service, 1940-46.

Offices Held: Assistant District Attorney, New York County, 1934-37 5 direc-
tor, Bill of Rights Commemorative Society (also secretary), since 1943,
Boy Rangers of America, since 1942, Sara Delano Roosevelt Memorial
Fund (also secretary), 1942-43; chairman board of trustees, American
School of Design, 1941-44; member executive council, American
Friends of Lafayette, since 1950; deputy treasurer, Society of Colonial
Wars, since 1949; senior warden, St. Paul’s Church, Eastchester, 1936-
46; delegate, Diocesan Conventions of Episcopal Church, 1942-44.

Member of: Phi Beta Kappa; Association of the Bar of the City of New York;
New York Law Institute; American Friends of Lafayette; Bill of Rights
Commemarative Society; Society of Colonial Wars; St. Nicholas Society;
Harvard Club of Boston; Lawrence Beach Club; Rockaway Hunting
Club; Union Club.

Publications: “The U.S, as a Creditor of Insolvent Debtors” (Pub. U.S, Govt.

1947); articles and verse in professional journals and general magazines.

After graduation from college, I liked the Cambridge climate so well
that I spent four years (to the amazement of the faculty) at Harvard
Law School, attending occasional classes and wooing the girl who later
became and remains married to me. Two summer vacations from Law
School were spent with Noel Morss digging up dead Indians in Arizona

[ 82 ]

 

. ie — eee rr io si ORT TNE ENT
ne ER aan RE RES oR

Twenty- fifth Anneversary Report

and Utah and one getting long lists of potential subscribers to drag into
the stories I wrote asa reporter on the Boston Globe.

My law degree acquired, I served as handy-man in the great Wall
Street law foundry of Hornblower, Miller, Miller & Boston from June,
1930, to the end of 1933 and again from August, 1937, to November,
1939. The interval away from Wall Street was spent in a highly dra-
matic tenure of the office of Assistant District Attorney of New York
County where I developed a taste for jury oratory and some information
that ultimately led to a fading notoriety at the hands of one Thomas E.
Dewey — to be reserved for my Memoirs.

In November, 1939, with supreme faith in the Maginot Line, a
couple of colleagues and I hung out a shingle on lower Broadway in-
scribed “Boston & Gillis.” It was a pleasant if leisurely time, but Pearl
Harbor came along and my next couple of years beat a path between the
Draft Board on which I served and the places along the Potomac where
commissions were allegedly to be had. Ultimately, despairing of gold
braid, I scrapped my shingle and, in 1943, moved over to the Federal
Reserve Bank to attend to the legal end of war production loans. (Play-
ing no favorites I accepted wages from Army, Navy, and Maritime
Commission alike. )

I found out about balance sheets and credit analysis and wound up
half lawyer, half banker, working for the Federal Reserve and engag-
ing in sadisms such as making you pay for your automobiles in far fewer
installments than you’d like. Along the line I returned sporadically to
the academic life on the Banks of the Old Raritan and in 1946 at last
earned my tickets on the Rutgers fifty-yard line as a graduate of its
Graduate School of Banking.

As an erstwhile addresser of juries I couldn’t keep off my feet; barely
realizing it I drifted into becoming a joiner of patriotic societies, a re-
storer of historic sites and a confirmed after-dinner speaker to motley
groups of bankers, diocesan conventioneers, Civil War Orphans and
Daughters of the Confederacy.

For the rest I get away from my New York desk and apartment to
cultivate weeds and build a rural retreat on Long Island, to kill sailfish
in Florida and salmon in the Gaspé, or to peer through the haze at Block
Island in predicted-log power-boat races.

No doubt the world is on the rocks. I see red when I see the Reds but
I’m still having a lot of fun working, playing, and, after nearly two
decades of married life, discovering unsuspected facets of a brilliant wife.

[ 83 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

GEORGE WILLARD BOWEN, JR.

Address: 702 Second Ave., W., Seattle 99, Wash.
Born: Oct. 5, 1904, Sea Cliff, N. ¥. Parents: George Willard, Helen Elizabeth
Hicks. .
Years in College: 1922-1927. Degree: A.B., 1926 (27).
Married: Laura Isabella Masterson, Dec. 31, 1936, Seattle, Wash.
Occupation: Government service; personnel officer and assistant director of
supply. :
The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Bowen
did not return a questionnaire.

ELIAS BURTON BOYCE

Home Address: 43, Warwick Rd., West Newton 65, Mass.

Office Address: 527 State House, Boston, Mass.

Bora: Aug. 1, 1901, Averill Park, N. ¥. Parents: Elias Biddell Boyce, Angeline
Duncan.

Prepared at: Troy High School, Troy, N. ¥; Mt. Hermon School, Mt. Her-
mon, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1924, 1925-1927. Degree: A.B., 1926(27).

Married: Rosamond Kingmon Kent, June 30, 1931, Swarthmore, Pa. CAil-
dren: Louise Elaine, June 21, 1934; Herbert Warren and Rose Duncan
(twins), Aug. 5, 1937.

Occupation: Chief of laboratory, Food and Drug Division, Massachusetts De-
partment of Public Health.

Offices Held: President, Kiwanis Club, Westfield, Mass., 1942-43.

Member of : Mt. Moriah Lodge, A.F. & A.M.

My dad was a country doctor whose material compensation for his
services was relatively small but in friendships and in what President
Eliot has called “the durable satisfactions of life” his reward was great.
When I was at Harvard, I planned to follow my degree in chemistry
with an M.D. and to set up practice. In fact, I successfully completed a
year’s work at Harvard Medical School before financial pressure in-
duced me to get out and earn some money to pay off some of my debts.

In the process of paying off my debts, I became interested in the work
of protecting the consuming public from those who sell unwholesome
food or perpetrate fraud in the food business, In 1929 I went to work
for the Massachusetts Department of Public Health as a junior chemist
in the food and drug division and have been at that work ever since. This
work at that time was under the able leadership of Hermann C. Lyth-
goe, a man of absolute integrity who would stand for no political inter-

[ 84 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

ference. He believed that the food laws were intended to be enforced
and enforced them without fear or favor. All of the professional person-
nel were under protection of civil service law and could not be fired for
doing their duty even if some of the prosecutions instituted by the depart-
ment offended the politically powerful. The problems to be solved in the
laboratory were varied and challenged the ingenuity of a food and drug
chemist. The work took on the nature of a crusade to protect the help-
less public. I believed that I had found a field of service in which I
wanted to spend my life. In 1938, when the department decided to set
up a branch unit of this work in Westfield, Massachusetts, to carry on
this work in the western half of the state, I was chosen to organize and
direct the activities of this unit. In Westfield we established another lab-
oratory for the clinical examination of foods and drugs and also a labora-
tory for biological assay of vitamin preparations. I stayed here in charge
of this unit until 1946, when I returned to Boston to become chief of the
laboratory there. The former chief of the Boston laboratory had been
promoted to take Mr. Lythgoe’s position as director.

In the business of law enforcement a layman has to deal with adver-
saries who are learned in the law and from time to time he feels his in-
sufficiency in that field. Accordingly, in 1946 I embarked on a middle-
aged venture in education and enrolled in the evening sessions of Boston
University School of Law from which I expect to receive an LL.B. de-
gree in June, 1951. Ironically, while I have been preparing myself to
assist more effectively in law enforcement, the idea that health laws
ought to be enforced by court proceedings has come into decided dis-
favor not only in Massachusetts but throughout the nation generally,
wherever the United States Public Health Service has made its influence
felt at the state level through federal subsidy.

Throughout the years I have felt that I was divinely guided into this
field of work rather than into medicine. Last year my life was spared in
an auto accident so that I am convinced that He who has upheld me in
times of stress through the last twenty years has some job still to be
done by one of my experience and training. Here’s to the next twenty
years!

PHILLIPS LELAND BOYD

Home Address: 32 Burroughs St., Jamaica Plain 30, Mass.

Office Address: 687 Boylston St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Dec. 26, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parents: Herbert Drummond Boyd, Eva
Doraine Phillips. |

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

[ 85 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; M.D., 1930.

Married: Frances Pomeroy Anderson, Aug. 31, 1929, Honesdale, Pa. CAil-
dren: David Drummond, May 29, 19305 Phillips Leland, Jr., June 1s,
19343 Stephen Fay, Jan. 4, 1936; Jonathan Safford, Oct. 19, 1939.

Occupation: Physician; general surgery.

Military or Naval Record: Entered active duty Sept. 26, 19413 major, Medical
Corps, U.S. Army; professor of military science and tactics, Boston Uni-
versity School of Medicine, 1941, 1942; assistant to the director in
charge of medical training, Headquarters, First Service Command pro-

moted lieutenant colonel, March, 1943; chief of surgical service, 184th
General Hospital, in the United States and England, 1943-453 pro-
moted colonel December, 1945; separated Jan. 30, 19463; now com-
manding officer, 35 1st General Hospital, U.S. Army Reserve.

Offices Held: President, Massachusetts Homeopathic Medical Society, 1946-
48, New England Chapter No. 12, National Sojourners, 19425 mod-
erator, Central Congregational Church, Jamaica Plain, Mass., since
1948; member advisory council, Boston Chapter of DeMolay, since
1939; chairman District IV, Boston Council, Boy Scouts of America,
since 19483 director, Boston Industrial Home; member of the board,
City Missionary Society, Boston.

Member of: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society,
Norfolk District; American College of Surgeons; St. John’s Lodge,
A.F. & A.M., Boston; Jamaica Plain Lodge, I.0.0.F.; Society of Mili-
tary Surgeons; Reserve Officers Association.

Publications: Several articles in medical journals on surgical subjects: “Mixed
Tumors of the Parotid”; “Mortality Rate of Gall Bladder Surgery”;
“Ten Cases of Tetanus in German Prisoners of War”; “Arterio-venous

Aneurysm of the Great Vessels of the Neck — Successfully Treated by
Surgery.”

My life work since college has been accomplished on two great high-
ways — one passing from the preparation for, to the practice of my pro-
fession, general surgery and medicine; and the other from the training
for, to the participation in active military service. In college the R.O.T.C.
furnished one of my major activities and afforded me happy contacts
with many of my class, especially in the summer training camps at Fort
Meade, Maryland, and Fort Ethan Allen, Vermont. In Medical School
at Harvard I turned to the Organized Reserve Corps as a hobby, and
met many prominent World War I soldiers. As an intern and resident, I
took my vacations with the “horse” artillery in the outdoors preparing
firing problems in the Vermont hills.

Following completion of my formal surgical trainin g, I joined the
active surgical staff of the Massachusetts Memorial Hospitals in Boston
and the faculty of Boston University School of Medicine. As a young

[ 86 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

surgeon I spent my time in the dissecting room, the clinic, the surgery
and the library, improving my knowledge and techniques and advanc-
ing through the lower faculty grades. At the same time my military
training continued and progressed to major, Field Artillery, and in
1940, major, Medical Corps.

I well recall the morning our newspaper blazed out “Czechoslovakia
Invaded.” Life until then had been pleasant, peaceful, and satisfying.
My home life was smooth, comfortable, and all that a man could de-
sire —a loving, interesting wife, a gracious old homestead, a family of
four active male barbarians. The last-named challenged all one’s in-
genuity and patience to mold them into worth-while additions to society.
Suddenly I knew my road had changed and that I would have to travel
my military road in earnest, not for recreation. World events moved
fast — the doctor became a major, the surgical classroom became mili-
tary science, my office and GP’s became memories. Then it was lieu-
tenant colonel and I directed the training and preparation for overseas
service of all medical units stationed in the First Service Command. My
two highways converged in the middle of the war and I was chief of
surgery in a 1,000-bed general hospital in England, directing the sur-
gical care of nearly 10,000 battle casualties and also performing my fill
of major surgery. With V-J Day I was on my way home. By November
1, 1945, after fifty-two months of active service, and after becoming a

“chicken” colonel, I was back in my civilian office, but too steeped in

ways military to cast off my Reserve ties. I thanked God it was “Doc-
tor’ again.
- There has been no great change in my medical status in these past
five years of peace. I have retrod the highway of “doctor,” finding that
my fire and enthusiasm had cooled. I was most interested in my patients,
but I was no longer interested in advancing on the school faculty or see-
ing my name in print again in the medical journals. My practice has
returned with every joy and warmth a man could wish.

A happy partnership with my father, denied many sons, ended two
years ago with his death after fifty-six years in the practice of medicine.
His way of life led him along one great highway, where mine has been
divided. I shall be ever grateful for his sacrifices, his care and interest in
trying to make me a better doctor than he. The degree of his success in
this latter effort might be demonstrated by an incident. One of his oldest
patients asked my son David, aged four, who was accompanying his
grandfather on his rounds, ‘‘Who is the best doctor, Daddy or Grand-
pat”? To which he replied, “Daddy knows the most, but Grandpa
knows best.” (I may have a diplomat in the family. )

[ 87 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Our greatest changes continue in our family of four growing boys.
The family still consumes most of our energies. The eldest boy, David,
is a senior at the University of Vermont and an R.O.T.C. cadet facing
probable call in June. Phillips, Jr., isa senior in Boston Latin, heading,
we hope, for Harvard. Stephen is handicapped by deafness and requires
special schooling. Jonathan is on the last lap to entering prep school.

My Army status has remained unchanged. As colonel, I command a
Reserve General Hospital in Boston. We had a successful tour of duty in
August, 1950, making full pages in many local papers, including the
Lowell Sun. (No slight to Lowell, but I have been assured that anyone
can “make” the Lowell Sun.) I have continued to take part in national
defense, in programs to strengthen this country at home and against
foreign aggression. National defense is no longer a function of “Minute

Men,” for it takes more than a minute to be ready to stand in defense of
our way of life. I have spent my share of minutes, it seems, but this coun-
try is worth every effort to defend it against aggression from without
and decay from within, The Great American Heritage must not suc-
cumb to bitterness and bigotry at home engendered by paralyzing ideol-
ogies of either a foreign state or a foreign church. Harvard would not be
possible in a world controlled by either! The spirit of protest must be
left strong if totalitarianism is to be defeated.
Once again my highways seem to be crossing. I hope, with millions
of other Americans, that God in His goodness will spare us from another
full-scale mobilization and world carnage. I want to remain Doctor!

CHARLES HICKLING BRADFORD

Home Address: 218 Beacon St., Boston 16, Mass.

Office Address: 520 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 15, Mass,

Born: Aug. 2, 1904, Milton, Mass, Parents: Edward Hickling Bradford, Edith
Fiske.

Prepared at: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B, magna cum laude, 1926; M.D.
1931. °

Unmarried.

Harvard Brothers: Robert Fiske Bradford, ’23, LL.B., ’26, LL.D., 48; Ed-
ward Hickling Bradford, ’26, M.B.A,, 31,

Occupation: Orthopedic surgery.

Military or Naval Record; Captain, A.U.S, Medical Corps, 194 2~46.

Offices Held: Assistant professor of Orthopedics, Boston University Medical
School.

Publications: Some medical articles in the journals,

[ 88 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Having nothing of personal interest to record in the Class Report, may
I substitute ruminations and speculations? For instance, it is amusing to
compare the environment and outlook of our college years with those of
the boys today. We lived before the Deluge, when Republicans always
held office; and from our time back as far as Grover Cleveland, there
had been but one Democratic president. Now, in contrast, the sons of
our Class do not remember ever living under a Republican administra-
tion: the New Deal is older than most of them are; and as far as they
can see ahead, Santa Claus will be pretty safe from sharpshooters.

Of course, the boys today do not know what Prohibition is, or was, so
they cannot possibly realize the innate capacity of good citizens for
wholesale violation of the law, nor can they conceive the social impor-
tance of a Speakeasy. Like ourselves, when we were in college, they have
had very little experience with hard times. They do not know what a
Crash is, nor can they appreciate the seriousness of a Depression. Will
this knowledge come to them later on with the same jolt that it came |
to us? 7

In smaller ways, Progress has deprived the present generation of little
things that loomed large in the fur-coat era. Can the modern boy find
any substitute for the swaggering satisfaction of a coonskin coat; or Is
there about town any modern headgear that gives the same sleek self-
assurance as the derby hat, purchased at J. August’s or rented from Max
Keezer? For weekend fun, does the automatic gear shift yield more en-
joyment than the tap dance we used to do on Model T Fords, with their
planetary transmission, and with their cranks, guaranteed to break our
wrists if we forgot to retard the spark?

A more serious point for the sons of our Class is that they have never,
during their thinking years, known a period of true world peace; and
they cannot have sensed what was such a current illusion twenty-five
years ago, that America could be an isolated nation. Patriotic service
confronts them as a stern, and certainly an inspiring, duty. As they come
of age, the defense of the country will rest heavily on their shoulders.
This was a prospect that never even occurred to us until it sprang up
with savage reality fifteen years after graduation.

The present world crisis will nut permit us to subside into the com-
placent attitude of simply growing older with the years. On our Twen-
ty-fifth Anniversary, we are still juniors about to enter the mature age
for assuming full leadership in our trades and professions. We cannot
escape the harsh conflicts ahead, in both domestic and world affairs. As
we look forward to the next grim decade, with its growing stockpiles of
atom bombs on both sides of the world, we may realize that everything

[ 89 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

in our previous lives has simply been a preparation to help us share the
severest trial that civilization ever faced. During the years of vigorous
activity left us, the question must and will be settled whether we, as a
nation, can establish the peace of the world without war; or whether by
war, if that becomes inevitable, we can sustain the fearful ordeal that
will fall upon us, and can redeem the liberties of mankind.

EDWARD HICKLING BRADFORD

Home Address: 218 Beacon St., Boston 16, Mass.

Office Address: F. L. Putnam Co., Inc., 77 Franklin St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Aug. 2, 1904, Milton, Mass. Parents: Edward Hickling Bradford, Edith
Fiske.

Prepared at: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926(27); M.B.A., 1931.

Married: Barbara Seavey, May 2, 1942, Belmont, Mass.

Harvard Brothers: Robert Fiske Bradford, 723; Charles Hickling Bradford,
26; M.D., °31.

Occupation: Finance.

Military or Naval Record: Active duty with direct commission, 1942; with
Army Air Corps, served in England, Africa, Italy; separated, 1 946; cur-
rently in Massachusetts Air National Guard.

HENRY GODDARD BRADLEE, JR.

Home Address: 274 Dudley St., Brookline 46, Mass.

Office Address: 201 Devonshire St., Room 626, Boston 10, Mass.

Born: May 4, 1904, Brookline, Mass. Parents: Henry Goddard Bradlee,
Marion Chamberlin.

Prepared at: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Anne Marvin Frothingham, May 14, 1938, Glen Cove, Long
Island, N. Y.. Children: Henry Goddard, 3d, Dec. 30, 1939; William
Frothingham, Nov. 11, 19413 John Marvin, Jan. 6, 1944.

Occupation: Investment management.

Offices Held: Brookline Town Meeting Member, 1944-45; trustee, Brook-
line Savings Bank, Colonial Equities; director, Home for Aged Men;

.member of corporation and vestry, Church of Our Saviour, Brookline,
Mass.

Member of : The Country Club, Brookline; Skating Club of Boston; Harvard
and Union Clubs of Boston.

After the Harvard Business School, I went into the investment man-

[ 90 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

agement field which was just getting under way and offered a promis-
ing future. I was married on May 14, 1938, to Anne Frothingham. We
are very fortunate in having three lively boys.

In the summer of 1948 I moved across the street from Colonial
Management Associates, investment managers, where I had been asso-
ciated since 1929, to set up my own small office as an investment coun-
selor. While I find that I now have to do a little of everything, my pre-
vious training and experience stand me in good stead. As my own boss I
have to work much harder than before, but it has many compensating
advantages.

Our spare time is spent trying to keep up with our three boys in their
outdoor activities. In the winter we skate and ski; while in the summer
we swim, and my wife and I play a fair amount of golf, with the boys
taking turns caddying. My recent summer vacations have been spent in
part in the Adirondacks where we have enjoyed a little fishing and
mountain climbing as well as golf. Each year working in our flower
garden is a source of much pleasure to us.

For a number of years we have taken in a good number of the Har-
vard football games, and have followed with interest the development
of the teams and the individual players. While the results have been dis-
couraging in the last few years I feel confident that the worst has been
seen and that Harvard football is definitely on the up and up.

DONALD BRADLEY

Fl ome Address: 20 Fernwood Rd., West Roxbury, Mass.

Office Address: c/o Hornblower & Weeks, 75 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Nov. 8, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: John Williams Bradley, Eliza-
beth Agnes Deegan.

Prepared at: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1925, 1926-1927. Degree: A.B., 1926(27).

Married: Mary Graham Keliher, July 6, 1934, Hull, Mass. CAildren: John
W., June 9, 19353; Mary Ellen, March 4, 1937; Elizabeth D. and

~ Esther G. (twins), Aug. 28, 1938.

Harvard Brother: Joseph Edmund Bradley, 717.

Occupation: Dealer in municipal bonds; manager municipal bond department,
Hornblower & Weeks.

Wartime Government Posts: World War II: Director, Banking and Securities
Division, Massachusetts War Finance Committee, U.S, Treasury.

Offices Held: Secretary-treasurer, Municipal Bond Club of Boston,

[91 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

MARSH WATSON BRESLIN

Adare: §81 Morris S:., Akany 3, N.Y. .

Boru: Jalv 24, 1904, Waterford, N.Y Pareati: Thomas Bresling, Helen
Marie Wasson.

Prepared at: Albany Boys’ Academy, Aluany, N.Y.

Years om Coscece: 1922-1926. Degeve: A.B., 1926.

Married: Marv F. Garry, Nov. 19, 1934, Aibany, N. ¥ CAsléren: Mark T.,
Jan. 3.1938; Michael G., March 6, 1939; Marcia H., Nov. 18, 1940;
Neil D., Jane 9, 1942; Madeline J., Nov. 21, 1944.

Occupation: Mental hygiene; assistant chief special agent.

The information printed above is from the Seerctary’s files. Breslin
did not return a questionnaire.

+ LESLIE ENGLUND BREVARD

Born: July 14, 1905, Worcester, Mass. Pareats: Joseph Hendrick Brevard,
Minnie Eva English.

Prepared at: South High School, Worcester, Mass.

Years in College: 1923-1927.

Died: Jan. 6, 1927, Cambridge, Mass.

Leslie Englund Brevard entered Harvard as a member of our Class
in our sophomore year, after completing his four-year high school course
in three years. He hoped to complete his college work in a similar period.
He was a member of the Freshman Crew Squad and Alpha Phi Alpha
Fraternity. His ficid of concentration at Harvard was biology, and he
hoped after graduation to go into medical research work. His academic
record was good, and he was on the Dean’s list for one year. He was
forced to leave college for a nme but returned in the fall of 1926 to

complete his requirements for the degree. In January, 1927, he died at
the Stillman Infirmary in Cambrid ze,

BENJAMIN BREWSTER

Home Address: Birmingham, Mich.

O fice Address; Exhy) Corp., Detroit, Mich.

Barn: Jan. 23, 1904, Dedham, Mas, Parent;: Beniamin Emmons Brewster,
Grace Barnard.

Prepared at: Dedham Hh School, Dedhara,
emy, Exeter, N. H.

Years mm College: 422-1929, Depeee S.Boim Mica, Ewes

Morried: Beatrice Fiint, Oct. 15, 1929, Mont:
July 30, 1933; Anwn, Oct. 8, agyg.

[42 |

Mas, Phillips Excter Acad-

ee
' ‘ * apoa e
wt NJ. Chiuderm: Beatrice,

“St veh i seins tenets a sl hae sat,

Twenty- fifth Anntversary Report
Harvard Brother: Theodore Otis Brewster, ’29.

Occupation: Manager technical service operations and technical contact repre-
sentative, Ethyl Corporation.

Offices Held: President, Harvard Club of Eastern Michigan, 1949-50; skip-
per, 1946-47, member ship’s committee, 1947-50, Birmingham Sea
Scout Ship Hunter. |

Member of: Orchard Lake Country Club; Harvard Club of New York; Bir-
mingham Village Players; St. Dunstan’s Guild (theatrical).

A fascination for the gasoline engine which developed prior to college
was not subdued even by the rigorous courses in thermodynamics with
Professor Lionel §. Marks, and led me to Ethyl’s engine laboratories
after my belated February, 1927, graduation. But even the love of en-
gines was cast aside when I was lured by the bosom of the sea to cross the
Atlantic in the fifty-six-foot ketch Seven Bells in 1928, with A. Goodwin
Cooke and other good Harvard men from lesser classes. Seven succeed-
ing years of frustrating jobs in the Boston area, at which I didn’t suc-
ceed, but of happy living highlighted by marriage, children, first house,
skiing, and fine times with classmates, were climaxed in 1936 by return-
ing to my engines and Ethyl, in Detroit. The accomplishments of the
next fifteen years have not been of any note but the satisfactions have
been great. It has been a pleasure and a joy to work and play in a com-
munity where a man’s recognitions and rewards seem to be directly
commensurate with the effort he puts forth.

Although Michigan can never quite come up to New England as a
place to live, it has been a very good substitute. True, the mountains are
non-existent, and the skiing is inferior, but the sailing is fine and the
community is full of wonderful friends. Nevertheless, I can’t deny that
my number one reason for being here is my job. A change, I resolve,
will bring me once more to the stern and rockbound coast.

What? Twenty-five years? They’re a jest to me! As thouch they
were days they shall sluffed-off be. Yes, my waist measures a bit more,
a grey hair shows here and there, I wind more easily, new shoes are
much stiffer, and the commuting train leaves a lot earlier, but I still have
my eye on some good climbs in the mountains, a long cruise to the is-
lands, and even a little sin, mayhap. I anticipate many a pleasant hour at
a number of hobbies-to-be, heretofore tested only sufficiently to Jearn
their delights. And yet, while entertaining all these hopes and ambitions
for the next thirty-five years, I see every sign that our country is degen-
erating with despairing rapidity into a socialized state. I believe that the
latter will lead to dictatorship, either directly or through the process of
national bankruptcy. The privileges of democracy lead inevitably to self-

[ 93 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

destruction — if not sooner then certainly later. Dare we hope that fu-
ture generations of Harvard men will make things otherwise?

SAMUEL WILLARD BRIDGES

Home Address: 47 Carisbrooke Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass.
Office Address: Walker Top Co., 263 Summer St., Boston, Mass.

Born: April 2, 1904, Brooklyn, N. Y. Parents: Samuel Willard Bridges, Caro-
line Elizabeth Britton.

Prepared at: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Dorothy M. De Nike, Sept. 8, 1928, Colborne, Ont., Canada.
Children: Samuel Willard, Jr., July 11, 1930; Robert Shaw, May 22,

1940.
Harvard Som: Samuel Willard Bridges, Jr., 52.
Occupation: Manufacturing; partner in charge of buying and production,
Walker Top Company, manufacturers of wool tops.
Member of : Brae Burn Country Club; Kittansett Golf Club; Harvard Club of

Boston; Beverly Yacht Club; Radio Society of Great Britain; American
Radio Relay League.

It would be quite a task to make my last twenty-five years sound as
thoroughly exciting as they have seemed to me in the living, particularly
when they melt together a bit in retrospect. My start in the wool business
was not heralded with any great fanfare, and I must say that I felt very
badly prepared for my father’s business except for my brief but violent
experience on the business end of the Crimson, a training for which I
have many times been deeply grateful. For two years I did my best to
learn the intricacies of wool merchandising, mostly in a rather objective
way. Then in 1928, Dorothy and I were married and shortly thereafter
I discovered that this business of mine must cease to be a hobby, and
mighty soon, too, My Dad staked me to a partnership in a small wool
topmaking company and this was the beginning of an association which
is most important to me. There is no thrill quite like that of sharing in
the creation and development of a company which eventually takes its
place in the trade, especially when the men in the organization are in
themselves an inspiration. In this day of the large corporations many of
my friends have worked harder than I and have gone much farther in
their fields, but I doubt that they’ve had as much fun for the most part
as those of us who have helped small outfits to mature into going con-
cerns.

During the years up to World War II, I took my business pretty seri-
ously and did very little by way of hobbics except to refinish the antiques,

[ 94]

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

for the most part in dilapidated condition, which Dorothy picked up here
and there around New England. This work necessitated a workshop
and first thing I knew I was violently interested in amateur radio to
which I had been addicted in pre-college days. They say a relapse of ham
radio is usually worse than the first attack. Surely this is true in my case.
The feature of my backyard in Wellesley is an eighty-two-foot tower
carrying a rotating antenna which my neighbors try desperately to ig-
nore. My radio room is a high-voltage booby trap, and for Christmas I
want above all else a confirmation card from a new country.

From the home viewpoint I feel that Pve been extraordinarily happy
for some twenty-two years of wedded bliss, an opinion which I hope
would be shared by Dorothy and the two boys. Bill, now a junior in
Harvard, aspires to be a wool merchant and has already spent a few
months of training in the business, while Shaw, aged eleven, is an electri-
cal wizard of no mean accomplishment, a fact which of course pleases
me to death. Yes, I like the way the quarter-century has treated me. If I
could have looked forward in 1926 to the family and the way of life that
has come to me, I would have jumped at it with unbelieving enthusiasm,
but when things come easily we sometimes don’t appreciate them as we
should. ’m grateful for this opportunity to count my blessings.

SAMUEL HUGH BROCKUNIER

Home Address: 390 Pine St. Ext., Middletown, Conn.
Office Address: Wesleyan University, Middletown, Conn.
Born: Nov. 17, 1903, Wheeling, W. Va. Parents: Samuel Hugh Brockunier,

Clare Sawyer Reed.

Prepared at: Nevada City High School, Nevada City, Calif.; Lowell High
School, Lowell, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; A.M., 1928;
Pu.D., 1937.

Married: Eloise Marcy, July 8, 1933, Kennebunkport, Maine. CAild: Nich-
olas, Aug, 22, 1947.

Occupation: Professor of American history and chairman of the Department of
History, Wesleyan University.

Wartime Government Posts: Instructor, Naval V—5 Flight Cadets.

Offices Held: Delegate, Connecticut Congressional District Convention, State
Convention (Democratic) ; president, Wesleyan Chapter, American As-
sociation of University Professors; secretary, Committee on Historiog-
raphy, Social Science Research Council.

Member of: American Historical Association; Mississippi Valley Historical

‘ Association; American Association of University Professors,
Publications: The Irrepressible Democrat, Roger Williams, 1940; The United States,

[ 95 ]

we

Harvard Class of 1926

American Democracy in World Perspective, 1946 (in collaboration) ; The
Making of American Democracy, 2 vols., 1950 (in collaboration).

My first enterprise was in the newspaper line with the Boston Globe,
but I found myself asking the why behind the news, and after a year of
it, I enrolled in the Graduate School at Harvard to study history and so-
cial science. My first opus was a book on Roger Williams, studying sev-
enteenth-century beginnings of American democracy. In the Harvard
Graduate School I formed enduring friendships with two outstanding
men, Billington and Loewenberg, who subsequently collaborated with
me on two books dealing with the making and meaning of American
democracy. Rinehart published the first in 1946 and the second in 1950.
At present I am working ona reinterpretation of American political in-
stitutions, both the theory and practice of which seem to me to need
critical reappraisal. In an era of increasing governmental power, it is

important to understand how we can fix direct responsibility upon those
who exercise the power to govern. I am hopeful of finding a foundation
that will give a grant for a year of research on the problem.

The life of a “prof” has been more congenial than some of you may
suppose. Anyone writing books takes it out of his hide; hours are long
and remuneration slight. But you are your own man, and you spill out
the best that isin you. Furthermore, it is fun to battle with students, and
get them to stand on their own legs and do their own thinking.

One of my hobbies is an interest in people and places, the American
people and the American scene. I have explored 46 of the 48 states, and
lived in a number. A teaching assignment at Yale, after the war, gave
me the feeling that the blue was much like the crimson. Other assign-
ments, Amherst, Connecticut College for Women, Northwestern, and
Wesleyan, convince me that the colleges are doing their job, and that
there is no decline in the American backbone as exhibited in the students
we send up to college. Times change, to be sure; and so have we, of the
Class of ’26 — perhaps in the change, some have lost perspective. But I
trust that our answers to the confidential questionnaire, such as the ques-
tions on Harvard education, will not document an aging intelligence or
failure of nerve.

CLARENCE RICHARD BROOKS

Home Address: 133, Colony Rd., Longmeadow, Mass,
Office Address: Brooks & Wallace, 1387 Main St., Springfield, Mass.

Born: April 17, 1901, Detroit, Mich. Parents: Richard Ernest Brooks, Ellen
May Walters.

[ 96 ]

.

LL

T'wenty- fifth A wniversary Report

Prepared at: Lincoln High School, Tacoma, Wash.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: $.B., 1926; LL.B., 1931.

Married: Virginia May Jerguson, May 14, 1927, Medford, Mass. CAildren:
Philip Alanson, Aug. 28, 19313; Alan Fletcher and Ellen Walters
(twins), June 23, 1936; Richard Clarence, Dec. 4, 1943; Barbara Ann,
Sept. 26, 1949.

Occupation: Lawyer.

Offices Held: Faculty, Northeastern University Law School (Springfield Div-
ision), 1932-41; Springfield City Council, 1936-39; City Property
Committee, 1937; Finance Committee, 1938; Charter Revision Com-
mittee, 1937-38; Hampden County Bar Association Committee on
Illegal Practice, 1946-48; Veterans’ Assistance, 1946-48; overseer and
director of Capitol Island (Maine) Village Corporation and Association,
since 1948; Hampden County Law Library Committee, since 1948;
Tax Section Committee on Publications, 1948, Integration of Estate
and Gift taxes, 1948, Committee on Admissions, since 1950, Federal
Estate and Gift Taxes, since 1950, American Bar Association; director,
First National Bank in Medford, 1946-50, Smith & Wesson, 1946-49,
Springfield Company, 1947-49, Ruggles Lumber Company, since 1948,
Springfield ¥YM.C.A., 1943-47, since 1949; director and treasurer,
Eastman Manufacturing Company, Inc., since 1950; corporator, Spring-
field Hospital, since 1946, Horace Smith Fund, since 1950; Red Cross

_ Disaster Committee, since 1941. -

Member of: Colony Club; Longmeadow Country Club; Boothbay Harbor
Yacht Club; University Club of Springfield; Harvard Club of Connecti-
cut Valley.

When I finished Law School in 1931, the lack of demand for my
services was, to say the least, disturbing. With family responsibilities al-
ready well established (Philip was born just two months later), I was
a not so young man in a hurry. After passing the Bar, I became associ-
ated with an office in Springfield and began the practice of law. I am still
with the same office and, with some additions, we still occupy the same
rooms,

Much of my time during the thirties was spent in court. Fees during
the first five years were meagre and I supplemented my income by
teaching evening law school classes. My principal subject was Torts, and
the preparation necessary for the proper instruction of my classes was of
considerable professional benefit as many of the actions I was trying in
court were in that field. I thoroughly enjoyed this teaching experience,
particularly during the earlier years.

In 1936 I was elected to the Springfield City Council, and during the
next four years (what with the long evening meetings of the City Coun-
cil, the various committees on which I served, and my classes at North-

[ 97 ]

ee ae 0 ca eal ahi Ti tabla enn EN et nine nsimbinemenstceleaitl,,,

Harvard Class of 1926

eastern) my family saw but little of me. I became convinced that the
outstanding political need of the community was a revision of the
Springfield bicameral form of city government. A non-partisan commit-
tee which I eventually succeeded in having appointed and upon which I
served, recommended after many months of study a non-statutory uni-
cameral form of city charter. The recommendations of the committee
met with considerable opposition, but were eventually incorporated in a
bill which was referred to the legislature. The issue was never submitted
to the voters, however, being buried in the legislature by a succession of
dilatory tactics. I feel a very deep sense of failure in the fact that Spring-
field still has its cumbersome and antiquated form of government.

After several years, I finally succeeded in convincing the very fine
lawyer with whom I was associated that I should be made a partner, and
the firm became Small & Brooks. Our practice was, for a small office,
very general. Sooner or later, we seemed to acquire some experience in
almost every field of the law. It has always been my opinion that the
breadth of experience which may be obtained in an active small office is
more interesting and valuable than the more specialized practice com-
mon in the big city firms.

Early in 1942 my partner died quite unexpectedly, and I was faced
with the problem of holding together a practice, much of which I had
not myself developed. I soon established a partnership with Dudley B.
Wallace (Williams, ’25) under the firm name of Brooks & Wallace.
Since the formation of the present partnership, the nature of my personal
practice has changed considerably, and I now go to court infrequently
though often enough to keep my hand in. I did, however, in 1948 spend
an interesting seven weeks, associated with more prominent counsel, in
the trial of a Sherman Anti-Trust case in the United States District
Court in Boston, The major portion of my time is now devoted to a gen-
eral business practice, probate, and matters concerning taxation. Re-
cently Frederick 8. Pillsbury (Dartmouth, 40), who for several years
has been associated with us, became a member of the firm.

Our family has continued to expand. Philip was followed by the twins
in 1936, then Richard Clarence in 1943, and, six years later, Virginia
prefaced her announcement of the impending arrival of Barbara by in-
sisting that I read Cheaper by the Dozen. After four years at Andover,
Philip is now a freshman at Colgate. The twins will both graduate this
June — Alan from the Fay School in Southborough, and Ellen from
Longmeadow Junior High School. When we purchased our home in
Longmeadow, we wondered if it were not too large, but when the boys
are home, it now seems small,

[ 98 J

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

We usually spend our vacations in Maine, and in 1948 acquired our
own cottage on Capitol Island in the Boothbay Harbor region. This has
afforded me an opportunity to indulge my passion for working with
tools. During the past nine summers I have built a substantial addition
to the cottage which we find very useful. I am a confirmed gadgeteer
— my basement at home is occupied not only with power tools but also
by various mechanical devices for which I have no real use, but cannot
_ resist acquiring. My golf is mediocre; I have never quite made up my
mind whether I enjoy the game or not. I no longer play squash. Bridge
is a source of real pleasure, but I do not find the time to do it justice. Re-
cently, I have developed an interest in acquiring legal prints — mostly
Spy’s and others of the Vanity Fair series.

It would be gratifying to be able to conclude this report with some
penetrating observations concerning the troubled conditions now exist-
ing and so much on the minds of all of us. The best I can do is to suggest
that much of our confusion and uncertainty is a consequence of having
little men in high places. Of one thing I am sure — the popular god Se-
curity is a false god, and the moral fibre of those who idolize it must
surely be weakened.

~ DAVID WHITEHEAD BROOKS

Born: July 21, 1895, Manchester, England. Parents: James Brooks, Bertha
Whitehead.

Prepared at: Valparaiso.

Years in College: 1921-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.

Died: May 28, 1947, New York, N. Y.

Before coming to Harvard, David Whitehead Brooks served as chief
yeoman, U.S.N.R.F. He spent April, 1917, to January, 1919, overseas
on the U.S. Destroyer Paulding. After graduation he spent two years in
the Law School. Later he was employed at the Union Labor Life In-
surance Company in New York. In 1936 it was reported by a classmate
that he had left the insurance business to work in a lumber mill in Flor-
ida. At the time of our Fifteenth Anniversary Report he was again with
the Union Labor Life Insurance Company, as branch manager, but he
had again severed his association with that company hefore 1947, the
year of his death.

[ 99 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

++ REGINALD LANGHORNE BROOKS

Born: Oct. 1, 1903, Westbury, Long Island, N. Y. Parents: Reginald Brooks,
96, Phyllis Langhorne.

Prepared at: Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

years in College: 1922-1924.

Married: Aline Rhonie Bamberger, May 26, 1933 (divorced 1937) ; Mary
Hull.

Died: Oct. 30, 1944, Miami Shores, Fla.

Reginald Langhorne Brooks spent much of his boyhood in England
but prepared for Harvard at the Hill School in Pennsylvania, While an
undergraduate he became a track star, winning his freshman numerals
and later his “H” in track. He was a member of the track and relay
teams in his freshman and sophomore years and was an Olympic runner.
He was a member of the Hasty Pudding-Institute of 1770 and the S.K.
Club.

After leaving Harvard in the middle of his junior year, Brooks be-
came a reporter for the Herald Tribune in New York. Subsequently he
joined a firm engaged in scientific poultry feeding. In 1928 he bought
his first airplane and from then on aviation was his special interest and
vocation, He became internationally known as a stunt and racing flyer
and at one time was an instructor in aérobatics. In the early 1930's he
joined the U.S. Marine Corps Reserve and was a captain at the time of
his resignation, several years prior to the war. During the war he was
active as a ferry pilot instructor.

WILLIAM BROOKS

Hume Address: 47 Winchester Rd., Newton, Mass.

Office Address: 89 Broad St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Feb. 19, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Clayton Kingman Brooks,
‘Edith Grace Harlow.

Prepared at; Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degree: A.B., 1926 (27).

Married: Harriet Kennedy, Dec. 26, 1928, Boston, Mass. CAildren: John

Kennedy, March 6, 1937; Carol Atwood, Dec. 5, 1939.

Occupation: Owner of firm adjusting claims for insurance companies.

JOSEPH HANSEN BROOME

Home Address: 9505 Monroe St., Silver Spring, Md.

Office Address: Minneapolis-Honeywell Regulator Co., 4926 Wisconsin Ave.,
Washington, D, C.

[ 100 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Born: May 10, 1904, Brooklyn, N. Y. Parents: Joseph Roscoe Broome, Matilda
H. Hansen.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. 1926. —

Married: Margaret Jackson Reed, Aug. 16, 1941, Upper Montclair, N. J.

Children: Susan Reed, Sept. 23, 1945; Joanne Reed, March 19, 1948.

Occupation: Manufacturer of automatic controls for domestic, industrial, com-
mercial and military uses.

Member of: Harvard Club of New York; American Society of Heating and
Ventilating Engineers; American Society of Refrigerating Engineers;
American Society of Agricultural Engineers.

After I had chewed up two pencil stubs and started to work on a
third, I commented to my wife that there were few, if any, earth-shak-
ing, recordable incidents in my past brief twenty-five years. I mentioned
something about its looking very monotonous, and Marnie very gra-
ciously murmured that it was a pleasant monotony, anyway. Of course,
we did drive to Los Angeles this spring, crossing the muddy Mississippi
at Memphis on the way out, and at St. Louis on the way back. We also
gaped at the oil fields of Oklahoma, peered into the Grand Canyon,
dropped down into the Carlsbad Caverns, and just about made it back
through the snows of the Blue Ridge Mountains of Virginia.

Here in Washington we have dined with a senator and congressman
or two, and the intricacies of the Pentagon no longer baffle me. My
duties occasionally take me travelling. “Then, too, my company has
shuffled me back and forth between New York and Philadelphia, and
Washington so frequently that there has been little time to settle down.
Just as we get some plans Jaid out for a bit of landscaping around the
place, we find ourselves looking for a new home.

My job still fascinates me, however, for no matter whether you are
at home, in your office, your factory or your laboratory, whether you
travel by bus, railroad train, four-engine bomber, or steamship, you will
probably find my company’s equipment. My work has taken me into
schoolhouses, hospitals, military bases, research laboratories, power

plants, and a multitude of interesting and out-of-the-way spots. More
recently it has taken me to Washington, on a somewhat different assign-
ment,

Marnie and I have two little girls (too young to come to the Twenty-
fifth Reunion) who, so help me, have never sat still for five minutes
during their waking hours, and who definitely feel that we exist for
their sole amusement, entertainment, and edification. We have discov-
ered, along with four or five million other parents, that television spreads
a peaceful calm over the household for an hour or so, come dusk.

[ ror |

Harvard Class of 1926

In case you are curious regarding my engineering activities and train-
ing, I took two years of engineering at New York “University Evening

School from 1934 to 19 36. Lalso hold a professional engineers’ license
in New Jersey.

JOHN LOTHROP BROWN, JR.

Home Address: 182 Glengarry Rd., Birmingham, Mich.
Office Address: Nash-Kelvinator Corp., Detroit, Mich.

Born: March 10, 1905, Winchester, Mass. Parents: John Lothrop Brown,
Edith Myrtle Curry.

Prepared at: Montclair High School, Montclair, N. J.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B. cum laude, 1926; M.B.A. 1928.

Married: Helen Fairfield Jillson, Greenfield, Mass. CAildren: John Lothrop,
4th, Sept. 15, 1930; Janet Douglas, June 21, 1935.

Occupation: Assistant to vice-president, Nash-Kelvinator Corporation.

Member of: Harvard Club of Eastern Michigan; Birmingham Badminton
Club.

In 1928 I joined Pratt & Whitney Aircraft as stock chaser. In 1935
I transferred to Hamilton Standard Propeller where, as assistant factory
manager, I helped to expand propeller production from 1939 to 1943.
I then transferred to Sikorsky Aircraft where, as factory manager, I
established the world’s first helicopter production line. In 1947 I joined
Nash-Kelvinator Corporation. My hobbies are badminton, dry fly trout
fishing, and tying dry flies.

LAWRENCE ROSCOE BROWN

Home Address: La Plata, Md.

Office Address: Publicker Industries Inc., 1429 Walnut St., Philadelphia, Pa.

Born: Sept. 1, 1903, Stonington, Conn. Parents: Roscoe Conkling Ensign
Brown, Bertha Backus.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1923-1926. Degree: S.B. cum laude, 1926.

Married: Anne Schmidt, Aug. 15, 1927, New York, N. Y. Children: Joanna,
March 31, 1930; Truman Roscoe, Oct. 4, 1943.

Occupation: Chemicals; assistant to president, Publicker Industries Inc.

Wartime G werament Posts: Assistant director, Chemicals Bureau, War Produc-
tion Board.

Autobiography should be a work of artistic confession, for otherwise
it is only the elaboration of statistical entries, Since a class biography can-

[ 102 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

not be the first, it would really be more appropriate for each of us to
write the lives of another. In that way, if not charm, at least greater in-
terest might be introduced. This being out of the question what remains
between the impossible and the undesirable extremes? In my own case
about all I can offer is an incoherent essay on twenty-five years with a
Harvard education in a world for which it was never designed.

I was fortunate or unfortunate enough to be still unrooted in a job
with a future when the depression came. The result was a number of
years of catch-as-catch-can employment that seemed to drift steadily
leftward: bank clerking, encyclopedia editing, The New Republic, finally
the New Deal bureaucracy. It was not a conspicuous political slanting
but simply that no one else seemed to want to hire me. In these years, I
wrote a fair number of plays that I then thought were extraordinarily
good, Today, I would not hold them so highly. I am not even sure any
longer that they are better than the plays produced in these years, for
my memory of my own is vague and of their successful rivals I cannot
recall a line.

The New Deal was, I think, the beginning of my real education. It
started with the Senate Munition Committee which, so far as I was con-
cerned, was not an attempt to discover the merchants of death but to
figure out the financial realities of World War I. Although the hearings
were chopped off when the chairman made an indiscreet remark about
President Wilson’s veracity, I still think the record of that part of the
investigation contains a mass of extremely important historical informa-
tion that has never, so far as I can see, been used to clarify the develop-
ments and disasters of that war.

Having finished a restricted study of the first war, I was soon prepar-
ing in an equally restricted, but different, field for the next one. With
the fall of France, the administration began preparing for war against
Germany. With my New Deal record, I landed with the old Defense
Commission from which in time stemmed all the alphabetical war agen-
cies. Since we were all good New. Dealers together in those early days,
everyone was assumed competent in any field he chose to supervise. By
a curious chance, no one seemed to have any yearning to manage the
chemical industry. I have always supposed that this was because, all be-
ing college men, they had taken courses in chemistry and so were terri-
fied of the subject, but never having taken courses, say in metallurgy,
felt quite competent to manage the steel industry. In any event, there
was no competition and in due course I became the New Deal’s chemical
expert.

When the going got rough in 1941, all'this had to change and men

[ 103 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

from industry were brought in, backing most of the New Dealers into
the OPA. I made a different choice. Cementing an alliance with D. P.
Morgan, ’16, I, and my little staff of “experts,” merged with the indus-
try men in OPA (later WPB) and became the Chemicals Bureau of
the WPB. With due deference to two others who were not Harvard
men and, therefore, can be nameless here, Morgan and I ran the Chem-
icals Bureau as a self-governing enclave within the WPB and ran it as
war controls should be run. We refused to let anyone — my old col-
leagues among them — use the war as a means of “reforming”’ the in-
dustry, and we refused to let anyone in the industry put his profits above
his war work. We devised, I think, the only method of industrial con-
trols that was both effective and unencumbered with reams of red tape.
Tt was an additional education to watch the zeal with which the rest of
the WPB and the other control agencies refused to try our methods. It
was also educational, but much rougher, to keep the economic theorists
from forcing us to use the monstrosities that from month to month were
the current style in industry controls. We also had a few other things to
our credit. We forced the issue on synthetic rubber, keeping discreetly
in the background, and had already started the program before the
Baruch Report existed. We also staked our reputations, and a lot of
government money, on the possibility of mass production of penicillin.
When I see it today passed out like drinking water for every ailment
from sore scalp to ingrown toe nail, it is hard to remember that only
seven years ago its distribution was a matter of life and death.

With the end of the war, I felt I wanted no more education —at least
at government expense — and set out to try making a living for my
family. The field has been the chemical industry, and at least I have
managed to make a living.

PHILIP KLEIN BROWN

Home Address: 191 Waban Ave., Waban 68, Mass.

Office Address: Promotions, Inc., 175 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

Born: June 7,1904, Hamilton, Mass. Parents: Jonathan Brown, Jr., Magdalen
Louise Klein.

Prepared at: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Rachel Hanover Grant, June 18, 1926, Boston, Mass, Children:
Gloria Grant, July 12, 1927; Philip Klein, Jr., April 23, 1930.

Harvard Sum: Philip Klein Brown, Jr.,’§2.

Occupatim: President of Promotions, Inc., primarily known as a model
agency, the Hart Agency.

[ 104 ]

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Offices Held: Chairman of Public Information, Newton Chapter, Red Cross.
Member of : Longwood Cricket Club, Waban Neighborhood Club.

As the above dates indicate, I was married before the ink on my di-
ploma was dry. We honeymooned in Hawaii, and I then went to the
Business School. I got fed up with it during the second year, and re-
signed to take a job waiting for me in the brokerage business. Vhings
were fine until the 1929 crash. ‘Then I found that my skin was too thin
to absorb the miseries and suicides of people with whom I had been sur-
rounded (on top of my own difficulties), so I quit the game to go with
a small new outfit concerned with heating and air conditioning for
homes. The early ’30’s turned out to be no time for such a venture. The

company folded and I joined the vast army of unemployed.
In 1934 I was persuaded to join the sales staff of Transit Advertisers,

Inc., selling posters and car cards on the railroads. After about seven
years of this unexciting business, I was made New England manager of

the company.
After the war got under way, I tried to join the Navy — for no par-

ticular reason except that I thought I might be able to help. However,

they discovered I had had a collapsed lung about twelve years before,

and turned me down flat. So the closest I ever got to the war was being
an Air Raid Warden. I often wondered if my friends in the service ever
realized what we went through.

About three years ago I left my advertising position to go into my
present company as an associate of an old friend of mine, Francis Hart.
The corporate name is Promotions, Inc., but it is better known as the
Hart Agency, and our Hart models are as fine and lovely a group of
girls as you could ask for, besides being top fashion models. Fran Hart
died in December, 1949, and I then became president of the company.
To a few of the girls I’m “Mr. Brown,” but to most of them Pm
“Uncle Phil” — and brother, if you don’t think I love it, you’re crazy.

Ray, my wife, has always been interested in a couple of well-known
Boston charities, and has served them faithfully for many years in one
sfficial capacity or another. During the war she was head of Motor
service for Red Cross in Newton, and did a good deal of hush-hush
vork with departing ships in Boston.

My daughter Gloria was graduated from Beaver Country Day
chool. She didn’t like sitting around and soon got herself a job with
‘eck & Peck. The experience thus gained led to an offer from R. H.
rearns to join them when they opened the new store in Chestnut Hill.

1e IS engaged mostly in personnel work, but is officially the secretary to

e manager.

[ 105 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Young Phil, after graduating from the Choate School, started at
Harvard with the Class of 1952. He was extremely discontented as his
sophomore year got under way and resigned — with my blessing, |
might add. He passed the remainder of the year by taking a course in
television at Emerson College. As the international situation developed,
it became clear that his number would come up in the early part of 1951,
His heart was set on the Air Force, so he enlisted in October and is now
attending a radar technical school in Biloxi, Mississippi.

I have no particular hobbies though I do have asmall workshop in the
cellar where I putter from time to time. I did quite a bit of radio work in
the major Boston stations for a few years, but the ham in me must now
be content to express itself through the amateur dramatic group at our
local Neighborhood Club, where we do some very acceptable jobs twice
a year. Politically, I am not so much a Republican as I am a violent
Truman-Democrat hater. But I won’t go into that, or this book won’t

be published until 1955.

+ VICTOR HENRY BROWN

Born: Sept. 12, 1904, Batavia, N. ¥. Parents; George Paterson Brown, Mabel
Ellen Ernest.

Prepared at: Batavia High School, Batavia, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1923, 1925-1928. Degree: A.B., 1926 (28).

Married: Katherine Margaret Ellis, Sept. 24, 1932, Oak Lane, Pa. (divorced

1945+
Died: Feb. 6, 1951, Reno, Nevada,

Victor Henry Brown entered Harvard with our Class but left for two
years after our freshman year. He returned in 1925 and graduated in
1928 as of our Class. After college he joined the Standard Oil Company
of New York and at the time of our Sexennial Report was in the Socony
Foreign Service Marketing Department. At various times he was sent
to Seoul, Korea, Yokohama, Japan, and Calcutta, India, returning in-
termittently to the United States. In our Twentieth Anniversary book
he reported that he was sales manager.

AUSTIN MOORE BRUES

Home Address: 1221 E. 57th St., Chicago 37, Ill,

Office Address: Argonne National Laboratory, P.O, Box 5207, Chicago 80, lil.

Born: April 25, 1906, Milwaukee, Wis. Parents: Charles Thomas Brues,
Beirne Barrett.

Prepared at: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass,
[ 106 |

Twenty-fifth Anntversary Report

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. magna cum laude, 1926; M.D.
cum laude, 1930.

Married: Mildred Carter, June 1, 1930, Petersham, Mass. CAsldren: Roger
Austin, Feb. 10, 19333 Nancy Carter, Oct. 29, 19343 Charles Thomas,
2d, Nov. 20, 1937.

Occupation: Physician and biologist; director of biological and medical re-
search, Argonne National Laboratory (U.S. Atomic Energy Commis-
sion); associate professor of medicine, University of Chicago.

Wartime Government Posts: Municipal investigator, Office of Scientific Re-
search and Development; senior biologist, Metallurgical Laboratory,
Manhattan Engineer District; internist, Boston Induction Center;
member, Atomic Bomb Casualty Commission to Japan.

Offices held: Director, American Association for Cancer Research, 1945-49.

Member of : Society for Clinical Investigation; Society for Experimental Biol-
ogy and Medicine; New England Cancer Society; Chicago Society for
Internal Medicine; Society for the Study of Development and Growth;
Central Society for Clinical Research; American Physiological Society;
American Association of Anatomists; American Association for Cancer
Research; Association for the Study of Internal Secretions; American
Association for the Advancement of Science; Society for Freedom in
Science (England); Harvard Club of Boston; Quadrangle Club (Chi-
cago) ; Appalachian Mountain Club.

Publications: Between 50 and 100 scientific and medical papers, reviews, and
contributions to books.

After graduating I went to the Harvard Medical School and received
my M.D. in 1930. At that time I cherished the notion of going into
neuropsychiatry, but after an internship in internal medicine at the Mas-
sachusetts General Hospital, I became interested in laboratory research
and medical teaching. I spent about thirteen years around the Harvard
Medical School, chiefly doing cancer research at the Huntington Me-
morial Hospital under the Harvard Cancer Commission. During this
period, I was also a tutor in biochemical sciences at the University and
made ward visits and teaching rounds at the Peter Bent Brigham,
Massachusetts General, and Boston City Hospitals.

During 1935-36 I held a Moseley Travelling Fellowship and did
cancer research at the Royal Cancer Hospital, London, also visiting var-
ious centers in western Europe. I took my wife abroad, also Roger and
Nancy, aged two and one at that time. A year later, we acquired
Charles, who completes the family to date.

During the early part of the war I was assistant professor of medicine
at Harvard and was Responsible Investigator for the Office of Scientific
Research and Development, studying the physiology and treatment of
traumatic shock. I also examined a few thousand hearts and roughly

[ 107 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

twice as many lungs at the Boston Induction Center, filling in at odd
moments with the practice of medicine, because of the shortage of doc-
tors in the area, |
In November, 1944, I was called to the Metallurgical Laboratory of
the University of Chicago, under the Manhattan Engineer District of
the Army, to work on the medical and biological effects of various ma-
terials encountered in the atomic bomb business, and became associate
professor of medicine at the University of Chicago. At the end of the
war the laboratory was transformed into the Argonne National Labo-
ratory, as one of the regional research laboratories of the United States
Atomic Energy Commission, and I am at present director of biological
and medical research. ‘This entails some administrative work and some
travelling about the country (also, during the past few years, Japan and
England), but also leaves me a reasonable amount of time for experi-
mental medicine and cancer research.

I am a scientific academician by background and at heart and some-
times wonder how I got myself in the position of managing (the fashion-
able word is “directing” ) a research laboratory under a government
contract. The tendency of research to become subordinate to a program
or to a master mind who has been forced to lose contact with it, and ad-
ministrative complexities borrowed from means to efficiency in buying
and selling things are not peculiar to governmental laboratories but
show evidence of invading the cloistered areas as well, It is a consider-
able challenge to try to see clearly the way to preserving some of the
vitality of prewar research before its attitudes are forgotten. All this re-
lates to only one of the acute stresses and strains of the brave new decade,
but happens to be the one with which J have more than the average re-
lation.

We live in the immediate neighborhood of the University of Chicago,
which is one of very few closely-knit academic communities located in a
large city. We all have a variety of relatively simple hobbies, and some-
times think we should rather be back on the New England farm, but so
far the local intellectual vigor and vitality about things-in-general has
acted as an opiate, or perhaps rather as benzedrine. I have no particular

social or political convictions that stray far from the average for our
class, I should say. I find it impossible to be on either fringe, of those who
want everything the same or of those who want everything different
(whether by emotion or for profit). I have faith that this attitude, how-
ever old-fashioned, will lead us out. .

{ 108 ]}

Twenty- fifth Anmversary Report

FRANK BRYANT

Home Address: 10 Ridgeway St., Mount Vernon, N. Y.

Office Address: McDonnell & Co., 120 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

Born: Sept. 5, 1904, Worcester, Mass. Parents: Frederick Bryant, M.D., ’oo,
Mary McHugh.

_ Prepared at: St. John’s School, Worcester, Mass.

Years in College: 1923-1927. Degrees: S.B., 1926 (27) ; M.B.A., 1929.

Married: Katherine M. Ray, May 3, 1937, Chestnut Hill, Mass. C4ild:
Katherine Ariadna, Oct. 31, 1940.

Occupation: Investment management.

Member of : Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New York; Echo Bay
Yacht Club.

RICHARD DAVID BUCK

Home Address; 6 Avon Pl., Cambridge 40, Mass.

Office Address: Fogg Museum of Art, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

Boru: Feb. 3, 1903, Middletown, N. Y. Parents: Louis Ira Buck, Florence
Huxtable.

Prepared at: Middletown High School, Middletown, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degrees: $.B., 1926 (27) 3 A.M., 1934.

Married: Robina Hirsch, June, 1939, New York, N. Y. Children: Christopher
David, 1941; Jeremy Robinson, 1943.

Harvard Brother: Warren James Buck, ’28.

Occupation: Conservator ; conservation of museum objects at Fogg Museum.

Member of : International Institute for the Conservation of Museum Objects.

Publications: Articles in Journals and bulletins.

After a quick look at France and Italy, I spent six years at Harvard
and Wheaton College teaching fine arts. During the mid-thirties there
was a spate of reflection and varied employment and then I returned to
Cambridge to join the staff of the department of conservation at the
Fogg Museum. Since that time my life and that of my family have been
bound up with the problems of caring for and treating works of art. It
has been an extremely interesting activity, often baffling, occasionally
controversial, in which one must reconcile the materials of objects, and
the defects that are inherent, with the ideas they were designed to ex-
press,

Shortly after Pearl Harbor the emergency protection of works of art
became a peculiarly desperate problem at the Fogg Museum as at all
eastern museums. The cause may not have been so much the threat of
actual war violence, as the emergency handling.and storage that seemed
necessary at that time, With my family I moved to the Harvard Forest

[ 109 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

for a year and a half to watch our collections in hiding, and to carry on
a part of our laboratory routine.

In 1949, as a curious aftermath of the English pother over their
cleaned pictures, I was asked to take a year’s appointment at the National
Gallery in London to help establish a shop for the structural treatment
of some of their cripples. It was a sobering experience to live with that
great collection for a year. It was challenging, too, for Robin and the
boys to establish a household under the shadow of Harrow School. Now
back, we are eating better, and we drive a car again, but we recall many
compensations provided by the Labor Government, the BBC and even
by the Health Service.

But for the fact that we are now seriously planning a new hideout for

World War III, P'd have cause to be very happy.

HARRY CHARLES BUHRMESTER, JR.

Home Address: 21148. Ninth St., Lafayette, Ind.
Office Address: 308 N. Eighth St., Lafayette, Ind.

Born: July 18, 1905, Logansport, Ind, Parents: Harry Charles Buhrmester,
Alta May Frush.

Prepared at: Schenley High School, Pittsburgh, Pa. e

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926 (43); M.D.
1930.

Married: Hedwig Nagel, Nov. 1, 1936, Imsbach, Germany. Child: Annette
Caroline, Nov. 30, 1938.

Occupation: Physician.

Military or Naval Record: Neuropsychiatrist, Air Corps, 1942-46.

Publications: Two scientific papers in German.

After varied experiences following medical school, I became restless
and went to Heidelberg for one year and worked under Professor Vik-
tor von Weiszaeker in the neurology clinic. While there I married Pro-
fessor Krehl’s best nurse and also published a paper with Alfred Prinz
Aversberg, who was up from Vienna to study. I was elected a.0.a.H. zu
Heidelberg, V.D. St., in other words, in one of Bismarck’s favorite stu-
dent fraternities, thus becoming as intimate with student life as Mark
Twain, if not more so.

Thave settled down to the delightful life of a small city, not too small,
not too large, and near enough to Chicago to enjoy its scientific and rec-
reational advantages.

Vacations are enjoyed in the Texas Big Bend country to such an ex-

tent that I now consider myself an authority on Brewster County,
Texas, and would like to retire there,

[ 110 ]

Twenty- fifth Annrversary Report

HENRY ADSIT BULL, JR.

Home Address: P.O. Box 1662, Delray Beach, Fla.

Born: April 4, 1905, Buffalo, N. Y. Parents: Henry Adsit Bull, ’95, Cornelia
Rumsey Wilcox.

Prepared at: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Daphne Van Beuren Bayne, Dec. 18, 1936, New Vernon, N. J,
(divorced 1941). CAild: Alexander, Feb. 25, 1941.

Occupation: Writer.

Wartime Government Posts: Worked on War Advertising Council, Council of
Books in Wartime, New York City Patrol Corps.

Member of : Coffee House Club; Harvard Club of New York; National Press
Club, Washington, D. C.

Publications: Newspaper and magazine articles, chiefly literary, theatrical, and
art criticism,

From Harvard I went straight to Europe for a little more than a year
of travel, visiting many of the subjects studied in courses at the Fogg and
learning more French, German, and Italian.

On my return I worked briefly at Tame, and then became an assistant
editor of International Studio, a seventy-five-cent art magazine. I started
writing about antiques and architecture, then travel, and was given the
job of layout man. I edited copy by all sorts of art experts, from Beren-
son down, and handled the book review department. The depression
brought an end to luxury advertising from galleries and antiquaries and
as the International Studio ceased American publication and combined
with the same publisher’s C onnossseur in England, I was gradually shifted
over to Town &9 Country magazine. On Town & Country J did a little
of everything, writing a regular department of personality interviews
twice a month. In the summer of 1930 I was invited by the Swedish
government at their expense to the Stockholm exposition and went on to
U.S.S.R. on my own. The condition of the country was so discouraging
that I lost all sympathy for the regime. I brought back first reports and
illustrations of the great western paintings that had been confiscated
from private collectors by the Communists — Matisses, Picassos, van
Goghs, etc.

When the editor of Town &F Country left in 1935, I was given his
place and, due to hard times, worked out a new program that I hoped
would put the magazine in a better position. We consolidated the two
editions per month into one, dropped most of the society background,
and developed a new following of readers and advertisers that responded
to more art, better writing, and more serious subjects. My most faithful

[ xix J

Harvard Class of 1926

contributors were Ludwig Bemelmans, Sir Osbert Sitwell, and Evelyn
Waugh, none of them as well known then as they have since become.
Bernard Shaw, Ortega, and Julian Huxley were among the others. Our
French writers included Saint-Exupery, Cocteau, Morand, Maurois,
Colette, Camus, Sartre, and Jules Romains. We commissioned covers
and illustrations by Dali, Berman, Tchelitchew, Dufy, MacIver, and
Frank Lloyd Wright. On travel and politics we printed Herbert L.
Matthews, John Gunther, Quincy Howe, Vincent Sheean, Marquis
Childs, Edmund Wilson, etc. I enjoyed working with these people and
was happy to see that American advertising could be made to pay for a
magazine that gave them fair pay and a certain style of presentation not
easily found elsewhere.

In 1946 the magazine celebrated its centenary as the second oldest in
America. There were editorials in the New York Times and Herald Trib-
une, and scrapbooks full of other publicity, but Hearst, who had added
Town &9 Country to his collection in 1925, was not satisfied to pass on
any more of the large profits to a staff that had been working at low pay
before the war, and then had its meagre salaries frozen. for the duration.
Seeing all the advertising that our prestige program had helped to bring
in, the management wanted more and more commercial tieups, espe-
cially for fashion and cosmetics. I was not interested in seeing the high-
brow qualities swamped, or in trying to drive a staff that I felt was un-
derpaid, and I resigned. During my last years I had doubled as the
magazine’s theatre critic and enjoyed a membership in the Drama Crit-
ics Circle. I lectured and took candid camera photographs, profession-
ally.

Since 1947 I have been living in Delray with my son, Sandy, writing
some criticism and working recently on a book. Last summer I went
to New England for two months’ work at the MacDowell Colony.

About a dozen years ago, I Jaunched in print a series of humorous
mistranslations of familiar French expressions under the title of “Simpli-
fied French.” After the fall of France, the latest examples of my inven-
tion and collection were printed, some with illustrations under the re-
vised heading “Free French.” It is this vogue which has been revived
and expanded by persons totally unconnected with its early days in print.
I have read of its bringing in many thousands of dollars under the alias

of “Fractured French,” but not a penny of tribute has come my way.
During the war I attended a course at the Command and General
Staff School at Fort Leavenworth. If I made any real contribution to
the war, it was through a Latin-American program that I worked out
and carried through in Town & Country under considerable handicaps

{ 112 }

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

and through developing a kind of serious reporting of war conditions
that made a direct appeal to a travelled, and not easily reached, public.

LAURENCE ELIOT BUNKER

Home Address: 46 Chestnut St., Wellesley Hills, Mass.

Office Address: Office Commander-in-Chief, GHQ, APO 500, San Francisco,
Calif.

Born: June 27, 1902, Wellesley, Mass. Parents: Clarence Alfred Bunker, ’89,
Mary Hawthorne White.

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1920-1922, 1923-1926. Degrees: A.B. magna cum laude,
1926; B.A. (Univ. of Cambridge), 1928; LL.B. (New York Law
School), 1938; M.A. (Univ. of Cambridge) 1950.

Unmarried.

Harvard Brother: Raymond Thayer Bunker, ’24, S.B., ’26.

Occupation: Lawyer; at present on extended active duty with the United:
States Army as Aide-de-Camp to General of the Army, Douglas Mac-
Arthur. .

Military or Naval Record: World War II: commissioned lieutenant colonel,
AUS, Feb. 18, 1942; promoted colonel, Aug. 18, 1944; assigned Army
Group, Washington, D.C., active duty Feb. 18, 1942; relieved and
assigned to Station “X,” Australia, Feb. 20, 1942; headquarters, U.S.
Army Forces in Australia, March 28 to July 20, 1942; headquarters,
U.S. Army Services of Supply, Southwest Pacific Area, July 20, 1942,
to Dec. 25, 1943; duty in office of General Purchasing Agent, March
28, 1942, to Feb. 26, 1943; member, April 18, 1942, to Feb. 26, 1943,
chairman, April 18 to July 26, 1942, Nov. 2, 1942, to Feb, 26, 1943,
temporary chairman, July 29 to September, 1942, Board of Contracts
and Adjustments; designated senior member, Board Appointed for Pur-
pose of Investigating and Reporting on Claims, Aug. 26, 1942; head-
quarters, U.S, Army Forces in the Far East, secretary of the General
Staff, Feb. 27 to Oct. 13, 1943, assistant to Chief of Staff, Dec. 1, 1944,
to June 9, 1945, member and vice-chairman, Foreign Claims Commis-
sion, SWPA No. 31 (Employees Compensation), March 9, 1943, to
Nov. 17, 1944; detailed in the General Staff Corps with Troops, March
II to Oct. 13, 1943, March 20, 1945, to July 11, 19463 second senior
representative of General MacArthur at meetings of UNRRA Commit-
tee of the Council for the Far East and its subcommittees in Sydney and
Lapstone, N.S.W., Jan. 15 to Feb. 21, 1945; general headquarters,
Southwest Pacific Area, Oct. 14, 1943, to Nov. 26, 1944, office of Dep-
uty Chief of Staff; general headquarters, U.S. Army Forces, Pacific,
office of Deputy Chief of Staff, June 10 to Dec. 18, 1945, Office of
Chief of Staff, Dec. 19, 1945, to April 13, 1946, Office of the C-in-C,
since April, 1946, president, Awards and Decorations Board, June 12

[ 113 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

to July 23, 1945, detailed in the General Staff Corps, June 10, 1945,
to July 11, 1946, aide-de-camp to General of the Army, Douglas Mac-
Arthur, since July 12, 1946. Awarded U.S. Distinguished Service
Medal for period March 28, 1942, to June 9, 1945, U.S. Legion of
Merit for period June 10, 1945, to June 30, 1946, U.S. Air Medal,
Nov. 24, 1950, Commander, Order of Orange-Nassau (Netherlands),
Asiatic-Pacific Theatre Ribbon with three stars for New Guinea, Leyte,
and Luzon campaigns, World War II Victory Ribbon, Army of Occu-
pation Ribbon, Philippine Liberation Ribbon with one star, Philippine
Independence Ribbon.

Member of: (Honorary), Phi Beta Kappa (Harvard College, 1926); Phi
Delta Phi (New York Law School, 1936); New Commonwealth Soci-
ety, International Section; English Speaking Union, Melbourne Chap-
ter (honorary vice-president, 1942-44); (life member), Delta Upsilon
Fraternity; New Commonwealth Society; Harvard Law School Alumni
Association; New England Historic Genealogical Society; (other),
English-Speaking Union of the United States (member board of direc-
tors, 1941-42); Foreign Policy Association; Harvard Club of New
York; Harvard Club of Japan (vice-president, 1946-47, president,
1947); Phi Beta Kappa Association in Japan (honorary president,
1947-48), Cambridge and Oxford Society of Japan; Wellesley Hills
Unitarian Society.

An older friend of mine, who had played an important and active réle
in public affairs for a long time, when approached by a writer seeking to
collaborate with him on his memoirs, replied that he much preferred
making history to writing it. Willy-nilly, I find myself in a comparable
position, where the history-making assignment in which I have been ab-
sorbed since the last Class Report leaves me no time to write the history
of my “career” since leaving college. It has been a fascinating and at
times exciting experience, serving these past five years as ADC to Gen-
eral MacArthur and thus sitting at the center of the history-making Oc-
cupation of Japan, Working closely with this great American — watch-
ing his masterly statesmanship in meeting the intricate political problems
that have confronted and surrounded him, his inspiring and evocative
leadership of a large staff of varied capacities and philosophies, and his
deft and wise assumption of the temporary guardianship of Japan’s des-
tiny, seeking to understand and share the sources of his deep and abiding
convictions and belief in the validity and universal applicability of Chris-
tian and democratic principles, and striving to function on a not too
much lower level of intelligence and activity—all this has been in-
tensely interesting and stimulating, but has left little time for family,
travel, hobbies, or careful analytical formulation and exposition of social,
political, and religious convictions. Not that the convictions are not

[ 114 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

there; they are. But entirely lacking is the time for organizing and phras-
ing them in the persuasive and eloquent terms they merit. Some day it
may be different and then there will be time and opportunity to pick up
the old threads of friendship again, exchange the detailed reminiscences
and survey together past achievements and future plans. At present it has
to be a mumbled and apologetic “I’m so sorry! I’m so terribly busy.
p29

May I join you later:

EDMUND JOSEPH BURKE

Home Address: 1073 Brush Hill Rd., Milton 86, Mass. _

Office Address: Hale & Dorr, 60 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

Born: Aug. 29, 1905, Boston, Mass. Parents: Jeremiah Edmund Burke, Ma-
tilda Catherine Lynch.

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; LL.B., 1929.

Married: Josephine Judith Sullivan, Feb. 6, 1937, Boston, Mass. Children:
Judith, Sept. 3, 1938; Edmund Jeremiah, May 9, 1940; Philip, May
I, 1942; Brian, Nov. 14, 1943.

Occupation: Lawyer; partner, Hale & Dorr.

Wartime Government Posts: Chairman, Allocations Appeal Board, Office of De-
fense Transportation; member, U.S. Civil Service Commission, Board
of Legal Examiners; member, Voluntary Participation Committee, Of-
fice of Civilian Defense; adviser, Office of Procurement Division, First
Service Command.

Offices Held: Member, Board of Governors, Catholic Alumni Sodality of
Boston, 1937-39; member of council, Boston Bar Association, 1943—
46; chairman, Committee on Unlawful Practices of Law, Boston Bar
Association, 1942-48; trustee, The Living Flame Memorial Fund,
1945-473 vice-president, Boston Latin School Alumni Association, since
1949; trustee, Milton Cemetery, since 1947.

Member of: Harvard Club of Boston; University Club (Boston) ; Wollaston
Golf Club (Quincy) ; Cliff Country Club (Maine) ; American Bar As-
sociation; Massachusetts Bar Association; Boston Bar Association; Nor-
folk Bar Association. .

Publications: Articles for the Boston Bar Association Bulletin.

My practice of the law for approximately twenty-two years has not
been dull. It has been a stimulating experience with practically every
day presenting a new and different problem.

There have been the trials in court with their formality, hearings be-
fore administrative bureaus with their informality, taxes, the stimulating
reaction of a favorable verdict, the depression of an adverse one, taxes,
the bar at the Parker House when the jury was out (taxes forgotten),

[ 115 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

labor union leaders nght and left, the clients who were rich, the clients
who were poor, the introverts, the extroverts, and even the perverts —
and ever and always, taxes.

Perhaps it is just the natural result of growing older, but it seems to
me that the réle of the lawyer has expanded in twenty-two years. From
a purely legal adviser, he seems to have become a general business con-
sultant. He is not only the “family lawyer” but also the “‘labor relations
consultant,” the “investment counselor,” the “tax consultant,” and the
“estate planner” all rolled into one — with the bright young men from
“The Law School” as his assistants, of course. He is often called upon to
decide whether a business should be expanded, contracted, consolidated,
or liquidated —somebody else’s business——and, although he should
sleep easier at night since it is the other man’s wealth and fortune that
are at stake, yet come the traditional ulcers! |

In spite of the frequent need to be pragmatic, however, I believe that
my realization of the basic need of sound legal principles has not been
dimmed nor my sense of moral responsibility to my clients deadened.
Even in the days during the war, when expediency was the rule applied
by governmental agencies, we tried to apply legal principles, although
usually without much success.

There have been some occasions when, perhaps for no fee whatso-
ever, it has been possible to perform real service for some client in dire
need — such as the young man I kept from going to jail and started ina
new job at which he is now a success. From that type of service there is
real satisfaction. ‘The trouble is that it happens too seldom.

However, the greatest satisfaction I believe has come from one of my
quasi-legal tasks — that of a joint trusteeship with my charming wife of
the destinies of our four lovely and lively children. I find I devote more
and more time and energy to their comfort. I am truly amazed that I
find myself being slightly unselfish in their behalf, Their activities seem
to motivate all the changes in an otherwise well-established routine. |
know that they account for less golf and for the plot of land that is large
enough to have a baseball diamond or a football field. And then, of
course, the rodeo! In spite of my fewer rounds on the golf course, I have
found time to pursue this hobby sufficiently often to get my second hole-
in-one last September — after an interval of fifteen years.

The conclusion is that I have enjoyed the twenty-five years since we
left the Yard at Harvard, and if to say the years have been enjoyable
exudes complacency or satisfaction and recalls the words of St. Augus-
tine “where thou has pleased thyself, there thou abidest and if thou say-
est I have enough, thou perishest,” then may we perish slowly!

{ 116 J

Twenty-fifih Anniversary Report

JOHN JOSEPH BURRIS

Home and Office Address: St. Mary’s Rectory, 211 N. Main St., Randolph,
Mass. ,

Born: Jan. 12, 1904, Dorchester, Mass. Parents: James Burris, Julia A. Casey.

Prepared at: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; A.M. (Boston Univ.),
1936; A.M. (St. Thomas Seminary, Denver, Colo.), 1937.

Unmarried.

Harvard Brother: James Earl Burris, D.M.D., ’28.

Occupation: Priest, engaged in parochial work.

Offices Held: Headmaster, teacher, Catholic Central High School, Anaconda,
Mont.; superintendent, teacher, Cathedral High School and Grammar
School, Helena, Mont.; teacher, Boys’ Catholic Central High School,
Butte, Mont., St. Mary’s High School, Katonah, N. Y.; professor of
church history, Emmanuel College, Boston, Mass.

For part of some five years after graduation from Harvard I was in
the business world. I was with the Shell Oil Company in Boston and the
factory branch of the Kelvinator Corporation in Cambridge during this
period. I was engaged in sales work for both of these organizations.

Meanwhile I had decided to begin studies leading to the Catholic
priesthood. After having taken work in philosophy at the Boston Col-
lege Pre-Law School, I entered St. John’s Seminary in Brighton where
I spent four years in philosophical and theological studies. In the fall of
1935 [entered Boston University where I spent a year in the Graduate
School of Arts and Sciences, majoring in education and minoring in so-

ciolggy. During that year I was on the staff of the Ellis Memorial House
in Boston and for a part of the time held a practice teaching appointment
in biology in the Science Department of the Brookline High School. I
received my A.M. degree from Boston University in 1936. In the au-
tumn of that year I decided to associate myself with the diocese of Hel-
ena (Montana) and the bishop sent me to St. Thomas Seminary in
Denver, Colorado, to complete my clerical studies, At the end of my
course I received an A.M. degree from that institution, I was ordained
to the preisthood on May 29, 1937, at St. Patrick’s Church, Butte,
Montana. |

Educational and parochial work were my preoccupation in the West
until the fall of 1942. Having decided to return to the East, I entered
the archdiocese of New York where I spent some time in educational
and parish activities. Later I returned to the archdiocese of Boston
where I have also done some teaching and parish work.

[ 117 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Our age has become a materialistic and paganistic one, in which s0
many people are filled with a spirit of greed and selfishness; so many
prefer to rely on their own self-sufficiency and the wonders of a mecha-
nistic age and to disregard God and His divine help. In our time we have -
had one devastating world war followed by a second, and now the black
clouds of a third global conflict overshadow us. No man, no government
can leave God’s counsel out of its considerations and deliberations with-
out disaster. A new world of peace and prosperity could be built on the
foundation stones of love of God and love of our fellow-man in the se-
rene and blessed atmosphere of charity and justice.

HOWES BURTON

Home Address: Meadow Farm Rd., East Islip, Long Island, N. ¥.

Office Address: Townsend, Dabney & Tyson, 14 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

Born: Nov. 8, 1903, New York, N.Y. Parents: John Howes Burton, ’90, Marie
Digna Brooks,

Prepared at: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Sarah Endicott Dexter, June 21, 1926, Boston, Mass. Children:
Anne-Marie, Sept. 17, 1927 (m. John L. Carson, 3d, July 27, 1946);
John Howes, 2d, March 25, 1930. Grandchildren: Sarah Ellen Carson,
May 20, 1947; Carol Louise Carson, Dec. 8, 1949.

Occupation: Partner in firm of Townsend, Dabney & Tyson; member of New
York Stock Exchange.

I was married on graduation day and at that time I had every inten-
tion of entering the family cotton goods business in New York; how-
ever, my wife’s illness made it necessary to return to Boston where I
went to work in a stock brokerage office. Eventually I became a partner
and in 1929 I had a seat on the Exchange in New York. This ended
disastrously late in 1930 and the future looked pretty hopeless when, by
great good luck and the influence of my classmate, Jack Adie, the un-
used Stock Exchange membership of the present Townsend, Dabney &
Tyson was turned over to me in January, 1931. These past twenty
years during which I have been their representative in New York have
been most pleasant ones for me.

My hobbies have always been of the hunting and fishing type. About
fifteen years ago we were presented with our first Labrador Retriever.
What a small thing to affect two lives! My wife and I have been devot-
ing an increasing amount of our time to breeding, raising, training, and
showing this breed in bench and field, and in judging all retriever
breeds, Our most intimate friends are our retriever friends and we have

[ 118 ]

T wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

pretty well covered the country competing and judging. My wife has
been president of the Women’s Field Trial Club and I have been presi-
dent of the Long Island Retriever Field Trial Club and of the National
Retriever Field Trial Club. I am now secretary and treasurer of the
Labrador Retriever Club.

ROGER BURTON

Home Address: 88 Plandome Court, Manhasset, Long Island, N. Y.

Office Address: Ketchum, Gina & Sharp, 227 E. 44th St., New York, N. Y.

Born: Dec. 13, 1904, Erie, Pa. Parents: Ramsay Burton, Mabel Lucia
Mooney.

Prepared at: Academy High School, Erie, Pa.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; B. Arcu. (Columbia
Univ.), 1934.

Married: Agnes Dodge Squier, Sept. §, 1936, Brooklyn, N. ¥.. Children:
Mary Lucia, Oct. 2, 1937; Elizabeth Squier, Nov. 5, 1941.

Occupation: Architect.

Offices Held: Board member since 1934, president, 1945-47, Alumni Asso-
ciation of Columbia School of Architecture; member school board, Man-
hasset, 1946-49.

Member of : American Institute of Architects, since 1943.

From 1926 to 1930 I was making and selling plumbing brass for the
Hays Manufacturing Company, Erie, Pennsylvania. During the next
four years I was a student at Columbia School of Architecture, and from
1934 to 1940 held various architectural jobs to fight off the depression.
From 1940 to 1947 I was on war work with engineering firms, work-
ing on the design of Army bases, magnesium plants, fertilizer plants, tin
smelters, etc., and since 1947 I have been an associate in the firm of
Ketchum, Gina & Sharp, architects.

‘There have been great satisfactions in my life thus far and few disap-
pointments. It is a delight to watch my own small part of the younger
generation developing. Through them we have become intensely inter-
ested in the public schools. This has led to activities in relation to the
schools both on citizens’ committees and as a member of the local school
board. In turn this has led to participation in the activities of the Metro-
politan School Study Council of Teachers’ College and to interest in the
design of decent public schools. Unfortunately, many of the schools that
were built in our high school days are still the prototypes for schools be-
ing built today — the impressive facade and entrance doorway, and the
poverty-stricken congestion of facilities inside. Some of us are trying
hard to change this.

[ 119 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

For the past year much of my professional activity has gone into the _
planning and administration of construction of a shopping center in
Framingham. This takes me back to Boston and Cambridge at frequent

intervals. It is pleasant to retrace my steps in those places twenty-five _
years later.

HOWARD MILLARD BUTTERFIELD

Home Address: 68 Spring St., Port Henry, N. Y.
Office Address: Republic Stee] Corp., Port Henry, N. Y.

Born: May 24, 1901, Ann Arbor, Mich. Parents: Kenyon Leech Butterfield,
Harriet Emma Millard.

Prepared at: Amherst High School, Amherst, Mass.
Years in College: 1924-1926, Degrees: A.B, cum laude, 1926; A.M., 1927.
Married: Marjorie Pauline Martin, Feb. 11, 1931, Rouyn, P.Q., Canada,

Children: Kenyon Martin, June 13, 1932; William John, May 5, 1936;
David Lloyd, Aug. 17, 1939.

Harvard Brother: Victor Lloyd Butterfield, A.M.,’33, PH.D., ’36.

Occupation: Mining geologist; (Assistant Chief) Geologist, Department of
General Mineral Exploration, Republic Steel Corporation.

Military or Naval Record: Officers’ Training School, Plattsburg, N. Y., 1918.
Second lieutenant, U.S.F.A. Reserve, 1925-30.

Wartime Government Posts: Officer, Office of the Metals Controller, Dept. of
Munitions and Supply, Ottawa, Ont., Canada, September, 1942, to
May, 1944. .

Member of: Association of Professional Engineers of Ontario; Canadian Instr

tute of Mining and Metallurgy; Geological Association of Canada;
Masons.

Publications: “Geology of the Horne Mine,” Canadian Mining Journal, 19353
“Geology of the Preston East Dome Mine,” Canadian Mining Journal,
1941.

As is probably true more often than not with others, my decision to
enter the profession of mining geology was based on mixed motives. Al-
ways in the background was the sense that in assisting to expand our
reserves of mineral raw materials I would be contributing to the growth
of our material civilization. Probably not at all subordinate were a fond-
ness for travel and out-of-door life, and the knowledge that with luck
and good judgment the financial return could be handsome.

My career points up the generalization that fate, or fortune, bears an
important and often decisive part in the lives of men. In 1927 I tooka
summer job in Canada. No one was more surprised than I when at the
end of the summer I “walked into” a permanent job that eventually
placed me well up in my profession in Canada, and the visit of three of

[ 120 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

four months stretched into a sojourn of nearly twenty-one years. This
first job lasted nine years, followed by a succession of jobs and eventually
a prosperous consulting practice which withered and died after the re-
turn of the Canadian dollar to parity with the U.S. dollar in 1946, and
the consequent shrinkage of mining exploration. Three years ago I ac-
cepted my present job, in which I am very happy, except that the hous-
ing problem has not been solved to our satisfaction. Homo proponit ...!

These nearly twenty-five years have seen reasonably satisfactory pro-
fessional success, while the financial end has been a little less than satis-
factory. We'd be doing all right if it weren’t for taxes and inflation. And
of the latter, the country is experiencing what has happened to every
nation in history that has abandoned the use of gold to back its currency.
Inflation, public immorality, and official venality have always resulted.

Our family life, while reasonably happy, has had its ups and downs.
The three years’ separation during the war left scars slow to heal. Our
eldest son, Kenyon, had neither father nor mother in the years when he
most needed both. Asa result of that, and frequent changes of school, he
has been uncertain and slow in maturing, with the scholastic record of
one of far lower I.Q. Only this year, as a senior at Admiral Billard
Academy, does he appear to be approaching his potentialities. John is a
freshman in the local high school and shows promise as a basketball
player, in spite of being the smallest boy on the squad. David, our fat
one, is all American boy, and is in the sixth grade. Our lives have been
centered on helping these three boys grow up and consequently they
have never lacked interest, and sometimes have been exciting.

Since the boys were old enough we have made a practice of fairly
regular church attendance, which usually falls off in the summer. I have
had an increasing conviction of the need of religious faith in the life of
man and as a doer of good in the world, but have found no particular
denomination entirely satisfying. Since moving to Port Henry we have
been Presbyterians.

At one time mildly socialistic in my thinking, I have learned that
Socialism can never deliver what it promises, with or without a corre-
sponding loss of individual freedom. Our American system of private
enterprise is the best that has yet been devised, but still leaves room for
improvement. Competition must be made truly free, but without allow-
ing the clever to grab everything in sight. One of our greatest unsolved
problems is substantial reduction of the spread between the prices re-
ceived on the farm and those paid by the ultimate consumer. And I don’t
mean a Brannan Plan!

Sports include golf, bowling, a little fishing, and still some skiing. A

[ 121 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

cabin cruiser helped while away many summer weekends for several
seasons, but had to be left in Canada,

WILLIAM BYRD, JR.

Home Address: 2800 Quebec St., N.W., Washington, D, C.
Office Address: Naval Ordnance Laboratory, White Oak, Md.

Born: Jan. 7, 1904, Short Hills, N. J. Perens: William Byrd, ’97, Rita Fox.

Prepared at: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degree: S.B. in E. Encin. cum laude, 1927.

Married: Alice Luce, Oct. 20, 1928, Cohasset, Mass. Children: Mary, Sept. 4,
1931; Alice, Sept. 12, 1934.

Occupation: Chief of Field Evaluation Division, Naval Ordnance Laboratory,

Military or Naval Record: U.S. Navy; entered lieutenant, March 19, 19423
received citations from Secretary of Navy, Commander-in-chief, Pacific
and U.S. Pacific Fleet; commendation from commanding general, 20th
Air Force; separated commander, Jan. 18, 1946.

Member of : American Society of Electrical Engineers; Instrument Society of
America.

Publications: Eight US. patents; others pending.

Between graduation and the spring of 1942 I held engineering posi-
tions in a utility company and in three electrical manufacturing con-
cerns. I also spent some time in developing independently several types
of equipment for separating materials by magnetic and electrostatic
methods and in serving as a consultant in the separations engineering
field. My war duties were of a technical nature and chiefly concerned
mine warfare. On release to inactive duty, I secured a sales engineering
position in the electrical wire and cable manufacturing business. Re-
cently, I took leave of absence to fill a civilian assignment in weapons
development for the Navy.

Until 1946 my home was in Princeton, New Jersey, and in Brook-
line, Massachusetts, from 1946 until October, 1950, when I moved to
Washington. While living in Brookline, I found time to design, build,
and test electromagnetic devices for a small manufacturing company in
Needham for which I am technical adviser and a director.

I enjoy golf, tennis, surf swimming, skeet, fishing, and hunting. I
have always liked dogs, and have raised-and trained English springer
spaniels. I became interested in aviation as an undergraduate and there-
after flew and maintained a small plane until the middle thirties.

Alice and I are now getting settled in our two-room Washington
apartment which represents a rather extreme change from our Brook-

[ 122 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report
line home. Mary is in Smith College, Class of 53. Alcy goes to Winsor

School in Boston where she has another year before entering college.

STEWART SCOTT CAIRNS

Home Address: 607 W. Michigan Ave., Urbana, III.

Office Address: University of Illinois, Urbana, Ill.

Born: May 8, 1904, Franklin, N. H. Parents: James George Cairns, Laure
Dorion,

Prepared at: Saugus High School, Saugus, Mass.; Chelsea High School,
Chelsea, Mass. |

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. magna cum laude, 1926; A.M.,
1927; Pu.D., 1931.

Married: Kathleen Hand, June 20, 1928, Chelsea, Mass. CAildren: James
Donald, Aug. 7, 19313; Charles Edward, Nov. 6, 1935.

Harvard Son: James Donald Cairns, 52. :

Harvard Brother: Thomas Dorion Cairns, ’23, Pu.D., ’33.

Occupation: Professor of mathematics and head of department, University of
Illinois.

Military or Naval Record: Commissioned lieutenant commander, U.S. Naval
Reserve, 1949.

Wartime Government Posts: Member several groups under Applied Math Panel,
N.D.R.C.; consultant, Army Air Forces Board.

Offices Held: Member, Council of American Mathematical Society, 1946-
48; vice-chairman, Division of Mathematical and Physical Sciences of
National Research Council.

Member of: American Mathematical Society; Mathematical Association of
America; American Academy of Arts and Sciences; Phi Beta Kappa;
Sigma Xi; Pi Mu Epsilon; Harvard Club of Chicago.

Publications: About eighteen articles in mathematical research periodicals.

In June, 1926, I had no long-range plans but was wavering among
a number of interests. Partly as a device for postponing decision, I en-
tered the Harvard Graduate School and obtained an A.M. in mathe-
matics, the subject with which I had been most successful. About the
same time I became engaged to Kathleen Hand, We were married in
June, 1928, and spent the next fourteen months in Europe where I
studied as a Travelling Fellow from Harvard.

In the fall of 1929 I became an instructor on the faculty of the fresh-
man year at Yale and, during the next two years, did what I could for
the enlightenment of Yale men. In the meantime I completed the Ph.D.
requirements in mathematics at Harvard, receiving the degree in 1931.

After two years at Yale, I shifted to Lehigh University, with my wife

[ 123 ]

sd

Harvard Class of 1926

and our newly-born son. The next five and a half years passed most
pleasantly in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, among our friends in the town.
My professional life was devoted to mathematical research. I worked
hard and published rapidly, partly for pleasure and partly to become es-
tablished in a competitive field, For the same reasons I took a year’s
leave of absence ( 1935-36) in order to do research at the Institute for
Advanced Study in Princeton.

Feeling that opportunities for advancement were too limited at Le-
high, I accepted in February, 1937, an assistant professorship in the
newly-formed Queens College of the City of New York. With my wife
and our two sons I moved to Flushing, where we settled down to enjoy
the pleasures and advantages of New York City for over nine years, in-
terrupted by the war. In February, 1944, I obtained leave from Queens
and went to Orlando, Florida, as mathematical consultant to the Army
Air Forces Board and as a liaison between it and various groups under
the Applied Mathematics Panel of the N.D.R.C. I remained there un-
til late in 1945 and contributed to a number of A.A.F. Board projects.

Since World War II, I have continued to maintain a certain degree
of activity in military research, feeling that war might well come again
in my time, and feeling very desirous of maximizing my usefulness if it
does. About a year ago I accepted a commission in the U.S. Naval Re-
serve, with a classification implying a special type of duty, for which I
wished to be earmarked.

After one postwar semester at Queens College, I accepted the chair-
manship of the Syracuse University Mathematics Department. I passed
two years in that post doing both pure and applied research, and devot-
ing special efforts to the development of the graduate and research pro-
grams in mathematics, We acquired a large and pleasant house where
my wife applied her talents as interior decorator to excellent effect.
There our elder boy completed his preparations for Harvard. He en-
tered the Class of 1952. He has now finished his sophomore year.

In 1948 we moved to Illinois whither I was lured by the opportuni-
ties associated with the headship of the mathematics department. ‘The
department is well organized from the viewpoint of a head who wished
to devote a considerable proportion of his time to his own research, to
off-campus activities in the interests of science, and to appropriate public
service. Along these lines I have continued with pure and applied re-
search work and have also served on a number of committees, In par-
ticular I have been vice-chairman of a liaison committee between the
mathematicians and the National Military Establishment, with the mo-
tive of promoting proper utilization of scientific manpower in the na-

[ 124 ]

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

tional interest. I have served as chairman of a committee under the
National Research Council, successfully recommending the establish-
ment of a separate Division of Mathematical Sciences in the N.R.C. I
am at present occupied as chairman of the nominating committee of the
American Mathematical Society. Recently I have agreed to serve on a
special panel of the Research and Development Board. |

During the past two years my enthusiasm for the University of IIli-
nois has continued to grow, and we shall all be more than content to
remain there indefinitely. The faculty is friendly and interesting; the
administration is very codperative in the furtherance of scientific devel-
opments, and we have even acquired a house much to our liking. Our
second son has finished his freshman year in University High School and
has Harvard on his mind.

JAMES CORCORAN CALLAHAN

Home Address: Indian Avenue, Middletown, R. I.

Office Address: 10 Bull St., Newport, R. I.

Born: Jan. 4, 1904, Newport, R. 1. Parents: James Joseph Callahan, Catherine
Marie Corcoran.

Prepared at: Rogers High School, Newport, R. I.

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; M.D., 1930.

Married: Ruth Elizabeth Byrne, Sept. 8, 1934, Newport, R. I. Children:
Alice Dale, April 29, 1936; James Byrne, March 14, 1942.

Occupation: Surgeon.

Offices Held: Surgeon, 1936—50, chief of surgery, since 1950, Newport Hos-
pital; former Medica] Examiner, Newport County; former member
Board of Health, Newport; board of managers, Industrial ‘Trust Com-
pany, Newport Branch; chairman, board of trustees, ‘Thompson Schol-
arship Fund, Newport; director, Newport Trust Company, Rhode
Island Cancer Society.

Member of: American Medical Association; American College of Surgeons;
New England Surgical Society; New England Cancer Society; Harvard
Club of Boston; Harvard Club of Rhode Island; University Club of
New York.

When I was very small, I was taken to the office of our family doctor
in Newport. The purpose of the visit I cannot recall. The result I have
always remembered. I was fascinated by the doctor himself, and the
trappings of his profession. I was particularly fascinated by the Harvard
seal that hung in his reception room, From that time on, I wanted to be
a doctor; I wanted to go to Harvard Medical School, and I wanted to
practise in Newport. Twenty-five years after my graduation from col-

[ 125 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

lege, I can report that I am a doctor. I can also report that I received
my degree from Harvard Medical School. Finally, I am practising in
Newport. I might add that I own and occupy the office where I first saw
the Harvard seal.

This fulfillment of a boyhood ambition is my only accomplishment.
Perhaps it is evidence only of a one-track mind. As in any long-term ~
operation, there were many important steps. One of these brought me
to Harvard College after I had already spent two years at Brown.
Hence, my membership in the Class was short — only two years, and
my friends proportionally few.

The Medical School, the Boston City Hospital, and the Boston Ly-
ing-in Hospital prepared me for my entrance into private practice which
was undertaken in 1934. After seven years, recognizing certain defi-
ciencies in my surgical background which could not be corrected in a
small town, I went to the Pondville State Cancer Hospital at Norfolk,
Massachusetts. I remained in residence there for fifteen months, return-
ing to Newport in 1942, Declared essential in a defense area, I remained
in Newport during the war years. Since then, I have had one more ex-
cursion into postgraduate study. I spent the academic year 1949-50 in
New York where I was enrolled in the graduate course in surgery at
New York University — Bellevue Medical Center. As a result, I have
been made eligible for certification as a specialist by the American Board
of Surgery.

This briefly summarizes a career in a minor key. It has left little time
for extra-curricular activities. It has been pleasant and satisfying. It was
made possible by sacrificing parents, and by a patient and understanding
wife, With her, I am trying to bring up two children in such a way that
they will appreciate what Harvard and all the free institutions in Amer-
ica mean to them and their future,

NELSON ROBERT CALLEY

Address: c/o J. K. Calley, 2112 Leavenworth St., San Francisco, Calif,

Born: Jan. 1, 1895, Oakland, Calif. Parents: Elias Jarrel Calley, Neil Laurette
Nelson.

Prepared at: Chauncy Hall, Boston, Mass.; Stone School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1925.

Married: Jean Campbell, Sept. 16, 1946, Seattle, Wash,

Occupation: Real estate broker.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. The
Secretary has learned that Calley was in San Francisco until about 1 939

[ 126 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

when he left for Laguna Beach near Los Angeles. In about 1944 he
left there and engaged in a general cargo shipping business. He did not
return a questionnaire.

LEROY ARCHER CAMPBELL

Home Address: South Harwich, Mass.

Office Address: Emerson School for Boys, Exeter, N. H.

Bora: Sept. I, 1902, Amherst, Maine. Parents: Winfield Scott Campbell, Car-
rie Lena Archer.

Prepared at: Bangor High School, Bangor, Maine.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; B.D. (Andover-Newton
Theological Inst.), 1930; Pu.D. (Yale Univ. ), 1938.

Married: Catherine Mary Close, June 14, 1928, Rockland, Maine. Children:
Bruce Stanton, March 23, 1929; Judith, Feb. 15, 1932.

Occupation: Director of guidance, Emerson School for Boys.

Member of : Newcomen Society of England; American Antiquarian Society.

I have spent most of my life in some kind of educational institution,
including Harvard. After four years of teaching ancient history and
more or less related subjects, such as classical languages, world history,
and political science, I went to Worcester Academy as headmaster. That
was in December, 1942.

Nearly eight years of trying to solve financial problems was quite
enough. I resigned on September first of this year, happy to give the
board of trustees the privilege of hatching their own eggs. Believe it or
not, on the same day that my resignation took effect Ralph Turner,
Harvard ’28, now head of the Emerson School, got in touch with me to
see if I would come to Emerson to help him with the school in a teaching
and advisory capacity. So, here I am.

During June, July, and August of this year my wife and I built a
small house for ourselves at South Harwich, doing the work ourselves.
I can now claim to be a mason, carpenter, painter, and master of all
other related crafts.

In codperation with the Yale Classics Department I have written a
book on the art and ideology of Mithraism, with the intention of publish-
ing it in the Yale Classical Studies, but the book became so long that now
there is a serious problem of space and cost. ‘Thus it goes with too much
learning. The results of carpentering are more certain, and probably
just as useful.

[ 127 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

ELISHA CANNING, JR.

Home Address: 11 Meda Pl., White Plains, N. Y.

Office Address: New York Telephone Co., 140 West St., New York 7, N. Y.

Born: Feb. 10, 1904, Brookline, Mass. Parents: Elisha Canning, Ada Grace
Perrigo.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years sm College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. 1926.

Married: Florane Crooke, Sept. 8, 1931, Meriden, Conn. CAildren: John

Elisha, May 3, 19343 Peter Crooke, Jan. 25, 1937; Helen Louisa,
March 29, 1940.

Occupation: Trafic engineer, New York Telephone Company; suburban,
Manhattan-Bronx-Westchester area,

Member of: Federal Grand Jury Panel, Southern District, New York.

From dire necessity I take the train and subway five times a week and
that’s that.

For fun my wife and I sail when the breezes are ladylike. At other
times we couldn’t get the boat away from the kids in any case. On occa-
sion we enjoy watching the good three-year-olds and handicappers,

preferably at Belmont or Saratoga — at Jamaica only when the Jockey
Club sends a posse after us.

JAMES LEONARD CANNON

Address: 32 Kimberley Ct., Oakland 11, Calif.

Born: Sept. 15, 1903, San Francisco, Calif, Parents: Henry Lewin Cannon,
Grace Kenton Lemon.

Prepared at: Palo Alto High School, Palo Alto, Calif.

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degrees: 8.B., 1926; M. Arcu., 1929.

Married: Ruth Burnett Morrison, Aug. 25, 1928, Salinas, Calif. CAild: Marc
Morrison, Oct, 4, 1943.

Occupation: Architect (retired),

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. The Sec-
retary has learned that Cannon is now an architectural draftsman
working in the East Bay region and dealing primarily in school work.
He served in the Navy during World War IT. He did not return a ques-

tionnaire,

[ 128 ]

T'wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

RAYMOND CHARLES EMILIO CAPRONI
Address: 3533 Granada Ave., Dallas, Texas.
Born: Aug. 17, 1903, Providence, R. I. Parents: Henry Caproni, Mary Bon-

dina.

Years in College: 1922-1926.
Occupation: Manufacturing of women’s wear; office and credit manager.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Caproni
did not return a questionnaire.

CARL LAWRENCE CARLSON
Born: July 31, 1904, Newport, N. H. Parents: Anton Carlson, Therese

Lorentz.
Prepared at: Santa Barbara High School, Santa Barbara, Calif.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: 5.B. 1n IND. CHEM. magna cum laude,

1926.
Died: April 13, 1941, Boston, Mass.

Carl Lawrence Carlson entered the Engineering School in 1922
where he became an honor student. He was awarded several scholar-
ships: Buckley, 1923-24; Bowditch, 1924-25; Henry and Jonathan
M. Parmenter, 1925-26. His memberships included the Boylston
Chemical Club, of which he was vice-president in 1925-26, Tau Beta
Pi Society, Alpha Chi Sigma Fraternity, and the Harvard Engineering
Society. After graduation he became research assistant in sanitary en-
gineering in the Engineering School and, on June 20, 1927, he joined
the Merrimac Chemical Company as a research chemist. He trans-
ferred, three years later, to the lacquer division of the company, and ulti-
mately became assistant supervisor of that division. He held that position

at the time of his death.

FRANK MORTON CARPENTER

Tome Address: 94 Pleasant St., Lexington, Mass,
D fice Address: Biological Laboratories, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

3orn: Sept. 6, 1902, Dorchester, Mass, Parents: Edwin Arthur Carpenter,

Maude Frances Wall.
-repared at: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass. |
ars in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. magna cum laude, 1926; S.M.,

1927; 5.D., 1929.
Larried: Ruth Frances Scace, June 1, 1932, Pittsfield, Mass. Children: Alden
Bliss, Feb, 23, 1936; Ellen Ruth, March 4, 1938; Cynthia, Feb. 13,

1941,
[ 129 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Harcard Brother: Edwin Francis Carpenter, ’22.

Occupation: Professor of zodlogy and entomology, Harvard University.

Offices Held: Curator of Fossil Insects since 19363 associate professor of
entomology, 1939-45; professor of entomology and Alexander Agassiz
Professor of Zodlogy, since 1945, Harvard University.

Member of: American Academy of Arts and Sciences (fellow) ; Entomological
Society of America; Phi Beta Kappa; Geological Society of America.

Publications: Eighty technical papers on entomology, totalling 1300 pages.

After graduation I continued my studies at Harvard at the Bussey
Institution for Applied Biology, and three years later took my doctorate
with Professors W. M. Wheeler and C, T. Brues. I was fortunate
enough then to be appointed for three years to a National Research
Council Fellowship at the Bussey. When the latter institution was trans-
ferred to Cambridge, merging with the Department of Biology, I came
along with it. During the next few years I was at the Harvard Museum
of Comparative Zodlogy as an assistant curator. Later I became an in-
structor in entomology and have remained with the University ever
since. For six months at the end of the war, I was exposed to the prob-
lems of administration, serving as associate dean of the Graduate School
of Arts and Sciences, It was an interesting and enlightening experience,
and increased my respect and admiration for the present administrators
of the University, especially the president and provost.

Since my instruction is at an advanced level, my classes are composed
mainly of graduate students. However, this is the sphere of instruction
that interests me most and it is the one in which Harvard makes a unique
contribution.

ANDRES GREGORIO CARRILLO

Home Address: Calle 18 #27, Miramar, Havana, Cuba.

Office Address: Carrillo y La Guardia, 222 Cuba St., Havana, Cuba.

Born: Dec. 24, 1906, Guanabacoa, Havana, Cuba. Parests: Antonio Carrillo
de Albornoz, Maria Teresa de la Guardia.

Prepared at: Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.

Years in College: 1923-1927. Degree: S.B., 1926 (27).

Married: Ethel Marie Routh, Oct. 25, 1941, New York, N. Y. Children: Elena
Ana Mercedes, July 26, 1942; Andrés Juan, Nov. 23, 1945.

Harvard Brother: Antonio Miguel Carrillo, ’26,

Occupation: Partner, general insurance agency, representing American, British,
and Swiss insurance companies writing fire, casualty, and marine insur-

ance; vice-president and general manager, Scfuros Mundial, a Cuban
bonding company.

[ 130 ]

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Offices Held: President, Cuban Institute of Marine Underwriters, 1941;
Cuban Association of Automobile Underwriters, 1943-44, Cuban Asso-
ciation of Fire Underwriters, 1950-51.

Member of: Country Club of Havana; Habana Yacht Club; American Club
(Havana) ; Harvard Club of New York.

Perhaps the turning point in my career took place before I even en-
tered Harvard. Upon graduation from Morristown School, our head-
master (a Harvard man, incidentally) emphasized the point that what
a man really got out of college was what he actually put into it. If you
couldn’t play on a team, try to manage it; if you failed at that, try pub-
lications; if again you missed, try the Instrumental Clubs, try the Glee
Club; if you couldn’t carry a tune, try carrying the front end of the
drum in the band. To counteract this philosophy, my father, who, un-
fortunately, never had the opportunity to go to college, wanted me to
study a profession. Having had a fairly easy time in elementary chemis-
try, I thought that industrial chemistry would be an interesting and
lucrative profession. As those of my classmates who specialized in chem-
istry will bear me out, a schedule packed with lab courses is hardly the
one for the student imbued with a zest for super extra-curricular activi-
ties. Not having a strong character, I surrendered to my headmaster’s
recommendations, which included getting out of industrial chemistry.
By the way, I never made a major letter, nor was I elected to the Crim-
son, Lampoon, or Advacate, nor did I sing in the Glee Club beyond the
Quartet trials. I did play in the band one year until they found out I
couldn’t read music.

After a half-year stint in the Business School, I arrived in Havana
with no more idea of what I wanted to do than I had in 1922. Fortu-
nately for me, my father and my uncle had a nice little insurance agency
organized, and I was given a job at the terrific salary of $40.00 a month
in September, 1927. In those days I had a job as camp councilor in the
summer, so when June, 1928, rolled around, I suggested to my bosses
that it would be a good idea if I spent some time in the home office of
one of our companies. They approved, so, after spending the summer of
1928 in camp, I worked with the Great American Insurance Company
in New York. Until when? Why, until June, naturally, when camp
opened again. From September, 1929, until June, 1930, I helped my
father lose his shirt in the guava jelly business. When I reported back to
my uncle in the insurance agency in September, 1930, after having
spent the summer in camp, I was greeted with the remark, “Are you
really going to work or are you just down for the winter?” After prom-
ising to stick with the job, I was given another chance, and, my resolu-

[ 131 ]

vex oteahninansihin AGMA. leet cite stone cinemas ciamaillla

Harvard Class of 1926

tions having been greatly aided by the fact that the camp closed down
after the 1930 season, I have been just an insurance peddler ever since,

ANTONIO MIGUEL CARRILLO

Home Address: Reparto Biltmore, Marianao, Habana, Cuba.
Office Address: Neptuno 529, Habana, Cuba.
Born: March 9, 1905, Habana, Cuba. Parents: Antonio Carrillo de Albornoz,
Maria Teresa de la Guardia.
"Prepared at: Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.
Years in College: 1922-1926,
Married: Alina Sanchez, Oct. 10, 1934, Habana, Cuba. CAéldren: Alina, Aug.

5, 1935; Antonio, June 20, 1936; Andrés, Dec. 2, 19373; Alberto,
March 14, 1948.

Harvard Brother: Andrés Gregorio Carrillo, ’26,

Occupation: Foreign representative for American concerns, mostly duPont
Plastics and allied products.

Member of : Habana Biltmore Yacht & Country Club.

From 1926 to 1934 I played around and sampled whiskies. During
the period 1934 to 1948, I was married, stopped playing around, and
started having children. Since 1948 I have stopped having children and
stopped sampling whiskies.

JAMES LAURENCE CARROLL

Home Address: 3550 Stewart Ave., Coconut Grove, Miami 33, Fla.

Office Address: Royal Crown Bottling Co., San Juan, Puerto Rico; Royal
Crown Bottling Co., Havana, Cuba. |

Born: July 15, 1903, Medford, Mass. Parents: James Laurence Carroll, Mary
Alice Rice.

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Edith Anne Frost, June 16, 1931, Auburndale, Mass, Children:
Leslie, Sept, 22, 1936; David Mead, Jan. 7, 1938.

Occupation: Manufacturer of carbonated beverages; president and treasurer
of Puerto Rico company; executive vice-president and treasurer of
Cuba company.

Military or Naval Record: U.S, Coast Guard Reserve (T), lieutenant; served
in Puerto Rico from September, 1943, to October, 1945, in Port Secu-
rity Force,

Wartime Government Posts: Office of Strategic Services, March to November,

1942.
Member of: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of Miami; St. Botolph

[ 132 ]

T'wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Club, Boston; Bath Club, Miami; Riviera Club, Coral Gables, Fla.;
Bald Peak Colony Club, Melvin Village, N. H.; American Club,
Havana, Cuba.

Most persons work a lifetime before they can, or do, enjoy the pleas-
ures of extensive travel. I have never quite decided whether it was by
design or good fortune that I abandoned a plan to enter Harvard Busi-
ness School, on leaving college in 1926, and accepted an opportunity to
join Raymond-Whitcomb Inc., America’s oldest travel company. The
chance to see the world, and to be paid to so do, was too tempting to pass
up. From 1926 to 1934, between various sales jobs, my travel included
trips to about 75 per cent of the world’s habitable areas — Europe, Scan-
dinavia, Africa, the Mediterranean, all the larger, better-known coun-
tries of the Occident and Orient, and also countless less-known islands
and countries of the South Pacific, the West Indies, South America, and
our own country. I am reminded of some twenty-odd years ago when I
encountered ‘Tax Cummings and Charlie Harding in a Peking, China,
night club, where they outdid themselves entertaining the motley ha-
bitués with their musical genius, only later to have all of us completely
“taken in” by some Russian, the same kind of gratitude Joe Stalin now
displays in response to any effort to codperate. It appears Russians have
not changed with the passage of time.

The decline of prosperity in the thirties slowly but certainly shut the
door on continuing opportunities in the luxury travel business, and with
the approach of World War II, a change of occupation was definitely
indicated. |

In retrospect, my wife and I now appreciate more fully than ever
how great was our luck to have had these experiences together, as it
hardly appears that the state of unrest everywhere prevalent will again
make world travel so attractive, even if possible.

In 1940, with a Princeton associate of many years, I started a new
business in Puerto Rico, later expanded to Cuba —a soft drink enter-
prise. This, too, has been a pleasant vocation, combined with certain
elements of pioneering and frontier-pushing. Again, however, but for
other reasons, the luster has lately been somewhat dimmed. The advan-
tages, wage-wise and tax-wise, of operating in Latin America are no
longer what they were a decade ago, and under present conditions,
political and economic, the things by which we were originally attracted
to the area no longer exist to the same agreeable extent.

Travel to, and living in, places so far away from the steady pull of
our family ties in New England has had its compensations, the greatest
of which has been a family life probably surpassed by none. Everyone

[ 133 ]

sce 1 rn Sha pat on Samoan icrernmapanmniaseiiil,

Harvard Class of 1926

has his own ideas of what may be the true test of a family’s solidarity,
but my measure ts the capacity to adjust happily and graciously to con-
stantly changing surroundings and conditions. In this respect, as in all
others, our small family has measured up, thereby making possible the
full enjoyment of the nomad’s life my activities have forced upon it.

GEORGE PAYSON CARVER, JR.

Home Address: Carney Street, Uxbridge, Mass.
Office Address: Bachmann Uxbridge Worsted Corp., Uxbridge, Mass.

Born: July 10, 1903, Boston, Mass. Parents: George Payson Carver, Ella
Wendell Simpson.

Prepared at; Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass,

Years t2 College: 1922-1926. Degree: §.B., 1926.

Married: Sylvia Sayles, Oct. 20, 1928, Uxbridge, Mass. Children: Mary
Sayles, March 25, 1933; Sylvia Payson, June 13, 1938.

Occupation: Purchasing agent and manager of auto cloth department, Bach-
mann Uxbridge Worsted Corporation.

Member of : Harvard Club of Boston; Dunes Club; The Larches.

After leaving college in the spring of 1926, I taught swimming for
the summer. In the fall I started work for the Uxbridge Worsted Com-
pany, where my expenses for board and room were more than my sal-
ary. As the textile business is either a feast or a famine, things soon
changed, and I have worked for the same company all my business life.

As Uxbridge is an extremely small New England town, I have got
myself into several jobs that I could not avoid. For twelve long years |
was treasurer of the Unitarian Church (I was brought up a Baptist).
[have been on the School Committee for ten long years and do not seem
smart enough to be able to get off. And somehow, I was made a member
of the Cemetery Association. That one really got slipped over on me.

During World War IT, I was chairman of the Blood Bank Commit-
tee, which was really a job. People were scared; we had to guarantee
five hundred pints, and as the blood was given in the next town we had
to make appointments, arrange transportation, and see that people got
there on time. It was job. I did get a Red Cross Certificate signed by
President Truman. Speaking of Truman, I have met a few politicians
in my time and think they are all a bunch of crooks, I don’t like politics
of any kind, but think a few of my intelligent classmates should get into
it to clean it up a bit.

I did help in making another contribution to the war effort in devel-
oping a new type textile.

[ 134 ]

T'wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

I hate to write this type of document as it all sounds like bragging to
me, and I can’t seem to avoid the use of “I.” Since I am still talking
about myself, there is one thing I am very proud of, and that is my one
literary effort. A year or so ago I built a small greenhouse, took some
pictures of it, and wrote an article about it. A magazine published it and
actually paid me for it.

All of which brings me to my hobbies. I have so many I probably do
not give enough time to my family or my work. I ski in the winter, gar-
den in the summer, and take pictures all year long. After I have had a
few martinis I can talk long and fluently on these subjects with anyone.
I have two lovely daughters, and the house is so full of kids at times I
sometimes wish for a little more privacy; but when they are away at
school the house seems very empty.

My job at the mill is a good one. I have plenty of freedom and some
authority. I do both manufacturing and some selling. The creative work
I do in developing new cloths is the most enjoyable part, and the detail
work I dois the most boring. My company is a progressive one and noth-
ing is static for long. But for taxes, life would be good.

DALE GRANT CASTO

Home Address: 19 Chateau Terr., S., Snyder, N. Y.
Office Address: Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn, 1614 Rand Bldg., Buffalo,

N. Y.
Born: June 24, 1905, Chicago, Ill. Parents: Charles Everett Casto, Hannah

Elisabeth Grant. |

Prepared at: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Edna Murray Applebee, June 1, 1927, Roxbury, Mass, Children:
Nancy Dale, Sept. 7, 1933; Dale Grant, Jr., Jan. 22, 1936.

Occupation: Advertising; vice-president and supervisor of account handling,
Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn.

Member of : Harvard Club of Buffalo; Buffalo Club.

You have no doubt heard of the little old Back Bay lady who, upon
being chided by a famous explorer for never having travelled, answered
simply: “Why should I? I’m there already.” This little old lady and I
are quite obviously soulmates.

The day after Dr. Lowell welcomed us into the fraternity of edu-
cated men found me pushing doorbells on a market survey for Barton,
Durstine & Osborn asking harried housewives embarrassing questions
about baby powder and more personal products. Today, twenty-five

[ 135 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

years later, the same company is paying my salary, although in the in-
terim it has merged with George Batten Inc. to become Jack Benny’s
favorite funny advertising agency name. Moreover all except one of
those years have been spent in the Buffalo office, where I have been re-
warded beyond my deserts and can now close my letters with “V.P.”
when a touch of swank seems indicated,

The same consistency (or lack of imagination if you like) is the out-
standing characteristic of my family life. On June 1, 1927, I married
Edna Murray Applebee of Roxbury, my college steady, and next year
we hope to celebrate our personal twenty-fifth anniversary together.
The fact that we shall have an eighteen-year-old daughter and fifteen-
year-old son among those present will not exactly mar the festivities.

Add to this the happenstance of being too young for the first war and
too old for the second, and you will understand why I am almost the
Happy Man. “Almost” only because it looks as if my children may not
be so fortunate.

OSCAR CATSIFF

Home Address: 457 W. 57th St., New York, N. Y.

Office Address: Chappell & Co., Inc., RKO Bldg., Rockefeller Center, New
York, N. ¥.

Bora: Oct, 22, 1903, Boston, Mass. Parents: Morris Helman Catsiff, Eliza-
beth Goldberg. |

Prepared at: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926.

Married: Mae V. Remstein, Feb. 21, 1929, Brooklyn, N. Y. (divorced 1946) ;
Molly Tauberman, Aug. 4, 1946. Children: Ruth Laura, July 16,
1931; Sylvia Beth, Nov. 13, 1935.

Occupation: Music arranger; assistant to editor-in-chief, Chappell & Com-
pany, Inc.; also with Crawford Music Corporation, Williamson Music,
Inc, and T, B. Harms Company,

Since my graduation I have spent practically all of my life in New
York City. Can’t say that I like it too much but it is the center of most
everything, including the music publishing business and allied pursuits,
so I have been more or less compelled to dwell in this vast, noisy place.
However, after visiting southern California early this year with my wife,
I hope that we shall be able to make the move there in the not too distant
future.

As for my career, I don’t know whether to call it successful or not, as
I have not attained my aims in musical composition or performance, but
have sort of plodded along through the years, just about getting by (fi-

[ 136 ]

T'wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

nancially and otherwise). I have been employed in the music publishing

business almost since graduation, first with Irving Berlin, Inc., then
with Crawford Music Corporation (formerly De Sylva, Brown & Hen-
derson), and now the above conglomeration of firms, which are under
the ownership of Max and Louis Dreyfus.

However, I feel fortunate that I have been able to guide my children
successfully through marital difficulties. My elder daughter has just
completed her second year at the University of Arizona.

Politically, I would view myself as slightly left of center, although by
nature I am rather conservative in most ways. However, I am some-
what disillusioned with politics, and don’t take them so seriously any

more.
My outside activities don’t amount to much: a little tennis or hand-

ball when I can manage it. Of course concerts, the theatre, and the
amusement business in general command my interest. The threatening
world situation at the moment is, of course, always in my mind, but 1
can say that I have found happiness with my present mate and hope,
naturally, that we shall both continue in this condition.

4 ALEXANDRE PIERRE EMMANUEL CHALUFOUR

Born: Dec. 20, 1897, Dieppe, France. Parents: Achide Alexandre Chalu-

four, Aline Mansire.
Prepared at: Ecole Nouvelle, Bierges, Belgium.
Years in College: 1922-1925. Degrees: S.B. cum laude, 1926; M.B.A., 1927.

Married: Omo F. Welling, Dec. 31, 1927, Brookline, Mass. CAild: Alexandre
Pierre Emmanuel, Jr., Dec. 4, 1928.

Died: July 8, 1948, New York, N. Y.
Widow; Mrs. Alexandre P. E. Chalufour, 34-10 84th St., Jackson Heights,

N. Y.

Alexandre Pierre Emmanuel Chalufour came to this country from
France in 1920. During World War I, he entered the Engineers Corps,
French Army, as a private, and served j in the campaigns of Verdun,
Champagne, the Somme, and the Aisne. He went through all non-
commissioned ranks and in 1919 was dismissed as sergeant-major.
While a student at Harvard he was a member of the Pierian Sodality,
the Liberal Club, and Kappa Sigma Fraternity, and was awarded the
Hart, Shaffner and Marx Second Economics Prize. In 1927 he re-
ceived the M.B.A. degree at the Harvard Business School. He taught
French at Harvard College while studying for his degree in business

administration.

[ 137 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Chalufour was employed first by the banking firm of Lazard Fréres
& Company, where he worked until 1935. Early in 1936 he joined
Crowell-Collier Publishing Company and was continuously associated
with this firm thereafter. He was in the advertising research department
and at the time of his death he was assistant director of research,

In 1935 he was appointed chairman of a committee to organize a
Children’s Museum in the Borough of Queens and subsequently served
as its president until it had to close its doors in 1938. He was successively
treasurer, vice-president, and president of the Jackson Heights Tennis
Club. He was interested in Boy and Cub Scout activities and enjoyed
hiking, photography, and cabinet-making. He was also a vestryman of
St. Mark’s Protestant Episcopal Church in Jackson Heights, and a
member of the Harvard Club and the Harvard Business School Club.

He was survived by his wife and son.

CHRISTOPHER LUCIAN CHAMBERLIN

Home and Office Address: Teme House, Lancing College, Shoreham-by-Sea,
Sussex, England.

Born: May 27, 1903, Norwich, England. Parents: Charles Marshall Cham-
berlin, Katherine Lucy Slipper,

Prepared at: Lancing College, Shoreham-by-Sea, Sussex, England.

Years in College: 1924-1925. Degrees: B.A. (Univ. of Cambridge), 19263
M.A. (ibid.), 1931.

Occupation: Teacher.

Military or Naval Record: Lieutenant, C.C.F. (British Territorial Army),
1926-45.

I have been a teacher at Lancing College since I graduated at Cam-
bridge, England, and a house-master since 1934. I am in charge of the
history department and of athletics.

When I was appointed, the headmaster said that he would have been
chary of appointing me had I not had the additional experience of going
to Harvard. Time has made me even more grateful for the experience,

and in this house we commemorate Thanksgiving Day and think of
you all.

Visitors from Harvard would be very welcome. I should be delighted
to show them around this beautiful school, of which I was reminded,
irresistibly, when I spent a weekend at Groton a quarter of a century

ago. Shoreham-by-Sea isin the southeast of England, about eighty min-
utes from London by train and six miles from Brighton,

[ 138 ]

_ Lwenty-fifth Anniversary Report

LAWRENCE BOYD STEVENS CHAMBERS

Home Address: 18683 Farmington Rd., East Cleveland, Ohio.

Office Address: Brush Development Co., Cleveland, Ohio.

Born: May 30, 1903, Oakwood, Ont., Canada. Parents: William Chambers,
May Stevens.

Prepared at: East High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

Years in College: 1923-1926. Degree: §.B., 1926.

Married: Florence Mary Tyler, Aug. 1, 1940, Cleveland, Ohio. Children:

_ Margaret Ellen, aged nine; William, aged five; Frances, aged three;

Robert, aged one.

Occupation: Research chemist.

I work at the Brush Development Company in Cleveland, where I
grow crystals for phonograph pick-ups, microphones, and other piezo-
electric effects. [ am a sort of chemist.

WILLIAM ROWELL CHASE

Home Address: 3424 Paxton Ave., Cincinnati 8, Ohio.

Office Address: Procter & Gamble Co., Gwynne Bldg., Cincinnati, Ohio.

Born: Jan. 22, 1904, Brookline, Mass. Parents: Harry Everett Chase, Florence
Ardelia Rowell.

Prepared at: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; M.B.A., 1928.

Married: Katharine Knox Kingsbury, Feb. 15, 1936, New York, N. Y. CAzl-
dren: Harry Rowell Kingsbury, Jan. 14, 1937; Alison Mason, Jan. 27,
1940.

Occupation: Advertising manager, Brand Promotion Division, Procter &
Gamble Company, soap and shortening manufacturers.

Offices Held: Director, Harvard Club, 1936-37; president, Harvard Busi-
ness School Club, 1936-37; director, Jones Surgical Supply Company,
Jones Medical Laboratories, Inc., 1943-46; vice-president, Kingsbury
Machine Works, since 1945; director, Procter & Gamble Productions,
Inc., since 1949; president, 1949, vice-president, 1950, Planned Par-
enthood Association of Cincinnati.

Member of: Harvard Club of Cincinnati; Harvard. Business Schoo] Club,
Cincinnati; Country Club; University Club; Cincinnati Tennis Club;
Cincinnati Advertisers’ Club.

I left the halls of learning for the marts of trade via Sears Roebuck.
In the late twenties they entered the retail store business and we tried to
learn it together. It became evident that Sears would learn the retail
business faster and like it better than I. In 1931 I shifted to a job in the
advertising side of the soap business and have been there since.

[ 139 ]

naan ism et 5 te ABO. 5S amaRR aa anaes tell,

Harvard Class of 1926

Two children make us a fraction of one child smaller than the aver-
age U.S, family. My wife and I hope we are producing quality if not
quantity. She beats me at tennis, but I can catch more fish; she cuts
roses, I raise them; we both have the same political beliefs.

SAMUEL CHECKVER

Address: 222-07 141st Rd., Laurelton 13, N. Y.

Born; July 26, 1904, Polonna, Russia. Parents: Harris Checkver, Pauline Ru-
binstein.

Prepared at: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass,
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. magna cum laude, 1926; LL.B.,
1929. .

. Occupation: Farmer.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Checkver
did not return a questionnaire.

MARION ADOLPHUS CHEEK, JR.

Home Address: 115 N. Harlem Rd., Snyder 21, N. ¥.

Office Address: Park School of Buffalo, Snyder 21, N.Y.

Bora: Sept. 10, 1903, Oakland, Calif, Parents: Marion Adolphus Cheek, Lulu
Foster Mills.

Prepared at: High School, Berkeley, Calif.; Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter,
N.H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; A.M., 1935.

Married: Jeannette Bailey, June 16, 1930, Wollaston, Mass, C/ild: Marion
Adolphus, 3d, Sept. 17, 1933.

Harvard Brother: David Bradley Cheek, ’34.

Occupation: Headmaster, Park School of Buffalo.

Offices Held: Vice-president, International Institute of Buffalo; director,
American Unitarian Association; former president, Harvard Club of
Buffalo, Exeter Club of Western New York, Harvard Business School
Club of Buffalo; chairman, Buffalo Citizens Committee to Cooperate

with W.R.A.; former president, Western New York Branch of Progres-
sive Education Association.

Member of : Rotary Club; Scriptores, In Scholis, International Institute.

For ten years after graduation I probed the line for holes, finally
found one and have been bucking through it ever since. wo years as
director of Phillips Brooks House, a year at my old school, Exeter, a
year at the graduate Business School and one in Vienna, followed by
five years at the Rivers Country Day School in Brookline answered all

[ 140 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

my questions about social service, religion, coaching, business, foreign
and domestic commerce, and teaching as possible careers. Running my
own summer tours of Europe for several years might have led me into
the travel business but for Hitler. ‘Then I found the Park School through
its finding me.

The Park School of Buffalo is an independent, progressive, country
day school located two miles east of Buffalo just off Route 5. It has
classes for three-year-old nursery school children through the last year
of high school and is coeducational. We graduate from twenty-five to
thirty students a year from a total student body of 320. Our graduates
have brought enlightenment to over seventy different college campuses
including those of Harvard College and its various graduate schools.
The founders of the school forty years ago sought to create the ideal
school and had made history before I took over. We are still moving
consciously and conscientiously in that direction. We seek to develop an
all-around person who has not only sound academic training but prac-
tised abilities in music, art, sports activities, writing, speaking, and the
problems and techniques of democratic government. Above all we culti-
vate the habit of initiative and self-discipline and respect for people as
people regardless of ancestry or creed. We feel that lip-service to democ-
racy is not enough for American citizens; they should be so educated as
to know in detail the fundamental assumptions upon which democracy
rests and from the understanding that comes with practice in Its pro-
cedures, develop the deep faith in democracy which is going to be an .
essential in the survival of our culture in the next quarter-century.
[ Since Cheek sent in this report he has been appointed headmaster of the
Cambridge School in Weston, Massachusetts, to succeed Charles Platt,

26. — Sec. |

EDWARD PATTERSON CHILDS

Home Address: 131 E. 66th St., New York 21, N.Y.

Office Address: 895 Lexington Ave., New York 21, N. Y.

Born: Oct. 12, 1904, Zanzibar, Africa, Parents: Harris Robbins Childs,
Eleanor Stuart Patterson. |

Prepared at: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; A.M., 1927; M.D.
(Columbia Univ.), 1931.

Married: Lucinda Eustis Corcoran, Aug. 15, 1934, New York, N. Y. Children:
Eleanor Stuart, March 24, 1937; Lucinda Eustis, June 26, 1940; Ed-
ward Patterson, Jr., Jan. 18, 1949.

Occupation: Physician, specializing in internal medicine.

Military or Naval Record: U.S, Navy Medical Corps; entered lieutenant,

[ 141 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

April 4, 1941; U.S. Naval Torpedo Station, Newport, R. I.; U.S. Naval
Hospital, Brooklyn, N. ¥.; U.S.N. Construction Battalion #81, England,
Normandy, Okinawa; discharged commander, February, 1946.

Offices Held: Secretary, Medical Board, St. Luke’s Hospital, New York, N. Y,,
since April, 1949.

Member of: Union Club, New York; Century Association, New York; Amer-
ican Medical Association; New York Academy of Medicine; American
College of Physicians (associate).

Life since graduation falls naturally into two parts — ante and post
bellum with an interregnum of fifty-eight months of military service.
Nevertheless, there runs through it a constant occupation with one sub-
ject, medicine, which, regardless of economic conditions, terms of servi-
tude, or political doctrine, concerns itself with scientific truths and hu-
man needs that remain to a large degree unchanged by environmental
factors.

Consequently it is very difficult to write a personal narrative with any
beginning or direction, and I can report only that since leaving Harvard
my time and energy have been happily devoted to my profession and my

family.

JOHN DWIGHT WINSTON CHURCHILL

Home Address: 36% E. 7oth St., New York, N. ¥.

Office Address: 10 W. 55th St., New York, N.Y.

Born: Dec. 21, 1903, Boston, Mass. Parents: Winston Churchill, Mabel Harla
Kender Hall. |

Prepared at: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass,

Years in College: 1922-1924.

Married: Mary D. Hand, June 14, 1931, Cornish, N. H. (divorced 1936);
Katherine Emmet Canfield, Oct. 21, 1937. CAéld: Jonathan Hand,
Feb, 11, 1932.

Harvard Soa: Jonathan Hand Churchill, 53.

Harvard Brother: Creighton Churchill, ’36.

Occupation: Architect.

Offices Held: Administrator, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute, 1943-46.

Member of : American Institute of Architects; Harvard Club of New York.

In 1924 | transferred from Harvard to Massachusetts Institute of
Technology where I was an architectural student until 1928, when I
went to New York to work for the firm of Pennington & Lewis. During
the depression which followed shortly I was in Charleston, South Caro-
lina, doing remodelling and restoration work. With the election of La
Guardia as mayor of New York, I was commissioned to improve the

[ 142 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

physical condition of the City Markets and until 1941 did a considerable
volume of work for the City of New York.

Failing to enter any of the services, I joined the Woods Hole Ocean-
ographic Institute in the spring of 1942, where I stayed until 1946.
Thence I returned to the practice of architecture.

T reside basically in New York City, but spend much time on Martha’s
Vineyard, I travel as much as I can afford, sometimes more. My social,
political, and religious convictions are variable.

DAVID REYNOLDS CLARK

Home Address: 1252 Waterview P]., Far Rockaway, N. Y.

Office Address: go—04 161st St., Jamaica, N. Y.

Born: Jan. 17, 1903, Jamaica Plain, Mass. Parents: Edward Andrews Clark,
Elizabeth French.

Prepared at: Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.

Years in College: 1922-1924.

Married; Alice Richmond Kurtz, Dec. 15, 1943, Far Rockaway, N. Y.

Harvard Brother: Edward Andrews Clark, Jr., ’21.

Occupation: Salesman, hearing aids.

Wartime Government Posts: War Department A.S.F., Philadelphia Ordnance
Division and New York Ordnance Division.

Member of: American Ordnance Association; A.F. & A.M., Scottish Rite;

Shrine.

Looking back over the past twenty-five years I ask myself, “What
have you done?” Many could ask the same question and scratch hard for
a satisfactory answer, at least one where you could feel at rest with the
world. Anyway, after leaving college, I understood that real estate
would be an excellent field to settle in, so this I did and shortly heard the
call of big trades, leases, etc., in New York. I realized that such rumors,
although fictitious, sounded too good, so I packed up and moved, to be
followed shortly by the entire family. Well, things moved along until
1929 and we all know what happened then, so I did a stretch in Macy’s
as many others had done, and I must say I found it very interesting and
educational if not remunerative. So we left Macy’s and went to work
for a statistical outfit publishing a bond service, using tabulating ma-
chines. ‘The company even went so far as to open a Boston office with
my brother and me as the representatives. This was swell but the field
was very limited and so our stay was of short duration. This experience
was followed by a proposition to operate, or should I say manage, a nat-
ural color processing company. This field offered many opportunities
and was growing very fast until Uncle Sam thought Japan should be

[ 143 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

taught a lesson. However, prior to the war we had developed a two-
color process, whereby photographs could be taken in natural color from
observation planes in flight. Such shots could have been developed and
printed in twenty minutes showing in detail and natural color exactly
what had been photographed. This was swell and the Air Corps was
very much interested until it was proved that observation was to be flown
in fast ships where weight was a factor so this idea was out; and as color
advertising stopped, so did the company.

My two associates went with Eastman Kodak, while yours truly
packed for Philadelphia to labor under Major Bob Allen in the Philadel-
phia Ordnance District. There I tried hard to do a job and think I did,
receiving the meritorious award as well as the War Production National
Honor in 1945. While with the War Department, I had charge of tools
and equipment section, deep water fording equipment as well as tow
chains and several then secret items. The four years I spent in the War
Department were very pleasant and I am glad I could offer something
constructive to the effort. After the capitulation of Japan, I became in-
volved in the hearing aid business where I am still working and I find it
a very satisfying yet sometimes discouraging field, When you help some-
one to hear who has not heard clearly for some years, it is satisfying, yet
it is discouraging when you cannot help them. Over the last several years
Thave also become very much interested in Masonry and as active in the
work as is possible. This work I find a labor well worth all one’s effort
and I shall continue to become more active as business and my family
permit. I almost forgot a very important item. I got married in 1943.

EBEN CHOATE CLARK

Home Address: Pleasant Street, Dover, Mass,

Office Address: First National Bank of Boston, 50 State St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Aug. 16, 1903, Somerville, Mass. Parents: Charles Arthur Clark, 98,
Ellen Ann Blake.

Prepared at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

Years tn College: 1922-1927.

Married: Margaret Sharpe Stevens, Sept. 6, 1941, Rye, N. ¥. Children: Eben
Choate, Jr., Dec. 14, 1943; Margaret Stevens, March 10, 1946; Eliza-
beth Blake, Dec. 14, 1950.

Harvard Brother: Charles Arthur Clark, Jr.,’19. .

Occupation: Branch manager, First National Bank of Boston.

Member of : Dedham Country and Polo Club.

As I threw my hat into the matrimonial ring only in 1941 — this
after finding a young lady proficient in skiing, ice cream eating and the

[ 144 ]

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

other requisites for making a happy home —I won’t be allowed to ex-
hibit the results of my connubial prowess at the T'wenty-fifth. For the
record we have two Hopalongs, generally armed to the teeth, so for the
good of the Class it’s just as well they don’t appear; for the old man’s
sake I hope they attain Cassidy’s earning power. Betsy, our third, ar-
rived ten days before Christmas (Jack Newell was there) and already
her eyes seem to say “I’ve nothing to wear,” that female whimsy I’m
told ceases only when the sheriff finally padlocks the old homestead.
Forays with the kids in the woods behind our house after “big” game,
sliding, baseball, etc., have kept us on the move when it would be only
too easy to relax: with pipe and bowl in an easy chair.

For years I took my vacation mostly in the winter and as my wife is
an expert skier, we have kept it up, covering most of the spots in New
England and the Laurentians, with two trips to Idaho. While the liga-
ments have been strained to the bursting point they seem to come back
and as long as the trail is wide enough I can get down it —— eventually.
Next month a group of us make our third trek to Sun Valley and, thanks
to the “distinguished” efforts in the off-hours by some of our party, the
proper Bostonian label now is very much old hat and visiting ‘Texans
smile when they speak to us.

The family spends the summers at Martha’s Vineyard and Blackie
Jones will agree we have the best swimming in the world. I have cruised
down the Maine coast a number of times, a pleasure I hope to resume
when the kids get a little older. Just now we are breaking them in with
a fiber glass sail boat which so far shows not a scratch despite several
skirmishes with the narrow breakwater to our harbor. My wife is the
golfer, she and her partner winning the club’s mixed four-ball cham-
pionship two years after taking up the game. I am still trying to cut
down the number of balls I lose.

Last spring, feeling prices had “stabilized,” we started a complete
remodelling of our house on a cost plus basis! ‘Thanks to Korea, etc., the
family from here in probably will operate under the guidance of a fel-
low-banker, a heartless person who thinks of nothing but stiffening
rates. Actually the nearly finished product is mighty pleasant and it looks
as if I shall have one closet and a small part of the cellar I can call my
own.

From the foregoing it is apparent that I have done nothing to become
famous, have written no books, have not been called to Washington, or
visited Reno. I have assisted in various community drives, but have not
held any town office, Otherwise, I have had a pretty good life, particu-
larly since acquiring a good wife and a growing family.

[ 145 ]

sc eat 2 snide

Harvard Class of 1926

As long as Schlesinger, Conant, Bingham, etc., are in the saddle I
will not send my son to Harvard, and will give the Twenty-fifth only
enough to cover my share of reunion expenses— nothing for unre-
stricted use of the pinks in control; not even a second-hand red penny.

EDWARD JOHN CLARK

Home Address: §13 Gore Ave., Lawton, Okla.

Office Address: 1208 Polk St., Wichita Falls, Texas.

Born; Jan. 12, 1907, Galena, HU], Parents: Philip Henry Clark, Loretta
Mahony.

Prepared at: St, Mary’s High School, Lawton, Okla.

‘cars ts College: 1923-1926. Degrees: A.B. magna cum laude, 1926; LL.B.,

1929.

Unmarried,

Occupation; Sale of oil properties.

I practised law from 1930 to 1935 and since then have been engaged
in the sale of oil properties. One of my hobbies is rare and out-of-print

books.

WALTER BUCHANAN CLINE

Home Address: 1809 Hopkins St., Berkeley, Calif.

Office Address: Dept. of Anthropology, University of California, Berkeley,
Calif.

Bors: April 13, 1904, Los Angeles, Calif. Parents: Horace Buchanan Cline,
Mildred Lee Tarble.

Prepared at: Los Angeles High School, Los Angeles, Calif.; Pasadena High
School, Pasadena, Calif.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B, magna cum laude, 1926; A.M.,
1933; Pu.D., 1936.

Married: Marjorie Miller, Feb. 11, 1949, Yuma, Ariz.

Occupation: Antiquarian bookman; commercial fisherman; ethnologist; lec-
turer in anthropology at University of California; importer of out-of-
print books on ethnology, archaeology, and early travels.

Wartime Government Posts: Research analyst and field investigator, Office of
Strategic Services, Washington, D. C., and Morocco.

Offices Held: Tutor and instructor in anthropology, Harvard, 1929-36;
assistant and associate professor in anthropology, University of Minne-
sota, 1938-46; lecturer in anthropology, University of California,
1950-51.

Member of: Phi Beta Kappa; Harvard Club of Southern California,

Publications: Mining and Metallurgy in Negro A frica, 1937; “Notes on Cultural
Innovations in Dynastic Egypt,” S. W. Journal of Anthropology, 1948.

[ 146 ]

Twenty- Sifth Anniversary Report

After graduating in 1926, I taught anthropology at Harvard inter-
mittently for ten years and made several trips to Egypt and the Middle
East. From 1936 to 1938 I studied African ethnology in London, Ber-
lin, Paris, and Vienna. I then taught anthropology at the University of
Minnesota until the United States entered the war, when I joined the
Office of Strategic Services and worked for three years in Washington
and Morocco. When I returned to Minnesota in 1945, I intended to
stay there indefinitely, but a nearly fatal illness during the following
summer gave greater value to life, and I retired to San Juan Capistrano
to read, write, and fish. For two years I fished out of Newport Harbor
for bass, halibut, mackerel, and albacore, but those were bad years for all
fishermen and my small boat earned me barely enough for gas and grub.
In February, 1949, I married and took my wife to Morocco, where I
wanted to write a book about Fez. The need of a surgical operation
brought us home within three months. Since then we have developed a
small but successful importing business in out-of-print books on archae-

ology, ethnology, and early travels, and I have been lecturing on an-
thropology at the University of California at Los Angeles and Berkeley.

GEORGE BYWATER CLUETT

Home and Office Address: Little Compton, R. I.

Born: April 11, 1904, Troy, N. Y¥. Parents: Walter Herbert Cluett, Mary Law-
ton Stetson.

Prepared at: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926.

Married: Marion Ticknor, Sept. 14, 1927, Great Barrington, Mass. (divorced
1937); Eugenia Meneely, 1939, Shaftsbury, Vt. Children: Constance
Ticknor, Oct, 25, 1928 (m. Louis Davis Sage, October, 1949) ; George
Bywater, 3d, June 26, 1930; Walter Stetson, Oct. 22, 1939; Mary
Eugenia, April 6, 1941.

Occupation: Retired.

MATTHEW COHEN

Home Address: 45a Almont St., Mattapan, Mass.

Office Address: 161 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass. .

Born: April 6, 1906, Roxbury, Mass. Parents: Louis Eli Cohen, Minnie
Adlow.

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass. _

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926 (27); LL.B. (Boston Univ.),
1929.

Married: Rose Rosenberg, June 25, 1933, Boston, Mass. Children: Elsa L.,
July 9, 1936; Shepard N., May 10, 1940.

[ 147 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Occupation: Lawyer.
Meméber of : Temple Lodge, A.F. & A.M.

A college education has conferred immeasurable benefits on me. In
the first place, since it provided me with absolutely no practical experi-
ence or viewpoint, it became necessary for me to take a job with the
Employers’ Group Insurance Company after my graduation from Law
School and my admission to the Bar (1929). Jobs with such large com-
panies have one great advantage: you are rarely disturbed or annoyed
by any disruption of your routine by the announcement of promotion or
pay increase. In other words, you manage to live quietly and abstemi-
ously, Eventually, someone removes the spell in which you were held
and you escape to more lucrative pursuits, an experience which came to
me rather late in life (January, 1949).

Iam happy that I was in Harvard before the advent of the miracle
men and the Marxists, I think the members of our Class spoke of going
to work after graduation, a prospect which I understand is now frowned
upon as very bourgeois and strictly out of date.

Tam happy that no one in our Class during his undergraduate days
got his head smashed in parading for civil liberties or for Henry Wallace.
In fact, even if I have yet to suffer the anguish of paying an income tax
in any of the brackets above the lowest, I am still happy that the Harvard
T knew taught me to think that America was and still is a great place!

SIDNEY SLATER COHEN

Home Address: 3 Montvale Rd., Newton Center, Mass.

Office Address: 1093 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass.

Born: April 30, 1906, Malden, Mass. Parents: Abraham R. Cohen, Lena
Dorothy Slater.

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; M.D., 1930.

Married: Ruth Selma Seegal, July 6, 1930, Boston, Mass, CAildren: Roger
David, April 7, 1937; Richard Slater, Aug. 1, 1940.

Occupation: Physician.

Military or Naval Record: U.S. Army Medical Corps, major, member Ist
Auxiliary Surgical Group, European Theatre, January, 1943, to Novem-
ber, 1945.

Offices Held: Staff, Beth Israel Hospital, Newton-Wellesley Hospital, Mt.
Auburn Hospital, Faulkner Hospital.

Member of: Massachusetts Medical Society; American College of Surgeons
(fellow) ; Phi Delta Epsilon Fraternity.

Publications: “Abdominal Thromboangeitis obliterans,”

[ 148 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

I suppose that every generation thinks that its years are the most his-
tory-shaking in the life of man, but just look at ours! And Destiny, i in
the guise of these events, has surely shaped my end.

After graduation, I had four years at Harvard Medical School, ma-
triculating therefrom in the early phases of the depression that followed
the crash of ?29. Undaunted, I married my childhood sweetheart just

two weeks after getting my M.D. Nobody had any money anyway — so
that we were no different!

‘Then came six years of internships and residencies, until finally in

1936, still in the depression years, I, now thirty years old, was ready to
face the outside world, to earn my first income, to put into practice all I
had learned. At this point, I looked around at so many of our classmates
and saw them already well established in their businesses and professions,
with homes and families; I pondered over the sacrifices that the medical
man must make in perfecting himself for service.

Prior to the start of practice, we indulged in a wonderful two-week
vacation in Bermuda. Despite more extensive experiences which fol-
lowed, the Bermuda junket, strictly on a budget, has been re-lived in
our memories many times. We could il afford it, but were determined

o “gather ye rosebuds while ye may.”

Despite the depression years, the good Lord smiled upon us, and prac-
tice grew healthily. A son, Roger, blessed our home in 1937, and Dick
followed in 1940.

In 1942, restless in my island of security in a world of chaos, I felt I
had to be “in.” I joined a new type of Army surgical outfit, conceived
out of the inadequacies of surgical care in World War I —an Auxiliary
Surgical Group. Briefly, the group contained numerous surgical teams,
each a self-contained unit in personnel and equipment, and each to be

attached to any Army combat group for individual missions where heavy
casualties were expected. Its job was to operate in its own tent hospital
right behind the front lines, on the non-transportable, seriously wound-

ed —e.g., bringing the doctor to the patient, The efficient and intelli-
gent shock therapy, getting many a hopeless case into condition for ex-
tensive major surgery; the carrying out of multiple, critical definitive
surgical procedures in tents set up in pastures with the ground as a floor;
the sounds of combat all about us, with our own guns shooting over our
heads from six or seven miles to the rear and shaking tents and contents
with each discharge; the selflessness of our nurses and orderlies in their
>ndless devotion to duty — all this is reflected in the amazing statistics in
he Surgeon General’s office on results with the seriously wounded in

NVorld War IT.
[ 149 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

But I had mea particular adventure that was almost my Glory Road.
I “jumped” (co-pilot in a glider) with the rorst Air-Borne — the
Bastards of Bastogne — in the air-borne invasion of Holland to care for
their casualties for seventy continuous days “in the line.” An excitin g;
soul-satisfying mission, its memory pictures will no doubt live with me
the rest of my days. |
Since 1946 I have been back in practice and home with my loved
ones. Life is full, rich, and beautiful. Were it not for the beast that is in
Man in the world today, it could be such a good life, this short span of
ours! We have lots of fun together, my sweet wife and the boys: fishing,
baseball, football, basketball, and golf, This summer we had a six-week
vagabonding by car up, down, and across this glorious country of ours
—a wonderful experience! We’re Symphony-goers, enjoy the theatre,
and attend a modicum of lectures and P.T.A. meetings. Right now, we
are suffering through some of the pangs of adolescence. If we all sur-
vive, Harvard may acquire a couple of eager beavers from this little
family.

An independent in politics, I voted twice for F.D.R. and revere his
memory as one of our great presidents. At his third running, I voted for
Willkie, pointing up that independence. I am for the Marshall Plan and
similar plans, and for the realization that the World is small; that we
must fulfill our réle in its doings, however remote they may seem, or be
crowded off the stage. Only thus shall we safeguard our precious way
of life. -

In closing, my specialty is obstetrics and gynecology. This is a happy
practice, this business of bringing babies into the world, and one which
may contribute in a small way to the future football teams of Harvard
(alas, poor John! ) and to their dates — and mates. And so we go round
and round —a sort of chain reaction, as it were — but that makes me
think of — atoms.

SARGENT FRANCIS COLLIER

Home and Office Address: Bar Harbor, Maine.

Born: Nov. 15, 1900, Cohasset, Mass. Parents: Edmund Pomeroy Collier, Ella
Bell Sargent,

Prepared at: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: 8.B., 1926.

Married: Eleanor Morris McCormick, June 30, 1934, Bar Harbor, Maine
Children: Ann Rutherford, July 21, 1935; Eleanor Morris, Sept. .

1938; Sargent, May 20, 1941. 5»

Occupation: Photography and public relations,

[ 150 ]

 

;
i

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Military or Naval Record: World War 11: U.S.N.R.; present rank, lieutenant
commander, U.S.N.R.

Member of: The Country Club; St. Botolph Club; Essex County Club; Bar
Harbor Club; Pot & Kettle Club.

Publications: Articles in Town & Country, House Beautiful, House § Garden,
Social Spectator, The Writer.

Until World War II, culture was my oyster as far as my jobs were
concerned. I spent two years with Doremus & Company in advertising,
including some European activity; four years with the Old Colony
Trust, First National Bank of Boston, as something of an artistic assist-
ant to the advertising manager; then The Sportsman magazine, House
Beautiful under Ellery Sedgwick; Little, Brown, briefly as advertising
manager; five years promoting the activities of Serge Koussevitzy; and
two years promoting the Institute of Modern Art. And during a small
part of these years I jointly owned a little magazine called The Writer.

My beat in the Navy, “tour of duty” I should have said, was between

Bar Harbor and Newport as photographer for Public Relations, First
Naval District. Whereas I was on every naval ship that entered those
Atlantic waters, I was home via the subway almost every night. My job
was to record the achievements of the Navy and its related celebrities
from morn till midnight. I have never really shaken down subsequently.
I camera-ized the junkets of Knox, Forrestal, Churchill, Admirals
King and Leahy, and even Eleanor Roosevelt. For three years I learned
to shoot pictures with your money, that of the taxpayer. It can be said
that I was precipitated into photography by an act of war for I had never
taken a picture until I became forty.

Terminated from the Navy as a lieutenant commander, what I am
doing between wars has been tinctured by my Navy experience. I should
have abandoned the field, but a little camera is a dangerous thing. Its
lure has divorced me from my Boston life and my public relations and
promotion work, It has taken me to the tropics, to the Pacific coast, to
Blue Grass Kentucky, driving a car an average of 50,000 miles a year,
usually following the sun.

Curiously, when you take pictures constantly, you look for surface
qualities as you squint your eyes at the world and its inhabitants. The
very ugly and the very beautiful appeal. ‘The senses dominate the brain.

And whereas the good provider, the fat-tummied tycoon looks like se-
curity to the community, to me he is just another grotesque mountain of
flesh when viewed in a shower bath.

Currently I am taking pictures for magazines and for private indi-
viduals and composing a book called, Rolling Along With a Rolliflex, a

[ gr ]

EE

os “ eaik Gi Soar tae Nala till,
sn RETA IO:

Harvard Class of 1926

“look! no hands” instruction and travel volume concerning the under-
exposed and over-developed, as they look to me throughout this corny,
compelling country.

Occasionally I like to believe that the only common ground the

United States has with the Russians is rare music and the ballet. But we
shall see.

CYRIL JEROME COLLINS ©

Home Address: 212 Hamilton St., Dorchester 22, Mass.

Born: Jan. 6, 1906, Scranton, Pa. Parents: Francis Bernard Collins, Mary
Clifford.

Prepared at: St. Thomas Preparatory School.
Years in College: 1924-1927, Degree: A.B., 1926(28).

Occupation: Accounting.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Cyril
Collins did not return a questionnaire.

FRANCIS DEE COLLINS

Home Address: 93 Lenox Ave., East Orange, N. J. )
Office Address: Phelps Dodge Copper Products Corp., Elizabeth, N. J.

Born: Aug. 26, 1904, Quincy, Mass. Parents: Martin Jeremiah Collins, Mar-
garet Alice Dee.

Prepared at: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass,
Years in College: 1922-1926, Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926,

Unmarried.
Occupation: Engineering secretary, Phelps Dodge Copper Products Corpora-

tion.

[ have not led tanks in battle, commanded a mine-sweeper, or been
a country squire. I am not a vice-president or trustee. Life for me in the
past quarter-century has been a struggle, although an interesting one. I
have been perforce an observer of the passing scene, and what a scene!
Prohibition, the stock market boom, the greatest depression, the greatest
war, strikes, layoffs, rackets, a world in upheaval in the bitter struggle
for position —a world that asks but one question: What can you do?
Not, what college did you go to? Or, are you a high-minded fellow?

RICHARD COLLINS, JR.

Home Address: National War College, Washington 25, D. C.
Office Address: c/o Adjutant General, U.S.A,, Washington 25, D.C.

Born: Nov. 2, 1904, Waltham, Mass, Parents: Richard Collins, M.D. ’oo
Edna Swett Moffatt. )

[ 152 ]

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922~1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; M.D., 1930.

Married: Jean Chapman, 1938, Lincoln, Mass. Child: Deborah, 1939.

Occupation: Executive officer, Regular Army, 2d Infantry Division Artillery.

Military or Naval Record: Commissioned 2d lieutenant, Field Artillery,
1926, from R.O.T.C.; ordered to extended active duty, December,
1940; student and instructor, Field Artillery School until October,
19423 plans and operations officer and executive officer, 87th Division
Artillery until October, 19433 various assignments in Intelligence Divi-
sions of COSSAC, SHAEF, OMGUS, and War Department General
Staff until June, 1949; promoted colonel AUS, 1945; awarded Croix
de Guerre (France), Croix de Guerre (Belgium), Officer of Order of
the British Empire, Officer of Order of Leopold.

Member of: American Geographical Society.

With the world beginning to jump again and my quarters in an up-
roar as packing progresses for another change of station, I believe that
you could hardly have picked a worse moment to worm a biographical
sketch out of a reluctant writer. When one’s mind is of necessity turned
towards the future, it-is difficult to recall and evaluate the past. Upon
graduation, I drifted into medicine, influenced largely by family and
friends, Having completed the best of medical educations, I joined my
father in Waltham, Massachusetts, and began to burrow my way into
the local medical hierarchy. All went well. I married and started a fam-
ily. My hobby-horse was my Field Artillery Reserve commission and |
rode it moderately until the war clouds began to gather. The pace then
became brisker. Finally, convinced that war could not be avoided and
impelled by a long-standing desire to serve in the Army, I leapt immoder-
ately upon my hobby-horse and galloped off to the Field Artillery School
at Fort Sill, Oklahoma. That was in 1940. I have not practised medi-
cine since.

I found a satisfaction in military life that was not present for me in
civil life. In 1946 came the decision. I would not stay in the Army as the
perennial Reserve Officer, subject to the brutal uncertainties of budget-
ary slashes. For me it had to be a regular commission or I would return
to medicine and make a fresh start. The Army said “yes” and here I
am; my hobby-horse is no longer a hobby-horse. |

That answers, as best I can answer it at this time, the inevitable ques-
tion which is asked when my past intrudes upon my present. I have no
doubt that some of my more gifted classmates might place deep-seated
motives behind my actions. For myself, I wish to serve my country in
these times of trouble. In retrospect, we have led disturbed lives. In pros-
pect, there will be no change. Our forebears lived with the musket

[ 153 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

loaded and primed to ward off the sudden, unannounced attack of the
hostiles, As a nation we must learn again to live the same way and go
about our daily businesses without fear or panic. Meanwhile, each of us
in the armed services is, in fact, a grain of powder in the national musket.

If circumstances permit present plans to take their course, I shall
spend the next academic year at the National War College in Washing-
ton. There is, therefore, a possibility that I may be able to renew many
old, and I am afraid neglected, acquaintances and friendships at our

Twenty-fifth Reunion.

JAMES LELAND COMBS

Home Address: 208 Ocean View Ave., Santa Cruz, Calif.

Office Address: Hobby House, Santa Cruz, Calif.

Born: April 28, 1904, Valley City, N. Dak. Parents: Lee Augustus Combs,
Mable Iseline Osher.

Prepared at: Culver Military Academy, Culver, Ind. |

Years in College: 1922-1925, 1926-1928. Degree: A.B., 1926(28).

Married: Grace G, Bennett, May 2, 1925, Somerville, Mass. (divorced
1935); Angela M. Williams, Feb. 16, 1942, Gold Beach, Oregon.

Children: James Leland, Jr. Nov. 14, 1926; Jana Lee, Dec. 16, 1942;
David Leland, Feb. 12, 1946.

Harvard Brother: Lee Combs, ’26.

Occupation: Owner, party service and catering business.

Military or Naval Record: First lieutenant, U.S. Army Reserve, 1925-333
able seaman, Sept. 23, 1942, to July 5, 1943, 3d mate, July 5, 1943,
to Oct. 2, 1944, U.S. Merchant Marine; cadet, U.S. Maritime Ofh-
cers’ Training School, Alameda, Calif., Oct. 2, 1944, to Feb. 15, 1945>
graduated as 2d officer; acting chief officer, U.S, Merchant Marine,

Feb. 26, 1945, to Nov. 17, 1946; wounded, Aleutian campaign,
Chitka, Alaska, Feb. 16, 1943.

Member of: Gold Beach, Oregon, Lodge #199, A.F. & A.M.; consistory,
Valley of Shanghai, Orient of China, 32°; Islam Temple, A.A.O.-

N.M.S., San Francisco, Calif.; Oasis of Shanghai, A.A.O.N.MS.;
Harvard Club of Shanghai; Santa Cruz Shrine Club.

Life again began for me in the late fall of 1941, when Angela, my
wife, and I became acquainted. We were married February 16, 1942,
when men over thirty-five had to register for the draft. Providence
again was gracious and I caught *1 in the draft for men over thirty-
five. Since the Army would not recommission me, having considerable
knowledge of the sea from some years of commercial fishing on the Ore-
gon coast, I entered the Merchant Marine, and fought the war from
Liberty ships carrying troops, guns, bombs, gasoline, etc. I spent four

[ 154 ]

T'wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

months in the Alaskan campaign where my left thumb was shot off by
a zero and a near miss scored on my face. Then thirteen months in the
New Guinea campaign, Port Moresby, Milne Bay, Oro Bay, Burma,
Lei, Finschhaven, Saidor, clear through to Hollandia in Dutch New
Guinea — then home and four months at the U.S. Marine Officers’
Training School at Alameda and my second mate’s license. Shipped as
chief officer at once and made Enewetok, Guam, Tinian, and Saipan,
and later Leyte and the Lingayen Gulf in the Philippines. Then home
for a short while. In June, 1946, I sailed as navigating officer for a con-
voy of fishing vessels from San Francisco bound for Shanghai, China,
and after two typhoons including the big one at Guan, entered the
Yangtze River, sailed up the Whangpoo and,tied up at Point Island.
There I was invited by the F.R.A. (Fishing Rehabilitation Administra-
tion of U.N.R.R.A.) to undertake the duties of fleet navigator for the
fleet of 150 vessels, and later the night port captain’s work. Built five
radio stations — Hainan Island, Taipeh, Formosa, Canton, Tsingtao
and Shanghai (Point Island). My work finished in November, 1948,
met George Hoague while waiting to go home. Through him and Dr.
J. Wong, a Chinese friend, then director of F.R.O.U.N. (International
Refugee Organization of the United Nations) Far East Mission became
associated with the moving out of Shanghai of many thousands of white
Russians fleeing the Communist menace.

I went with the first 150 by air to Japan, where George had con-
vinced General MacArthur that they were worth while. I.R.O. was
able with Tokyo’s help to get the Philippines opened for six thousand
refugees and the most interesting work I have ever performed followed.
In early March I took over the U.N.E.C. camp at Tubabao, Guiuan,
Samar, P.I., as director. It contained then about 2500 people living in
tents. In a few weeks, by ship and plane, the number was increased to
nearly 6000 — with a staff of three —all problems had to be solved. Re-
lief was given me in August, 1949, and at long last I arrived home,
where it is hoped, at least fora time, I may enjoy the society of my lovely
wife and our two children.

Here, my classmates, may I interject a word of warning to us all —
the threat of imperialistic Communism is the greatest threat to our
American way of life that we have ever known. Nothing less than world
domination will satisfy the mad dogs of Moscow, If all-out trouble again
comes to us, as seems not only possible but most probable, we must not be
caught unprepared —no one can do business with Communism unless
it isin their way. Their ways and ours cannot peacefully exist at the same
time on this earth. J have seen men, women, and children murdered be-

[ 155 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

cause of difference of opinion. Remember the Bradford letters
London!

Should it be necessary again to fight (I am preparing myself now) I
shall again sail — or at least lend a hand wherever it may be thought best
to use my few abilities. Be sure that the minute that Stalin and his mad
dogs think there is an even chance or nearly so— they will attack. This
is based on over three years’ active association with people who now live
under the imperialistic heel of Stalin, and on many months of association
with over 6000 people who have been fleeing Communism on foot since
1917. One of them served two years in a Siberian prison camp with

Stalin — but differed with him on the policy of “kill anyone who does
not agree with us,” and was able to get away.

The desire to be with you, my classmates, in June of this year is all-
pervading, but such a hope is at present but a very dim glimmer. Should
it not be possible, please know, all of you, that my wish 1s to join you —
again to renew the old association in the light of (it is hoped) better and
more mature understanding.

As for our College — Harvard — at long last is it given to me to see
the great privilege it was to be near, if only for such a short time, the
great loadstone of the world’s humanities.

Now, in closing this brief note to you, my classmates of many years
ago, let me say, please stop and see us, any of you who might travel this

way. Best wishes to all of you, and God bless and keep all of you and
yours,

from

LEE COMBS

Home Address: 264 Tigertail Rd., Los Angeles 49, Calif.

Office Address: 215, W. Sixth St., Los Angeles 14, Calif.

Born: Noy. 25, 1905, Valley City, N. Dak. Parents: Lee Augustus Combs,
Mable Iseline Osher. |

Prepared at: Shattuck School, Faribault, Minn.

Years in College: 1922-1926, Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B. (Univ. of Southern
California), 1929.

Married: Margaret Evelyn Hefner, Feb, 25, 1939, Oklahoma City, Okla.
Children: Daniel, Donald, and Deanna (triplets), Dec. 20, 1939 (died
Dec, 21, 1939); Lee Hefner, March 6, 1941; Margaret Evelyn,
Jan. 30, 1944.

Harvard Brother: James Leland Combs, ’26.

Occupation: Attorney-at-law; co-owner and operator, 49ers Dude Ranch,
Tucson, and Bel Air Town and Country School, Los Angeles,

Member of: A\ Malaikah Temple of A.A.O.N.M.S., Los Angeles Consistory
of Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite of Freemasonry, Westlake Lodge

[ 156 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

~ No. 392 of Free and Accepted Masons of California; Bel Air Bay Club;
Los Angeles Athletic Club; Deauville Club; Los Angeles University
Club; Harvard Club of Southern California; Tucson Country Club;
Touchdown Club.
Publications: Brochures for 49ers Ranch.

Autobiography is difficult and hazardous. The moment t distorts our
impressions and we ourselves are not sufficient judges of the importance
of most events in our lives. I attempt such an effort only in order to co-
operate in the planned autobiographies for our Class Reunion, and with
full apologies for my limitations.

After leaving Cambridge in 1926, and after the return from a won-
derful trip abroad with Fred Schwartz and Blackie Jones, I entered law
school at the University of Southern California where, in the first semes-
ter, I led my class. My father then gave me a Chrysler roadster which
took care of the situation and reduced me to a more normal and average
standing, in which status I received my LL.B. degree.

In 1928 and during law school I had the pleasure of being associated
with our good classmate, Stanley Osborne, in some Olympic activities,
which led me, as a sort of associate member on the committee, to the
Olympic Games in Amsterdam in 1928, and a most enjoyable trip about
Europe in an automobile with Ozzy and another friend. Subsequently,
and in 1932 and 1936, I became regional chairman for the American
Olympic Finance Committee for Southern California, Arizona, and
New Mexico, and a director of the A.A.U. I dropped all of these
athletic activities about the end of 1936 for lack of time to devote to
them. ©

Thad the great privilege of starting the practice of law with my father
in 1929, the year I was admitted to the Bar in California. When he
passed away two years later, I lost contact with the finest lawyer I have
ever known, and I have never been able to overcome this loss. I greatly
regret that he did not live to see me accomplish in trial litigation what he
would have liked to see, notably the handling of some of the major trial
litigation in the County of Los Angeles.

My start in the law was molded in the crucible of the depression —
my politics likewise. Both served to certify an already heavily Republi-
can tendency on my part and a high disrespect for the tendencies of a
rather persistent administration and of a certain Harvard man.

It was my great good fortune to meet my wife in 1932 in Los An-
geles, when she was here attending the University of Southern Califor-
nia from her home in Oklahoma City, but it was not my good judgment
to appreciate her outstanding character until later. I am happy to say

[ 157 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

that I very wisely proposed to her in 1938 and, most fortunately for me,
she was gracious enough to accept my proposal and we were married at
Oklahoma City on February 25, 1939. We lost our first-born, triplets,
who lived in incubators for two days after their birth, but the grief of
this experience was to a marked degree assuaged by the birth on March
6, 1941, of our beloved son, Lee Hefner Combs, and the subsequent
birth of our lovely daughter, Margaret Evelyn Combs, whom we call
Lyn. Since our marriage and during the war I have devoted my entire
time to my family and to my rather heavy private practice of law, pre-
dominantly trial work, which I greatly enjoy.

During the war my main military activity was milking a cow which
grazed on a lot adjoining my home in Brentwood. This cow achieved
considerable prominence and had quite a social distinction.

Immediately following the war, I became interested in and a part-
owner of a co-educational private grammar school known as the Bel Air
Town and Country School, and have enjoyed that, shall we say, avoca-
tion as a director of the school. About the same time I turned to another
field of activity and became a co-owner of a very large working and
guest ranch at Tucson, Arizona, known as the 4gers Ranch. This gave
me quite a cowboy background, albeit by acquisition, not by birth. I pride
myself greatly on my fancy cowboy outfits, my “hoss and saddle,” but
especially upon the benefits that I derive by way of respite from the city’s

toils and the burden of the courtroom, in lovely, sunny, southern Ari-
zona. I often fly over there weekends and enjoy the association with our
many fine guests. | |

I continue the practice of law, my educational endeavors at the Bel
Air Town and Country School, and especially my cowboy activities at
Tucson. And that, in substance, is my autobiography to date.

VERNON COOK, JR.

Home Address: 300 Oakdale Rd., Baltimore 10, Md.

Office Address: Maury, Donnelly & Parr, Inc., Commerce and Water Sts.,
Baltimore 2, Md.

Born: June 12, 1905, Baltimore, Md. Parents: Vernon Cook, Jessie Rogers
Kellinger.

Prepared at: Marston’s University School, Baltimore, Md.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926,

Married: Suzanne Apsey, Dec, 17, 1926, Cambridge, Mass.

Occupation: General insurance broker,

Military or Naval Record: Entered as private, voluntcer officer candidate,
Army Air Forces, June 26, 1942; served as fighter controller with

[ 158 ]

IT wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

' xath Air Force, Aleutian Islands, and gth Air Force in Europe; termi-
nated first lieutenant, Jan. 25, 1946.
Offices Held: Director, Independent Ice Company of Baltimore City.
Member of: Maryland Club; Baltimore Country Club; Harvard Club of
Maryland; Adirondack Mountain Club.
After four years as an underwriter with the Massachusetts Bonding
and Insurance Company in their Boston and Chicago offices, I returned
~ to Baltimore in 1930 and became associated as office broker with the in-
surance agency of Maury, Donnelly & Parr, Inc. I have been engaged
ever since in the general insurance business.
In June, 1942, I entered the Army as a volunteer officer candidate
and was commissioned second lieutenant in the Air Corps at its Miami
Beach O.C.S. in February, 1943. I took the A.A.F.S.A.T. fighter con-
trol course at Orlando that spring and served as a fighter controller with
the 11th Air Force on Adak and Amchitka during the Aleutian Islands
campaign. After further service with the First Air Force at the Roslyn,
Long Island, fighter control center in 1944, I saw the end of the war
in Europe with another fighter control squadron engaged in operating
a radio direction finding net for the Ninth Bombardment Division of the
Ninth Air Force. 2
Maury, Donnelly & Parr, Inc., maintained my insurance business for
me during the war so that, when I finally was terminated in January,
1946, I was able to start in again just about where I had left off three

and a half years before.

ALMON GOODWIN COOKE

Home Address: 38 Ledborough Lane, Beaconsfield, Bucks, England.

Office Address: International Telephone & Telegraph Corp., Connaught
House, 63, Aldwych, London W.C. 2, England.

Born: Sept. 4, 1904, New York, N. Y. Parents: Carleton Sprague Cooke, ’ 99,
Miriam Goodwin.

Prepared at: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N, Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.),
1929.

Married: Mary Kinsman Munroe, Sept, 8, 1930, Salem, Mass. Children:
Goodwin, July 30, 1931; Nathaniel Kinsman, April 2, 1934; Sarah
Nichols, June 20, 1936.

Harvard Son: Goodwin Cooke, ’5 3.

Harvard Brother: Crispin Cooke, ’32.

Occupation: European general attorney, International Telephone and Tele-
graph Corporation.

Military or Naval Record: Commissioned lieutenant (j.g.), U.S. Naval Reserve,

[ 159 ]

gave neerana Sin anamnestic,
ps Nt Rn NNN HES le ARIMA RR A ETE

Harvard Class of 1926

October, 1940; served on receiving ship, New York, July, 1941—April,
1942; commanding officer, Pe 544, Caribbean and South Atlantic,
May-September, 1942; commissioned lieutenant, June, 19423 instruc-
tor, §.C.T.C., Miami, September, 1942—February, 1943; executive of-
ficer and commanding officer, uss Gilmore (DE 18), Pacific and Aleutians,
March, 1943-January, 1944; commissioned lieutenant commander,
April, 1944; commanding officer, uss Cronin (DE 704), Mediterranean

and Southwest Pacific, April, 1944-August, 1945; commissioned com-
mander, November, 1945,

Hartime Government Posts: Principal attorney, Office of the Under Secretary of
War, October, 1940-July, 1941.

Member of: Century Association of New York; Harvard Club of New York;
Cruising Club of America; Squadron A Association; Albany Club, Lon-

don; The Pilgrims; American Chamber of Commerce, London and
Paris.

Those little homilies from Twenty-five’s class book which were cir-
culated as examples of what these reports should be were wholly admi-
rable, but it struck me as worthy of comment that their common charac-
teristic was a bucolic, nostalgic, contemplative approach to life. “The
American fallacy is that of becoming so concerned with making a living
as to neglect tomakealife. . . . The more leisurely tempo of conserv-
ative village life has helped us to cushion the impact of civilization upon
our offspring,” says one. “If (my wife) would only apply herself I could
retire and devote myself to the really important experiments going on in
my workroom in the cellar,” says number two, albeit pleasantly ironic.
And number three, whose siring of six children certainly indicates no
lack of vigor, from his library window “can look out over steers and
dairy cows, grazing into the wind on neighbouring pastures, which in
the distance appear to become greener.” .

] appreciate that it is not the object of the exercise to be facetious about
the idyllic existence of a few members of the Class of 1925, and I cer-
tainly am reasonably fond of my own family, but I cannot refrain from
hoping that the Darby-and-Joan-looking-into-the-sunset motif will not
characterize all of Twenty-six’s Anniversary Report. From London,
travelling as I have been doing for nearly four years to Finland, Ger-
many, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Syria, and way-stations, I see
no greener pastures, but a world seething with dirty problems — over-
population, under-nourishment, nationalization, dictatorship, and Com-
munism, to mention only a few. I know that many of the Class of ’26
(and for that matter, of 25) are tackling these problems and will goon

doing so over the next twenty-five years. T even hope I shall have some
small part in them myself.

[ 160 ]

neenssniniell, Ath itl lid li aad Aa A di a, lk dad

T wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Previous Anniversary Reports have recorded that I studied law at
Columbia and was associated with Root, Clark, Buckner, Howland &
Ballantine in New York City, engaging generally in corporate practice,
reorganizations, and the like, until the autumn of 1940. I then spent
nearly a year in the offices of the under secretary of war, first working
on tax amortization matters and later acting as a kind of general ad-
viser to the Army in connection with the Truman Committee investi-
gation. Finally the Navy put the finger on me and I was glad to escape
from the frustrations of Washington to the comparative peace of sub-
chaser duty. (‘This last statement has been attacked by my severest critic
as an admission of the escapist approach decried above.)

I must admit that I envisaged a war which would involve arduous
patrols from Greenwich to Oyster Bay, with hot drinks at each termi-
nal; and no one was more surprised than I when the path of duty led me
to the Mediterranean, the Aleutians, and the southwest Pacific. [had a
reasonably tranquil war; I steamed 150,000 miles, mostly escorting
convoys, and saw hardly a shot fired in anger.

My wife was really far busier than I was. In addition to bringing up
three children, she served in the British Information Service in New
York as head of the survey department, which brought her a medal and
stimulated a taste for proféssional activity which I am afraid she has
never lost, although the opportunity for exercising her peculiar talents
appears more limited j in England.

After the war I joined the legal department of the International Tel-
ephone and Telegraph Corporation and almost immediately came to
Europe, where I have been dealing with a number of often trying but
always interesting problems, generally commercial but involving occa-
sionally some of those nebulous doctrines which are loosely referred to
as international law.

My elder son, Goodwin, finished at Friends’ Seminary in New York
and then came to England for a year, where he worked as an apprentice
in one of the I.T.T. factories in Croydon, a useful and broadening ex-
perience. He is now in the Class of 1953 and to my intense astonishment
(and his) won his numerals on the track team, and shows some promise
as a physicist and mathematician.

My second son, Nathaniel, is at St. Paul’s School in London and is a
candidate for the Class of 1956, having astonished the British educa-
tional world by passing his “school certificate” with something to spare.
He also has departed from family tradition by being a fairly competent
athlete.

My daughter, Sally, is boarding at Oakdene, a small school in Bea-

[ 161 |

poi eS co ERE ECE SNES

 

Harvard Class of 1926

consfield; she endeavors to conceal a not inconsiderable charm behind
the blue uniform and slightly impersonal, dégagé manner which char-
acterize all British school girls.

We have enjoyed living at Beaconsfield and seeing austerity in Eng-
land give way to what can be described as only mild limitation. Particu-
larly since petrol (gas to you) has gone off the ration we cannot seriously
complain about the material side of our life in England, and we must
admit to having found in other aspects very much indeed that has been
most agreeable. This is not to say that we are not looking forward to re-
turning to friends and relatives in New York.

SAMUEL COOPER

Home Address: 420 Washington St., Braintree, Mass.

Office Address: Kay Jewelry Co., 505 Washington St., Boston, Mass,
Bora: June 1, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parents: Aaron Cooper, Fannie Baker.
Prepared at: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; M.B.A., 1928.

Unmarried,

Occupation: Sales, retail credit, Kay Jewelry Company.

Military or Naval Record: Staff sergeant, U.S. Army; served in United States,
England, France (very little action), 1942~45.

Very unexciting life. Never married, probably too fussy. Lived in
Greater Boston all my life except during war service. Am interested
particularly in golf and cards for diversion. No political association.
Have voted both Republican and Democrat. Was in business for myself
but war service forced me to sell. Hope to have own business soon again.

STANLEY BAGG COOPER

Home Address: 318 Fayette St., Conshohocken, Pa.
Office Address: Waters, Cooper & Gallager, 512 Swede St., Norristown, Pa.

Born: Aug. 1, 1903, Conshohocken, Pa. Parents: William Alfred Cooper, Mary
Asenath Bagg.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H,

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B. (Univ. of Pennsyl-
vania), 1929.

Married: Josephine M. Rhodes, Aug. 23, 1933, Moylan-Rose Valley, Pa.
Children: William, July 26, 1934 (died Jan. 9, 1941); Elizabeth
Roberts, April 4, 1936; Ann, Aug. 25, 1940; Mary Rhodes Sawyer,
Aug. 21, 1925 (stepdaughter).

Harvard Brother: William Evans Cooper, ’20.

Occupation: Lawyer.

[ 162 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Offices Held: Director, Montgomery Bar Association, since 1947, Consho-
hocken Visiting Nurse Association, Upper Merion and Plymouth R. R.
Company; trustee, Mary H. Wood Park Fund, since 1941; Solicitor,
Conshohocken School District and West Conshohocken School District,

since 1947. . | .
Member of : Montgomery Bar Association; Zeta Psi Fraternity ; Rotary Club;
Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Exeter Club of Philadelphia.

After leaving college in 1926, the pattern of my life more or less fol-
lowed the norm (at least until August, 1950, but more about that
Jater). After three years in Law School, I worked in a city law office but
it was not to my liking. So the decision was made to open my own law
office in our county seat. Although the going was rough at first, I have
never regretted that decision. Instead of bond issues for corporations and
other work which keeps the young lawyer in the back office, I am inter-
viewing, advising, defending, or legally batting for the people whose
representative has been referred to as “John Q. Public.” There have
been corporate problems also (including one bond issue); and a long-
standing desire to become a director of a railroad has been satisfied. With
an increasing practice, an established law office, two capable and con-
genial partners and the fun to be had as a country lawyer, I shall never

be attracted back to the city. So much for my professional life.

I have been active in other respects since graduation. I have married,
and happily, too. Children have been born and have been the usual joy
that they are. We had our son to enjoy for over six years, and now our
daughters keep us abreast of the times. My leisure time has been spent
outdoors for the most part: from fishing to just chopping wood. I tapered
off from squash to tennis to golf.

During World War II my activities were limited to the home front
and they were varied. There were the chairmanship of the local draft
board and of the Red Cross Chapter, membership on the local OPA
board, being secretary of the local war transportation committee, mem-
bership on the local board of civilian defense, speaking at bond-selling
rallies, etc.

I am a Republican in a Republican stronghold and the good govern-
ment we have in our county might well be extended to the national level.

Such was the pattern of my life until August 9, 1950, when I had a
coronary occlusion. I call it my “Pearl Harbor Day” as I was attacked
without warning and the damage was considerable. After spending
some time in an oxygen tent and at the hospital, I am at home slowly
regaining my strength and increasing my activities. What I haven’t
covered here I have given the Class by answering the confidential ques-

[ 163 ]

aS HR pier RN 2 Sg TN Semaine alamanas eri pasnnnn ena Nl,

Harvard Class of 1926

tionnaire. However, I should be in good condition by the time our
Twenty-fifth Reunion rolls around.

. JOSEPH JACOB CORN, JR.

Home Address: Greenmeadow Road, Pleasantville, N. Y. .

Office Address: Eisman, Lee, Corn, Lewine & Sheftel, 271 Madison Ave., New
York 16, N.Y.

Born: Dec. 20, 1905, New York, N. Y. Parents: Joseph Jacob Corn, Florence
Beatrice Hays.

Prepared at: Horace Mann School For Boys, Riverdale, N. Y.

Years in College: 19221926, Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; LL.B. (Columbia
Univ.), 1930.

Married: Margery L. Hafner, May 13, 1937, Malba, Long Island. N.Y. CAil-
dren: Joseph Jacob, 3d, May 12, 1938; John Hafner, March 7, 1941.

Occupation: Lawyer.

Military or Naval Record: AUS. 1942-46; enlisted, private, Infantry; sep-
arated, first lieutenant, Transportation Corps; service in European Thea-
tre and Judge Advocate, Berlin.

Offices Held: Board of Education, Pleasantville, N. Y., since 1950; first vice-
president, Parent Teachers Association, Bedford Road School, Pleasant-
ville, 1949-50; secretary, University Club of Pleasantville, 1950-513
member, Committee on State Legislation, Association of the Bar of the
City of New York, 1948-51. .

Member of: Association of the Bar of the City of New York.

HOWARD CORNING, JR.

Address: Green Vale School, Glen Head, Long Island, N. Y.

Born: Feb. 27, 1905, Gardiner, Maine. Parents: Howard Corning, ’90, Cora
Allison Burt.

Prepared at: Bangor High School, Bangor, Maine.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926.

Married: Elizabeth Ann Southworth, June 28, 1933, Springfield, Mass. CA#l-
dren: Howard Burt, Feb. 21, 1935; Elizabeth Southworth, Aug. I;
1938; Alison Southworth, May 21,1947.

Harvard Brothers: Clarence Hamilton Corning,’ 20; John Burt Corning, 26.

Occupation: Headmaster, Green Vale School.

Questionnaire received too late for inclusion of biography. |

[ 164 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

JOHN BURT CORNING

Home Address: Kennebunkport, Maine.

Born: Dec. 8, 1902, Gardiner, Maine. Parents: Howard Corning, ’90 Cora
Allison Burt.

Prepared at: Bangor High School, Bangor, Maine; Deerfield Academy, Deer-
field, Mass. °

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926(27).

Married: Julia Learned Hebard, Sept. 8, 1933, Philadelphia, Pa, CAild:
Charles Chester Bassett, 3d, July 28, 1927 (stepson).

Harvard Son: Charles Chester Bassett, 3d, 50.

Harvard Brothers: Clarence Hamilton Corning, ’20; Howard | Corning, Jr.,
°26. -

Occupation: Farming.

Military or Naval Record: U.S. Coast Guard (TR), 1943-45.

Offices Held: President, 1945-46, trustee, 1945-50, Brick Store Museum;
director or member, various local or county agricultural societies and
committees,

For ten years after graduation I was in various forms of banking in
Boston, Havana, Cuba, and Philadelphia, with a modicum of success.
This type of career was not altogether satisfying, so in 1936 I returned
to Harvard for a year of study in archaeology and thereafter for the next
five years I was associated with the University Museum in Philadelphia.
This involved research among the collections in the museum but also
field trips to Panama and southeast Georgia. During the war, with field
archaeology suspended, I started to develop a farm I had purchased here
in Maine. By the end of the war I found myself with a going herd of
registered milk cows and the multifarious activities connected with a
farm have been so intriguing that I have been here ever since. Archae-
ology and farming have this in common: both involve messing with dirt
as well as demanding a considerable working knowledge of genetics,
botany, and to a certain extent, sociology. Financially, you won’t get
rich in either. Politically, we are still Republican with certain modifica-
_ tions as far as agriculture goes. I am all for the Soil Conservation Service
and some other phases of the work of the Department of Agriculture but
against the Brannan plan although I have no solutions of my own. Ask
me in private about potatoes and the government.

I have served in various local offices such as the Town Budget Com-
mittees, County Agricultural Committees, etc., none worth detailing.
Currently I am acting as Civilian Defense Director in my town trying
hard to get an organization functioning. While there are no primary
targets in my area should war come, we are on the direct air route to

[ 165 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Europe and an enemy plane could well be shot down over us or unload
its bombs in an emergency. Portland Harbor and the Kittery Navy Yard

are near enough to present problems and we definitely are an evacuation
area for those places as well as Boston.

JOEL O'DONNELL CORNISH

Home and Office Address: 120 N. 39th St., Omaha 3, Nebr.

Born: March 29, 1905, Springfield, Nebr. Parents: Albert Judson Cornish,
LL.B., ’79, Alice Irene O'Donnell.

Prepared at: Lincoln Preparatory School, Lincoln High School, Lincoln, Nebr.

Years sn College: 1922-1926. Degrees: $.B., 1926; LL.B., 1929.

Married: Marcella Grace Madson, June 28, 1927, Boston, Mass. CAildren:
Patricia Anna, July 29, 1928; Joel Madson, July 22, 1929; Victoria
Alberta, Aug, 9, 1936; Judson Edward, Nov. 15, 1937.

Occupation: Lawyer and farmer.
Wartime Government Posts: Victory Garden Codrdinator, Omaha, two years.

My life has been normal, interesting, successful, and enjoyable. I
practised law in a large New York office for five years and then moved
to Omaha, where my scattered activities have included legal work,
farming, cattle feeding, farm and city real estate management, stock
market operations, city and resort land development, oil leases, and even
gold mining. For a time I was active in Chamber of Commerce matters
and park development in Omaha.

Thave a fine and beautiful wife, four healthy, normal children and
two most interesting and enjoyable grandchildren. While I developed
diabetes about three years ago, losing sixty unnecessary pounds in the
process, and must take insulin every day, and while I have lost many of
my teeth and most of my hair, still I cannot honestly complain of my
physical condition.

My real complaint concerns the present degraded state of our federal
government. The cheating of our posterity by the National Debt. The
intentional defrauding of the public in many, many ways, including the
Social Security Act activities and pretenses. Mental control of the un-
thinking by high-sounding but intentionally misapplied phrases. Arro-
gant usurpation of more and more power by less and less competent
demagogues, The stealth of ancient and sacred liberties in the name of
paternal benevolence. The silly but hi ghly effective theory that the gov-
ernment’s powers include not only those delegated but also all others
considered by it to be necessary or desirable “to promote the general wel-

fare.” The all-inclusive interpretation of interstate commerce. The

[ 166 ]

or ae

 

encagae

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

fraudulent trick of a president making treaties by calling them “agree-
ments.”” The debasement of our Supreme Court and the destruction of
the whole foundation of limited constitutional law and representative
government. The blatant corruption. The bigness and the littleness,

T tell you all it must be stopped — and further, that since it was our
school companions who were so largely responsible for laying the foun-
dation for the débacle, it follows that Harvard men have a special duty
to attempt a reconstruction.

ANDREW VINCENT CORRY

Home Address: P.O. Box 308, Butte, Mont.

Office Address: c/o Dept. of State, Washington 25, D.C.

Born: Sept. 22, 1904, Missoula, Mont. Parents: Arthur Vincent Corry, Mary
A. Madelon Armstrong.

Prepared at: Mount St. Charles (Carroll) High School, Helena, Mont.

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degrees: A.B. magna cum laude, 1926; B.A.
(Univ. of Oxford), 1929; B.Sc. (ibid.), 1930; S.M. (Montana School

_ of Mines), 1931; M.A. (Univ. of Oxford), 1934. |

Unmarried,

Occupation: Minerals Attaché to the American Embassies at New Delhi, Kara-
chi, Rangoon, Colombo, and American Legation at Kathmandu, Nepal.

Wartime Government Posts: Expert and consultant on minerals and metals,
Price Stabilization Unit, Advisory Commission to Council of National
Defense, Washington, since 1940; member, Office of Codrdinator,
Commercial and Cultural Relations between the American Republics,
Washington, 1940-41; consultant, Division of Cultural Relations, De-
partment of State, 1942}; principal member of Mission, Foreign Liai-
son Division, Lend-Lease Administration, 1943; Far East Enemy
Branch, Foreign Economic Administration, Washington and abroad,
1943-44}; special assistant and chief mineral adviser, United States
Foreign Economic Administration, New Delhi, India, 1945.

Offices Held: ‘Teaching fellow, instructor, assistant professor of geology,
Montana School of Mines and Geology, 1930-33; instructor in Hu-
manities, University of Montana, 1934-36; assistant geologist and
analyst in mineral economics, National Research Project, Bureau of
Mines and WPA, Washington, 1936-373 science master and instruc-
tor in German, Newman School, Lakewood, N. J., 1937-383 engineer-
in-charge of prospecting parties, Argentina, Brazil, and Bolivia’ for
Arminas, §. A., Buenos Aires, Argentina (affiliate Armine Ltd., Toronto
and New York City), 1939-40; special consultant, Department of
State, 1946; special assistant to director, Office of American Republics,
Department of State, 1947.

Member of: Geological Society of London (fellow); American Institute of

[ 167 ]

: net a ohana datasainaseentniadtcesa ned Atlas lle An ll il

Harvard Class of 1926

Mining and Metallurgical Engineers; British Institute of Philosophy;

A.A.A.S.; New York Academy of Sciences; American Catholic Histori-

cal Association (former member of executive council) ; Oxford Society,

Publications: Memoir No. 10 — Some Occurrences of Gold in Beaverhead, Broad-

seater, Fergus and Phillips Counties, Montana, 1934; Mineral Industry and

Output-per-Man Studies, Grade of Ore, 1938; articles in Commonweal,
foreign correspondent, Institut Litteraire et Artistigue (Paris) .

A very interesting, full life so far.

JOHN DESMOND COTTER

Home Address: 7961 Ardmore Ave., Wyndmoor, Mont. Co., Pa.
Office Address: 206 Walnut PI., Philadelphia 6, Pa.
Bors: Aug. 8, 1905, Philadelphia, Pa. Parents: William Ralston Cotter, Elea-

nor Desmond.
Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
Years i College: 1922-1925.
Married: Mary T. Koppel, June 25, 1941, New York, N. Y¥. CAildren: Mary
E., June 19, 1943; Joan D., May 19, 1944; John A., July 27, 1945;
Eleanor D., July 24, 1947.
Occupation; Partner, insurance agency.
Military or Naval Record: Volunteer officer candidate, November, 1942; com-

missioned second lieutenant, Field Artillery, June, 194.3; honorably dis-
charged as first lieutenant, April, 1945.

With the exception of twenty-eight months in the Army, all of my
time has been spent in the insurance business. Until 1934 I struggled up
the ladder of a company which failed in that year. Then, in the depth
of the depression, I decided I liked the idea of being in business for my-
self. The hours were good but the money was bad, both of which can be
attributed to the poor boss for whom I was working. At least I learned
how to relax, at which I am still awfully good.

On June 25, 1941, though in the same business, I acquired a new
boss, The money is better but the hours aren’t nearly as good as they
used to be, About a year and a half after our marriage I “volunteered”
in the Army when my being drafted was just around the corner. If
nothing else, my Army career gave us a chance to travel around the
country, but our first two children being then mere infants, we were
usually too preoccupied to enjoy our travels much except in retrospect.

This account is being sent in late because I had hoped against hope for
an appointment to some important government post before the deadline
for this Report — or at least that some club or socicty would be after me

[ 168 ]

r-—

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

to join. However, since there is apparently no immediate prospect of
such good fortune, Ill have to rest on my present responses of NONE,
NONE, etc., to those questions which indicate the extent of one’s fame,

GEORGE WILLIAM COTTRELL, JR.

Home Address: 70 Lakeview Ave., Cambridge, Mass.
Office Address: Houghton Library, Cambridge, Mass.
Bora: Sept. 16, 1903, Detroit, Mich. Parents: George William Cottrell, Flor-

ence Helen Chamberlain.

Prepared at: University School, Cleveland, Ohio.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. summa cum laude, 1926.

Married: Annette Brinckerhoff, June 18, 1929, Bronxville, N. Y. Child:
Annette Brinckerhoff, Dec. 24, 1930.

Occupation: Librarian; editor, Harvard University Library.

Wartime Government Posts: Office of Strategic Services, 1942-44.

THEODORE FERDINAND COX

Home Address: 69 Stratford St., West Roxbury 32, Mass.

Office Address: Division Employment Security, 400 Stuart St., Boston, Mass.
Born: April 22, 1904, Dorchester, Mass. Parents: George Herbert Cox, Lillian
Gertrude Treat.
Prepared at: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Occupation: Interviewer, Division Employment Service.

JAMES GOULD COZZENS

Home Address: Lambertville, N. J.

Born: Aug. 19, 1903, Chicago, Ill. Parents: Henry William Cozzens, Mary
Bertha Wood, .

Prepared at: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

_ Years in College: 1922-1924.

Married: Sylvia Bernice Baumgarten, Dec. 31, 1927, New York, N.Y.

Occupation: Writer.

Military or Naval Record: Army Air Forces, August, 1942, to January, 1946.

Member of : American Rose Society; National Institute of Arts and Letters; Air
Force Association; Reserve Officers Association,

Publications: The Last Adam, 1933; Ask Me Tomorrow, 1940; The Just and

. The Unjust, 1942; a number of other novels and magazine articles.

[ 169 ]

ar anes

Harvard Class of 1926

CHARLES CRISMAN CRAIG

Home Address: 23 Noble St., West Newton, Mass.

Office Address: 15 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Aug. 3, 1904, Memphis, Tenn, Parents: Charles Harvey Craig, Lillian
Crisman.

Prepared at: Central High School, Memphis, Tenn.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B., 1933.

Married: Evelyn Tomlinson, Oct. 12, 1933. Child: John Crisman, July 1,

1934.
Occupation: Lawyer.

Military or Naval Record: American Red Cross,
Wartime Government Posts: War Production Board.

My life has been devoted largely to following the profession of law.
In recent years I have enjoyed rustic pleasures on our farm at Danbury,
New Hampshire, whenever time could be spared.

GEORGE BENNETT CRAMER

Address: Maymont, Cramerton, N. C.

Bora: Aug. 15, 1903, Boston, Mass. Parents: Stuart Warren Cramer, Rebecca
Warren Tinkham.

Prepared at: Asheville School, Asheville, N.C.

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degree: S.B., 1926(27).

Married: Elizabeth Crooks, Jan. 28, 1947, London, England.
Occupation: U.S. Foreign Service.

Questionnaire received too late for inclusion of biography.

ROBERT TILLMAN CRAWFORD

Home Address: Glenville, W. Va.
Office Address: West Virginia University, Morgantown, W. Va.

Bora: Dec. 5, 1895, Walkersville, W. Va. Parents: Robert Willey Crawford,
Teresa Willis Tillman.

Prepared at: Glenville Academy, Glenville, W. Va.

Years in College: 1922-1924. Degrees: A.B. (West Virginia Univ.), 19273
A.M. (ibid.), 1930.

Married: Mabel Irene Rose, Aug. 12, 1937, Pennsboro, W, Va. Children: Mary
Margaret, Dec. 30, 1941; Frances Jean, Aug. 23, 1945.

Occupation: Associate professor in Extension Division, Graduate School of
Education, West Virginia University,

Military or Naval Record: World War I: Private, U.S, Army, 1917-19; combat

[ 170 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

service in Marne River, St. Mihiel, and Argonne Forest engagements;
wounded in action Oct. 11, 1918.

Offices Held: High school principal, 1928-30; school superintendent, 1937—
41; college dean, 1942-48; president, Rotary Club, 1940-41 and
1944-45 (different clubs).

Member of : Masons; Kappa Delta Pi and Phi Delta Kappa (honorary educa-

tional fraternities) ; national, state, and local educational associations.

Financial embarrassment caused me to interrupt my course in the
Harvard Engineering School after completing two years and one sum-
mer of the program. At the end of two years of high school teaching, it
seemed expedient to abandon my cherished ambition to graduate from
the Harvard Graduate School of Engineering and to confine my atten-
tion to the field of education.

This decision accounted for my entering West Virginia University in
the summer of 1926. There I received the A.B. degree in mathematics
in 1927. One year as graduate student and assistant in the department
of mathematics was followed by two years as high school principal. I
then became instructor in mathematics in a state teachers’ college. This
was in September, 1930, following completion of work for the A.M.
degree at West Virginia. For the past twenty years I have been engaged
in college teaching save for one period of six years during which I served
four years asa public school superintendent and spent the remaining two
years in graduate study.

In 1937, early in my period of public school administration, I was
married and established a fixed residence for the first time in my life.
Judged by small town standards I have been moderately successful both
professionally and economically.

Politically [am a Democrat, though I am far from enthusiastic about
some of the activities of my party since its return to power in 1932. In
my view it is a compliment to be classed as a conservative and an honor
(probably almost a miracle) to remain economically independent. The
greatest service our government can do its citizenship is to make secure
the opportunity to earn a decent living and to acquire property.

I am not at all sanguine about the influence of the church. I am a
member, a regular attendant, and a liberal financial supporter of the
church but withal a serious doubter of the methods it employs and of the
results it professes to achieve. Dictation from within the church is as odi-
ous as political dictation.

[ 371 ]

candace teinationcisietnitiansnibtill
spabodicta heeaaoae 8

je oR eo reas aan

Harvard Class of 1926

SAMUEL TAYLOR CREIGHTON

Home Address: Allendale, R.R. 3, Terre Haute, Ind.
Office Address: Terre Haute Brewing Co., Terre Haute, Ind.

Born: April 22, 1905, Indianapolis, Ind. Parents: Samuel Hazelett Creighton,
Lou Nora Taylor.

Prepared at: Shortridge High School, Indianapolis, Ind.

Years in College: 1923-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Mary Roberta Taft, Nov. 22, 1931, Cleveland, Ohio. Children:
Cynthia Taft, June 21, 1932; Diana Taft, Feb. 23, 1936.

Occupation: Assistant to vice-president i in charge of sales, Terre Haute Brewing

Company
Member i: University Club of Cleveland (past president) ; Orchard Lake
Country Club (Michigan) ; Terre Haute Country Club; Elks Club.

After I had recovered from the shock of receiving my sheepskin from
President Lowell and the realization that I was one of the “‘ten thousand
men of Harvard,” I decided to try my luck at Harvard Business School.
However, after one year my urge to go to work caused me to return to
my native surroundings in Indianapolis where I secured a job in the pur-
chasing department of the Marmon Motor Car Company. In 1929 my
superior became president of the Peerless Motor Car Company of
Cleveland, and I was offered the opportunity of going with him as his
assistant. Without giving any thought to this offer, I promptly accepted
and this proved to be the luckiest decision I ever made because of the fact
that within the next twelve-month period I met the girl who became
my wife.

The black days of October, 1929, caused the automobile business of
Peerless to be liquidated in 1932. The fall of 1933 found us much to
our surprise converting an automobile plant into a brewery. Entering a
new industry that had been non-existent for many years was a major
undertaking. However, by 1938 we felt that we had received a “‘college
education” by the trial and error method and were doing quite well. In

1946 I resigned my position as vice-president, secretary, and a director
of this company, Brewing Corporation of America, Cleveland, to as-
sume the vice-presidency of Altes Brewing Company of Detroit. We
settled down in a suburb of Detroit — Birmingham — formerly known
as Piety Hill, and found ourselves in a part of Michigan that resembled
New England.

Again Indiana beckoned and in August, 1950, we moved to Terre
Haute, “The Queen City of the Wabash Valley,” to take a position with
the Terre Haute Brewing Company, working for a very old friend of

[172 ]

acca EE HEE ST

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

high school days in Indianapolis and a Harvard graduate of the Class of
1927. .
ce my youthful days I was a blonde and, as I married a blonde, it is

only natural that our two daughters are blonde. One is now at Wellesley
College and the other daughter is at Kingswood School for Girls in
Bloomfield Hills, Michigan. My wife’s maiden name being Taft, we
are all Republicans politically. Our religious ties are Episcopalian. So-
cially, we move in a small group of small friends in Terre Haute, Cleve-
land, and Birmingham. Our hobbies are gardening, reading, and trying
to keep two Dalmatian dogs from bothering the neighbors. At this writ-
ing the four Creightons hope to be in Cambridge for my Twenty-fifth

Reunion.

' THOMAS HAWK CREIGHTON

Address: 43 Hamilton Pl., Douglaston, N. Y.
Born: May 19, 1904, Philadelphia, Pa. Parents: Frank Whittington Creigh-

ton, Maud Rachel Hawk.
Prepared at: Albany Academy, Albany, N.Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.
Married: Lucille Genung, 1927, Philadelphia, Pa. Children: Thomas, Feb. 3,

1928; Anne G., Jan. 23, 1931.
Occupation: Architecture.
The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Thomas
Creighton did not return a questionnaire. |

“EDWARD JOHNSON CRESWELL

Home Address: 118 Edgewood Rd., Baltimore 4, Md.
Office Address: c/o Glenn L. Martin Co., Baltimore, Md.
Born: Oct. 22, 1905, Cleveland, Ohio. Parents: Elmer Ellsworth Creswell,

Sue Westhafer.

Prepared at: Staunton Military Academy, Staunton, Va.

Years in College: 1923-1926. Degrees: 8.B. cum laude, 1926; LL.B. (Western
Reserve Univ.), 1931.

Married: Marian Stucky, Aug. 3, 1934, Lakewood, Ohio. Children: John

Ellsworth, Dec. 14, 1938; Joyce Elizabeth, Dec. 17, 1944.
Occupation: Lawyer; director of labor relations, Glenn L, Martin Company.

Offices Held: Chairman, Cub Scout Committee.
Member of : Kappa Sigma Fraternity; Baltimore Yacht Club.

The years since Harvard have passed so fast and uneventfully that it
is difficult to dissociate the eventful from the routine,
In the dark days of the early thirties I became assistant state counsel

[ 173 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

for the H.O.L.C., a New Deal agency now extinct, following a short
period of law practice during which my few clients did not see fit to pay
me a living wage. After several years with the crusaders, I returned to
Cleveland and again practised law without notable monetary success,
but with sufficient work in labor law to develop a considerable interest
in that growing field. This led to my association with the National La-
bor Relations Board as a lawyer in Washington and elsewhere from
1940 to 1943. During this time I acquired a concentrated experience in
this field which was not possible in private practice.

In 1943 I joined the Glenn L. Martin Company of Baltimore, as
counsel, with emphasis on employee and labor relations, a capacity in
which I remained until about a month ago when I became director of
labor relations. I have represented the aircraft industry before a number
of governmental agencies and Congressional committees. In my humble
opinion, our only hope and bulwark against Communism from within
is the intelligent handling of employer-employee relations. If labor can-
not get a fair hearing from the employer, it will turn elsewhere. For-
tunately, progress is being made,

My primary avocation is boating. My family is equally enthusiastic
about it and my vacations, or the few days which I have been able to
salvage therefrom, plus most weekends, are spent in cruising the historic
waters of the Chesapeake Bay and Eastern Shore.

Viewed from midstream (I’m sure my doctor would think me op-
timistic) I hope my classmates are as happy as I am in my work, my fam-

ily, and life in general. As to the future? The bomb has made me a com-
plete fatalist.

THEODORE LYMAN CROCKETT

Home Address: R.F.D. 2, Ossining, N. Y.
Office Address: Shields & Co., 44 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

Bora: June 9, 1904, Medford, Mass. Parents: George Waldron Crockett,
Edith Burbank.

Prepared at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1924, 1925-1927. Degree: A.B., 1926(27).

Married: Janet Newcomb, May 10, 1935, New York, N. Y, Children: Theo-
dore Lyman, Jr., Dec. 9, 1938; John Adams, March 26, 1941; Simone
Newcomb, Oct, 3, 1942; Nancy Burbank, April 5, 1946.

Harvard Brother: Charles Burbank Crockett, 22.

Occupation: Investment banking; partner; manager of research department,

Shields & Company.

Member of : Harvard Club of New York; City Midday Club; New York Soci-
ety of Security Analysts,

[ 174]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

My business history has always been connected with the analysis of
securities and the management of investments, After two years with the
Boston News Bureau and Barron’s Weekly in Boston, I came to New York
in July, 1929, to enter the brokerage business. In the early 1930's
I had three jobs but managed to stay on someone’s payroll. In 1938 I
joined the research department of Shields & Company, became manager
of the department in 1941, and a partner of the firm in 1945. -

_ Commuting three hours a day, a wife, and four children account for
a large portion of my non-working time. In 1946 we bought an old
seventeen-room house, reputed by some to be the Van Tassel house in
the Legend of Sleepy H. allow. Restoration of the house to a reasonable state
of repair has been a major project. My wife is now an expert painter : and
paperer.

At various times since college I have played a good deal of bridge, ten-
nis, squash, and golf. More recently the boys and I have spent a lot of
time fishing but without attracting the female half of the family. Stamp
collecting, which I began at the age of ten, has been a constant hobby
and probably consumes more time than it should.

ys WHITNEY CROMW ELL

Born: Nov. 28, 1904, New York, N. Y. Parents: Seymour Legrand Cromwell,
*92, Agnes Whitney.

Prepared at: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1925. Degree: A.B., 1 920(25)-

Died: Jan. 3, 1930, Tunis, Africa,

Whitney Cromwell came to Harvard from St. Mark’s where he had
made an excellent academic record. In preparatory school he demon-
strated particular enthusiasm for debating and dramatics, and he main-
tained the latter interest as a member of the Dramatic Club at Harvard.
In his senior year he was president of the Signet Society. His member-
ships included also the Advocate, Hasty Pudding-Institute of 1770, and
the S.K. and Spee Clubs. Following graduation he went abroad to study
painting at the Beaux Arts in Paris. He travelled widely during the next
five years. At the time of his death he was in Tunis on a brief vacation.

IRWIN FRANK CRYSTAL

Home Address: 19 FE. 88th St., New York 28, N. Y.
Office Address: 61 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y.
Born: April 9, 1904, New York, N. ¥. Parents: Isaac Crystal, Sara Louise

Fellerman.

[175 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Prepared at: Clark School, New York, N. Y.
Years in College: 1923-1926.

Married: Evelyn N, Greenburgh, March 24, 1933, Yonkers, N. Y. Child:
James William, Oct. 9, 1937.

Occupation: President, Frank Crystal & Company, general insurance brokers.
Wartime cannon Posts: Honorary chairman, Bankers Insurance Forum,

1940-
Offices dd: Member of board, New York Association of New Americans,
since 1949; chairman of committee, Boy Scout Troop, New York City.
Menter of : Harmonie Club of New York, Harvard Club of Boston.

Pudlications: Various business journals and periodicals, including by-lined
stories in New York Herald Tribune, the Financial World, New York World
Telegram and Sun, New York Post,

Wall Street was fertile training for enterprise to come ——S.E.C. reg-
ulations, limited earnings. It was best to start anew. It proved exciting
and now, happy. Statistical study helped to decide my entering the gen-
eral insurance field, a vocation chosen as the result of determined delib-
eration. All this chanced after a year of married life. Evelyn’s courage
and encouragement were and still are something to behold. The year
1934 wasa tough one, but gradually the results of planning proved their
merit. In 1937 Jimmy was born — a new incentive.

In 1940, with the help of others, the Bankers Insurance Forum was
organized. It was an educational group for the insurance managers of
New York City banks and life insurance companies. Being the only
member not employed by a bank, I was chosen honorary chairman.
Meetings, lectures and business — they all came with a rush, as did
progress.

During the war I worked with and advised government agencies on
insurance matters. I set up the group insurance program for the Rubber
Development Corporation and the special program for the Defense
Plant Corporation which covered a large non-ferrous metal operation.
These kept me aware of the war effort.

The late ’40’s brought an expansion into many new fields of property
damage insurance for industrial interests and mortgage institutions. The
road of travel became smoother and certainly more enjoyable. Now the
50’s find me active with my work and pleased with my choice.

The family hobbies of the theatre and sports keep us busy. Reading is
done under a carefully formulated system developed by my wife, who
reads and then sorts. She eliminates the excess. It’s fun that way. The
theatre, well, that’s a disease, and then baseball, football, and basketball
games are the cure — or vice versa,

Personal tolerance is needed, and helping those who have had mis-

[ 176 ]

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

fortune has finally caught up —as a result charity board meetings give
satisfaction. The future I hope will give me more time for the needs of
others. Good fortune must be shared or it is of little value.

All in all, it’s been a grand twenty-five years —— with the gamut of
emotions and fortunes — but Id like to stay where I am now.

WILLIAM CLARKE CULVER

Home Address: 360 Woodland Drive, S.E., Cedar Rapids, Iowa.

Office Address: 601 Second Ave., §.E., Cedar Rapids, Iowa.

Born: July 21, 1903, Detroit, Mich. Parents: Chester Murphy Culver, ’97,
LL.B., ’99, Etta Dell Clarke.

Prepared at: Northern High School, Detroit, Mich.

Years in College: 1922-1925, 1926-1927. Degree: S.B. ,1926(27).

| Married; Mary Catherine Miller, Dec. 31, 1929, Minneapolis, Minn. Chil-
dren: John Chester, Aug. 8, 193253 Catherine, Oct, 3, 1936.

Harvard Son: John Chester Culver, ’5 4.

Occupation: Automobile dealer.

Offices Held; Chairman advisory board, Salvation Army, 1940-42; vice-
president, Kiwanis Club, 1940; director, Cedar Rapids Chamber of
Commerce, 1950-53; president, Harvard Club of Eastern lowa, since

1947
Member of: Kiwanis Club; Cedar Rapids Country Club; Elks Club; Pickwick
_ Club.

It is extremely difficult for a common business man to write any kind
of narrative and particularly an autobiography. However, since the
Class asked for it, here it is.
~ In October, 1936, I acquired the Pontiac automobile dealership here
in prosperous Cedar Rapids. This enterprise has claimed all of my time
since then with the exception of the automobile-scarce war years. Dur-
ing this latter period I was in Denver for two years with Montgomery
Ward and spent one year here with the Collins Radio Company. Be-
tween graduation and 1936 I held a number of jobs, all but one of
which was directly or indirectly related to the automobile business.

On New Year’s Eve, 1929, Mary Catherine Miller became my wife
and has since presented me with two of the finest children a man could
hope for, and a real tribute to a fine woman. John Chester, our son, en-
tered Harvard last fall in the Class of ’54 and our daughter, Catherine,
became a freshman in high school. Both children have shown marked
athletic ability, John in football, basketball, and track, and Kay in swim-
ming. In addition Kay at fourteen is quite an accomplished pianist.

My family and I have found Cedar Rapids to be a splendid place in
which to live, We have been happy here with our friends, our bridge,

[ 177 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

golf, and other diversions, Presumably we shall live out our days here.

If any of you classmates should venture into this part of the country
don’t fail to look us up.

THAYER CUMINGS

Hume Address: 53 E. 66th St., New York, N. Y.

Office Address: 383 Madison Ave., New York, N. Y.

Born: March 16, 1904, New York, N. ¥. Parents: John Bradley Cumings,
Florence Briggs Thayer.

Prepared at: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Virginia Holland Richardson, May 3, 1940, New York, N. Y.
Children: Eleanor Gay, Oct. 10, 19413 Julie Thayer, July 29, 1945.

Harvard Brother: John Bradley Cumings, 19 (deceased).

Occupation: Advertising executive; vice-president and director, Batten, Bar-
ton, Durstine & Osborn, Inc.; account executive, American Tobacco
Company.

Military or Naval Record: Commissioned lieutenant, U.S, Naval Reserve, Aug.
3, 1942; ordered to U.S. Naval Training Station, Newport, R. L., for
indoctrination, Sept. 3, 1942; assigned Office of Public Relations, Office
of Secretary of the Navy, November, 1942; ordered to uss Kearny
for convoy service between New York and Casablanca, French Morocco,
April, 1943; assumed charge of Navy Radio Office, New York, N. Y,,
September, 1943 (during the war this office serviced over 4000 national
network radio shows with naval personnel or information) ; ordered to
proceed by naval air transport service to headquarters, commander in
chief, Pacific Ocean Areas, and to his advanced base on Guam, Novem-
ber, 1944; promoted lieutenant commander, Oct. 17, 19443 honorably
discharged Nov. 16, 1945; received American Theatre Ribbon, African-
European Theatre Ribbon, and Victory Ribbon. |

Offices Held: Vice-president, Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn; trustee,
American Savings Bank; secretary, Federal Grand Jury Association for
Southern District of New York; president, York Harbor Reading Room;
member, Military Order of the World Wars, Naval Order of the United

States,
Member of: Holland Lodge No. 8, Free and Accepted Masons, New York,
N. Y.; Harvard Club of New York; York Golf and Tennis Club.

Publications: Occasional contributions to Printer’s Ink, Advertising &F Selling,
and other advertising trade publications.

Once upon a time there was a man named Freddie Wakeman, a Kan-
sas boy by birth, a newspaper man gone astray, He wrote a book called
The Hucksters. It went over big, He pictured advertising men to be a

[ 178 J

T'wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

lush-living lot, with hand-painted neckties and perennial ulcers — the
most utterly uneconomic, impractical bunch in the U.S.

I didn’t get sore about The Hucksters. I just figured Wakeman wanted
to make a buck by writing about a business with which he had been as-
sociated —- not too successfully. Io prove that I was not sore at Mr.
Wakeman I invested $3000 of my own money in a play he wrote a year
or so later called Kass Them for Me. his play was a dud and all the in-
vestors including Cumings were taken to the cleaners.

All of this by way of getting to the subject of the advertising busi-
ness in which I am vitally interested. Advertising is a hard, practical
business. It is not a “game.” It is a business, the business of persuading
people in the mass to spend their money for specific types and brands of
goods. If you can’t do it, you fail.

To the outsider the advertising business looks as attractive as the life
of a successful actor seems to a stage-struck youth. Actually it is a busi-
ness of hard work, long hours, patient years, disappointments to the
many, and outstanding rewards to the few.

If I were asked now to list the qualities a good advertising man should
possess, I would include a physique and a temperament that can stand
long strains without cracking. Then comes an active and insatiable curi-
osity towards many matters rather than a few, and a tendency to study
these matters from one’s own observation and to investigate almost any
subject as a matter of lively personal interest and not necessarily as a
means towards an immediate end. He should have an imagination that
seldom permits him to be bored, an exceptionally good memory, and an
interest in words and in writing. And he must have an interest in why
people do things, in why they like certain things and dislike other things,
even to liking things it is socially customary to pretend not to like and
disliking things it is socially customary to pretend to enjoy.

I have been with BBDO for twenty-four years. That’s more than
half my living life. If I had a chance to live those years over I would not
choose to live them in any other business, Wakeman notwithstanding. (I
keep harping on Wakeman in this piece because I don’t want people to
get the idea that all advertising men are hucksters. )

You see, at BBDO Cumings is now in charge of the Lucky Strike ac-
count. And he hasn’t got a hand-painted tie. Hasn’t even got an ulcer!

Be Happy — Go Lucky.

[ 179 ]

~ Harvard Class of 1926

EUGENE STANLEY CURTIS

Home Address: 93 Hillcrest Ave., Longmeadow 6, Mass.
Office Address: John E. Stewart Co., 191 Chestnut St., Springfield, Mass.

Barn: June 2, 1903, Ogden, Utah. Parents: Eugene Mitchell Curtis, Cather-
ine Gail Rupp.

Prepared at: Glenwood Springs High School, Glenwood Springs, Colo.
Years wn College: 1922-1924.

Married: Eunice Pauline Tait, April 5, 1930; Springfield, Mass. Child:
Suzanne, Aug. 2, 1935.
Occupation: Printing; salesman, John E. Stewart Company.
Offices Held: Past president, University Club of Springfield; secretary-treas-
urer, Connecticut Valley Club of Printing House Craftsmen, since 1950.
Member of: University Club of Springfield; Harvard Club of Springfield.

The Class of 1926 dropped me in midstream carelessly and unknow-
ingly. Fiscal difficulties and unwillingness to give up all play in favor of
work made it necessary to find a full-time job in 1924. The intention
was to save money and return to college but that finally became another
naving block on the road to Hell.

My job brought me to western Massachusetts eventually, where I
net my wife during the first week. After a long engagement (the style
n those days through necessity) we were married in 1930. Thus I had
nade the best decision of my life and had the sense to recognize the door-
-nock of opportunity to happiness. I can say that with confidence after
wenty years of living with my decision! |

More than a decade of trying to get established in the to-me-distaste-
‘ul insurance business came to an end with World War IT when a client
offered me an opening in his printing firm. T'wo years ago a better offer
-aused me to join forces with another printer and the future looks bright.

One child, an adopted daughter now fifteen, has rounded out our life
‘0 perfection. She is attending the MacDuffie School in Springfield, and

he twig is being bent towards Smith, where my wife has already at-
ended her twenty-fifth.

ROBERT WILSON CUSHMAN

Yome Address: 115 Billings St., Sharon, Mass.
D fice Address: Foxboro Co., Neponset Street, Foxboro, Mass,

3orm: June 17, 1905, Fall River, Mass, Parenis: Joseph Augustine Cush
03, Alice Edna Wilson. 8 ushman,

-repared at: Sharon High School, Sharon, Mass,

[ 180 ]

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degree: S.B.1n E. Enc. ano Bus. Apo. cum laude,
1927.

Marriet: Nancy Parsons Fiske, Oct. 1, 1927, Sharon, Mass. CAild: Robert
Lincoln, Aug. I, 1928.

Occupation: Assistant director of research in charge of electronic research and
development, Foxboro Company, makers of industrial process control in-
struments.

Member of : Masons; Institute of Radio Engineers; Harvard Engineering Soci-
ety; A.A.A.S.; American Meteorological Society; U.S. Power Squad-

ron; various Sharon civic organizations.

The last five years seem to have passed so rapidly that I sometimes
wonder where they have gone. I did not attend the Reunion in 1946 as
we were on our way to attend my son’s graduation from Principia in St.
Louis. From there we took a real vacation and visited most of the na-
tional parks and monuments for the next two months. We wound up
with a two-day trip across the Great Lakes and I met C. J. Hoffman,
who gave me a full report of the Reunion.

Thad no war record of any kind. Refused by the Navy because of poor
eyesight, I devoted all of my energy to industrial effort and civilian du-
ties, At this writing it looks as if we are headed for more of the same. I
get little satisfaction out of being a human when most of our energy and
income go to support man’s inhumanity.

For recreation, sailing has been the main interest — even to the neg-
lect of my home and its surroundings. I finished construction of an
auxiliary cutter in the spring of 1948 and have spent most of the summer
weekends aboard her on short trips in and about Boston Harbor and the
Massachusetts coast. Time has not yet been available for any extended
trips. We hope that that may be possible in the future.

My son passed the entrance requirements for Harvard, but preferred
to go to Worcester Polytechnic Institute where he is still a student, and
right now it will be a race between his graduating and military service.

-Thope when his twenty-fifth reunion comes around there will have been
progress towards peaceful existence on earth.

FREDERICK LEWIS DABNFY

Home Address: 10 Circuit Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.

Office Address: 53 State St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Feb. 7, 1901, Boston, Mass, Parents: Frederick Lewis Dabney, 791,
Elizabeth Eliot Fay.

Prepared at: Salisbury School, Salisbury, Conn.

[ 181 ]

ES aie tai tot nang nb ohetind Tm 9 a SSB ar echoes anne oil canal, l —

Harvard Class of 1926

ag SERENE EEE TT

Years am Coltege: 1922-1924.
Married: Beatrice Howell, Feb. 28, 1928 (divorced 1939); Mary Louise
Almv, Jan. 2, 1942, Rhode Island, CAildren: Elizabeth E., Nov. 9,
1928; Vera, June 2, 19313 Beatrice, Sept. 7, 19323 Frederick Lewis,

Jr., Sept. 6, 1945.
Occupation: Real estate management; manager of a number of properties.
Military or Naval Record: Coast Guard, C.B.M., instructor and North Atlantic
Patrol, October, 1942, through November, 1944.
Member of: Harvard Club of Boston.

From a personal point of view, taking the time to look back over the
last twenty-five years is quite pleasant as well as quite informative. I have
enjoyed every moment of it—boat racing, from Cup defenders to
Beetle cats. My last year’s race to Bermuda with our classmate, Irving
Pratt, was one of the most enjoyable races I have ever been on. Duck
and quail shooting with Bob Winthrop and others, and many a pleasant
drink with classmates — I cannot find anything in the past to change.

As one contemplates the future, the pleasures of seeing four children
—three almost grown up, the fourth a youngster of five and one-
half— develop will do much to take up the slack of a more arduous
life. I hope for many more good crutses and opportunities to shoot but do
dread that morning-after feeling. I seem to have developed two pet ¢
hates in the last two years, one of them the Democratic party, as repre-
sented by our friend Harry, and Joe Stalin. There seems little thatI can
do about either of them except to complain about both at every given
opportunity. Enjoying the sea air of Buzzards Bay with my good wife,
and duck shooting in the fall and working at a pleasant job with pleasant
associates are all that any man could ask for.

 

JOHN BERTRAM DACEY

Home Address: 27 Roseland St., Dorchester, Mass.

Office Address: Post Office and Courthouse Bldg., Boston, Mass.

Born: Sept. 22, 1905, Dorchester, Mass. Parents: Bartholomew John Dacey,
Harriet Jane Bryan,

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B., 1929.

Married: Elena Y. Riccio, July 23, 1939.

Occupation: Personnel officer, U.S. Civil Service Commission,

Miltary or Naval Record: Commissioned lieutenant (j.g.), U.S. Naval Re-
serve, May, 1942; returned to inactive duty as lieutenant commander,

November, 1945.

{ 182 ]

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

LAWRENCE LUCE DAGGETT

Home Address: 9 Slade Drive, Punahou Campus, Honolulu 14, Hawaii.

Office Address: Punahou School, Honolulu 14, Hawaii.

Born: Feb. 28, 1905, Winthrop, Mass. Parents: Frank Ayres Daggett, Char-
lotte May Allen.

Prepared at: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; A.M. (Middlebury
French School), 1937.

Married: Marian Janet Kendrick, Sept. 6, 1936, Northfield, Mass. Children:
Claire Fotheringham, March 1, 1940; Bruce Kendrick, March 11,
1942. :

Harvard Brother: Allen Willard Daggett, ’25.

Occupation: Teacher, coach.

Military or Naval Record: Hawaii Territorial Guard Reserve, 1942-44.

Member of: Honolulu Symphony Society; Alawai Golf Club (Honolulu) ;
Hui Manu (Audubon Society of Hawaii) ; N.E.A.

_ Like many Harvard men of our Class, I had no idea of just what I
wanted to do upon graduation. My first year I spent as claims adjuster
for Edison Electric on Boylston Street. Finding this work rather boring,
and in spite of a generous offer of a $2-a-week raise, I decided that my
talents lay elsewhere. Teaching seemed more to my liking, so I accepted
a position in the Fishers Island High School. After one year I went to
the Kingsley School, Essex Fells, New Jersey. Here I taught French
and Latin and coached various sports. My interest and background in
athletics, music, ornithology, and camp work fitted in very well and I
then realized that I was just suited to private school teaching.

In 1933 the depression hit Kingsley. I accepted a position at Mount
Hermon School for Boys in western Massachusetts. While there I com-
pleted my A.M. at Middlebury, took a trip to France, and best of all,
met my dear wife in East Northfield.

In 1938 I had an attractive offer from Punahou School in Honolulu
where I spent twelve happy years and added two members to my family.
In 1946 I exchanged for a year with Hollis French of our Class, at St.
Mark’s School in Southboro, Massachusetts. This year I am on exchange
again at the Central High School, Kalamazoo, Michigan. Until August
I, 1951, my address will be 809 Oak Street, Kalamazoo. One of my
main reasons for this exchange is our I'wenty-fifth Reunion this June
and if God is willing, you will meet the Daggett family come next June.

While teaching has not been too good financially, it has given me and
my family an opportunity to travel extensively, We have visited most of
our great national parks. Summer and other vacations have given me

[ 183 ]

pe inet RA SOLO ETE NONE

Harvard Class of 1926

leisure time to do camp work, play golf, travel, fish, study birds, and en-
joy the great out-of-doors. I have kept up my music, playing bass fiddle
with the Honolulu Symphony and this year with the Kalamazoo Sym-
phony. Teaching has been a source of real satisfaction and I shall always
be glad I left the business world.

As I look back over these last twenty-five years, 1 am quite content in
my own mind that [ have been able to help young men and women along
the road to college. A clever and understanding wife, who is excellent at
balancing a rather flimsy budget, two fine children, healthy and tanned
by the warm Hawaiian sun, plus a real enjoyment in my work with
young people, make me a very fortunate and happy son of dear old Har-
vard. Aloha till we meet in the Yard next June!

CHESTER LINWOOD DANE, JR.

Address: 720 Park Ave., New York, N. Y.

Born: Oct. 26, 1903, Boston, Mass. Parents: Chester Linwood Dane, Grace
Little Oliver.

Prepared at: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.
Years in College: 1922-1927.

Occupation: Real estate.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Dane did
not return a questionnaire.

EUGENE SANGER DANIELL, JR.

Home Address: Daniell Point, Franklin, N. H.
Office Address: 379 Central Ave., Franklin, N. H.

Born: Sept. 20, 1904, Augusta, Maine. Parents: Eugene Sanger Daniell, Mary
Haynes.

Prepared at: Salisbury School, Salisbury, Conn.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: $.B., 1926; LL.B. (Boston Univ.),
1929; LL.B. (Harvard Univ.), 1930.

Married: Eva G. Burns, July 4, 1931, Central Falls, R. 1. CAild: Eugene
Sanger, 3d, May 31, 1947.

Occupation: Lawyer.

Military or Naval Record: U.S. Army (Field Artillery), June, 1942—April,
1946; instructor, Field Artillery School, Fort Sill, Okla., commander,

Battery A, §73 FA Bn., executive officer, so7th AAA Gun Bn.; six
months, Luzon, P. 1.

Offices Held: Mayor, Franklin, N. H., 1948~50; State Senator, 1949-503
City Solicitor, 1950.

[ 184 ]

4 coves grid

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Meméer of : Boy Scouts; Rotary International; Masons; Odd Fellows; Veterans
of Foreign Wars; American Legion; Army and Navy Union; Unitarian
Church.

If this report is slightly different in tone from some I have previously
made, it’s because I’m a sadder and a wiser man. In the present year my
previous reports to the Class (10th and 15th, in particular) have been
widely circulated throughout the State on two occasions. First, the state’s
leading electric utility, which I had mildly criticised, used them as defi-
nite proof that I was much more of a menace to the welfare of the state
than it. Then my reports were mimeographed and circulated by my
political opponents to convince the voters that I was not a suitable indi-
vidual to be governor of the state. In both cases the results indicated that
my best efforts do me no good, so, I’m using a different technique, al-
though still a Republican. ;

In retrospect, it seems that my life to date has been a matter of con-
stant trial and error with perhaps a little too much emphasis on the error.
At the present rate, I hope to be definitely respectable by the time I reach
a hundred. So far, I have enjoyed life and found satisfaction in learning
the hard way. My greatest pleasures have come from marriage, my son,
life in a small town, and a constant fight to save society and myself from
our many weaknesses. 7

LEO DANIELS

Office Address: Prichard, Lawler, Malone & Geltz, 514 Grant Bldg., Pitts-
burgh 19, Pa.

Born: June 23, 1905, Bridgeport, Conn. Parents: Joseph Daniels, Mary Conn.

Prepared at: Bridgeport High School, Bridgeport, Conn.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926(27); LL.B. (Univ. of
Pittsburgh).

Occupation: Lawyer.

Military or Naval Record: Private, Anti-aircraft Artillery (go-mm.).

Offices Held: Member, Branch Council, YM.C.A. of Pittsburgh.

Member of : Harvard Club of Western Pennsylvania; various minor sub-com-
mittees, Allegheny County Bar Association.

Nothing sufficiently important to warrant the retelling here. Some-
how, I have never quite lost the remembrance of spring in the Yard.
Harvard remains an experience, the significance of which still unfolds
itself with time.

[ 185 ]

ic Mat a EOIN LEE ON EE A NOTE Ne,

Harvard Class of 1926

LEONARD PHYNEAS DANTZIG

Home Address: 553 Oakdale Ave., Chicago, Il.
Office Address: 5661 N. Glenwood St., Chicago, Ill.

Born: April 25, 1905, Chicago, Ill. Parents: Mack Dantzig, Esther Miller,
Prepared at: Senn High School, Chicago, Ill.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. magna cum laude, 1926.

Married: Constance Lane, Winslow, Ariz.

Occupation: Newspaper circulation.

RAYMOND GEORGE D’ARCY

Home Address: 119 Huron Ave., Cambridge, Mass.

Office Address: Peabody School, 44 Linnaean St., Cambridge, Mass.

Born: April 4, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: John Francis D’Arcy, Helen
Margaret Ahearn.

Prepared at: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B, cum laude, 1926; Ev.M., 1930.

Married: Marguerite E. Kenney, June 22, 1932, Cambridge, Mass. Children:
Ravmond George, Jr., June 16, 1933; Kenneth F., Feb. 1, 1936; John
Peter, Nov. 19, 1943; Stephen P., April 28, 1950.

Occupation: Master of elementary school.

Offices Held: Chairman, Junior Red Cross, since 1947; member board of
directors, Cambridge Chapter Red Cross, since 1947, East End Union,
since 1945, Tuberculosis and Health Association.

Member of : Cambridge Teachers’ Club; Masters and Directors’ Club.

Since graduation from college, I have been engaged in educational
work, All my activity has been practically in the shadow of Harvard. |
began teaching French and English at the Rindge Technical School in
Cambridge and remained there for fourteen years. During the last seven
years I was in charge of the college preparatory course. Many of the
graduates of this school have entered Harvard and have been very suc-
cessful in their work.

In 1941 I was appointed master of the Putnam Elementary School in
East Cambridge where I remained until October, 1950. I have just
been transferred a little nearer to the Harvard Yard to the Peabody
School from which I myself graduated in 1918.

My work has been interesting and satisfactory to me and I hope help-
ful to others. The schools of today have changed greatly from those of
our boyhood. There is much greater emphasis on individual needs, and
curricula and equipment have expanded. The impact of the recent war
and the tension of the present world conditions have made it imperative
that we educators strive to improve our efforts to turn out young men

[ 186 |

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

and women properly equipped to become useful and responsible citizens
and to think clearly in these critical times. The better educated the ma-
jority of our people are, the better off our country will be.

My eldest boy, an excellent student, has just entered Massachusetts
Institute of Technology as a freshman. Although he was also admitted
to Harvard, he chose M.I.T. where he was awarded a much more sub-
stantial scholarship than Harvard offered him.

Although I am still interested in bowling and golf, it is rather difficult
to find the time to indulge in them regularly, The rearing of our four
sons and the supervision of a school of more than four hundred pupils
occupy most of my time and attention.

CHARLES FRANCIS DARLINGTON

Home Address: Mount Kisco, N. Y.

Office Address: Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., Inc., 26 Broadway, New York 4,
N.Y.

Born: Sept. 13, 1904, New York, N. Y. Parents: Charles Francis Darlington,
Letitia Craig O’Neill.

Prepared at: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Alice Nelson Benning, Nov. 3, 1931, Geneva, Switzerland. CAi-
dren: Charles Francis, 3d, Feb. 11, 19373 Alice Letitia, Sept. 24, 1941;
Christopher Nelson, Sept. 3, 1943.

Occupation: London representative, Socony-Vacuum Oil Company, Inc.

Military or Naval Record: Lieutenant and lieutenant commander, U.S. Naval
Reserve; attached to staff of admiral commanding American Naval
Forces in North African waters, April, 1943, to November, 1944.

Wartime Government Posts: Chief, Petroleum Division, Department of State,
Washington, 1945, acting secretary of Steering, Executive, Codrdina-
tion, and Jurists’ Committees of United Nations Conference, San Fran-
cisco, 1945.

Offices Held: Trustee, Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church, New York City,
1940-42; trustee, Bedford-Rippowam School, Bedford, N. Y., 1946-

49.

Member of: Harvard Club of New York; Down Town Association, New
York; Manursing Island Club, Rye, N. Y.; Bedford Golf and Tennis
Club, Bedford, N. Y.; Cosmos Club, Washington, D. C.; Hurlingham
Club, London; Leander Club, Henley; Berkshire Golf Club, Ascot.

My work has been related mostly to foreign matters. After a short
time in a New York bank, I obtained a position in the Financial Section
of the Secretariat of the League of Nations in Geneva, While I was
there the Bank for International Settlements was created and located in

[ 187 ]

_.. . _—_ . sn sunsninonmsanial,

Harvard Class of 1926

Basle. I joined its staff and remained with it until the end of 1933. In
all, I spent over five years in Switzerland, becoming fond of its people
and an admirer of its institutions. For the next five years I lived happily
in Washington, being employed during most of the period in the Depart-
ment of State.

In 1939 I returned to my home, New York, where until the war
largely terminated trading, I was foreign exchange manager in General
Motors Overseas Operations. During the war [had the good fortune to
be overseas with the Navy, attached to Admiral Hewitt’s staff in Algiers,
Palermo, and Naples. In the final year of the war, returned to civilian
status, I held the position of chief of the Petroleum Division in the De-
partment of State. During that year I had the opportunity of taking part
in the drafting of the United Nations Charter in San Francisco.

Since the war I have been with Socony-Vacuum, which I am now
representing, for a period, in London. My work touches from time to
time Socony’s operations in various countries, but my main responsibili-
ties lie in the Middle East. I am a director, for Socony, of a number of
different companies, the best known of which perhaps is the Iraq Petro-
leum Company.

My family life is stable and happy. My wife is active in philanthropic
work, and my children give promise, as they should, of improving on
their parents. In politics I am an unqualified conservative, but I would
give that term an interpretation which some might consider liberal.

Outside my family and work my main interest is my farm and dairy
at Mount Kisco, New York. While I have always followed rowing at
home and in England with some attention, I am not interested in games,
probably because I have little aptitude for them. But on my hill, or in my
woods, or among my Jersey cattle, I am content.

PHILIP JACKSON DARLINGTON, JR.

Home Address: 45, Wachusett Drive, Lexington, Mass.

Office Address: Museum of Comparative Zodlogy, Harvard University, Cam-
bridge, Mass.

Born: Nov, 14, 1904, Philadelphia, Pa. Parents: Philip Jackson Darlington,
Rebecca Taylor Mattson.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; S.M., 1927;
Pu.D., 1931.

Married: Elizabeth Kock, May 27, 1942, Cambridge, Mass, CAild: Philip
Frederick, May 3, 1943.

[ 188 |

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Occupation: Fall Curator of Coleoptera, Museum of Comparative Zodlogy.
Military or Naval Record: Army Sanitary Corps (Malaria Survey); entered
first lieutenant, June 10, 1942; 6th Malaria Survey Unit (C.O.);
Hdatrs. 6th Army; New Guinea, Bismarcks, Central Philippine and
Luzon campaigns; terminated major, April 9, 1946.
Member of : Several scientific societies.

Publications: About fifty technical papers on taxonomy of Coleoptera and on

animal geography.

Graduation in ’26 meant no great change in my life. I went on into

Graduate School, with the idea of maybe eventually making a living as
an entomologist, and I have been lucky enough to be able to do it. My
first break thereto was a short-term contract with the United Fruit
Company during 1928-29 to try to stop a certain beetle from biting
bananas in Colombia. ‘This financed me through toa Ph.D. The second
break was appointment, just after I got the degree, as a member of the
Harvard Australian Expedition of 1931-32; and the third, appoint-
ment to the staff of the Museum of Comparative Zodlogy in 1932. I
have been there ever since, except during the war years, and hope to be
there the rest of my working life.

We have bought a house in Lexington and I have settled into the
usual commuters’ routine. During vacations we camp, mostly. But I
expect to break away from all this long enough to take my family to
Australia for a year one of these days.

HARRY CARTER DAVIDSON

Home Address: Union College Campus, Schenectady, N. Y.

Office Address: Union College, Schenectady, N. Y.

Born: Sept. 23, 1905, Louisville, Ky. Parents: Harry Adolph Davidson, Vir-

ginia Cood Gaggs.

Prepared at: Male High School, Louisville, Ky.

Years in College: 1922-1925. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; A.M. (Univ. of

Louisville), 1926; Pu.D. (Univ. of Chicago), 1930; LL.D, (Ripon

Coll.), 1944; LL.D. (Syracuse Univ.), 1947; Litr. D. (Univ. of

Louisville), 1948; LL.D. (Carleton Coll.), 1949; L.H.D. (Knox

Coll.), 1949; L.H.D. (Hamilton Coll.), 1949.

Married: Capitola Brown, Sept. 7, 1926, Louisville, Ky. CAildren: Christopher
Holland, March 26, 1933; Cynthia Lee, Dec. 21, 1938.

Harvard Brother: Lloyd Johnston Davidson, ’32.

Occupation: President, Union College; chancellor, Union University, Albany,
N.Y; professor of English.
Offices Held: President, Illinois Federation of Colleges, 1941-43, New York
State Citizens Council, 1949-50; chairman, Committee on Taxation,

[ 189 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

American Council on Education, since 1948; director, Association of

American Colleges, 1946-49.

Member of: Commission on Financing Higher Education, Association of
American Universities, since 1949; Rotary Club, Schenectady; Univer-
sity Club of New York; Crystal Downs Country Club, Frankfort, Mich,

Publications: Sonnets of a Sorehead, Cambridge, 1925; Poetry: Its Appreciation
and Enjoyment (with Louis Untermeyer), Harcourt, Brace, 1934; Col-
leges for Freedom (with Donald J. Cowling), Harpers, 1947.

The period since graduation falls into three units: ten years of gradu-

ate work and teaching, ten years as president of Knox College in Illinois,
and five years as president of Union College in Schenectady. The first
period convinced me that I preferred teaching English to any other ac-
tivity, but that I would have difficulty making a reasonable living for my
family as a professor. The ten years as president of a small midwestern
college proved to me that presidents are not overpaid for the grief and
work they assume, The last five years at Union merely add that the
problems of an old (1795) eastern men’s college are no different from
those of a younger coeducational college. Need I mention that the major
problem at all levels is financial?

At Knox the first five years were spent pulling the college out of the
depression, the last five, pulling it through the war, with the help of a
unit of six hundred Air Force cadets. At Union the postwar wave of
G.I.’s has flooded the campus, and only now are we able to return to a
normal enrollment of approximately 1,000 students.

My wife and I, with our twelve-year-old daughter, live in a beautiful
old “President’s House” on the campus, right next door to the Adminis-
tration Building. Our son, Christopher, seventeen, is a senior at Choate,
captain of the football team as well as a letter-winner in basketball and
track,

Fach summer the whole family moves to our summer cottage at
Crystal Lake, near Frankfort, Michigan, where we have a wonderful
time together swimming, golfing, tennising, dancing, reading, and rest-
ing. Except for a summer in Furope in 1931, my travels are mostly on
college business, speaking at alumni gatherings, attending educational
meetings, lobbying in Albany and Washington, and serving on commis-
sions. | am away from Schenectady far too much.

Although I was ordained as a Congregational minister in 1935, I
have never been pastor of a church, though I help conduct religious
services at the college chapel every Sunday morning. I try to keep my
oar in teaching by handling a section of freshman English or public
speaking each year; occasionally I write a magazine article, At present

[ 190 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

I am much concerned over the attempts of the federal government to
gain control of the college through grants, scholarships, and taxation. It
is probably obvious that I am a registered Republican.

* JOHN FRANCIS ADAMS DAVIS

Born: Oct. 19, 1904, Salem, Mass. Parents: Harrison Merrill Davis, Mary

Adams.
Prepared at: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926.

Unmarried,

Died: March 13, 1929, Salem, Mass.

While an undergraduate at Harvard, John Francis Adams Davis was
a member of the tennis squad and of the Speakers’ Club. He intended to
make writing his career and did engage in newspaper work for a short
time after graduation. However, he had always been very much inter-
ested in music and in the fall of 1926 he decided to study it, not with the
idea of playing any instrument, but to become a competent critic of
music and a writer on its meaning and philosophy. He attended the New
England Conservatory of Music until the time of his death in 1929.

LINCOLN DAVIS, JR.

Home Address: Peaches Point, Marblehead, Mass. ©

Office Address: Shields & Co., 24 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Aug. 3, 1903, Marblehead, Mass. Parents: Lincoln Davis, 94, Kather-
ine Crowninshield.

Prepared at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B., 1926; M.B.A., 1928(29).

Married: Mary Lowell Cunningham, April 27, 1935, Milton, Mass. CAd-
dren: Lucy, April 18, 1937; Emily Lincoln, Aug. 10, 1939; Mary
Lowell, Jr., Feb. 6, 1944; Lincoln, 3d, April 27, 1946.

Occupation: Finance; registered representative, Shields & Company.

Military or Naval Record; Motor mechanic 2nd class, Coast Guard Auxiliary,
1944-46.

Offices Held: Member, Planning Board, Town of Marblehead, 1942-43.

Member of : Eastern Yacht Club.

Writing a biography of oneself I find quite a burdensome task as I
have done little or nothing to write about. However, looking back, the
past twenty-five years seem to have gone by quickly and happily.

After leaving the Business School in 1929, I worked for the Chevro-
let division of General Motors Company spending most of my time in

[ 191 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

the Flint, Michigan, motor plant. By the way we now own a Chevrolet
car. Although the motor business was interesting, I thought life would
be pleasanter in Boston and I am now sure that it is. Upon learning
something about security analysis as an investment counselor I got in the
brokerage business and am now with Shields & Company’s Boston office.

At the ripe age of thirty-two I managed to fall in love and I married
Polly Cunningham in April, 1935. We now have four children, three
girls and finally a boy, Lincoln Davis, 3d.

We live in a house right on the water at Marblehead, so naturally
most of our spare time is spent on the ocean. Racing small sailboats,
currently in the 210 class, my wife says, is a completely absorbing and
sometimes successful hobby. In the spring and fall I do a certain amount
of shooting and fishing. |

I took a shot at local politics, but find I am not much of a vote-getter
besides being too conservative and reactionary. I have always hated ev-
erything connected with the New and Fair Deal, both domestic and
foreign. Can’t get too enthusiastic about the outlook for the future, but

perhaps the fundamental common sense of the American people will get
us by.

ROBERT TYLER DAVIS

Home Address: 3430 Ontario Ave., Montreal, P. Q., Canada.
Office Address: Montreal Museum of Fine Arts, 1379 Sherbrooke St., W.,
Montreal, P. Q., Canada.

Born: Aug. 11, 1904, Los Angeles, Calif. Parents: Gager Calvin Davis, Emily
Tyler.

Prepared at: Franklin High School, Los Angeles, Calif.
Years in College: 1924-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; A.M., 1928.

Married: Lillian Soskin, Sept. 6, 1934, Buffalo, N. Y. Céild: Martin Moisey,
Feb. 14, 1941.

Occupation: Director, art museum}; professor of fine arts, chairman of depart-
ment, McGill University.

Offices Held: President, Pacific Arts Association, 1940-41, Western Associa-
tion of Art Museum Directors, 1946-47, Northeast Conference, Ameri-

can Association of Museums, 1949-50; vice-president, Canadian Mu-
seums Association.

Publications: Native Arts of the Pacific Northwest, Stanford University Press,
1949.

During the year 1928-29 1 was a Carnegie Fellow for European
travel and for the next four years was instructor in fine arts at the Uni-

versity of Rochester. During 1933-34 I took the Harvard Museum
Training Course and from then until 1939 I served as director of edu-

[ 192 ]

st leh ggE AEE
agate

ec oy ea NERD pap REAL ES

T'wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

cation at the Albright Art Gallery in Buffalo. From there I went to the
Portland, Oregon, Art Museum as director and remained until 1947
when I came to Montreal as director of the Montreal Museum of Fine
Arts and professor of fine arts at McGill University.

GEORGE WARREN DAY

Home and Office Address: 17 Fremont St., New London, Conn.

Born: Feb. 9, 1903, Buffalo, N. Y. Parents: Arthur Warren Day, Beatrice Inez
Frost.

Prepared at: Portland High School, Portland, Maine.

Years in College: 1923-1925.

Married: Hazel Smith, 1926, Alexandria, Va.; Cecille Lapaille, 1947, New
London, Conn. Child: Monique Henrotaux, July 14, 1937 (stepdaugh-
ter).

Occupation: Public accounting.

Military or Naval Record: Volunteered for active duty with Army, October,
1940; served in U.S. with 1st Infantry Division and 83rd Infantry
Division until 1942; took company to England in January, 1943; served
in staff capacity during Normandy invasion; resumed combat duty with
104th Infantry Division at Rhine crossing; separated as captain of In-
fantry in February, 1946; volunteered again for active duty in Septem-
ber, 1950; still in Army.

Offices Held: Comptroller, Avon Old Farms School (boys’ prep.), 1934-38,
Pawling School (boys’ prep.), 1938—40; vice-president, S.A.R., New
London, Conn., 1947-48; trustee, V.F.W., New London, Conn., 1949-
50; budget committee chairman, New London Chamber of Commerce,
1948-49; public affairs committee chairman, New London Kiwanis,
1948. .

Member of: Harvard Club of Connecticut; Sons of American Revolution;
Veterans of Foreign Wars; American Legion; Kiwanis International;
New London Chamber of Commerce; B.P.O.E.; Republican Town
Committee (New London).

Publications: “Short-cut Accounting.”

Someone once wrote a pamphlet entitled “Restless Americans,” and
the title is a fairly good description of the following biography.

At the conclusion of my junior year at Harvard, I had a conference
at the Harvard Trust Company that proved to be a private commence-
ment exercise. Having had two years of college before coming to Cam-
bridge in 1923, the two years in the Yard that followed seemed to me, at
the age of twenty-two, more than enough scholarship for all practical
purposes, Therefore, in June, 1925, putting my sheepskin (bank state-

[ 193 ]

Harvard Class of 1926 '

Having determined the formula, it must be adhered to. Wrong be-
comes anything that retards the formula, and right becomes anything
that advances it. Strict application rules out greed in all its manipulations
of political power, money power, social position, and other forms of self-
ish ambition. The reason is that happiness is inconceivable that does not

include an affectionate family and a group of real friends. Self-indul-
gence destroys both of these.

GEORGE DOUGLASS DEBEVOISE

Hume Address: Brookville Road, Glen Head, Long Island, N. Y.
Office Address: Debevoise Co., 74-84 20th St., Brooklyn 32, N. Y.

Born: June 13, 1904, Orange, N. J. Parents: George Edward Debevoise,
Jessie Lord.

Prepared at: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926.

Married: Laura Robinson, Jan. 19, 1934, East Williston, Long Island, N. Y.
Children: Elida, Jan. 22, 1935; Mary, May 24, 1938.

Harvard Brother: Robert Lord Debevoise, 29.

Occupation: President, Debevoise Company, manufacturers of maintenance
and technical paints.

Military or Naval Record: Enlisted officer in New York State Guard, 1942-46.

Offices Held: Trustee, Village of Brookville, Long Island, N. Y.; member, ad-

missions committee, 1928-30, 1938-40, board of governors, 1947-50,
Harvard Club of New York.

Member of: Harvard Club of New York; Century Association; Downtown

Association; Piping Rock Club; Hartford Club, Hartford, Conn.; Ex-
Members, Squadron A.

After leaving college, I spent seven years with J. P. Morgan & Com-
pany and then seven more lean years with Struthers & Dean, a stock ex-
change house. When World War II came along, I could not get in so I
joined the New York State Guard and spent four humble years protect-
ing New York from imaginary parachutists and marching in parades to
raise money for E bonds. I saw a lot of Bill Gray and Dick Jones who
were also in the Squadron with me,

I finally managed to buy a house on Long Island shortly after the war
and — as I have eleven acres of land — I spend most of my time around
the place. Inasmuch as I didn’t get into the family paint business until

1942, Lam still learning it and I find complete relaxation in gardening
and planting around the place when I get home.

T have become very much interested in local politics and serve on my

[ 196 }

T wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

village board. Since Nassau is a good Republican county, I enjoy myself
thoroughly.

All of this adds up to the fact that as I get older, I work harder and
therefore lead a quiet and contented life — guess I’m getting more like
a cow all the time, although I have kept (1 think) fairly thin.

Our Twenty-fifth will be a big occasion for me and I have persuaded
my elder daughter to go with me as a chaperon. We expect to arrive
early and stay to the bitter end —it’s going to be a real thrill to feel
young again.

JOHN pveBRUYN KOPS, JR.

Home Address: 72 Elsfield Rd., Toronto 18, Ont., Canada.

Office Address: Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co., c/o Canadian Pittsburgh Industries,
Ltd., 1200 Bay St., Toronto, Ont., Canada.

Born: Sept. 10, 1904, Chicago, I. Parents: John deBruyn Kops, Constance
Ruth Richardson.

Prepared at: Evans School, Mesa, Ariz.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B. ws MeEcu. Enain., 1926.

Married: Dorothy B. Heaphy, July 1, 1927, New York, N. Y. CAildren: Dor-
othy Jean, Oct. 6, 1928 (died Jan. 19, 1946) ; John, 3d, May 20, 1931.

Harvard Soa: John deBruyn Kops, 3d, ’53.

Occupation: Canadian resident representative, Pittsburgh Plate Glass Com-
pany; general sales manager, its subsidiary, Canadian Pittsburgh Indus-
tries, Ltd.

Member of: Lambton Golf and Country Club, Toronto; Engineers Club,
Montreal.

It seems as if only yesterday we were getting ready for Commence-
ment and, as if it had been only yesterday, “nothing much” has hap-
pened since — certainly nothing spectacular.

‘There were the scrambles which most of us experienced in the early
years and the complications arising from the depression, but the thing
that astounds me in retrospect was my complete innocence of the eco-
nomic facts of life — an innocence which I hope is now more difficult to
preserve through four undergraduate years. Nevertheless, we survived
twelve uneventful but experience-packed years at various levels of the
building industry and finally were fortunate to find our present em-
ployer at a time of mutual need. The glass business has been most inter-
esting, particularly so during the war years when I was able to assist in
bringing to the Navy some equipment much needed for radar work.

Probably the satisfaction of accomplishment salved the disappointment
of my unsuccessful efforts to enlist in the Navy. Anyway, I became quite

[ 197 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

reconciled to my place in the war effort as well as to my “extra-curricu-

lar” job of “backer-upper” to our children’s wartime enterprises of

goat dairying and chicken raising at Dover, Massachusetts. As a matter
of fact, it was often quite comforting to know that we were not entirely
at the mercy of the ration board.

January, 1946, brought us our transfer to Canada and also took from
us our daughter. Coping with the problems of distributing such a scarce
material as glass over a country larger than the United States helped take
our minds from our own loss for which we had been so completely un-
prepared, Now that the company has increased its investment in Canada
and formed a subsidiary, it seems that the days go even more quickly.

“Toronto the Good” has acquired a reputation as a “good place not
to get stuck in on Sunday” because, until 1950 when a referendum ap-

proved Sunday baseball, only the churches and hotels were open. How-
ever, the Canadian concept of home is sufficiently flexible to include
one’s club and even railway cars, so that, whether golfing or travelling,
the native may enjoy all the comforts of home on the Sabbath. We have
found the Torontonians friendly and are very happy in our adopted
land.

My wife’s interests in church and club work and in the garden help
her take a lenient view of my weekend golfing absences and of John’s
prolonged residence in Cambridge; the latter I have made one of my
goals in life. Never unmindful of them, I have become increasingly ap-
preciative of my Harvard associations and was overjoyed when, due to
paternal persuasion or his own choice (I do not pretend to say which),
Johnny’s application for the College Entrance Board Examinations
showed Harvard and no second choice.

DAVID ALBERT DELONG

Address: 4026 Princeton Blvd., South Euclid 21, Ohio.

Born: Feb. 11, 1902, Nova Scotia, Canada. Parents: Charles Richard DeLong,
Alice Eugenia Lautz.

Prepared at: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1923.

Married: Graciana English, Oct. 18, 1924, Cincinnati, Ohio. CAild: David
Richard, Feb. 19, 1927.

Occupation: Distributor to grocery trade — liquid plastic,

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. DeLon g
did not return a questionnaire,

[ 198 J

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

WILLIAM THEODORE DEMMLER

Home Address: 31 Concord Ave., Cambridge 38, Mass.
Office Address: Allyn & Bacon, 50 Beacon St., Boston 8, Mass.
Born: Feb. 19, 1894, Pittsburgh, Pa. Parents: Edward William Demmler,

Wilhelmina Augusta Mayer.
Prepared at: Allegheny High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Public Latin School,

Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1927.
Married: Evelyn Winslow Orr, Dec. 24, 1943, Cambridge, Mass.

Occupation: Editor.
Military or Naval Record: Engineer Corps, Camp A. A. Humphreys, Alex-

_andria, Va., May to December, 1918.

‘Though there has been no waning of my interest in the visible and the
invisible facets of life, events in my own career during the past half-
decade do not seem to have been such as to warrant my setting them
down. Researchers and statisticians may refer to the still-valid para-
graphs that I contributed to the Twentieth Anniversary Report.

An admirable graduate of the ’90’s said Harvard was heaven, and,
allowing for glimpses I have had of other heavens too, I agree. The
freedom of mind and body in the daily round made Harvard years for
me other-worldly indeed, and to all my friendly acquaintances and
warm friends of that realm i in the past I send good wishes renewed.

ALSON GEORGE DENISON

Home Address: 188 Kerby Rd., Grosse Pointe 30, Mich.
Office Address: Murray Corporation of America, 7700 Russell St., Detroit,

Mich.
Born: July 27, 1904, Washington, D. C. Parents: Irving Ingersoll Denison,

Agnes Bertha Garvey.
Prepared at: McKinley Technical High School, Washington, D, C.

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degree: 8.B., 1927(28).

Married: Dorothy Herrick, Nov. 26, 1932, Detroit, Mich. Children: George
Hughes, Dec. 18, 1934; Gerry, June 30, 1940.

Harvard Brother: Edward Urban Denison, ’29, M.B.A., 31.

Occupation: Director of personne] relations, Murray Corporation of America,
manufacturers of automobile parts.

Offices Held: Officerships and committee assignments in local business organi-

zations.
Publications: An occasional article in business magazines,

Has it been twenty-five years since my graduation? It couldn’t be.

[ 199 ]

acre oa MIENE OA To aeeneneenene ean Rn

Harvard Class of 1926

[’m not president of the United States. In fact, I’m not president of
anything important. I'll simply set my sights ahead. Twenty-five years
pass too quickly.

The past twenty-five years have been instructive and pleasant with
no more than the normal amount of heartaches. The story goes some-
thing like this.

Except for a few months in Washington, D. C., my home, I have
lived in and around Detroit ever since graduation. My program kept
me at Harvard for an extra year after 1926. That brought my debut in
the business world a year closer to the depression of 1929.

I was fortunate to be able to hang on at the Packard Motor Car
Company where | started after graduation. On numerous occasions
during this ptriod my situation looked shaky — but I stuck. You must
know that while the collapse in business was drastic in the automobile
business generally, it was nothing short of cataclysmic to Packard. Fine
cars simply did not sell. If I remember the statistics, Packard sales fell
off ninety percent, salaries were cut over forty percent, and the number
of employees released ran into the thousands.

The way back was slow and faltering and my progress — well —
there just wasn’t any to speak of. I was glad to have a job.

In the meantime I had married in 1932. A few months later the banks
closed —in Detroit, permanently. Our first youngster, George, was
born in 1934. As I reminisce, I wonder how we had the courage but am
glad we did. Five years later a second, a girl, Gerry, arrived. By this
time economic conditions had improved so it took less courage to plan a
family. Two, though, completed the family — worse luck. In our eyes
they’re wonderful children and help to make up a happy family.

In regard to the career. As business improved, I found myself taking
on a great variety of assignments which, while it developed my versa-
tity, left me as a “master of none.” In 1939 I was elected assistant sec-
retary and assistant treasurer, the first worth-while title to come my way.
But then in 1942, as war work supplanted car production, I took on in-
dustrial relations work too. This was certainly a long way from corpo-
rate secretary and financial work but very interesting. I fought the war
out along those lines. But whither was I drifting career-wise? In trying
to settle this issue the Packard management and I reached a parting of
the ways and I took on a most promising looking assignment as secre-
tary-treasurer of a small company. Unfortunately expansionitis resulted
in bankruptcy. At this juncture 1 decided to take stock of myself, decide
ona field and concentrate on it, What did I know the most about? The
answer seemed to be industrial relations. Accordingly, my next step was

[ 200 }

an viata. tu siddeiiaietdbibbraataninaatatainnaniaiaibiiiiidliiiahak ut |.

Lwenty- fifth Anniversary Report

the Murray Corporation of America, where I have been for about three
years and am now Personnel Director.

George is in his first year of high school. On the few occasions that we
discuss colleges he displays a mild interest in Harvard. In that he may be
appeasing his old man, My hunch is he will go to some other school,
probably in the Midwest, and frankly I do not think [ll try very hard to
discourage him. I’m sure he would get better instruction and student
competition at Harvard but he might find greater pleasure and content-
ment and personality development elsewhere, so I expect to remain
neutral, I had a free choice. So should he.

JOSEPH VILLIERS DENNEY, JR.

Home Address: 2300 Commonwealth Park, Columbus 9, Ohio.

Office Address: State Office Bldg., Columbus, Ohio.

Born: July 18, 1903, Columbus, Ohio. Parents: Joseph Villiers Denney, Jane
Mary Hawkes.

Prepared at: North High School, Columbus, Ohio.

Years in College: 1923-1925, 1926-1927. Degrees: A.B., 1926(27) ; LL.B.
(Ohio State Univ.), 1936.

Unmarried.

Harvard Brother: Thomas Hawkes Denney, LL.B., ’24.

Occupation: Auditing bureau, State Department, Ohio.

Military or Naval Record: Entered as private, August, 1942; terminated as
corporal, September, 1944; Department of Finance; graduated from
Army School of Finance at Fort Benjamin Harrison and served with
78th Air Service Group at Walterboro, S. C.

Member of: Columbus Art Gallery; Franklin County Historical Society;
American Legion; Air Force Association; Financiers; Ohio State Uni-
versity Development Fund; Symphony Club of Central Ohio; Phi
Kappa Psi Fraternity; Harvard Club of Central Ohio; First Congrega-
tional Church.

Since my graduation I have resided in Columbus, Ohio. I lived all of
my youth in a home on the campus of Ohio State University, where my
father, Joseph Villiers Denney, was dean of the College of Arts and Sci-
ences for twenty years and chairman of the Department of English for
twenty-seven years. I am a graduate of the Ohio State College of Law.
My special hobby is music, and I have been a student of the violin since
earliest years, My keenest interest is naturally with the arts and sciences.
I am a member of the Symphony Club of Central Ohio and of the Co-
lumbus Gallery of Fine Arts; the Franklin County Historical Society in
which I am much interested, and the First Congregational Church in

[ 201 ]

oS,

wothag po ga AE

Harvard Class of 1926

which the distinguished minister, Dr, Washington Gladden, served
thirty years.

My father’s horary has been and still is a source of pleasure and inspi-
ration. His special study was Shakespeare. I with my family accompanied
him in 1914 when he went as an American delegate to the Shake-
speare Tercentenary at Stratford-on-Avon. While we were there, war
was declared and we saw the fine Warwickshire lads nde away. We
heard the war speeches in the Stratford theatre. Before returning to
America, we visited the Denney ancestral home in Yorkshire. ‘he Den-
neys were Puritans. We attended the chapel where they worshipped and
where my grandparents were married.

When I was four years of age I spent a year in Germany, where my
father was a student in the University of Munich. When I returned to
America I was speaking German. I am sorry to report that I have not
kept up my study of German but I am proud to report that I passed the
course under Bierwirth when I was a student at Harvard! He was a
great teacher.

Well so much for so much. I am sorry that I shall not be able to attend

the Twenty-fifth Anniversary. Cordial greetings and good luck to you
all!

JOHN DENOVIAN

Home and Office Address: 16 Trapelo Rd., Belmont, Mass.

Born: March 28, 1905, Van, Armenia. Parents: Peter Denovian, Helen Mar-
karian.

Prepared at: English High School, Boston, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; A.M., 1928; M.D.
(Columbia Univ.), 1932.

Unmarried.

Occupation: Physician,

Military or Naval Record: Army Medical Corps; 36th Evacuation Hospital;
New Guinea, Philippines, Japan, 1942-46.

Member of: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
New England Cardiovascular Society; Massachusetts Heart Association.

As may be inferred from the above, I am still exercising the bachelor
degree. At the moment, I cannot see any change of the status in the off-
ing. My, how time flies! I cannot report any world-shaking achieve-
ments, nor any breath-taking experiences. On the contrary, the years
have rolled by with regular monotony. Three seperate periods, however,
may be differentiated — the prewar, the war, and the postwar years.

The predominant element in the prewar period was struggle. Getting

[ 202 ]

T'wenty-fifth Anntversary Report

into college was hard enough, but getting into a good medical school
was considerably more difficult. Having scaled this obstacle, there was no
respite because internships, residencies, and boards were yet to be
reckoned with. Perhaps the greatest struggle of all was starting in prac-
tice in the year 1935 —at the height of the depression. How I did it,

T’ll never know but, by the hand of Providence, I survived.

The war years left me with nothing but bitterness. The longer I was
in, the darker became the outlook. The slogan in the Pacific — “Stay
with Mack and you'll never get back’’ — was mounting in realism with
the passing of time. We sensed a new meaning for 4F’s — they were the

birds back home, enjoying the four freedoms.
The postwar period has been marked by a gradual slackening of ten-

sion. Compared to the high-geared activities of the first two periods, this
one has a suggestion of laziness——for the first time in my practice,
emergencies excepted, I refuse to see patients without previous appoint-
ments.

My hobbies are few — photography with all its ramifications, occupy-
ing most of my spare time. At the moment, however, all my spare time
is taken up by a postgraduate course — an odd coincidence that the eve
of our Twenty-fifth Reunion should find me again enrolled at Harvard.

ALBERT PAUL JEROME DESSAUER

Home Address: 1 S. Dudley Ave., Ventnor, Atlantic City, N. J.
Bora: March 6, 1905, Nottingham, England. Parents: Henry Dessauer,

Berleen Idahlia Friedenwald.
Prepared at: Tome School, Port Deposit, Md.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.
Married: Mary Seltzer, June 12, 1942, Richmond, Va. CAild: Mary Rose

Idahlia, Dec. 16, 1943.
Harvard Brother: Joseph Roy Dessauer, ’27.

Occupation: Retired. |
Military or Naval Record: Drafted April 13, 1942; served as psychologist, Re-

habilitation Center; discharged Aug. 31, 1945.

Publications: Numerous magazine articles,

I am happily married, and my principal interests revolve around my
family (wife and daughter), and my garden, to which are added the

pleasures of music, reading, and the theatre.
During the last world war I was drafted and served over three years.

I was given basic training appropriate for service in Cuba during the
Spanish-American War. I was then assigned as clerk in a unit dealing
with “difficult” allotment cases — divorces, bigamies, illegitimacies, etc.

[ 203 ]

aa apc 0 ABEND “ . ALAC,

Harvard Class of 1926

—and subsequently chief clerk in the same section. Later I was assigned

as company clerk. Next I was transferred to a rehabilitation center, a

euphemism for a military prison, as a psychologist. I interviewed and

tested customers with a view to placement in one of eleven schools, and
with reference to personal, psychological, disciplinary, and psychiatric
problems, It was an exacting and rewarding job. My work resulted in
restoring men to duty, sending them to a maximum security prison, or
(sometimes) giving them hospitalization or even a discharge. I was in
charge of a section of eighteen men, all of whom had one or more col-
lege degrees, and I had the impressive rating of T/5.

Something over a year ago I resigned my position as a psychologist
with the Veterans Administration and retired to live happily on my lau-
rels— or on my income, whichever way you care to put it.

We visit New York and Philadelphia rather frequently, to see or hear
the usual and unusual plays and concerts. We manage to get in a little
travel — somewhat less than we would like—and I still putter a bit
with my collection of contemporary poetry.

I have few friends and little social life and I am sorry to say that I
have kept up with the men I knew at college rather less than I had
hoped. But I do see a few of them from time to time, always with a great
deal of pleasure, and if any of my classmates who read this and remem-
ber me find themselves in Atlantic City, I shall be very happy to see
them. This is a bona fide invitation; there is always bourbon in the house.

ALEXIS pe TARNOWSKY

Home Address: 625 Exmoor Rd., Kenilworth, Il.
Office Address: Pure Oil Co., 35 E. Wacker Drive, Chicago 1, Ill.

Bora: Aug. 28, 1904, Chicago, Ill. Parents: George de Tarnowsky, Bertha
Dufheld Nixon.

Prepared at: Chestnut Hill Academy, Chestnut Hill, Pa.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B. 1n C.E. cum laude, 1926.
Married: Alice Rand, June 16, 1928, Brookline, Mass. (divorced 1945)-

Children: Marie, April 21, 19293; George, Feb. 23, 1939; Berthe Alex-
andra, Nov. 16, 1940.

Harvard Brother: Nixon de Tarnowsky, ’35.

Occupation: Safety engineer, Pure Oil Company, petroleum producers, refin-
ers, and marketers.

Military or Naval Record: Entered active duty with Engineers Corps, U.S.
Amny, July 3, 1942; overseas duty in England, Sept. 3, 1943, to Nov. 9,

1945; honorably discharged, Feb, 10, 1946; major in organized Re-
serve.

Member of: Western Society of Engineers; University Club of Chicago;
[ 204 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

American Petroleum Institute; National Safety Council; National Fire
Protection Association.

As I sit down to think over the past quarter-century and to recall
some of its milestones, my son on his trumpet appropriately plays our na-
tional anthem. World War II left its mark on our family. But when I
think of the millions of families throughout the conflict who were blown
apart, torn asunder, ravaged, starved, enslaved, and slaughtered, I am
humbly thankful to a merciful God. I have my health, a good job, and
three beloved children to tint with grey my few remaining hairs.

Upon graduation I followed my original plan of entering the railroad
construction field and devoted three years to elevating tracks and elim-
inating grade crossings in my home town. ‘Then a chance was offered to
help in the expansion of the fast growing Insul Utility Empire. When
that bubble burst, I followed several selling ventures with indifferent
success until I found an opportunity with an up and coming oil company.
At first I followed, or rather renewed my activities in, construction
work. In a few years, however, my assistance was sought in the small but
growing Division of Safety and Fire Prevention. Although my engi-
neering experience and training stood me in good stead, I had to learn
a new profession. The experience has been most pleasant, broadening,
and interesting. My activities cover all phases of the business — produc-
ing, refining, research, transportation (rail, truck, pipe line, inland
waterways, and ocean tankers), and marketing. From my vantage
point I get a clear and detailed picture of the industry such as few are
privileged to see. And in addition the work requires extensive travelling
which so far has carried me to all but nine of our forty-eight states as
well as two provinces of Canada. Nor have my children been “stay-at-
homes’’; so far they have been to twenty-eight states and Canada and
hope to complete the forty-eight states with me. Despite the clouding
world skies the future looms bright for us and Harvard can look forward
to a triple-threat back to help pull her out of the football doldrums.

ARCHIBALD PREWITT DEWEESE

Home Address: 65 Park Ave., New York 16, N.Y.

Office Address: New York Public Library, 476 Fifth Ave., New York 18, N. Y.

Born: March 14, 1904, Lexington, Ky. Parents: Benjamin Cassel DeWeese,
Elizabeth Howell Prewitt.

Prepared at: Lexington High School, Lexington, Ky.

Years in College: 1923-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; S.B, (Columbia Univ.
School of Library Service), 1932.

Unmarried,

[ 205 ]

LLL LLL NCL ETE NNN
ie NN

Harvard Class of 1926

Occupation: Librarian; chief information division, Reference Department,
New York Public Library,

Military or Naval Record: Served in Army, 1942-43; private, Armored Force;
discharged as over-age.
Member of: American Library Association.

Shortly after graduation I went to the John Carter Brown Library,
at Brown University, as cataloguer. In 1928 I came to the New York
Public Library, where I have remained. I spent a year in the music di-
vision and then worked at the general information desk where I have
been in charge since 1943. My work consists of library guidance, book
selection, and supplying information to library readers, telephone calls,
and letters from all over the world.

My chief hobby has always been music, and I have recently resumed
the study of the piano.

+ EDWARD HOOKER DEWEY

Born: Aug. 21, 1904, Meadville, Pa. Parents: Walter Edward Dewey, Jessica
May Digneu.

Prepared at: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; A.M., 1928.
Married: Miriam Jasspon, 1934, New York, N. Y.

Died: Jan. 1, 1945, Boston, Mass.

Father: Walter E. Dewey, 23, West Cedar St., Boston, Mass.

Edward Hooker Dewey was a member of the Freshman Entertain-
ment Committee, the Dramatic Club, the Cercolo Italiano, and the
Glee Club as an undergraduate at Harvard. He spent two additional
years at Harvard, at the end of which he secured an A.M. degree, and
then remained as an instructor in English until 1936. During this time
he contributed reviews and articles to the Dictionary of American Bugra-
phy and worked towards a Ph.D. degree, a plan he abandoned at the
time of his marriage and subsequent transfer to the Katharine Gibbs
School in Boston. His association with Katharine Gibbs School as head
of the English Department lasted until 1944. His courses in poetry and
drama were consistently voted by the students the most popular in the
curriculum. In addition to teaching, he lectured at Junior League meet-
ings and taught courses in public speaking and literature at the General
Electric Company plant in Lynn. He contributed to Boston and the Boston
Legend by Lucius Beebe, which was published in 1935, and many of his
essays on biographical and historical subjects appeared in the New Eng-
land Quarterly. F oy a semester he was professor of English literature and

{ 206 J

Twenty- fifth Anneversary Report

composition at Rollins College, Winter Park, Florida. He was to have
joined the faculty at Simmons College as an instructor in English in
February, 1945.

Dewey’s interests were varied, but centered particularly on the thea-
tre, drama, and the arts. For a time he was coach for the dramatic club
at Katharine Gibbs. He travelled a great deal, seeing much of Europe
before World War II, and spending his spare time in the western part
of this country thereafter.

THOMAS ANDREW DEWIRE, JR.

Home Address: 40 Pickwick Rd., West Newton, Mass.

Office Address: 40 Broad St., Boston, Mass.

Bora: July 31, 1903, Somerville, Mass. Parents: Thomas Andrew Dewire,
Mabel Mathews.

Prepared at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1924.

Married: Gertrude Lane, Nov. 23, 1926, Arlington, Mass. (died Sept. 9,
1941); Pauline Crimmings, Oct. 12, 1943, Wellesley Hills, Mass.
Children; Thomas Andrew, 3d, Aug. 29, 1927; Paula, Oct. 2, 1928;
Deborah, March 18, 19303 Stephen, Oct. 20, 1944; Andrew, May 24,
1946; Constance, Aug. 2, 1947.

Harvard Son: Thomas Andrew Dewire, 3d, ’52.

Occupation: Insurance broker.

Member of : Harvard Club of Boston; Braeburn Country Club, West Newton,
Mass.

In the past twenty-five years my means of livelihood have been con-
fined to two occupations. Until 1935 I spent my time in a wholesale and
retail grocery firm, performing about every duty required in the opera-
tion of a small business. In 1935 this business was sold. After much
thought I decided on the general insurance business which I am still
conducting at 40 Broad Street, Boston, Massachusetts.

Outside of my business, my interests are my family and their various
activities, and an occasional round of golf.

CORWIN EBRIGHT DICK

Home Address: 44 N. Mountain Ave., Montclair, N. J.

Office Address: Wm. Wyer & Co., 6S, Clinton St., East Orange, N, J.

Born: Aug. 8, 1904, Topeka, Kans, Parents: William Henry Dick, Harriet
~ ‘Rebecca Ebright.

Prepared at: E] Reno High School, E] Reno, Okla.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; M.B.A., 1928.

[ 207 ]

at 2 NAAN RNR NALS SiO ee ee LaLa

Harvard Class of 1926

Married: Florence Madeline Pease, Aug. 18, 1944, New York, N.Y.

Occupation: Consulting engineer (railroads).

Member of : Harvard Club of New Jersey.

The most surprising thing about filling out the questionnaire for our
Twenty-fifth Reunion is the fact that it s twenty-five years since com-
munication among the Class could be verbal instead of written, It is dif- t
ficult to comprehend this space of a quarter of a century, but my recol-
lections of C— in English a are still so vivid that I set about this sum-
mary of my twenty-five years since college with trepidation.

My business life has been spent in and around railroads. In fact, the

twenty-five years since college would not cover it all as my father also,
and his father before him, was fascinated by the operation of trains. My
entire life has revolved around railroading. My only detour occurred
during the summer between two years at the Harvard Business School
following college. That summer I sold — or made the effort to sell —
gas-fired incinerators in Newburgh, New York, a city with a well-estab-
lished free garbage collection twice weekly. The reasons why a house-
wife should pay $100 for a device whose functions coincided with those
of a free and well-known municipal activity were, to the housewife,
obscure. I myself could throw but little light on it, except from the view-
point of the gas company. Ice boxes for the Esquimaux I could under-
stand, but selling in this country was not my meat and after this brief
fling in foreign fields, I returned to railroading where I have been ever
since,

My own railroading started with two years in the Business School
with Professor Cunningham, an expert in the field, and continued with
the Rock Island in Kansas, Oklahoma, and Texas, for a couple of years.
In 1930 I joined the Missouri Pacific’s fiscal forces in Cleveland when
that road was a part of the Van Sweringen empire. Its reorganization led
to wider experiences culminating in removal to New York in 1940, and
eventual consulting work in connection with many of the railroad reor-
ganizations of the last decade. As a junior member of the firm I have
found the work vastly interesting, of the greatest variety, and a contin-
ual and exacting demand upon me to the limit of my capacity and occa-
sionally beyond. Now the wheel has gone full cycle and we are at work
once more on a job with Professor Cunningham, which thus takes me
back to the beginning of my twenty-five years, (This is where I came
in! )

All work and some play has, I am afraid, had almost the same effect
upon me asan undiluted application of the old proverb. An abiding inter-
est in music, however, has carried me through some dry and desert

[ 208 |

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

areas, and not all the arias heard are as bad as they sound. A winter
studying with one of Matthay’s pupils opened up wonderful vistas
which, though frequently dimmed, have never since been closed off en-
tirely. My little Steinway still does better than its manipulator, and the
pleasure is limited only by the hours available for it. ‘This has finally led
to Bach and, in another field, Beethoven quartets, but here the going is
tough and I work hard for what I get.

’ Home life has been wonderful. It started late — only six years ago —
and we are only now reaching the point where two rooms are too little,
and it’s late enough. Plans are getting under way at last for a real house
on an acre of land with its own little brook and furtive trout. On Beech-
tree Lane, surrounded by oaks, the project will demand much thought
this coming year and we hope it will give us the home we have waited
for. We also hope to see some of our classmates there.

LAURENCE DIMSDALE

Address: 73 Beverly Pl., Highland Park, Il.
Born: Nov. 19, 1904, Sioux City, lowa. Parents: Sam Dimsdale, Mary Bailin.

Prepared at: Gijmno, Russia, |

Years in College: 1923-1926. Degrees: S.B., 1926 (27); LL.B. (Univ. of Min-
nesota), 1931.

Married: May-Lou Jones, June 30, 1934, Flandreau, 8, Dak. Children:
William, Sept. 1, 1936; Theodore, Feb. 17, 1939.

Occupation: Law.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Dimsdale
did not return a questionnaire.

CAMPBELL DINSMORE

Home Address: 83 Whitehall Rd., Toronto 5, Ont., Canada.

Office Address: Procter & Gamble Co. of Canada, Ltd., 100 Adelaide W., To-
ronto, Ont., Canada.

Born: Sept. 17, 1904, Cincinnati, Ohio. Parents: Frank Forbus Dinsmore,
Mary Campbell.

Prepared at: University School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.

Married: Margaret Eleanor Wiley, April 26, 1933, Cincinnati, Ohio. CAil-
dren: Wiley, Aug. 8, 19343; Frank Forbus, 2d, Feb. 23, 1936.

Harvard Brother: Joseph Campbell Dinsmore, ’21; LL.B., ’24.

Occupation: General sales manager, Procter & Gamble Company of Canada,
Ltd.

Offices Held: Board of directors, Cincinnati Summer Opera Association, 1940-

[ 209 ]

»
é
%
4

Harvard Class of 1926

49, Cincinnati Community Chest, 1945-49; advisory board, Salvation
Army, 1946-49; member, Ohio Citizens’ Council for Health & Wel-
fare, 1947-49; president, Harvard Club of Cincinnati, 1949. i
Memder of: Toronto Hunt; Badminton and Racquet Club of Toronto; Rose-
dale Golf Club; Toronto Skating Club; Cincinnati Country Club; 32°

i
Masons.

Some of the Class are going to have much more of interest to report
than I, but my start in business at least is going to put the whole “kit and
caboodle” in the shade.

After leaving Harvard, my first job was to present a full-size free
sample of one of Procter & Gamble’s superlative products to a flimsily
robed harlot in one of the then many houses of assignation in Evansville,

Indiana. | .

I want to be as graphic as possible about this unique starting episode,
because it brings back to my mind the fond wish that President Lowell
held for us in his baccalaureate sermon. Some will remember that he
hoped that through life “the Throne would speak.”

I am willing to give Mr. Lowell credit for the maximum of divina-
tion that told him we would have to call upon the Throne to sustain us
through the nation’s worst depression, worst war, and, as far as I am
concerned, worst eighteen years of government in the annals of self-
governed people. I shall wager, however, he never dreamed that the
very first pop-out-of-the-box, one of us would have his whole future
confronted by a couple of giggling prostitutes whose minds were prob-
ably as transparent as their faded kimonos, to whom he was to prove the
advantages of a Harvard education by reciting a canned spiel that he had
hastily memorized.

Well, as far as the talk was concerned, it was too much for me to re-
member, Throne or no Throne, and it wound up with a stumbling,
“Girls, here’s a free sample of soap.” But the Throne did speak up, as it
has on many matters since, and I got on my flying red horse in search of
houses which offered a better market for my product. Alas, several other
boys that afternoon, without the benefit of Harvard guidance, wound up
by sampling the prospects in the wrong way and found themselves minus
jobs before night.

As for me, word of my unusual reliability, determination, and devo-
tion to duty, soon spread back to the God-fearing tenants of the front
office, and I received the first of several promotions which induced me
to stay with the same firm these twenty-five years.

To try to be serious for a brief line or two, the Throne HAS spoken
some valuable words to me, and I truthfully believe that what I inher-

[ 210 }

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

ited from Harvard has been at least as important in my life as whatever
native ability I possess. Admitting that for want of trying, I did not learn
more at Harvard than the barest minimum the authorities demanded, I
feel that the opportunity to absorb the serious determination that reeked
about the old place was of immeasurable benefit to me. In fact, knowing
my inborn taste for playing and partying, I don’t know what might have
become of me had I gone to another school that lacked Harvard’s tradi-
tion for seriousness of purpose. Believe me that it was not by accident or
inclination that I really buckled down to work my first years out. As
soon as I left Cambridge, I found some built-up determination in me
that I had never experienced before.

In my private life this determination took me through a whirlwind
courtship into a very happy marriage which has been blessed with two
sons, now aged sixteen and fifteen. The boys are currently at Middlesex,
and I hope headed for Harvard, although in this day and age you don’t
tell children where they are going to college.

In extra-curricular affairs I have tried to do my part mostly in the
field of fund-raising. Some of the worthy causes for which I have
worked are listed in my life history. As the standard form left no place
to report anything done for any church or religious institution, I should
like to go out of my way to state that I have served as chairman of the
board of trustees of a non-denominational church and on the vestry of
an Episcopal Church.

All in all, as I look back, I can’t say that time has flitted past, but cer-
tainly events have. Just to prove that I appreciate that I am beginning
to get old, I am ever more thankful for the way the years have treated
me. I sincerely hope every member of the Class is as happy as I find my-
self today, and is as adjusted as I like to think I am to the rigors of the

years ahead.

PHILIP THOMAS DOHERTY

Home Address: 64 Prospect St., Belmont, Mass.

Office Address: Bond, Tibbetts & Doherty, 10 Post Office Sq., Boston, Mass.

Born: Dec. 18, 1903, Fall River, Mass. Pareats: Edward Andrew Doherty,
Louise Mary Busch.

Prepared at: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degrees: A.B., 1926(27) ; LL.B., 1930.

Married: Nancy James, July 1, 1931, Cambridge, Mass, Children: Jane, June
29, 1934; Paul, June 24, 1936; Philip, Aug. 9, 1940.

Harvard Brother: Julian Benedict Doherty, D.M.D., ’24.

Occupation: Lawyer; member of firm of Bond, Tibbetts & Doherty.

[ 211 ]

ca ant mea

1

:

Harvard Class of 1926

As an essentially modest (and probably lazy) person, I make no pre-

tense of having mastered my fate. When I finished law school in 1930,
a few of the better law firms were offering even fewer of the best stu-
dents as much as $1200.00 a year. The rest of us took what was avail-
able, and it paid accordingly. After a year of the shock treatment which
the world beyond cloisters administers to the neophyte, I became a legal
assistant to the newly-created Massachusetts Board of Tax Appeals. We
learned together, the Board and I, and after seven years, I deceived my
present partners into believing that I knew enough about taxes to be a
desirable addition to the firm. (Custom requires me to say that my part-
ners are “Harvard men.” ) Now, twenty-five years out of college, I find
that I have drifted with the tide and have washed up on a very pleasant
shore,

At this point, it appears that I should state certain profound convic-
tions I have reached as to how my fellow-man should live to get the most
out of life. My only conclusion is this: As that noble denizen of the deep,
the lobster, loves the icy waters of the Maine coast, whereas the lowly
langouste (or “crazy fish” ast is called in the less expensive restaurants)
relishes the soft, warm waters of the Gulf, and as they seem equally
happy, I conclude that some of you may live differently from me and
still enjoy yourselves. Thus I speak only for myself.

I am quite content. Enough of my work is not routine so that the
brain is still required to perform the function for which it was primarily
devised, to wit, to think. I enjoy my family, and am relieved that the
kids are sufficiently normal to hate spinach and love sweets, thus prac-
tically guaranteeing that they will not be problem children. As a class
biography has never seemed to me the place to lay bare a Man’s love for
a Good Woman, I shall argue the relative merits of my wife vis-a-vis
other Class wives only in private.

As T left the best part of my right hip on the lacrosse field one day in
October, 1923, my activities and amusements are, perforce, sedentary
in nature. Music is still my hobby, and if I can get to a record shop before
either my creditors or Uncle Sam’s revenuers get their respective hands |
in my pocket, I do so. Furthermore, as my intimates well know, I have

read several books since leaving college, many of which contained poly-
syllabic words and foreign phrases, whose meaning I instantly recog-
nized. I also like to sit, just sit, and that is, of course, the very apotheosis
of the sedentary.

[ 212 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

ROGER DOHERTY

Home and Office Address: 45 Priscilla Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass..

Born: Feb. 19, 1902, Boston, Mass. Parents: Michael Doherty, Mary E. Sulli-
van.

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1921-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Marion Murphy, June, 1936, Detroit, Mich. Children: Barbara,
June 15, 1938; Nancy, Oct. 24,1940.

Occupation: Industrial painting and maintenance contractor.

From graduation to January, 1947, I had been a salesman, manu-
facturers’ agent, etc., handling such varied items as real estate, soap,
food products, and maintenance equipment. During the past four years
T have been engaged in a specialized maintenance business, consisting of
washing the inside of buildings—such as schools, churches, theatres,
etc. — by means of machines. Contract painting has become an after-
math. I have my own business and solicit, estimate, and supervise.

ROBERT ALDEN DOLE

Home Address: 35 Hawthorn St., Cambridge, Mass.

Office Address: Goldman, Sachs & Co., 75 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Feb. 16, 1899, Bangor, Maine. Parents: Charles Edmund Dole, Flor-
ence Robertson Watters.

Prepared at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

Years in College: 1922~-1925. Degree: A.B., 1926 (25).

Married: Mary Eleanor Ives, Feb, 21, 1928, Delphi, Ind, CAild: Robert
Alden, Jr., June 30, 1934.

Harvard Brother: Alexander Watters Dole, 24, M.B.A., ’27.

Occupation: Investment banking; sales and contacts, selling and new accounts.

Military or Naval Record: Private, American Field Service attached to French
Army, 1917-18. Combat Intelligence, XXIX Tactical Air Command
with Ninth Air Force, European Air Offensive, Normandy, Northern
France, Central Europe, Ardennes, and Rhineland campaigns, 1942-
46; separated as colonel; colonel, U.S. Air Force Reserve.

Wartime Government Posts: Chief, Office of the Foreign Liquidation Com-
missioner, General Sales, European Theatre, Paris, France, 1945-48.

Member of : Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New York.

T have had an exciting life riding the foam of every bubble for two and
a half decades —the Florida land boom at its peak — then decided to
start at the bottom in the investment banking business with Lee, Higgin-
son & Company, a conservative old Boston firm, It was easy-come till

1929, then easy-go. I fought until I bled the New Deal — still fighting
[ 213 ]

es LALLA LLL LLL ON Et

Harvard Class of 1926

it——and the securities business recovered just in time for Munich’s
“Peace in our Time.” I was commissioned in the Air Corps in 1 942 to
start my second world war. Four more years of excitement — England,
Normandy, the Liberation of Paris, Belgium, Holland, and Germany,
and, just as I was ordered to fly both oceans to the Pacific, the war was
over. The Ninth Air Force released me to the State Department and I
spent the next three years in charge of sales of U.S. surplus war material _
in the European Theatre of Operations with headquarters in Paris.
Our Twentieth Class Report covers some of the details of my travels
in postwar Europe, Scandinavia, and satellite countries —— my family
joined me in 1946 and we managed to work in a few pleasure trips. ‘This
truly was a wonderful experience and both work and pleasure brought
me into contact with hundreds of peoples of different nationalities and
walks of life. In a sense our operation and policies of disposing of Ameri-
can surplus involved much that was to follow in the Marshall Plan. We
tried to place American goods and machinery where they would do the
most good in war-torn Europe and payment was made usually against
an American credit. It was necessary on several occasions to cut off
credits to those countries which slipped away from the democratic way
of thinking.

Finally I liquidated myself out of a job, returned to this country in
1948, and later joined the Boston office of Goldman, Sachs & Company.
I still have postwar adjustment problems but couldn’t have them in bet-
ter surroundings than my present association.

I shall leave it to other rugged individuals to comment on our way of
life since 1932. They will do so more eloquently and with less emotion
than I should be able to do it. I sincerely hope that institutions like Har-
vard will be able to educate those who take over in the future so that
some leadership and forward-thinking Americans will emerge — and
take an active interest in our new position in the world,

MALCOLM LINCOLN DONALDSON

Home Address: Trapelo Road, Lincoln, Mass.
Office Address: H. S. Locke & Son Co., Needham, Mass,

Born: Oct. 26, 1904, Lincoln, Mass. Parents: Robert Douglas Donaldson
Charlotte Henrietta Alcock. ,

Prepared at: Concord High School, Concord, Mass.; Phillips Academy, An-
dover, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; M.B.A., 1928,

Married: Eleanor Ayer Locke, Oct. 21, 1939, Needham, Mass. Children:

[ 214 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Robert Douglas, May 26, 1941; Malcolm Lincoln, Jr., Oct. 13, 1943;
Alan Locke, Nov. 24, 1945.

Harvard Brothers: Robert Douglas Donaldson, ’25; Donald Price Donaldson,
28, LL.B., °313 Gordon Alcock Donaldson, ’31, M.D., ’35-

Occupation: Assistant treasurer, H. S. Locke & Son Company, retail lumber
dealer.

Offices Held: Manager, automotive sales, Kendall Mills, 1941-435 chairman,
Lincoln War Fund Campaign, 1942; secretary, Boy Scout Troop Com-
mittee, 1942-45; New England sales manager, C & R Division, Carter’s
Ink Company, 1944-45 ; assistant treasurer, H. §. Locke & Son Com-
pany, since 1946; chairman, Lincoln School Committee, since 1950.

When I was a small boy, my father had an old aunt who prophesied
the future of each of his four small sons. One was to become a lawyer,
one an engineer, one a doctor, and I was to enter the ministry. She spoke
well for my three brothers, but I spoiled the old lady’s record.

In June of 1926, I was not one of those fortunate individuals who
knew just what he wanted to do with that wealth of what-have-you ac-
quired within the ivy-clad walls of Harvard. Having no bent for law,
medicine, or “the cloth,” I looked to business for my livelihood.

After two years of what I thought was rather intensive effort at the
Business School, I put myself on the block for whoever most needed my
services. Sales promotion at the Carter’s Ink Company in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, was my first assignment. After two years I left the com-
fortable confines of the office and went outside among the trade to find
out just what made merchandising really click. Selling and market sur-
veys for Carter during the next seven years took me from Maine to
Florida, from the Rio Grande to the iron mines of Minnesota. We
learned much at Cambridge, true, but those years of travel and selling
were certainly of tremendous value from an educational standpoint. In
those years I learned more than I can say about this country of ours and
the people in it. I found the work fascinating and I thoroughly enjoyed
it. Most of my time was spent in the Middle West, however, and I, being
too much of a “damned Yankee,” was not too happy with my lot. It was
with much regret | that I finally left the employ of Carter to return to
“dear old Boston.”

Cotton textiles was my next venture, this time in Walpole, Massachu-
setts, with Kendall Mills. As sales supervisor of some twenty sales agents
in the automotive field, I spent the next four years with a company
whose business was conducted in a way most consistent with the best of
Business School practice and teaching.

In 1943 an opening developed in New England with the Carter’s

[ 215 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Ink Company again, and having a deep-rooted loyalty and love for the
company and my many friends in it, I once more entered its employ. In
1944 1 became New England sales manager of the carbon and ribbon
division. There I remained until 1945, enjoying life in New England
thoroughly. In that year came an excellent opportunity to enter the re-
tail lumber business right at the beginning of the postwar building boom,
and I could not very well turn it down. Since I was brought up in the
building atmosphere in my early days, this new field of endeavor ap-
pealed to me from the start. Barring shortages and federal restrictions,
effort spent here should be quite worth while.

Important as all this business activity is, the biggest day in all these
twenty-five years was the day I forsook my state of bachelorhood and
set out on what has turned out to be a most happy and fruitful married
life. Eleanor and I now have three small boys each with varying degrees
of mental agility, athletic prowess, and good disposition. Needless to say,
every day brings some new experience and keeps us continually looking
for the answers. What I most desire now is to find more time to do more
things with my family, while I am still able to keep up with them.

Since I have put up my travelling bags, civic responsibilities have
weighed too heavily upon me. First it was Boy Scout Troop Commit- _
teeman, then chairman of the War Fund Campaign, acting deacon of
the First Parish, and always the everlasting “village choir” where I have
performed for years often with much sputtering for whomsoever would
listen. More recently as chairman of the Lincoln School Committee I
have found more than I bargained for in extra-curricular activity. If any
of you want to experience losing friends and influencing people ad-
versely, just try this assignment. |

Recreation has been in tennis, gardening, and golf, at none of which
am I proficient to any great degree. Then there is “The 8 Men of Lin-
coln,” a double quartet in which I sing. This is a very informal group,
“tainted” in song and personnel by a certain amount of New Haven in-
fluence. We sing for our own amusement, although we do sometimes
border on the semi-professional.

As should be the case, twenty-five years “out,” finds me rather settled
family-, community-, and business-wise. Those years at Cambridge I
value highly not only for the associations and experiences at the time but
also for the background and, shall I say, fortitude for living since then.

[ 216 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

FRANCIS EDWARD DONNELLY

Home Address: 37 Huntington Rd., Milton, Mass. -
Office Address: Internal Revenue Service, 140 Federal St., Boston, Mass.
Born: Jan. 13, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parents: Eugene Francis Donnelly, Rose

A. Greene.

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Esther Doogue, Oct. 13, 1937, Newton, Mass. CAild: Janice Crosby,
Aug. 25,1944.

Harvard Brother: Ralph Langdon Donnelly, ’19.

Occupation: Internal revenue agent.

Wartime Government Posts: Civil Service Examiner, U.S. Civil Service.

‘Twenty-five years ago, armed with an A.B. degree and high hopes
for the future, I joined the legion of similarly equipped young men who
felt that the insurance field was pretty green, but after struggling
through several depression years, the green grass turned to hay as far as
I was concerned and I turned to the Home Owners’ Loan Corporation
where [ served as field representative for several years.

My next connection was with the U.S. Civil Service Commission as
an examiner, and during the war years I was stationed at the Navy Yard
at Charlestown, and the Naval Ammunition Depot, Hingham. I then
transferred to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, Income Tax Divi-
sion, where my work involves the examination of books and records of
corporate tax-payers in the interests of Uncle Sam.

In the course of my audits I have examined the accounts of many
Harvard men but as yet no ’26-ers. It may be treason to my Alma
Mater to say this, but I have not found Harvard men more prone to

over-pay their taxes than Yale men.

JOHN COLVILLE DONNELLY

Home Address: 10727 §. Seeley Ave., Morgan Park Station, Chicago, Ill.
Office Address: Consolidated Gas & Service Co., 327 S, LaSalle St., Chicago,

Il.
Born: Sept. 8, 1904, Chicago, Ill. Parewis: Frank Donnelly, Della Frances

Fleming.
Prepared at: Morgan Park High School, Chicago, Ill.
Years in College: 1922-1923. Degrees: S.B. (Univ. of Illinois), 1926; M.B.A.,

1928.
Married: Frances Jane Leddy, Jan. 13, 1945, Chicago, Ill, Children: Kathryn

Frances, Dec. 9, 1937 (adopted February, 1945); John Colville, Jr.
Feb. 4, 1946.

[ 217 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Occupation : President, Consolidated Gas & Service Company ; construction,

maintenance, and engineering service for gas, electric, and water utility
companies.

Member of: Harvard Club of Chicago; Art Institute of Chicago; Vanderpoel

Art Association; Union League Club; Illinois Register of Professional
Engineers.

The fact that I did not remain at Harvard during all of my four years
as an undergraduate has always been a matter of regret to me, chiefly
because of the pleasant associations which I missed. In order to take cer-
tain courses in engineering, I transferred from Harvard College to the
University of Illinois. The principal effect of this experience was to make
me appreciate Harvard much more than I otherwise would have. Con-
sequently, after receiving a degree in engineering, I returned to Har-
vard for two years of graduate work leading to the degree of Master in
Business Administration.

Neither of my degrees was of the slightest value in my first business
position. I was a helper in the Diesel engine testing department of Fair-
banks, Morse & Company, and my work consisted largely of tightening
nuts and bolts and carrying heavy parts for eleven hours each day. I was
scheduled to become a Diesel engine salesman at the end of a year, but
I knew that I would never enjoy selling anything, so, after ten months
in the shop, I left that company and joined some friends who were en-
gaged in public utility engineering and management.

At that time, in July, 1929, the company name was Union Power
Corporation, and we were affiliated with a holding company which has
since been dissolved. However, the engineering and management or-
ganization remained substantially intact, and many of the employees
continued in their positions through successive corporate changes. Now
we are Consolidated Gas and Service Company, but our work and our
personnel have changed very little. In fact every member of our Chicago
office staff was employed by Union Power Corporation more than
twenty years ago.

Through no efforts of mine this business has grown to occupy nearly »
every minute of my time, to the almost complete exclusion of sports, en-
tertainment, and even reading for pleasure, I resigned from the country
club and gave up golf five years ago, and I have not attended a sym-
phony concert in the last two years. My last vacation of more than a day
or two was in Palm Beach five years ago following our wedding.

My wife has taken over the entertainment and the education of our
two children, and their scholastic courses are being directed towards

Harvard and Radcliffe. While walking about Cambridge, they have
[ 218 }

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

been properly exposed to the atmosphere of the Yard, but they are not
particularly impressed by it. They say that it seems as if it is only a few
blocks from home. I consider this a compliment to our neighborhood,
where we live in the same house that I grew up in forty years ago. We
shall probably continue to live in this house for the next forty years, un-
less I can retire and move to Prides Crossing or some other Boston

suburb.

FRANKLIN WEBSTER DORMAN

Home Address: Parsons, W. Va.

Office Address: Dorman Mills, Parsons, W. Va.

Born: June 18, 1905, New York, N. Y. Parents: Franklin Abbot Dorman, ’94,
Jane Wilbur Callender.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Elizabeth Rathbone, June 25, 1926, Englewood, N. J.; Nancy
Carr, Feb. 28, 1940, New York, N. Y.; Muriel Mullins; Mary Wash-
ington. CAildren: Franklin A., April 29, 1927; Elizabeth Jane, Nov.
29, 1929; Arline Burdick, June 13, 1933; Nancy Carr, Dec. 11, 1941.

Harvard Brothers: Stuart Callender Dorman, ’33; Theodore Taylor Dor-
man, 738.

Occupation: President, Dorman Mills.

Military or Naval Record: Navy Department: Quonset, 1942; Norfolk Naval
Air Station; Patuxent River Naval Air Station; Bougainville.

Member of: Elks; V.F.W.; Harvard Club of New York; Orient Yacht Club,

Long Island.

My life has been nothing but the middle man so far. But at least I
have the distinction of having the Class Baby!

HARRY GAYLORD DORMAN, JR.

Home Address: American Mission, Beirut, Lebanon.
Office Address: Syria-Lebanon Mission of the Presbyterian Church in USA,

Beirut, Lebanon.

Born: Jan. 11, 1906, Beirut, Lebanon. Parests: Harry Gaylord Dorman, ’96,
Mary Bliss Dale.

Prepared at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1925. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926(25); A.M.,
1926; B.D. (Union Theological Seminary), 1933; Pu.D. (Colum-
bia Univ.), 1947.

Married: Virginia Whitney, June 5, 1940, Worcester, Mass. Childrens: Harry
Gaylord, 3d, April 26, 1943; Eleanor Whitney, July 5, 1945; Peter
Fitzgerald, Dec. 27, 1948.

[ 219 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Harvard Brothers: Gerald Dale Dorman, ’25; Daniel Bliss Dorman, °32,
M.D., ’36; John Dorman, ’36; David Dorman, ’46.

Occupation: Minister; missionary; professor in Theological Seminary; re-
ligious worker among university students.

Offices Held: Dean of Aleppo College, 1937-473 chairman of Church Coun-
cil, Community Church of Beirut, 1947-50; member of board, Beirut
Y¥.M.C.A., 1947-50; chairman, United Missionary Council of Syria,

Lebanon, and Palestine, 1950; professor of New Testament, Near East
School of Theology, 1947-51.

Member of: Social Welfare League; University of Beirut; Beirut Symposium.
Publications: Toceards Understanding Islam, Bureau of Publications of Teachers
College, Columbia, New York, 1948.

Why a Harvard man should spend his life, and his wife’s life too, at
the “far” end of the Mediterranean, is a fair question. My answer goes
back nearly a hundred years, when my great-grandfather, Daniel Bliss,
arrived in Syria with his wife and became not long afterward the
founder of the American University of Beirut. My grandparents and
parents have worked in the Near East too.

A man with one home may find it hard to understand how one can
have two homes equally beloved yet situated in two such completely dif-
ferent worlds. One’s living and thinking is enriched by both cultures,
and yet one is never fully satisfied in either place; the States are always
the background of my living and working when I am in Syria, and Syria
and Lebanon are just that for me when I am in the States. As things are
developing in the world today that may not be a bad way to live.

Education has been my main job since I left Harvard. I have worked
in different types of educational projects in our Presbyterian Syria-Le-
banon Mission, secondary school, college, and theological training. One
of my main interests is religious work with students, especially in con-
nection with the Christian fellowship house of which I am director and

which serves the students of the American University of Beirut, the
Beirut College for Women, and other institutions in the city. A grow-
ing interest of mine is the challenge which Communism is making to
young people in this area, and the answering strategy that church and
mission must be developing in their appeal, especially to those under-
privileged groups among whom Communist activity is particularly suc-
cessful, There was a day long since when the church and the message of
Christ were the greatest hope of the underprivileged, but today it’s Rus-
sia that’s supposed by many to be the “Friend of the Poor.” This whole

area of thought is in great need of re-working both in the East and in
the West — but fast.

[ 220 ]

T wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

The other half of our life is our home and our three children, who are
to us, of course, quite magnificent and unique. Gay is at the cowboy
stage, Eleanor comes not far behind, and Peter is just getting into his
conversational stride, mixing Arabic and English with magnificent reck-
lessness as he learns to talk. We're still trying to keep up with them, but
it looks as though they would t be getting ahead of us in a lot of ways be-
fore long.

HOWARD NOTT DOUGHTY, JR.

Home Address: 18 Green St., Ipswich, Mass.

Bora: Feb. 2, 1904, Englewood, N. J. Parents: Howard Nott Doughty, Ellen
Appleton Flichtner.

Prepared at: Ipswich High School, Ipswich, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; A.M., 1929.

Married: Frances McCullock Wilde, Feb. 24, 1934, New York, N. Y. CAil-
dren: Frances McCullock, Nov. 17, 1940; Ellen Appleton, Sept. 8,
1945.

Harvard Brother: James Appleton Doughty, ’40.

Occupation: Teacher; writer.

Publications: Reviews and articles.

_ J have taught English at Smith, Harvard, City College, the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania, and Bryn Mawr. At present I am working on a
biography of Francis Parkman, to be published in William Sloane As-
sociates’ current American Men of Letters series.

JAMES DRUMMOND DOW, JR.

Home Address: 9§ Clifton St., Belmont, Mass.

Office Address: Parkman, Robbins & Russell, 30 State St., Boston, Mass.

Bora: March 16, 1904, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: James Drummond Dow,
Jennie Barbara Freeman.

Prepared at: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B., 1929.

Married: Ruth W. Barrett, July 20, 1935, Cambridge, Mass. CAzld: James
Drummond, July 26, 1942.

Occupation: Lawyer ; member of firm in general practice.

Member of : Brae Burn Country Club; Harvard Musical Association.

After law school, I fell into a job with a middle-sized Boston firm
and stayed there until about a year ago, when the younger members
withdrew to form a firm of our own. I lived with my parents until I

[ 221 |

Harvard Class of 1926

married, spent the next three years in an apartment, and then returned
to the suburbs — viz., an old farmhouse anomalously situated less than
fifteen minutes’ train ride from Boston. My travels have never taken —
me west of Buffalo or south of Washington. I do quite a lot of reading
and piano playing and hope soon to give up golf for gardening.

HAROLD CORBIN DOWNES

Home and Office Address: Arlington Inn, Arlington, Vt.

Bors: Aug. 12, 1904, Yonkers, N. Y. Parents: Norman Burt Downes, Minnie
Corbin.

Prepared at: Yonkers High School, Yonkers, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; Pu.D. (Columbia Univ.),
1933.

Married: Margaret Campbell, July 19, 1930, Quincy, Mass. (died 1944)
Marian House, 1945, Madison, N. J. (separated). Children: Patricia
Campbell, March 26, 1934; Robin Campbell, Jan. 21, 1936.

Occupation: Owner and manager, Arlington Inn.

Member of : American Chemical Society.

I left college with a consuming interest in chemistry. Had one year

of graduate work at Harvard, then decided I needed a change of locale.
Signed up on a three-year contract to teach at Brent School in the Phil-
ippine Islands at Baguio. After staying there for two years I realized
that I was going to lose one girl friend if I did not get back, so I returned,
took up further graduate work in chemistry at Columbia in 1929, and
was married in July, 1930. I finished work at Columbia in 1933 and
got my degree, ‘These were sort of depression times, so I did many small
jobs, research in chemical specialties, small consulting work, etc. In
1937 I finally settled at Lafayette College where I taught a variety of
courses, ending up in charge of physical chemistry in 1942. As the teach-
ing was not exactly lucrative or even self-sustaining, and as the war had
knocked my other business interests into a cocked hat, I left Lafayette
for industrial research with General Foods Corporation in Hoboken,
New Jersey, and lived in Madison, New Jersey.

A few years before this, feeling that we wanted to help, we had made
application to take care of an English child. On Christmas, 1941, an
eleven-year-old girl joined us, and a year later her sister. Even though
my wife was ill, we were a very happy family and had wonderful times
together. This was all broken up in 1944 when my wife died and the
English children returned home. At that time I changed my job to a
printing ink concern, Frederick Levy Company. After a succession of
housekeepers, I remarried a year and a half later. Although it seemed

[ 222 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

the best thing to do at the time, this proved an unhappy step, and plans
are now being made to resolve it. In the meantime, in 1947, I decided
I wanted to get out of the city with my family and to find some other
way of living. Before the rising costs claimed all of my savings, I bought
the Arlington Inn in Arlington, Vermont. This is a small (25 rooms),
one-family hotel, and we have had a great deal of enjoyment out of it.
My duties are those of day man, night man, porter, bell boy, bar keep,
greeter, advertising manager, chamber maid, bookkeeper, or almost
anything else except cook. I am also a consulting chemist on the side. For
someone without any experience the management has been something
of a problem, but slowly we are building up our business. Each year
shows a steady improvement over the year before. We are listed in Dun-
can Hines and the AAA booklet. Our keynote is friendly informality
with no restrictions as to color or race. We object only to bad manners.
As a result about seventy-five per cent of our business is repeat. During
the summer now we are practically full, but in winter, fall and spring
nearly empty. When there is snow we have a good weekend skiing busi-
ness, but the last few years have shown us the danger of counting on
snow. Many financial problems still beset us, but the children, Pat and
Robin, seem to be very happy in school and are enjoying life more than
they have ever done before. This year I bought Robin a gun and we
have been out squirrel hunting. This is something for someone who
doesn’t like to hunt at all, but so far the squirrel population has been de-
pleted very little from our activities. Though life has problems, it is in-
teresting and exciting up in this neck of the woods. I hope some of you
can drop in to see me when you go by.

OLIN DOWS

Home Address: Rhinebeck, N. Y.

Bora: Aug. 14, 1904, Irvington, N. Y. Parents: Tracy Dows, ’93, Alice
Townsend Olin.

Prepared at: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1924.

Married: Carmen Vial deSefioret, Jan. 7, 1950, New York, N. Y.

Occupation: Painter.

Military or Naval Record: 603d Engineering Battalion, 1942; Hist. Sec.
ETO, 1943; 35th Infantry Division, June to September, 1943; en-
tered private, June, 19423 terminated technical sergeant, August, 19453
awarded Bronze Star, Legion of Merit.

Wartime Government Posts: Adviser, O.C.D., November, 1941, to June, 1942.

Offices Held: Assistant, Section of Fine Arts, 1934-35; chief, Treasury Relief

[ 223 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Art Project, 1935-36; member Rhinebeck Board of Education, 1940~
41, 1946-50; member board of trustees, American Federation of Arts,
1934-41; member, Chaloner Foundation, 1946-50.

Member of: Harvard Club of New York; Coffee House; Century Club;
Artists’ Equity; Mural Painters Club; Etchers and Engravers Club;
Dutchess County Art Club; Artfield Club, Washington, D. C.; Uni-
versity Club of Washington, D, C.

Publications: Frankisn Roosevelt at Hyde Park, American Artists Group, 1949;

various articles for art magazines; introductions to catalogues; newspaper
articles.

GARFIELD ALBEE DREW

Home Address: 44 Hancock Ave. Newton Center 59, Mass.
Office Address: 53 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

Born: Oct. 8, 1903, Dedham, Mass, Parents: Frederick Prescott Drew, Marion
Helen Garfield.

Prepared at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.
Married: Katherine Dowling, Sept. 8, 1928, New York, N. Y. Children:

Philip Garfield, Jan. 25, 1932; Ellen Hastings, Feb. 17, 19353 Marcia
Howell, Nov. 30, 1939.

Occupation: Investment adviser; president, Drew Investment Associates, Inc.
Publications: New Methods for Profit in the Stock Market, first edition, 1941;
revised edition, 19485 miscellaneous articles in financial publications.

Every time during the past few months that I sat down to write this
thing, the opening scene from the Hollywood version of “Mr. Pulham”
rose before me and the papers got shoved into a drawer. Now, with a
ten-day notice on my desk, the time of procrastination is past.

Apparently, the “career history” comes first. By pure accident —
which means that I took the first job I could get after graduation — I
fell into the investment business. Specifically, I became a board-boy in a
Stock Exchange house at fifty bucks a month — minimum wages being
not even a gleam in anyone’s eye in 1926, After skipping lightly from
one similar thing to another around Boston, I hit New York in 1928.
The motivation was not to conquer Wall Street, but to arrange for a
sojourn in one of the United States Rubber’s Liberia plantations. Of
course, there was a woman at the bottom of that idea!

But, after two weeks in the Manhattan of 1928 — which seemed the
merriest spot I had yet encountered — the project seemed pretty silly.
Besides which, I met my wife who was trying her wings in the big city
after getting out of Smith — also in 1926. Since we both shared in the
revolt against formality that marked the era, we simply married and set

, [ 224 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

up in what Kay now refers to as a “rejuvenated coal hole,” but which I
still think was a very glamorous “garden apartment.” After all, there
are few places on East 33rd Street that can boast a plot of grass, to say
nothing of a fountain with colored lights under the water!

Anyhow, 1928 and most of 1929 were lots of fun on Wall Street, but
before disaster overtook everyone, the organization for which I was
working quietly folded up. In the naive belief that General Motors was
going to absorb Fiat Motor Company of Italy, the firm had bought
literally bales of Fiat which shortly became worth just about its weight
to the junk dealer.

At that point, stability of background began to seem important, so I
moved over to the National City Company — that being a period when
banks were still permitted to have securities affiliates. The “stability of
_ background” could have been highly illusory had I waited until the New
Deal came along, but it served its purpose during the dark days of 1930-
33 when I was glad to have a bread-and-butter income to sustain the
first addition to the family and the “Pullman House” on Long Island
for which the exotic Manhattan apartment had been exchanged.

The experience, at least, was invaluable and crystallized one thing in
my mind. ‘This was that I would never get into any branch of finance
where I could not afford the luxury of integrity. By that phrase, I mean
being free from the pressure that — consciously or unconsciously —in-
fluences anyone primarily engaged in the merchandising phase of the
investment business, Sure, it was self-preservation to move the sticky
securities off the shelves, but I saw bonds recommended as sound invest-
ments when the obligor had privately announced its intention of default-
ing. And if the bonds couldn’t be sold, they were dumped into trust
accounts!

Came 1933 and the opportunity I had been seeking to get back to
Boston — specifically, with United Business Service. And, brother, if
you have never received a letter from U.B.S. you just ain’t on any mail-
ing list! But it was a welcome change. We at least tried to do our best
and when we were wrong, it was an honest mistake.

So, I was fifteen years there, during which time I achieved a certain
modicum of notice through travelling, speaking, writing, etc. — par-
ticularly as a result of writing a book on investment technique first pub-
lished in 1941 (republished in expanded form in 1948) and from com-
ing up with a couple of new ideas in the field.

Hence, at a rather late date in terms of the average life-span, I broke
away two years ago to inaugurate my own business — something which
is always soul-satisfying and for which I have so far had no regrets from

[ 225 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

the standpoint of relative success. It also makes for an extremely pleasant
life. Being conducted primarily by mail, “front” for callers is not im-
portant. Therefore, I converted what was originally designed to be a
billiard-room in my home into an office-study and spend most of my
time there. |

On asleety New England morning in February, I must confess that
I pity my commuting neighbors as I roll out of bed, breakfast at leisure,
and walk up two flights of stairs to my desk. It should not be inferred
that all is beer and skittles. In fact, it results in a sort of roller-coaster
existence on a week-to-week basis — study, thinking, and the final act
of putting on paper the investment advice and ideas that I believe in, but

which are not susceptible of proof or completely assured of fulfillment.
The family is next. Let that be stated succinctly — one wife (origi-
nal) and three children at discreet intervals. The reason that I cannot
fill in anything under “‘Harvard Sons” is that my son is of a most decided
scientific mentality and therefore is at Carnegie Tech. In fact, to carry
it a step further, he is at Carnegie because of achieving a Westinghouse
scholarship —a purely competitive national affair without regard to
need or similar factors and which is defined as being given to the “‘ten
most outstanding high school seniors in the country.” The definition is
hardly to be taken literally, but is nevertheless palatable to any parent.

The revolt of youth against tradition is apparently continuing in the

other offspring. Despite cousins, aunts, and a mother who spent their
formative years at Smith, my elder daughter announces her intention of
going to Swarthmore. And more power to her! To the younger, college
is still a distant realm, but 1 am sure that whichever one she may choose
will feel the impact.

Travel is simple. I have quartered the United States without seeing it,
because it was always a matter of an appointment in Chicago one day
and perhaps Seattle the next. Call it stimulating, but not broadening.

Having arrived at the point of “hobbies,” and with my wife, daugh-
ters and assorted companions sitting about the fireside, the definitions
are becoming somewhat inexact. According to these hypocritical fe-
males, my hobbies are “tinkering,” “puttering,” and generally best
defined in the Book of Common Prayer as leaving undone those things
which I ought to have done and doing those things which I ought not to

have done.

“Social convictions” covers a broad field — too broad without writing
a book. Suffice it to say that I think those who attribute what they feel is
a parlous state of affairs to Roosevelt and the Democrats are blind to the
sweep of history. Their scapegoats were —and are -— only agents ina

ere |

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

process of inevitable social change. For better or for worse, the growing
power of the State is an inexorable fact of the twentieth century with
which we must reckon. Personally, I do not like it and we can oppose it
in some of its most unwise manifestations, but we cannot stem the tide
with any more success than Canute.

Politically, my views may be skipped as those of a mugwump. I refuse
to accept any “‘line” and I do not think that any party will, fer se, be the
salvation of the country.

Religious convictions —in the accepted sense of the phrase —are
rather lacking. Let us say that I have my own philosophy of life.

So there, in ABC fashion, are the points upon which I am assured the
Class wants information. I suspect, however, that the chief interest in
our Report will be in the results of that other anonymous questionnaire
on the lives and loves of 26. Even though reduced to cold percentages,
think of the fun the wives will have — and the misery they will inflict —
in trying to break down the answers to those love-life questions into per-
sonalities!

ROBERT G. DREW-BEAR

_ Home Address: 175 Wood Pond Rd., West Hartford, Conn.
Office Address: Hartford Institute of Accounting, 8 Ford St., Hartford, Conn.
Boru: Jan. 2, 1901, London, England. Parents: Thomas Emil Drew-Bear,
Jessie Henderson.
Prepared at: Central High School, Philadelphia, Pa.
Years in College: 1922-1925, 1926~1927. Degrees: S.B., 1926(27); M.B.A.,
1931.
Married: Lotte Blumenthal, Aug. 21, 1942, New York, N. Y. Children:
Thomas, Sept. 24, 1943; Annette, Feb. 13, 1945.
Occupation: Teacher.
Military or Naval Record: World War II: Pfc., Air Corps.
Offices Held: Chairman, Hartford Committee for Chinese War Relief, 1939—-
42, Hartford Committee for Russian War Relief, 1940-42.
Member of : Harvard Business Schoo] Club; American Association of University
Professors; Theosophical Society.

I worked from September, 1932 (on graduation from the Harvard
Business School), to September, 1942, as assistant director of the Wads-
worth Atheneum in Hartford. I was inducted into the Air Corps where
I became a Pfc. On completion of military service in February, 1943, I
worked for one year at the Hamilton Standard Propeller Company in
East Hartford in the contracts department.

I then decided to become a teacher and, after two years of miscel-

[ 227 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

laneous teaching, became chairman of the business administration de-
partment of Hillyer College in Hartford. I remained there for three
years leaving in June, 1949, to take a post as dean at the Hartford Insti-
tute of Accounting where I am now engaged.
Tam happily married and have two children. Tommy is entering the
second grade at public school this year and Annette is in the first grade.
In the evenings I am taking graduate courses in education at Trinity
College to improve my status as a teacher.
Upon graduation from the Business School, I became much interested
in Hindu philosophy and read rather widely on such topics as Buddhism,
Yoga, etc. As a result I have concluded that we have an immense

amount to learn from the East in the field of spiritual and psychological
techniques and disciplines.

CORNELIUS DuBOIS

Home Address: 218 E. 12th St., New York 3, N. Y¥.
Office Address: Cornelius DuBois & Co., 17 E. 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y.

Born: Aug. 7, 1904, Englewood, N. J. Parents: Floyd Reading DuBois, ’o1,
Rosilla Marshall.

Prepared at: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: AB. 1926.

Married: Irma Kuté, May 14, 1932, New York, N. ¥. (divorced 1949)5
Louise Payne McCarty, Sept. 1, 1949, New York, N. Y. Children: Peter
Cornelius, Aug. 12, 1934; Anne Louise, Aug. 27, 1950.

Harvard Brother: Frederic Marshall DuBois, 728.

Occupation: Consultation and research in public opinion and marketing; part-
ner, Cornelius DuBois & Company.

Wartime Government Posts: Deputy Chief, Bureau of Intelligence, Office of
Facts and Figures; deputy chief, Bureau of Intelligence, Office of War
Information; consultant, Office of Civilian Requirements, War Produc-
tion Board.

Offices Held: Secretary-treasurer, 1945-46, vice-president, 1946-47, presi-
dent, 1947-48, Market Research Council; executive council, Ameri-
can Association for Public Opinion Research, 1947-49.

Member of: Harvard Club of New York; American Marketing Association ;
Market Research Council; American Association for Public Opinion
Research; World Association for Public Opinion Research; Society for
the Psychological Study of Social Issues; Society for the Analysis of

High and Low Statistics.
When A. Lawrence Lowell welcomed us wholesale into the com-
pany of educated men, I knew exactly what my life work was going to
be. I was going to write great novels, and through them somehow I was

[ 228 J

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

going to help make a better world. But none of the novels ever got writ-
ten; only one was ever started; so maybe it’s all my fault that the world
didn’t get any better.

Three months after graduation I was being slightly seasick off the
Carolina coast aboard the ss Ryndam, which was carrying the Floating
University on its first cruise around the world, The job I'd been signed
up for was to edit the ship’s newspaper because I’d been on the C'rtmson,
but after a few weeks I found myself teaching English with a $500 raise
in pay because someone discovered I’d studied under both Copey and
Kittredge. Thus does a Harvard education pay off. During the next
eight months I visited thirty-one countries, met two presidents, one king,
two sultans, one dictator, one spy, one temporarily retired agent provo-
cateur, one Bill Nichols, and dozens of student leaders who couldn’t
understand why American college students were not also all banded into
semi-revolutionary groups. I’ve forgotten all their names, except Nich-
ols and the dictator.

_ After that year, any ordinary job was bound to seem drab and the one
I got was ordinary — writing book ads and circulars for an unimagina~-
tive publishing house. Then, after trying travel promotion and free-
lance writing, I walked into the office of Tyme at just the ght moment
in June, 1929, and landed a job as promotion copywriter.

Time, Inc., and I got along well together. A couple of years later I
was its promotion manager, a job which meant advertising to advertis-
ers. It also meant finding the facts about readers and markets. During
the next few years I gradually and inadvertently became a research man,
until in 1937, the management found it had spawned a fortuitous spe-
cialist and made me director of research.

That was also the year I built a house in Connecticut. For details of
that experience read Mr. Blandings. And like the hero of that book and
its sequel, I soon found myself mixed up with Democratic politics in a
Republican town, running for the school board (unsuccessfully), for
Justice of the Peace (unsuccessfully ), and serving as a delegate at nomi-
nating conventions. I also, for a brief period, took part in the Newspaper
Guild, partly from conviction and partly, Pm afraid, to confound my
conservative friends by saying: ““The CIO isn’t so bad; I’m a member
myself.”

_ The war took me briefly to Washington where I helped organize the
Bureau of Intelligence of the Office of Facts and Figures, which later
merged into OWI. My job was to codrdinate the various forms of pub-
lic opinion research which were carried on by five operating divisions.
Up until that time my research activities had been concerned primarily

[ 229 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

with studying people as markets; now I was studying people as citizens,
For one thing, this experience strengthened my conviction that the
foundation for democracy is not free enterprise or free speech or free
elections or freedom to choose one’s career or one’s own salvation, but
something more fundamental which underlies these freedoms — a be-
lief in people as people. No one can genuinely believe in the freedoms
that make up a democracy if he doesn’t first believe in the fundamental
decency and potentialities of his fellow-men.

For another thing, the Washington experience broadened my re-
search interests. After I returned to Time, Inc., my job was supposedly
the same as it had been. Maybe it didn’t have quite as much scope or
maybe it just didn’t feel as if it had, Anyway, if I didn’t start an inde-
pendent business at the age of 43, when, if ever, would I do it?

It has been fun being independent. Consultation and research in mar-
keting and public opinion is what we cal] the business. Sometimes we are
measuring what people think; sometimes what they do; sometimes what
they know. Sometimes we are concerned with quantitative measure-
ments: how many and what kinds of people read a certain magazine or
buy a certain shampoo, or think the Taft-Hartley bill should be changed.
Sometimes the objective is qualitative: what makes people do what they
do and think what they think. And through most of the work there is
this common thread: there is nothing either good or bad, but thinking
makes it so. A product is only as good or as bad as people think it is; a
dealer’s inventories are only as high or low as he thinks they are; the
working conditions and personnel policies of a manufacturer are only as

good or as bad as his workers and potential workers think they are. We
conduct many a survey on the principle that attitudes and behaviour are
all of a piece, and we often measure one to indicate the other.

I started the business early in 1948 —never a tedious minute since
then. I married my partner a year and a half later — never a tedious
minute since then either. To all members of the Class who have never
yet married their partners and are wondering what it is like, I heartily
recommend it.

It has always seemed to me that the Class Baby tradition is sort of
backwards, After a few disputes as to whether the Class Baby is the first
child born to a classmate, or the first born after graduation, or the first
born to a man married after graduation —after that is out of the way,
none of the rest of us has a chance. But if the father of the youngest
child were the champion of the hour, then most of us have held the
championship at least once, and there was a period in the 1 930’s when
the title changed hands several times a week. On August 12th, 1934,

[ 230 ]

Twenty-fifth Anneversary Report
I held it for just one day. The beauty of this kind of championship is that
once deposed you can always stage a comeback. I did, and claim the title
as of August 27th, 1950, though by reunion time I shall probably be
merely the father of the third youngest child. You wouldn’t believe me
if I claimed I was thinking of ’26 at the time.

Anne is the tiny one. Her elder brother, Peter, is now taller than I
and nearly ready for college —or the Navy. I’m bringing him to the
Twenty-fifth in the hope that some of the most alluring daughters of
the Class will show him what he’d be missing if he persists in wanting to

go to Princeton.

DAVID DuBOIS
Address: Congress, Ariz. |
Born: Oct. 10, 1903, DuBois, Pa. Parents: John Ezekiel DuBois, Willie Gam-

ble.
Prepared at: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.
Years in College: 1922-1928. Degree: A.B., 1926(28).
Married: Shirley M, Colburn, July 10, 1936, Tucson, Ariz. Child: David C.,

Aug. 16, 1943.

Occupation: Vice-president, Potter County Hardwoods; vice-president, Pitts-

burgh DuBois Company.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. David
DuBois did not return a questionnaire.

' WILLIAM BUTLER DUNCAN
Born: Nov. 6, 1903, Port Washington, N. Y. Parents: William Butler Duncan,

Blanca Maximilian Havemeyer.
Prepared at: Nolen’s, Cambridge, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1924.
Unmarried.
Died: April 11, 1944, Jefferson City, Mo.

A great part of William Butler Duncan’s youth as well as of his later
life was spent at Southampton, Long Island. In college he displayed
extraordinary literary talent, taste, and discrimination and in later life
he continued his interest in literary matters and more fully developed his
critical faculty. He did not engage actively in business,

[ 231 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

WILLIAM SANDS DUNCKLEE

Home Address: 21 Tarleton Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

Office Address: Brown Brothers, Harriman & Co., 10 Post Office Sq. “9 Boston,
Mass.

Born: Nov. 24, 1903, Brookline, Mass. Parents: George Woodbury Duncklee,
Ethel Buckingham Sands,

Prepared at: Noble leand Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926(27).

Married: Helen D. Sage, Sept. 19, 1928, Newton Center, Mass. Children:
William Sands, Jr., Nov. 10, 1929; Donald Sage, May 20, 19313

George Woodbury, 2d, Nov. 17, 1935; Howard Sears, May 4, 19433
Joel Gardner, Jan. 23, 1945.

Occupation: Investment broker — trader, analyst, registered representative.

Military or Naval Record: Various “home front” activities, air raid warden, etc.

Offices Held: Recording secretary, Boston Securities Traders Association,
1945-46.

Member of : National Security Traders Association; Boston Securities Traders

Association; Boston Yacht Club; International Brotherhood of Thole
Warpers, Eastern Local 16.

It seems ridiculously unimportant, considerin 1g the present state of the
world, to attempt to chronicle the outline of a singularly simple life, and
I know of no alchemy by which it can be glamourized to engage even
the passing interest of the Class. What follows, therefore, is set down
merely out of a sense of duty to the reunion effort.

About a week after graduation I took advantage of what seemed a
good opportunity to get established in a truly sedimentary occupation —
I went to work in a sandpaper factory. The idea was that a thorough
knowledge of the manufacture of abrasive papers would be helpful at a
later date when I should be on the road selling the trade. However, after
some months it developed that the only territory open was a doubtful

one in northern Wisconsin, which, for a number of reasons, did not ap-
peal to me. My failure to accept this challenge, if that is what it was, did
not turn out to be catastrophic, for the concern’s stockholders voted
within the year to liquidate the business. Thus I early learned about the
power of the shareholder, as well as about the destiny that shapes our
ends, sandpaper them as we may.

There followed a year of selling heating and ventilating and air-
conditioning apparatus for the Boston agents of a Chicago manufac-
turer. This was an experience of great value, affording, as do many in-
dustrial selling jobs, a study of the best and the worst in human nature.
The “contacts” made in the process of covering the field opened my

[ 232 ]

T wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

eyes to the enormity as well as the complexity of the American industrial
potential, so that I gradually succumbed to the persuasion of a friend in
the investment business and shifted to that as soon as I could decently do
so. Under the aegis of one of the leading underwriting houses, I served
a tough apprenticeship in the trading department. The hours were long
in those days preceding the 1929 crash but I worked with a good crew
of old hands who taught me much about market practices and probabili-
ties that I could never have learned any other way. In one capacity or
another, I remained with this group over eleven years, and during this
period married and fathered three sons. During 1934-35 I took one
academic year of law evenings at Northeastern University, in order to
understand something of the perils of contracts and torts.

My transfer to the brokerage field was effected in 1937, and therein
have I remained ever since, watching the steady deterioration of our
political leadership which has brought with it the undermining, if not
the outright rejection, of most of the values of life I was trained to re-
vere. How anyone who can do simple arithmetic can vote Democratic is
beyond me. I guess that indicates my political convictions and reveals
my estimate of the general level of social intelligence over the past
twenty years. The intensity of my feeling in this matter has not been
abated by the problems incident to raising a family of boys, now five in
number, and teaching them the way they should go. Of course, by the
time our fourth son came along, the mechanics of feeding and clothing
had been pretty well systematized by my very superior wife; neverthe-
less the arrival of our fifth boy on January 23, 1945 (1-23-45), I con-
strued as a hint from the Almighty to count our blessings complete. Bill,
Jr., is a law student at Boston University. Donald is an electronic techni-
cian in the U.S. Navy, having enlisted in May, 1950. George is doing
well in high school, and the two little ones are fast growing up to be my
props when I lose my juvenile enthusiasms, twenty years hence, Chief
among said enthusiasms, as heretofore, are a small motor cruiser aboard
which we achieve a sense of independence out of all proportion to reality,
and a cellar work-bench at which I am sometimes able to compensate for
shortcomings in other lines of endeavor, and at the same time keep the
household breakage in my favor. This program has precluded travel,
except within a limited radius, but has permitted various civic activities
— Community Chest, Boy Scouts, etc. Pax Vobiscum.

[ 233 ]

ne tee ee CL LL I NE ONS

Harvard Class of 1926

JAMES MORSE DUNNING

Home Address: 23 Buckingham St., Cambridge 38, Mass.
Office Address: Harvard School of Dental Medicine, 25 Shattuck St., Boston
15, Mass.
Bora: Oct. 16, 1904, New York, N. ¥. Parents: William Bailey Dunning, Rose
Morse.
Prepared at: Allen-Stevenson School, New York, N. Y.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; D.D.S. (Columbia Univ.),
1930; M.P.H. cum laude (Harvard Univ.), 1947.
Married: Mae Myrick Bradford, Aug, 24, 1935, Cambridge, Mass. CAildren:
Cornelia Myrick, Dec. 13, 19363 Rose, Sept. 5, 1940.
Occupation: Dentist; Dean, Harvard School of Dental Medicine.
Military or Naval Record: Navy (Dental Corps) ; entered lieutenant, Nov. 2,
1942; terminated lieutenant commander, Nov. 18, 1945; stationed

mostly at U.S, Naval Shipyard, Brooklyn, N. Y., and U.S.N.R. Midship-
man’s School, New York, N. ¥.

Offices Held; Chairman, Dental Caries Subcommittee and Dental Advisory
Committee, National Research Council; president, Cambridge ‘Tuber-
culosis and Health Association; Dental Consultant, U.S. Public Health

Service.

Member of : American College of Dentists (fellow) ; American Dental Associa-
tion and local components; American Association of Industrial Dentists
(president, 1945~46) ; Omicron Kappa Upsilon (Dental) ; Delta Omega
(Public Health) ; Harvard Club of Boston; Appalachian Mountain Club.

Publications: Various articles on industrial dentistry, dental caries statistics and
dental public health appearing chiefly in the Journal of Dental Research and
the Journal of the American Dental Association; “Present Status of Program at
Harvard School of Dental Medicine,” Journal of the American Dental Asso-

ciation 36, 90-95, January 1948; chapter on Dental Care in Health Di-
vision Report, Greater Boston Community Survey, 1949.

The choice of career is often influenced by one’s family, whether
through persuasion, example, or merely the inescapable genes. My
father always used to tell me that dentistry was as fine a profession as
you could find. The way he practised it, it was. With this background, it
is easy to see why I found myself in the Columbia School of Dental and
Oral Surgery after graduation from Harvard. The decision had been
made without much wavering. There have been times when I wished I
had wavered, but in recent years these times have been few.

The dental school years offered few highlights, though friendships re-
sulted which have lasted well. In sharp contrast was the summer of
1930 when I took my new D.D.S. to Labrador to work with the Gren-
fell Mission. Old Sir Wilfred was still active. His vivid personality gave

[ 234 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

purpose and inspiration to all around him and his versatile energy led us
all into endeavors we might never have dreamed of otherwise. He had a
good time out of life, too. One day when a howling easterly storm held
us in a port where no further medical or dental service was needed, he
led us up a nearby brook where we tramped for miles in the rain and
caught fine trout. In subsequent years, intermittent contact with the
Mission and its workers has given a breath of fresh air to my urban
existence. In 1932 and again in 1948 I revisited Labrador.

Returning to New York, I joined my father in a dental practice
which kept us close together for twelve years, There are two schools of
thought, I know, about such an arrangement. For me, with part-time
activities elsewhere for outlet and with a tolerant “principal,” himself a
teacher at Columbia, the contact was a rich one at all times. The Co-
lumbia School had recently moved to the new medical center on Wash-
ington Heights and was entering an interesting phase of its development.
Here I was lucky enough to obtain a teaching position as assistant in the
Department of Operative Dentistry. ‘This was succeeded five years
later by work, again on a half-time basis, as dental director for the
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.

Any occupation needs an antidote. For me, sailing has always given
prompt relief. Brought up on Cape Cod in the summers, my first real
boat had been an ancient twenty-nine-foot sloop given me by a Harvard
uncle (James H. Morse, ’96) about the time I entered college. This
craft carried me and my friends to many harbors between Nantucket
and New London. She had no engine. Once we had to tow her behind
the dink five miles over a glassy sea to Point Judith Harbor of Refuge.
She was succeeded by a larger sloop with a one-lung engine. This boat
got us as far as Nova Scotia before an autumn gale in 1930 wrecked her.
After that we chartered boats: one year, a big Marconi sloop in which
we joined the ocean race from New London to Gibson Island, Mary-
land; another year, a schooner in which we sailed to Halifax. Celestial
navigation of the “‘stubby pencil” variety later extended the range to
Bermuda. All these cruises carried with them some physical discomfort.
Salt water, however, differs from aqua forts in that the hangover comes
first and the enjoyment, in recurrent waves, afterward.

Sailing is not much help in the winter. New Yorkers, if they feel a need
for the country, develop many ways to escape there on weekends. Mine
involved long walks in the Hudson Highlands, sometimes with friends
and sometimes with the Appalachian Mountain Club. On one of these
walks J met Mae Bradford. A Bostonian, she had burst her bonds for a
while like Marquand’s George Apley and was working for the manu-

[ 235 ]

pu Sanat FE a EIEN soci

Harvard Class of 1926

facturing department of Harper’s. Our common interest in hill country
and in many other things drew us together. Two years later we were
married. Before the war, two daughters joined the family.

The war broke up our staid New York existence. We moved to a
Long Island suburb accessible from the Brooklyn Navy Yard. My work
with the Dental Corps dragged on, the great crises of the war coming to
me in the newspapers aboard a commuting train. Fine ships put out to sea
from the Navy Yard; fine young men went to sea from the Midship-
man’s School; I did neither. Never in my life had I been on salt water
so little,

After V-J Day, the urge to teach was strong upon me. My ties in
New York broken, it was easy to offer my services to the newly reorgan-
ized Harvard School of Dental Medicine. Could I teach dental public
health? Yes, if I would take a year at the Harvard School of Public
Health to learn a little more about it. Thus to my surprise I found myself
a student on the G.I, Bill of Rights. Towards the end of my course the
deanship of the School of Dental Medicine was vacated. ‘I'wo days after
my last comprehensive examination in public health administration, this
new-found knowledge was put to the test.

My family had moved to Cambridge even before the Navy duty was
over. We established ourselves in an old Victorian ark of a house next
door to Mae’s parents. Later we built a small cottage at Cotuit on Cape
Cod, where my mother’s family has always made its annual summer
migration. As this is written, the season on the Cape is over. Our elder
daughter has caught the enthusiasm of small boat racing with the Cotuit
Mosquito Yacht Club just as I caught it more years ago than I care to
recollect. Life has returned to the geographical pattern of college days:
Cambridge in the winter, Cotuit in the summer; only instead of being
at the receiving end of the educational process I am at the dispensing end
as part of an unusually interesting educational experiment. The Har-

vard Community (of scholars, did someone say? ) is just as stimulating
to me now asit was in 1922.

JAMES HENRY DURGIN

Home Address: 53 ¥. 54th St., New York 22, N. Y,
Office Address: Julian Messner, Inc., 18 W. goth St., New York, N. Y.

Born: March 2, 1904, Haverhill, Mass. Parents: Arthur Foster Durgin, 799;
Lucy Belle Tucker.

Prepared at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,
Years in College: 1922-1926, Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926.

[ 236 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Married: Knyvett Lee, May 5, 1931, Camberley, Surrey, England (divorced
1942). Children: Elizabeth Lee, May 5, 1934; Helen Knyvett, Sept.

5, 1936.
Occupation: Book publishing ; editor.
Military or Naval Record: Army Air Force, entered as private, Aug. 30, 1942;

terminated April 7, 1943.
Member of : Harvard Club of New York.

Perhaps I should have known that a straight line is the shortest dis-
tance between two points. Then I wouldn’t have deserted publishing
after ten years in it to have a fling at a hobby of mine, investment coun-
selling, only to return after the war to my original field. Anyway, even
with the inevitable headaches, it has provided variety and it has been fun.
For the around-the-clock labors of an editor are most satisfying.

Somehow too, as a former suburban husband and father — now long
since adjusted to being a man-about-town, I find it increasingly reward-
ing to have my two attractive daughters to squire around town.

ELIOT KNOWLTON DUVEY

Address: 104 Beacon St., Boston 16, Mass.
Born: July 8, 1904, Watertown, Mass, Parents: Frank Freeland Duvey, Mary

Anne Knowlton.
Prepared at: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: §.B., 1926.
Occupation: Director of the Tributary Theatre of Boston.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Duvey
did not return a questionnaire.

HAROLD TOUVIM DWORET

Home Address: 199 13th St., Atlanta, Ga.
Office Address: Dworet Co., 237 Ponce de Leon Ave., N.E., Atlanta, Ga.
Bora: Oct. 21, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parents: Zara Dworet, Ray Lena Touvim.

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1923.

Married; Marcel Morgan, May 10, 1942, Washington, D. C, Children: Rae-
lee, Jan. 25, 1943; Marcel, July 10, 1944; Frazier Morgan, Jan. 5,
1946.

H arvart Brother: Melvin Lawrence Dworet, ’38,

Occupation: Household appliance dealer; arbitrator, industry-labor disputes.

Military or Naval Record: U.S, Army, July, 1942, to February, 1943.
[ 237 ]

eee omteana! nt tt COC CD ALE ALAA LEAL EAA AAALAC cay,

Harvard Class of 1926

Wisrtime Government Posts: Southern Region Hearing Officer for Industry-La-
bor Disputes, War Labor Board, 1943-45.

Member of : Ancient Arabic Order Noble and Mystic Shrine; Harvard Club of
Atlanta.

Until 1934, my work was selling all over New England, New York,

and Pennsylvania, staying away from home most of the time. In 1934 I
started in government work which surprisingly was interesting. Then
it was off and on with the government and back selling until 1938 when
I came to Atlanta as regional director of the U.S. Department of Labor,
Bureau of Labor Statistics. Then after three years in the South, a year’s
living back in the North made me appreciate living in the South. The
Army inducted me in 1942 and then recommended my discharge under
the 38-year-old bill as more beneficial to the war effort. Then I went
with the Regional War Labor Board in Atlanta and became a Hearing
Officer on Industry-Labor disputes, This work opened my eyes and
mind and made me realize that what I read in the newspapers was only
the half of it. I quickly realized that I was not as fair and impartial as I
thought myself to be but kept myself pretty much in line when I was in
the middle between industry and labor. After the War Labor Board dis-
banded, I became the Regional Labor Specialist for Housing in the
South. When that was closed in July, 1947, I went into business for
myself, and have remained thus engaged. Since the close of the War
Labor Board, I have been serving as arbitrator on Industry-Labor dis-
putes all over the South. It is the most interesting work that I have ever
done.

Many of my decisions have been published which is routine for pub-
lishers of labor relations reports.

The nomadic life that I used to lead while travelling most of the time
is quite different now. There never is a dull moment at home and it is
run pretty well at a fast pace by the three children who really run it and
us. My travels have taken me from border to border and coast to coast,
but most places in between I have not seen.

FRANCIS JOSEPH DYER

Home Address:2704 N. Mildred Ave., Chicago 14, Ill,
Office Address: 2622 N. Pulaski Rd., Chicago, Ill.
Born: April 1, 1905, Pittsfield, Mass. Parents: James Dyer, Mary Asilda Gi-

roux.
Prepared at: Holyoke High School, Holyoke, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B., 1929,

[ 238 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Married: Gertrude K. Hoadley, Sept. 26, 1936 (divorced 1945) 3 Stephanie
Witz, Aug. 11, 1946.

Occupation: Lawyer.

Member of : Chicago Bar Association; Harvard Club of Chicago.

RANDOLPH HARRISON DYER

Home Address: 99 Claremont Ave., New York 27,N. Y.

Office Address: Union Theological Seminary, Broadway & 120th St., New
York 27, N.Y.

Born: Aug. 17, 1904, St. Louis, Mo. Parents: Henry Chouteau Dyer, ’94,
Ethel M. Raymond.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; M.B.A., 1928.

Married: Elizabeth Huntington, Sept. 7, 1927, Amherst, Mass. Children:
Elizabeth Randolph, July 31, 19283; Clarissa Huntington, Nov. 18,
1930; John Chouteau, Sept. 29, 1934.

Harvard Brother: John Raymond Dyer, LL.B.,’28.

Occupation: Comptroller, Union Theological Seminary.

Wartime Government Posts: Contract Renegotiator, St. Louis Ordnance District,

I _
Member i Men’ ’s Faculty Club of Columbia University.

When the time arrives to assemble our Class statistics and determine
the “average” man of Harvard 1926, I believe that I shall be found
very close to that norm. My last twenty-five years have not been spec-
tacular either from my point of view or that of the world at large. On
the whole, however, they have been happy ones and what more can a
middle-aged parent of this day and age expect?

Just recently I have entered upon a new phase of my business career
which has every prospect of being most satisfying. After seventeen years
of investment banking in St. Louis, two years of contract renegotiation
work for the Ordnance Department and then two additional years of
searching for the “right” job involving two false starts, I became, as of
September first, the comptroller of Union Theological Seminary. This
necessitated our moving from St. Louis to New York, the last place in
which my wife and I thought that we would ever live. But now that we
are settled in our new environment, we find big city life not as terrible as
we had feared.

Union Seminary provides a stimulating atmosphere in which to work
and live. It is one of the largest seminaries in the world with students
from twenty-eight countries representing some seventy denominations.
It is liberal by tradition in both its theological and social viewpoint. As its

[ 239 ]

alata Sn YS Sanna vc

Harvard Class of 1926

principal business officer I am responsible for the functioning of practi-
cally all of the business aspects of the institution. This provides an endless
variety of tasks and a fair quota of headaches, but I enjoy it.

Having got the jump on many of my classmates by marrying while
still at Harvard, my children are almost grown. My elder daughter
graduated from Bennington College last July and now has a job out in
St. Louis. My younger “girl j is a junior at Wellesley and my boy 3 is a
Lower Middler at Exeter.

My principal outside interest is our summer home at Heath, Massa-
chusetts, in the Berkshires. There we have thirty acres of rocks and rills,
a commodious farmhouse built in 1782, and unlimited fresh air and
view. Now that we are within weekend distance of it I have hopes of
being able to do the many things in the way of improvements that I have

promised my wife for all these years,

WALTER DUMAUX EDMONDS

Home Address: Route 3, Boonville, N. ¥.

Born: July 15, 1903, Boonville, N. Y. Parents: Walter Dumaux Edmonds,
Sarah May.

Prepared at: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.; The Choate School, Walling-
ford, Conn.

Years in College: 1921-1922, 1923-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; Lrrr.D.
(Union Coll.), 1936; Lirr.D, (Rutgers Univ.), 1942; Lirr.D. (Col-
gate Univ.), 1947.

Married: Eleanor Livingston Stetson, Jan, 18, 1930, Cambridge, Mass. CAzl-
dren: Peter Bulkeley, March 29, 19313 Eleanor Dumaux, March 1,
19343 Sarah May, July 15, 1938.

Harvard Brother: John Bulkeley Edmonds, ’23.

Occupation: Author.

Offices Held: Member, Board of Overseers of Harvard College, 1944-50.

Member of : St. Botolph Club, Boston; Fort Schuyler, Utica, N. Y.

Publications: Novels: Rome Haul, The Big Barn, Erie Water, Drums Along the
Mohawk, Chad Hanna, Young Ames, In the Hands of the Senecas; collected
short stories: Mostly Canallers; children’s books: The Matchlock Gun

(Newbery Award), T'om Whipple, Two Logs Crossing, Wilderness Clearing,
Cadmus Henry, Mr. Benedict's Lion.

There is little in most professional writers’ lives, I suspect, to make

interesting reading for a Class biography; certainly there is little in mine.
And I find that I know less about the process of writing now than I did

when I began to write for a living. In 1945 I undertook to write an
account of early events in the war for the Air Force, research for which

[ 240 ]

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

led me into all parts of this country and into the Pacific and Southwest
Pacific theatres of the last war. This book, now half finished, must now
be completed in the shadow of a third war, and its early chapters in the
light of today’s headlines, with the hopes and idealism for which men
died, seem both ancient history and part of the same story.

I have been fortunate in my marriage and in our three children who
are now taking over the second half of my education.

“RICHARD LINN EDSALL

Home Address: 15 Walker St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

Office Address: James Thomas Chirurg Co., Park Square Bldg., Boston 16,
Mass.

Born: Nov. 16, 1905, Philadelphia, Pa. Parents: David Linn Edsall, Margaret
Harding Tileston.

Prepared at; Berkshire School, Shefheld, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B, cum laude, 1926.

Married: Katherine Byrne, 1933, Paris, France. Cildren: Louisa, Nov. 28,
1933; Thomas Byrne, Aug. 22, 1941.

Harvard Brothers: John Tileston Edsall, ’23 ; Geoffrey Edsall, ’29.

Occupation: Vice-president in charge of research for advertising company.

Offices Held: Chairman national membership committee, 1943-45, chairman .
local membership committee, 1941-43, secretary New England Chap-
ter, 1943, director New England Chapter, 1942-44, American Market-
ing Association; chairman publicity committee, New England Export
Club, 1950—51; member national research committee, American Asso-
ciation of Advertising Agencies, 1948-51; member national executive
board, Progressive Citizens of America, 1947-48.

Publications: Numerous poems, essays, book reviews, 1926—313 numerous arti-
cles for advertising and sales management technical publications, 1936—

50.

When I graduated I wanted to be an Anglican (High Church Epis-
copal) priest, maybe a monk. I went to the General Theological Semi-
nary in New York, and was president of my class but, after much think-
ing, decided with two classmates to join the Roman Catholic Church.
Later that year (1927) I joined with several other young men around
a very brilliant priest who wanted to start a new monastic order. We
hooked up with the small, little known Trinitarians for a few months.
A conflict between them and the priest who organized us ended that.
He started an entirely new order in Maine and some of us tried it, but a
winter in an unheated Maine farmhouse with an outdoor privy ended

that.
[ 241 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

I went to Greenwich Village and started to write plays, lousy ones.
The religious impulse revived and I went for most of an academic year
to St. John’s Seminary, Brighton, Massachusetts. I decided I was not
cut out to be a priest — about time. I became a substitute teacher in the
Cambridge public schools in 1929. The mayor economized, and cut out
substitutes, I left Cambridge and returned to Greenwich Village and
attempts at plays.

A Harvard man, not a classmate (and, I must admit, a friend long

before he went to Harvard), decided I’ should learn a trade, got me first
to write free-lance radio commercials for a national radio show back in
1930 (till he got hold of me I never even knew there was such a thing
as an advertising agency ). Then he gave me a temporary job as a copy-
writer in his agency. Armed with some proofs of my work, I got a job
with another agency, the one that handles Listerine products. Though
I created a campaign that overcame a critical sales situation, a campaign
chosen over those suggested by men much longer in the firm, I soon
found that there wasn’t enough to do there in the dark year of 1931
and, before I was fired, I quit. Also, coming from a family of doctors, I
had difficulties writing patent medicine copy all the time. ] was very
earnest then. |

I persuaded my father that supporting an unemployed son would be
cheaper in Greece than in the United States (since some friends had
gone there and found it delightful and friendly as well as exceedingly
cheap). It was the most beautiful and cordial place I have ever been to
— the little island I lived on for a year. I wrote a fair amount, including
a pretty good play for a change, which an agent in New York thought
she could sell but found she couldn’t. That was 1932, after all. At the
start of 1933 I went to Paris, married Katherine Byrne, a girl I had
known in New York, and we lived in a houseboat beside the Bois de
Boulogne in spring. Oh well,

Meantime the world was plunging ever deeper into crisis and Adolf
Hitler was pushed into power by General Von Hindenburg and the big
German industrialists just when Hitler was losing popular following,
maybe just because of that. The people of Paris were worried. And so
was I. Strange to say, my escape to the idyllic old world of Greece and
Paris only made me aware of what was going on economically and
politically for the first time. I reached the conclusion then that the de-
velopment in the world is forcing a choice between progress through
government planning and aid to the “under-privileged” and interna-
tional economic and political codperation even with regimes we don’t
like — or else reaction towards repression and fear and fascism or some-

[ 242 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

thing close to it. I have not yet found reason to change that opinion, in
spite of all the mistakes the left has made.

Back to New York. No job. Our first child, Louisa, was born there
and brought home to a cold-water flat where we couldn’t get her bed-
room up to 50° F. Off to Massachusetts, where I got an advertising job
in Springfield. It lasted only a little over half a year; then back to unem-
ployment, living with parents near Boston; then a job in 1935 witha
Boston advertising agency. This was the first job I ever had where I
was encouraged to do and develop things myself, a really stimulating
one, but I became enthusiastic over the C.I.O. movement sweeping the
land and in 1937 went to work for a year organizing white-collar work-
ers, mostly weekly premium insurance agents, who certainly were crazy
for a union. Funds ran low, and I went back to the same advertising
agency in 1938 where I have been ever since, in charge of market re-
search and plans. It is a continually fascinating and ever-changing job
with a lot of responsibility and challenge. I have never regretted going
back to it.

Our second child, Thomas, was born during the war just before
America got in. In the war phlebitis in my leg made armed service im-
possible, and I did a few odd chores on the home front, including ful-
filling an age-old, hardly conscious attraction to the fire department. In
recent years, besides starting again to write plays (an agent is trying to
sell one), I have been active in business and professional societies, in
movements to promote peace and social progress, and I have written a
good deal for the advertising press.

ROBERT JAMES EDWARDS

Home Address: Miller, Okla.

Bora: Jan. 31, 1903, Oklahoma City, Okla. Parents: Robert James Edwards,
Sadie Cason Handy.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Ann Taylor, July 12,1941, London, Ohio. Children: Mark Taylor,
Oct. 5, 19423 Mary Lucretia, March 28, 1947; Robert James, Jr., May

» 1949.

Hareard Broker: Archibald Cason Edwards, ’28.

Occupation: Ranchman.

Wartime Government Posts: Instructor, Rural War Production Training Pro-
gram, 1942—43; member, Pushmataha County Draft Board, 1945-473
member, present Pushmataha County Draft Board.

Offices Held: Secretary of Board, Farmers Cooperative Store, Antlers, Okla.

[ 243 ]

LR Oe TTT

Harvard Class of 1926

(president, 1945-47); member of Board, Oklahoma Turkey Raisers
Association, 1942-46.
Member of: Revelers Club, Oklahoma City.

After graduation I shipped in the fo’c’sle as an A.B. Two years
glided by easily, and I suddenly realized that the pleasant narcosis of
“adding more mules to the tally of gray miles left behind” was becoming
as important as seeing the world, and I stopped ashore before it got me
for good. Then followed a year or so in the family bond business, and a
try at farming in the wheat country, and finally I settled on a ranch in
the eroded and isolated hill-country of southeastern Oklahoma, where
I have been ever since, raising cattle and turkeys.

As I write this, and seek the reasons for some of the moves, it is a
shock to realize that most of my life apparently has been conditioned by
escapism and atavistic groping, by youthful daydreams and romantic
novels, and by a desire to get from under the pattern that fate had set for
me. Flimsy as these reasons may sound, they must have been valid at
bottom, because the results have been warmly satisfying. The agricul-
tural renascence or revolution is not over, there still is much to be done,
but it has already transformed this section of the country, and having an
active part in it has been a rich experience.

Had I been a little less self-centered, however, or realized that mar-
riage and a family might intervene in mid-career, I think I would have
taken care to plant my ivory tower a little nearer the center of things,
where I could have eaten my cake and had it too, or at least have been
able to have friends in to dinner occasionally, or drop into a movie with-
out making a major trek of it. Having lived for so many years on the
outer fringes of contemporary life, I get along without these things for
long stretches, but, fortunately, my wife is much more sociable and
realistic than I, and I agree with her that the children will soon need
social and intellectual and spiritual contacts that our good neighbors

can't provide. It is a problem that must be faced, and may mean, before
long, a decided change in our way of life.

ROBERT ABRAHAM EFROYMSON

Home Address: §02 Buckingham Drive, Indianapolis, Ind.
Office Address: 611 N. Park St., Indianapolis, Ind,

Born: Sept. 27, 1905, Indianapolis, Ind. Parents: Gustave Aaron Efroymson,
Mamie Wallenstein.

Prepared at: Shortridge High School, Indianapolis, Ind.
Years in College: 1923-1926. Degrees: A.B, cum laude, 1926; LL.B. cum laude,
1929.

[ 244 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Married: Dorothy C. Falender, Jan. 3, 1936, Indianapolis, Ind. CAildren:
Gustave Adam, Oct. 12, 1936; Daniel Robert, Sept. 28, 1941; Mary
Ann, June 10, 1943.

Harvard Brother: Clarence Walter Efroymson, 719.

Occupation: President, Real Silk Hosiery Mills.

Military or Naval Record: U.S. Army Air Force, 1942-45.

Offices Held: Chairman board of trustees, Indianapolis Foundation ; vice-presi-
dent, William E. English Foundation.

HAROLD JAY EISENBERG

Home Address: 15 Vine St., New Britain, Conn.

Office Address: 300 Main St., New Britain, Conn.

Born: May 26, 1906, New Britain, Conn. Parents: Julius Eisenberg, Bertha
Kranowitz.

Prepared at: New Britain High School, New Britain, Conn.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; LL.B., 1929.

Married: Ella Ruth Silverherz, Dec. 25, 1931, New York, N. ¥.

Occupation: Lawyer,

Offices Held: Member, Common Council, City of New Britain, 1938-42;
chairman, New Britain Republican Committee, 1941-50; corpora-
tion counsel, City of New Britain, 1942-503 president, New Britain
Public Forum, 1944-46.

Member of: Harvard Club of Connecticut; Connecticut, Hartford County,
and New Britain Bar Associations.

After being certified in June, with the rest of the Class, I removed to
the open spaces north of the Yard fence for the customary three-year
stretch at the Law School. Then, in 1929, I returned to my home town,
a city of about 80,000, where I have practised law ever since.

On Christmas Day of 1931, undaunted by the depression, the lady of
my choice and I were married, Although we have never heard the pat-
ter of tiny feet, except in echo from others, ours has been a very full and
happy life. Living as close to New York as we do, we see most of the
shows. Books, friends, bridge, a bit of travelling — that’s about it,

Outside the law, my chief activity has been in politics and city govern-
ment, and in community work. My official positions have covered twelve
years: the first four as a member of the city’s legislative body and the
last eight as the city’s corporation counsel. During nine of these twelve
years I was also chairman of the local Republican Committee and par-
ticipated in the various local, state, and national elections during that
period — this on the theory that there is less point in crabbing about
election results than in pitching in and trying to help change them. It —
often works —at least on the local and state levels.

[ 245 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

A twenty-fifth reunion brings on nostalgia and appraisal. As I look
back over twenty-two years of the law in a small city, I feel that it has
been rewarding —the great variety of problems, both legal and per-

sonal, covering every aspect of the law; and the satisfaction in attempt-
ing, often successfully, to solve them.

BENJAMIN EISNER

Home Address: 2806 Hood St., Dallas, Texas.

O fice Address: Neiman-Marcus, Dallas, Texas.

Born: Oct. 16, 1905, New York, N.Y. Parents: Jacob Eisner, Carrie Goodman.
Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; LL.B., 1929(30).
Married: Luise Rosenstein, May, 1933, Tarrytown, N. Y. (divorced 1939);

Memie Bright Todhunter, Nov. 17, 1950, Dallas, Texas.
Harvard Brother: Nathan Eisner, ’27.

Occupation: Manager, Neiman-Marcus Town & Country Shop.

Military or Naval Record: Enlisted in U.S. Marine Corps as private, November,
1942; separated as captain, December, 1945.

Member of : Harvard Clubs of New York and Dallas.

I am starting to write this account while on my honeymoon. That
probably places me in a unique position among my classmates. While I
am sure all of them will applaud my youthfulness of spirit, I realize there
may be some misogynists who will doubt the maturity of my judgment.
Fie on them! I am a happy man. And to be able to feel that way after
the past twenty-five years marks me as a fortunate one.

At our Commencement the Yard resounded with the music of Valen-
cia, played by innumerable bands. I’ve just been listening to a hot num-
ber called OF Babe! that promises to become one of the leaders in the
weekly hit parades. In between them sprinkle Happy Days Are Here
A gain, The Last Time I Saw Paris, Praise the Lord and Pass the Ammuni-
tion, and Some Enchanted Evening, and you can relive a quarter-century
in a hurry.

As for myself, as I look back on those years, it seems that I have lived
not one, but many lives. I know there has been a lot of time lost, but I
don’t think that any experience has been wasted, ‘There have been suffi-
cient occasions of a “but for” nature to make me believe that there is a
master plan and that I have a part in it. It is mid-November and I am
sitting outdoors on the patio of one of Texas’ old ranches. The adobe
walls, the live oaks, the blue hills, and the clear sky form a picture of
tranquillity that is in perfect key with my present mood, I love this
country of Texas; I fell in love with it when I first stepped off the train

[ 246 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

sixteen years ago; and the longer I live here, the deeper grows my affec-
tion for it. Here I made a fresh start and here my roots have found a
congenial soil. ;

I said it seems to me that I have lived many lives. First there was the
Law School. I am still not sure why I ever went. More than likely it
was because I was not ready to go into business, because I had no special
desire or ambition to do anything in particular, because Cambridge was
a fun place, because my father was willing to go on supporting me, and
because there seemed no harm in taking a crack at it. At any rate, after
these pleasant years, I emerged in time to see the stock market “crash,”
business collapse, and my father lose a substantial part of his fortune.

That brings us to my blue, or park bench period. Jobs in law offices
were not plentiful, at least for those with undistinguished law school
records. There was an endless round of letters, appointments, hot and
cold interviews, and disappointments. I learned the truth of the saying
that with a Harvard degree and a quarter you could get a cup of coffee
almost anywhere. How well I knew New York’s park benches — down
at the Battery, at City Hall, Madison Square, at the Library, Central
Park! What a refuge they were in those days for tired and bewildered
men!

You must remember that those were the days of apple vendors on the
corners, of soup kitchens. Unemployment was an ugly thing that was
trying to tear down the self-respect of decent, worth-while people. Ina

. way I suppose I should be grateful for those days, because they taught
me much about understanding, and compassion, and courage. On the
benches we talked with our neighbors or listened while others talked. I
learned what it was like to pound the pavements looking frantically for a
job, any job, because there were dear ones to feed and clothe and house;
I learned what it was like to be in that position through no fault of your
own. It was a technological condition, they said. I was lucky. At least I
had a home to go to in the evening where they took care of my basic
creature comforts. I didn’t have haunting, questioning eyes searching
my face as I stepped inside the door. And in time I got a job in a law
office.

Let us say that the law and I did not exactly cotton to each other. I
quit the practice of it in 1934 because I knew it was the right thing for
me to do, and I have never regretted the decision.

I moved to Dallas to become associated with Neiman-Marcus. The
move was made at the invitation of Stanley Marcus, Class of 1925, who
has been a friend of mine since my undergraduate days. I have watched
the business grow from an annual volume of $4,000,000 to more than

[ 247 ]

inhib ape abana net mm

Harvard Class of 1926

five times that amount. I have also in that time seen the store’s name
develop into an international symbol for the finest fashion merchandis-
ing. I am glad that I can feel that I have participated in this growth.
Now we are engaged in an expansion program which includes a sub-
urban Town & Country Shop, for which I have been selected to be the
manager. It will present a challenge and an opportunity to which I am
looking forward.

Rounding out the picture, there was a first marriage that did not last,
born 1933, died 1939. And finally there was wartime service in the
Marine Corps. My career for the most part was devoted to the creation
and management of a specialized service and was completely lacking in
any heroics. I was given a job that had to be done, and I think my asso-
ciates and I handled it satisfactorily.

My hobbies are fishing and cooking. I find both of them absorbing
and relaxing, and conducive to good fellowship. In addition, cooking
provides a nice outlet for my creative instincts. And there are times when
a mouth-watering casserole can be even more satisfying than a well-
turned couplet.

How quickly and into what a small nutshell we can compress twenty-
five years! And now I drink a toast to you all that, God willing, you

may have at least a fighting chance to “Grow old along with me. ‘The
best is yet to come.”

JOHN ELBERFELD

Home Address: 26 Grove St., Westboro, Mass.
Office Address: Worcester Junior College, 766 Main St., Worcester, Mass.

Born: April 27, 1903, Buffalo, N. Y. Parents: Samuel Louis Elberfeld, Isabel
Ross Holton.

Prepared at: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926, 1928-1929. Degrees: $.B, 1n E.E., 1926; S.M.
in MLE., 1929.

Married: Catherine Kyes, July 8, 1939, Peterborough, N, H. CAildren: Anne
Kyes, March 22, 19413 John Karl, Feb. 20, 1945.

Harvard Brother: Frank Holton Elberfeld, ’29.

Occupation: Dean, Worcester Junior College,

Offices Held: School Committee, Westboro, Mass., trustee, Forbes Field and
Community House, Westboro.

Member of: American Institute of Electrical Engineers; Society for Experi-
mental Stress Analysis; Personal Directors Council, Worcester.

Publications: Strength and Properties of Materials, Harper; Metallurgical Materials

and Processes, Prentice-Hall.

As I try to write this account of my life, I find that twenty-five years
[ 248 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

is a long time, especially in this twentieth century, when the event fre-
quency —- my engineering training — approaches that of the modern
short wave radio.

Although many modern historians frown upon the chronological ap-
proach to history, I feel that mine should be told chronologically. After
graduation I spent two years on test with the General Electric Com-
pany, Lynn, Massachusetts. There I went from job to job until it ap-
peared that I liked mechanical engineering better than electrical engi-
neering, so the year 1928-29 was spent in obtaining my M.E. at
Harvard.

After that commencement I noticed the first sign of a great crash and
depression; jobs were hard to find. A steel mill in Worcester needed an
electrician’s helper, so that was the job for which my Master’s degree
fitted me. The race between finding a new job and getting laid off re-
sulted in a tie and I went to the Western Electric Company in New Jer-
sey as a planning engineer. Even that plant, with its long-range plans,
found they had twenty thousand too many on the payroll, so I was set
adrift late in 1931.

My next plan was to teach school —it was that of many others
also —so I attended the Harvard Graduate School of Education and
took exams to top the physics list for temporary teachers in the city of
Boston. The years until 1937 were a hodgepodge of teaching, social
work, loafing and taking courses.

In 1937 a break came and I went to the Rochester, New York, Insti-
tute of Technology to teach mechanical engineering and to coach bas-
ketball. My three years of coaching brought a team from three wins a
season to nine wins a season.

I discovered that the baby who at one time had lived next door to me
and for whom we kids had to be quiet, was a librarian in the Rochester
Public Library. We were married in spite of her Radcliffe background,
in 1939. My daughter was born in 1941 and so was a war. Both
changed my life. Although I remained on the payroll of R.I.T., most of
my time until 194.4 was spent at the University of Rochester in the V-12
program, teaching physics and radio engineering. As spare time jobs, I
wrote a book and composed tests for the University of Chicago and for
USAFTI. My son was born in 1945.

In 1946 we all moved back to New England when the job of dean of
engineering at Worcester Junior College was offered to me. This job
was my most challenging for I had to build a complete set of engineer-
ing curricula and laboratories, During this period a second book was
published. I am now dean of the college and, like many others in the

[ 249 ]

* Senate:
Sencha

Harvard Class of 1926

same position, am struggling to maintain enrollment in spite of the draft.

My recreation has not been neglected in these years. My skiing has
improved steadily; I have sailed the New England coast, Irandiquoit
Bay in Rochester, and Sunset Lake in Greenfield, New Hampshire.
Our cabin, built in 1940, isin Greenfield, At present, my daughter, son,
and I are combining our efforts to build a super pike that we are sure
will shame many a railroad company.

MAXWELL HALL ELLIOTT, JR.

Home Address: R.F.D., Burke, Va.

Office Address: General Services Administration, Room 4140, General Serv-
ices Bldg., 18th & F Sts., N.W., Washington 25, D. C.

Bora: Aug. 23, 1905, New York, N. Y. Parents: Maxwell Hall Elliott, Marion
Estelle Rhoads.

Prepared at: Horace Mann School, New York, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926(27) ; LL.B., 1930.

Married: Elizabeth Cain, June 18, 1937, Washington, D. C. CAildren: Tim-
othy Schuyler, Sept. 19, 1938; Marion Rhoads, April 30, 1940; Norah
Elizabeth, Aug. 6, 1941; Angela Lincoln, Aug. 5, 1943.

Occupation: General counsel, General Services Administration, United States
Government, responsible for all legal services in G.S.A.

Military or Naval Record: Ordered to active duty as captain, Air Technical
Service Command, Nov. 22, 1943; served in United States and Eu-
ropean-Middle East Theatre; awarded Battle Star while serving in
European-Middle East Theatre; returned to inactive duty, Dec. 21,
1945; major, Air Forces Reserves.

Wartime Goverament Posts: Special Assistant General Counsel, Federal Works
Agency, in charge of contracts for defense housing and defense public
works,

Offices Held: Member, New York Democratic Committee, 1932-373 Mas-
ter, Independent Royal Arch No. 2, F. & A.M., 1936; Commander,
Fairfax Post No. 177, American Legion, 1948-49; member Execu-

tive Section, National Housing Committee, American Legion, 1948-
49, 1949-50, 1950-$1; Department Judge Advocate, Department of
Virginia, American Legion, 1949-50; Director of Welfare, Fairfax

County Civil Defense, since December, 1950; member, National Coun-
cil, Federal Bar Association, since May, 1950; chairman, Department
Housing Committee, Department of Virginia, American Legion,
1950-51,

Member of : Federal Bar Association; American Legion; Civil Defense Organi-
zation; Parent-Teachers Association.

The account of my life since graduation properly commences with

[ 250 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Commencement, which I did not attend. Instead, I wangled a job on
the New York Evening World asa police reporter, from which I was pro-
moted in about six months to the Federal Courts and general news. My
father thought the newspaper business too unstable and too impecunious,
so he sent me to the Law School in the fall of 1927. During summer
vacations I taught English composition and English literature at City
and Hunter Colleges in New York City. I graduated duly in June,
1930, and, at the same time, completed my courses for an A.M. in
English at Boston University. As a private practitioner in New York and
as an attorney for the State Superintendent of Banks, I found that the
early thirties did not pour out the gold which had glittered in Pop’s eye.
So, along with many other Harvard men, I kissed the New Deal book in
the fall of 1933, and got a job with the Public Works Administration in
Washington.

The brightest part of my life (premarital, that is) came in 1935-37,
when, upon transfer to New York, I rented and furnished gaudily a
two-story studio apartment in Greenwich Village. Holden Weatherbee
and Burr Wilson named it The Madam’s— an unjust designation as I
never took money for my services. My wife cut short this epic period by
persuading me to marry her and by collecting, with some effort, the
various keys which I had handed out. We then spent eight months in
Puerto Rico, still with the government, returning in September, 1938,
just in time for the birth of our first child. In 1939 I transferred to the
Federal Works Agency and to Washington where I stayed — and pro-
duced three more children — until I went in the Army in the fall of
1943.

My so-called military career culminated in a secret mission for the
Air Transport Command throughout the European and Middle-East
Theatres. The secret orders permitted me to deviate my route at will, to
obtain top air priority, and to visit every Officers’ Club bar and party of
any significance, including the fabulous Navy dance in Casablanca.
Upon return to inactive duty in November, 1945, I re-entered the gov-
ernment and became successively Assistant General Counsel and Acting
General Counsel of the Federal Works Agency and General Counsel
of the General Services Administration. I am still a pretty good liberal
and rather proud of my own part in bringing efficiency and economy
into our government. That included a substantial hand in the drafting
and presentation to the Congress of the bills which have since become
the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 and the
Federal Records Act of 1950. They are, I believe, the major legislative
implementation of the recommendations of the Hoover Commission.

[ 251 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

I am proud, too, of my active participation in the affairs of the Ameri-
can Legion, both locally and nationally. At home the kids, Betty, and 1
live more or less quietly in an old house surrounded by acres of brush on
a country road in Fairfax, Virginia. Except for the telephone and tele-
vision, which Betty won’t give up, I am very happy. Gardening is about
my only hobby.

RALPH WEBSTER ELLS

Home Address: Hotel Astor, 924 E. Juneau St., Milwaukee 2, Wis.
Office Address: Allen-Bradley Co., 136 W. Greenfield Ave., Milwaukee, Wis.
Bora: Oct. 15, 1905, Bear River, N. S., Canada. Parents: Leverett Eugene
Ells, Agnes Gertrude Rice,
Prepared at: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 19263; M.B.A., 1930.
Married: Margaret Eugenia Balsiger, Oct. 30, 1937, Kansas City, Mo. Cilla:
Ralph Eugene, June 11, 1941.
Occupation: Chief economist, Allen-Bradley Company, manufacturers of elec-
trical controls.
Wartime Government Posts: Director of industrial relations, Lone Star Defense
Corporation, Texarkana, Texas.
Member of : Harvard Club of Milwaukee; Harvard Club of Kansas City.
Publications: Salary and Wage Administration, McGraw-Hill; “Job Evaluation,”
American Business; “Wage Incentives,” American Business, “Salary Deter-
mination,” etc.

Looking back on the last twenty-five years, I can see clearly that life
is what you make it. For this reason, I feel inclined to skip lightly over
the first ten years of my life after graduation. During that time I did
graduate work at Harvard and taught accounting at Dalhousie Univer-
sity at Halifax, Nova Scotia. I can truthfully say that I could have spent
my time more profitably.

Fortunately for me I found an interesting job with the B. F. Good-
rich Company in 1936, and then in 1937 I married a Kansas City girl.
The combination worked miracles and I became a hard working busi-
ness man, who today finds life most enjoyable.

They say a rolling stone gathers no moss, but my wife and I are the
exception to the rule. Within the confines of the United States and Can-
ada, we are a well-traveled couple and we seemed to have progressed
each time we moved, We spent the first two years of our married life
travelling the Southwest and the West — she representing the Ward-
Belmont School for Girls and I, the B. F. Goodrich Company. After

[ 252 ]

 

3
t
k
é
3

i

apne

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

that we moved to Akron, Ohio, where over a three-year period I be-
came acquainted with the personnel problems of industry in my capacity
as personnel manager for a tire company.

In February, 1943, we moved to Kansas City, Missouri. There, for
fifteen months, I was labor economist for Trans World Airlines. After
that our next stop was Texarkana, ‘Texas, where for the balance of the
war I was director of industrial relations for the Lone Star Defense
Corporation.

During the war years I became deeply interested in the theories of
personnel management and in the problems of labor relations, especially
those dealing with salaries and wages. I was so enamored of the subject
that I gave up golf and bridge and spent my evenings and weekends
reading and writing. A number of my articles on job evaluation and re-
lated problems were published in various magazines and my book on
salary and wage administration was accepted by McGraw-Hill early in
1945. ‘

After the war ended Margaret and I packed our belongings once
more and returned to Kansas City. There I established a consulting
firm, specializing in job evaluation and wage incentives, and there we
stayed for four years.

Of course it was too much to expect that the nomad tribe of Ells’s
would stay in one place more than four years and in the spring of 1949
we moved to Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Here we are today and here we
are likely to remain unless world events force us to move again. In addi-
tion to my position as economist for the Allen-Bradley Company, I con-
tribute articles to magazines and lecture at various universities.

My associations with people in various sections of the country have
made me realize that there is little or no difference basically between a
‘Texan and a Nova Scotian, or a Harvard man and a non-Harvard man.
In my travels I have encountered but two basic types — the ones who
get things done and the ones who have good reasons why they fail. At
present I am trying to persuade my son to join the first group, but at the
tender age of nine, he is having difficulty seeing why I consider it so
important.

S. PETER ELLSLEY

Address: 67-30 Juno St., Forest Hills, N. ¥.

Born: April 24, 1905, Newark, N. J. Parents: Bennie Elsky, Minnie Shutz.
Prepared at: Barringer High School, Newark, N. J.

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degree: A.B., 1926(27).

[ 253 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Married: Hedwig Hass, June 24, 1929, New York, N. Y.
Occupation: Law.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Ellsley
did not return a questionnaire.

ROBERT RANTOUL ENDICOTT

Home Address: 1160 Park Ave., New York, N. Y.; Washington, Conn.
Office Address: Family Circle Magazine, Inc., 25 W. 45th St., New York, N. Y.

Born: Feb. 14, 1905, Detroit, Mich. Parents: John Endicott, ’89, Mary Eliza-
beth Booth.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922~1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Harriet Hastings, March 14, 1945, New York, N. Y¥. Céildren: John,
Aug. 7, 1946; Eve, May 7, 1948.

Occupation: Editor, Family Circle Magazine. °

Member of : Harvard Club of New York.

Well, there isn’t much to tell, (Compositor, clear the linotype. Print-
er, hold the press. Make-up man, save the next twelve pages. )

The Long Slow Climb: Returning to Detroit, Michigan, after four
years in college that didn’t come close to being as rewarding (my own
fault) as my four previous years at Exeter, I became one of the bright
young men at General Motors, in the institutional advertising and sales
departments, Everything was wonderful — promotion after promotion
—until October, 1929. Then many of the brass in Detroit, who had
been making far more out of their bonuses and stock speculations than
out of their salaries and so had not felt it necessary to do more than go
through a few motions to stay on the payroll, were thrown out by the
brass at GHQ in New York, where the conditions were the same but the
rank was higher. The bright young men, who had been doing most of
the actual work anyway, were retained for a time because compara-
tively they didn’t cost anything. Then, as the depression got worse, the
institutional advertising and sales activities, considered utterly essential .

in time of profit and wholly dispensable in time of loss, were stopped —
with sonorous official statements about how everything was just peachy
and getting peachier by the minute.

The bright young men were given the choice of being fired or going
to work for the General Motors manufacturing divisions in Lansing,
Flint, or Pontiac. I had already been in Lansing, Flint, and Pontiac,
many times. So I headed for New York, and immediately got a better

[ 254 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

job ($125 a week) as advertising and publicity director of the Interna-
tional Mercantile Marine Company, a group of steamship lines.

That job lasted until the depression got really bad and even the
smaller companies quit pretending it wasn’t so. I found I thoroughly
enjoyed unemployment, but to eat I had to work. The only jobs I
could get, each paying less than the one before, were doing promotion
for the World-Telegram, writing copy and soaping the clients for an ad-
vertising agency, selling space, and reading contest entries. Every three
weeks I sold at least a pint of blood ($45).

I tried free-lance writing, sold the first piece I wrote, and had it re-
printed as the lead article in the January, 1933, Reader's Digest — all
for $70 ($25 of it from the Digest), less agent’s commission. Just then,
strictly by coincidence, I got an editing job. I have had it for nineteen
years, have enjoyed it, and have often thanked fate that I was ejected
from the advertising business and that I tried being a free-lance writer
only long enough to convince myself I would never be a successful one.

Having worked in both big businesses and little businesses, I am cer-
tain they are almost all essentially the same — much more confused, in-
efficient, and political than need be, and with the best talent rarely the
best paid. Big businesses, usually because of a public relations department,
seem to think they must be pious or pompous or folksy in outward aspect.
. (They are mistaken.) Little businesses cannot afford such expensively
contrived dissembling. As for advertising agencies, the only real differ-
ence I see between most of the big ones and most of the small ones is the
difference between $10 brothels and $2 brothels.

Domestic: I have been married only once, at forty, and have not as yet
been divorced. (Not that I have anything against marriage or divorce,
or against bigamy or even trigamy.) My wife seems no more indifferent
towards me than most wives seem towards their husbands, and we both
continue to be entranced by our young son and daughter.

Residential: I never urge anyone to come to New York to live. (In-
deed I urge them to stay home, or to go home when they start being
nostalgic about the old home town.) But for me the biggest city is the
best city. Smaller cities have all of New York’s disadvantages without all
of its advantages. Or so I feel.

I once thought I wanted to retire to the country some day. We have
property in rural Connecticut where I have been spending weekends for
the past twelve years making over old houses. Now I wouldn’t live in
the country all year ’round for anything. There is little of the privacy
that there is in New York. Everyone knows everyone else’s business —
and knows it wrong.

[ 255 ]

FTarvard Class of 1926

The native New Englander, in my experience, is not the salt of the
earth. Particularly the Yankee, that supposed repository of all the homely
virtues. Despite my origins I dissociate myself with the Yankee. I have
found him to be vastly overrated — usually small, smug, bigoted, in-
grown, provincial, and often just plain mean. Not a quietly deep thinker,
not a storehouse of mellow wisdom, but obsessed with such a guilt feeling
as he won't get over in six more generations. Outbreeding to overcome
it would, I suspect, only make it worse.

The Cosma and the Mundane. The universe may be all right, but the
world and most of the groups and individuals in it are clearly in a mess
— moral, social, and economic. The reasons, as I see them, are selfish-
ness and a rapid debasement of standards and a lessening of individual
integrity, resulting in a lessening of group integrity. Why should not
each individual and each group be willing oftener to give more than is
asked in return, instead of less? Or at least to give such an experiment a
fair trial? How can there be any change for the better except by use of
force if everyone merely holds on to what he has and tries to get more?
Such organizations as the United Nations then become merely mediums
through which to fight a delaying action or to start a new offensive.

Much of what is happening today is what has always happened, but
how does that excuse it? Should not we — especially those of us who

have had the opportunity to go to a college like Harvard and to associate ,

with other college men — be getting more perceptive, more forward-
looking? Otherwise why go to college at all?

I go to the Harvard Club occasionally for lunch or dinner. (Not for
the two specialties of the dining room — the oversize cup of coffee and
the frigid and brittle popover — but because my office is just across the
street.) There most of the talk I hear merely reaffirms the eternal veri-
ties of the status quo, and plots how best to preserve it.

Granted the Harvard Club of New York is not Harvard. What is?
The whole alumni body? The Class of 1926? If so, what point of view
and what standard of values prevail there?

Harvard professes to be a national if not an international university.
Harvard would deny that it is confined to Cambridge or Massachusetts
or New York or even to the East. Yet among the thirty-nine men listed
on the current letterhead of the Alumni Association, only two are from
farther west than Chicago or farther south than Virginia,

In the Class of 1926, who was nominated for the office of Chief Mar-
shal — presumably the honor that should go to the outstanding member
of the Class — and how were the nominations made?

The permanent Class Committee (chosen without any general Class

[ 256 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

vote) selected a nominating committee (also without any general Class
vote). The nominating committee selected six candidates, the Alumni
Association approved them, an “advisory” election was held with the
whole Class invited to vote, and the Alumni Association approved the
winner. Anyone looking at the names on the ballot for Chief Marshal
could have come to these conclusions:

(1) No one living north of Boston, west of New York City, or south
of Baltimore was worthy of the honor. (Jour of the six candidates were
from New York.)

(2) No member of the arts, sciences, or professions was worthy of
the honor. Five of the six candidates were in business or finance, one was
an editor.

(3) No classmate with an international reputation (we have sev-
eral) was worthy of the honor.

(4) No classmate ever nominated for Overseer of Harvard College
(we have had five) or elected Overseer (two have been) was worthy of
the honor.

In fact, obviously the best way to get nominated was to be a member
of the nominating committee itself. Two on the committee of five turned up
on the ballot of six! Which was why the members of the nominating com-
mittee were not named, as has been the practice, in the letter from the
president of the Alumni Association sent out with the ballot.
~ Q,.E.D.: Harry S$. Truman is President of the United States.

Any questions?

ROBERT McCALLA ENGLISH

Home Address: Hancock, N. H.

Born: Sept. 18, 1903, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Walter English, Anna E.
Durfor.

Prepared at: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Anita Grew, Feb. 27, 1932, Constantinople, Turkey. Céildren:
Ann, Oct. 29, 19353 Joseph, May 26, 1937.

Occupation: Writer and member of New Hampshire State Legislature.

Wartime Government Posts: Foreign Service Officer, Department of State, during
entire period of World War II.

Offices Held: Numerous Town and State offices.

Member of : Rotary Club; Masons.

Publications: Articles in newspapers and magazines.

As I write these lines, one by one vari-colored leaves drift from the
maples, elms, and ash onto my New Hampshire tree farm. The glorious

[ 257 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

pigments of New England foliage are mine to re-enjoy after many years
spent in foreign cities doing colorful work in artificial surroundings.
Two years ago vagaries of health forced an end to twenty-one years
with the Foreign Service, terminating a life spiced by the daily possibility
of acable from the Secretary of State suddenly ordering the exchange of
one exotic city for another. It takes a while to settle down after such a
life and the Twenty-fifth Anniversary of the Class of 1926 finds me
doing just that.

The hills of New Hampshire offer much worth while. Among other
things a grounding in the pure democracy of the Town Meeting. In my
case, town affairs rapidly grew into state affairs and already I have had
a term in the Legislature at Concord with another coming up. Unlike
our classmate, Gene Daniell, I have not (and do not expect to) cast an
eager eye on the Governor’s chair. It suffices for the time being, at least,

to do my share towards furthering the good government we in New
Hampshire have somehow managed to preserve.

BOYD NIXON EVERETT

Home Address: 513, Walnut St., Winnetka, I].

Office Address: Continental Casualty Co., 310 S. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.

Born: Dec. 19, 1904, Pasadena, Calif. Parents: Torrey Everett, ’91, Mary
Reeves Nixon.

Prepared at: Thacher School, Ojai, Calif.; Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter,
N.H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: 8.B., 1926; M.B.A., 1929.

Marri: Margaret Bruce Carter, Feb. 4, 1933, Joliet, Tl. Children: Boyd

Nixon, Jr., May 30, 19343 William Carter, Aug. 16, 19353 Torrey,

Feb. 22, 1938; Bruce, Aug. I, 1941.

Occupation: Vice-president and treasurer, Continental Casualty ‘Company,
Continental Assurance Company; vice-president, Transportation In-
surance Company.

Offices Held: Member executive board, Boy Scouts of America; trustee, North
Shore Country Day School; trustee and treasurer, Lake Forest Day
School; vice-president and director, Harvard Club of Chicago, Harvard
Business School Club of Chicago; director, Continental Casualty Com-
pany, Continental Assurance Company, Black, Sivalls & Bryson, Inc.

Member of: Harvard Club of New York, 1926-40; University Club of Chi-
cago; Indian Hill Club of Winnetka; Bohemian Club of San Francisco.

Publications: Term Loans (with Herbert V. Prochnow) and miscellaneous arti-

cles.

The transition from the “era of wonderful nonsense” to the great de-
pression was perhaps less devastating to those of us who stayed on at

{ 258 ]

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

graduate school. Emerging in January, 1929, we were too late to attain
positions to make important mistakes before the deluge. This fortunate
circumstance I consider to have served me well both in its effect on me
and because the ranks of my adopted profession soon became thinned
and advancement accelerated. I refer to it as an “adopted” profession
since I am not quite sure how I fell into it. A now defunct investment
house offered a job without expecting me to capitalize on any “connec-
tions” which Harvard men were supposed to have in those days, and the
idea was so refreshing that I was caught off guard and accepted. No
doubt confusion was mistaken for fascination and before I knew it, | was
even teaching banking and finance at the City College of New York,
urged on by the need for more money than I could squeeze out of Wall
Street, In the meantime I had moved to the City Bank Farmers Trust
Company and in 1933 married the lady (Smith ’31) who now rides
herd on four sons and me. In 1937 I helped organize a new investment
counsel firm and a year later was offered my present position in Chicago.
I am still fascinated (or confused) and can’t imagine how I could ever
have done anything else. My work requires considerable travelling
which I still enjoy particularly when it takes me to the west coast (plug).

Our life in Winnetka is simple but busy with four sons in three differ-
ent schools all of which demand an unusual degree of parent participa-
tion. Until a few years ago I continued to play squash racquets quite
actively but finally gave up in favor of more sedentary activities. I re-
ported five years ago that my wife beat me at golf and must now confess
that two of my sons do the same. Since this is a situation which can only
worsen, I am now looking for something more sedentary than golf.
Meantime I manage to play indoor tennis in the winter. Stamp collec-
ting is really my only hobby and fortunately is one shared by the younger
Everetts. My politics are Republican and I have done some work for the
party although at times with less positive approbation than opposition
to the New Deal.

I wish I could report to my classmates that I led some romantic or
glamorous existence but the fact of the matter is that four hungry chil-
dren do not provide an ideal background for glamorous activities.
Mostly, Peg and I have had to keep our foot on the bag and our nose to
the grindstone and derive our pleasures from the engrossing spectacle
in our own home where four completely divergent personalities were
emerging in our children, At times we wonder how they can all be ours,
the only common trait at the moment being a desire to go to Harvard.

[ 259 ]

~~ et EL LLL LALLA TEC ay j

Harvard Class of 1926

WILLIAM EXTON, JR.

Home Address: Millbrook, R.F.D., Dover Plains, N. Y.

Office Address: 101 W. §7th St., New York 19, N. Y.

Born: March 15, 1907, New York, N. Y. Parents: William Gustave Exton,
Florence Nightingale Augusta Phillips.

Prepared at: Horace Mann School for Boys, New York, N. Y.; Fieldston School,
New York, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B, 1926.

Unmarried.

Harcard Brother: Manning Phillips Mason Exton, 27.

Occupation: Audiovisual education and consulting; writing.

Military or Naval Record: Entered active duty as lieutenant (j.g.), U.S. Naval
Reserve, March 17, 1941; sea duty aboard uss Roe, North Atlantic,
June—September, 1942; amphibious Pacific, 1944-45; highest com-
mand afloat Lc1 gunboat Flotilla 6; shore duty primarily as officer in
charge of planning and producing training aids, training division, Bureau
of Naval Personnel; served also in patriotic indoctrination program; re-
turned to inactive duty as captain, June 25,1947.

Offices Held: Formerly: trustee, American Scenic and Historic Preservation
Society, National Child Welfare Association, Boys’ Brotherhood Repub-
lic; treasurer and director, Municipal Art Society; director, Young
Men’s Board of Trade; chairman, various committees on city planning,
parks and recreation, and other civic activities. Currently: treasurer,
National Wayside Council; inspector-instructor, U.S. Naval Reserve
Research Unit 3-1.

Member of: Harvard Club of New York; City Club; Officers Club; Army-
Navy Country Club, Washington, D. C.; Parker-Haight Post, American
Legion, Millbrook, N. Y.; Institute of General Semantics; International
Society for General Semantics; New York Society for General Semantics;
Scientific Film Association; Film Council, New York; National Associa-
tion of Training Directors.

Publications: Audiovisual Aids to Iustructim, McGraw-Hill, 1947; He’s ia the
Destroyers Now, McBride, 1944; Naval Officers Guide (Ageton), Chapter
I, McGraw-Hill, 1943; Semantics of Industrial Relations, American Man-

agement Association; numerous articles, addresses, etc.

When I graduated, only nineteen and quite unworldly, I expected to
study law. I took a job in a banking firm (Speyer & Company) to get a
little “experience” over the summer, but a partner urged me to stay and
in 1926 such an opportunity on Wall Street was supposed to be a cause
for rejoicing. But 1 was maladjusted, for there was no opportunity for
creative work or personal contribution. Finally, in August, 1929, I
made up my mind as follows: If anybody promised me a million dollars
in thirty years, providing I did everything I was told to do all that time,

[ 260 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

I’d turn it down. But here I was doing what I was told to do and the
million wasn’t even certain! When I fully realized that I was actually
selling my life, I quit, and swore I'd never again do anything just be-
cause I was paid to do it, This resolve I have pretty well kept and it has
left me with few regrets. I recommend the general attitude.

My original plans for “‘self-realization” (travel, study abroad, writ-
ing, etc.), never well formulated, were pretty well shot by the 1929
crash, but I continued having lots of fun. First I decided to learn a little
about how the “other half’ lived — a subject about which I knew noth-
ing. So I launched myself on a hitch-hiking expedition. I ended up in
North Carolina as a free-lance journalist, writer of syndicated articles,
ad press agent for the State Fair, and so on. ‘This was a wonderfully
formative experience and gave me lots of self-confidence and an appetite
for new situations. In 1930 I became a Washington lobbyist working for
legislation to protect industrial designs by copyright. I was twenty-three,
and making about $1000 a month. This job folded because of the de-
pression. ‘There were many other brief but educational ventures: three
months with a producer of two-reel comedies for RKO, a survey of the
production facilities of the silk industry for Stehli, etc.

In 1932 I became extremely interested in the development of a prop-
erty in Red Lake, Ontario, which was a promising gold prospect. It
had been staked by John Y. Cole of the Class of ’25. My family and I
assisted in financing it in a small way and I continued actively in the
matter, particularly handling the finances. We incorporated as the Cole
Gold Mines, Ltd., and I became a director and vice-president. I spent
a lot of time at the property and learned a lot about mining, prospecting,
etc.

This was a very rich experience for me, as I insisted on running the
full gamut, from unskilled manual labor with pick and shovel and axe,
turning a windlass, working at a forge, building log cabins, dealing with
illiterate hands, etc., to helping raise over half a million dollars when it
was supposed to be hard to do (1933-37). We had a very promising de-
velopment but had to shut down in 1939 when Canada went to war.
We are recommencing development work now and have hopes of being
ready for production in a year. It looks very good.

During this period (1933-37) I was often in New York City with
little to do for the mine. I devoted more and more time and energy to
civic work, and became one of the most active younger civic leaders in
New York City. Among other things I organized the first National City
Planning Exhibition, as chairman of the City Planning Committee of
the U.S. Junior Chamber of Commerce. It was shown in many cities

[ 261 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

ing, morale, command and leadership, audiovisual techniques, patriotic
and other indoctrination, combating subversive activities, etc., on top of
my civilian background of speaking, writing, newspaper and publicity
work, radio, motion picture, world fair, etc., constituted a unique variety
of background, all components having in common the vital element of
human communication. I wanted to learn as much as I could of what
scientists know about the mechanisms of communication and I wanted
to apply the techniques to constructive purposes.

I attended the 1947 seminar of the Institute of General Semantics,
and studied under Korzybski. I lined up quite a program of study and
reading, some writing, some work. I took plenty of time to think about
it all, to plan, and to survey the possibilities. I looked into the way man-
agement consultants operate; I attended business and educational and
professional meetings; I pondered.

In 1948 I started in, In less than three years I have had over forty
““obs,” some fairly large, some quite small. My clients include some of
the largest corporations in the country, the government, institutions. I
have contributed to the satisfactory solution of such communication
problems as those posed by the introduction of pension plans, by em-
ployee ignorance of “fringe benefits,” by the necessities of a major cor-
porate administrative organizational overhaul, etc. I have worked on
basic problems related to the promotion of sales of various products. Tam
currently developing procedures to render production employees cost-
and quality-conscious, and so on.

The work is fascinating, the clients stimulating and appreciative, the
contacts enlarging, provocative, and educational, am studying at night
—psychology, sociology, anthropology, semantics, etc. 1 write articles;
I occasionally am asked to address a group; I get around the country a
bit. It looks very good for the future, except, of course, for Korea and
all that. I still hold my commission; I’m only forty-three (young for a
captain) and in top shape; and I’m “qualified for any type of amphibious
command.”

A year or two ago, just to prove that audiovisual principles proved in
the Navy can be applied to civilian education, I cooked up a device called
the “Parts-imparter.” It is used to teach parts-of-the-whole fractions,
decimals, percentage, etc. I distribute it through Exton-Aids, Millbrook,
New York. The Mathematus Teacher gave it a very favorable evaluation.
I have devices on the back of the stove to teach the principles of the

algebraic equation, the triangle, etc. -— also dancing, and what not. All
I need is time and money.

We have a beautiful farm at Millbrook, New York, in Dutchess
[ 264 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

County, It is on a high ridge with a magnificent view. The family hold-
ings total about 400 acres now, and I am buying about seventy more.
Most of my library is up here, and I spend all the time here that I can.
Much of my remunerative work is done up here — studying, evaluating,
checking notes, writing reports. If all goes reasonably well, Dll evolve
the Exton Field Theory of Semantic Behavior up here, some day.

GERALD JOSEPH FARRELLY

Home Address: 522 E. 89th St., New York, N. Y.

Office Address: Washington School for Secretaries, 480 Lexington Ave., New
York, N.Y.

Born: Feb. 3, 1905, New York, N. Y. Parents: Thomas Charles Farrelly, Gio-
vannina de Saint Seign.

Prepared at: New York Military Academy, Cornwall-on-Hudson, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1925.

Married: Frances White, March 4, 1925, Milford, N. H. Children: Gerald
Joseph, Jr., May 30, 1926; Julia, July 31, 1936.

Occupation: President, Washington School for Secretaries.

Military or Naval Record: World War II: captain, supply officer, 5 1st Regiment,
New York Guard.

Member of : Harvard Club of New York.

My life has been outstandingly lacking in noteworthy events. After
leaving college I worked at a variety of positions, including those with
the New York Times and Herald Tribune. J also did free-lance art work.
During this time I was active in the New York National Guard in
Squadron A and was very much interested in horsemanship and horse
activities. In 1937 I became associated with the Gregg Publishing Com-
pany and the following year with the Washington School for Secretaries,
at first in a promotional and selling capacity. I have continued with this
organization until the present and in 1941 bought an interest in the
school. In 1950 I was elected president.

Concerning our non-business activities, my wife and J at first were
devoted to Cape Cod, but about four years ago we were introduced to
Maine and have changed our allegiance wholeheartedly, We have a
small island in Penobscot Bay and spend what free time we have in
pulling up stumps and removing boulders and preparing a clearing for
my eventual retirement and burial. Our sea activities are along the cabin
cruiser line now but we are moving into sail as soon as possible.

[ 265 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

WELLS FAY

Home Address: 424 Maple Ave., Edgewood, Pittsburgh 18, Pa.
Office Address: Blaxter, O’ Neill & Houston, 1307 Oliver Bide., Pittsburgh, Pa.

Born: Jan. 5, 1904, Greenville, Pa. Parents: Frank Lignori Fay, Sarah Marie
Wells.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B. (Univ. of Pitts-
burgh), 1929.

Married: Katharine Harris, Sept. 11, 1929, Salem, Mass. CAildren: Elinor
Lee, June 21, 1930; Jon Wells, July 3, 1931; James Harris, April 23,

19345 Michael, April 30, 1935; Frank Wells, Jr., Oct. 5, 19433 ; Wil-
liam Loring, Dec. 26, 1945.

Occupation: Lawyer; partner in firm of Blaxter, O’Neill & Houston.

Military or Naval Record: Entered as captain, Cavalry Reserve, 2nd Armored
Division, March 19, 19413; company commander, Ren. Bn., 3rd Ar-
mored Division, April—-December, 1941; Co. Commander and Division
Staff, G-3 section, 6th Armored Division, January, 1942, to November,
1943; C. & G. §. School, Fort Leavenworth, January, 19433; Hqtrs.
Fourth Army and Hotrs. III Corps, November, 1943, to October, 19445.
C.O. 742nd Amph. Tk. Bn., Fort Ord, Calif., October, 194.4, to Octo-
ber, 1945; promoted lieutenant colonel, April, 1945.

Offices Held: Director, Travelers Aid Society of Pittsburgh, since 1935} as-
sistant to chairman, Disaster Committee, American Red Cross, since
1946; Home Service Committee, since 1947.

Member of : Harvard—Yale—Princeton Club of Pittsburgh (president, 1948) ;
Duquesne Club, Pittsburgh.

Little things change the course of human events. The simple fact of
my father’s retirement from the steel car business in Greenville, Penn-
sylvania, in 1925, made a lawyer out of me. I had little conception of
what the study of the law meant until I found myself rudely transported
from Cambridge to the University of Pittsburgh Law School in the fall
of 1927. In those days the Harvard Club of Western Pennsylvania,
which met for luncheon once a week, was a great comfort to me and I
met congenial friends who have been fun over the years. I sweat out my
degree in normal course, and the good news that I had passed the Penn-
sylvania 5tate Bar examination came a few days before our nuptials in
Salem, September, 1929, and added something to my meager store of
confidence at that point.

We had planned on two weeks in Bermuda, but my wise father, sens-
ing that vacations might be slim for some years, gave us a wedding trip
in Europe that lasted for six glamorous weeks. How right he was! On
the boat back from Southampton my bride and I were much less excited

[ 266 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

over the radio report of the stock market crash than in winning the ship’s
pool for that day’s run.
Back in Pittsburgh, with two other young optimists who joined with
me on a three-year lease, | hung out my shingle. They were dandy
_ offices with a nice green carpet and Daumier prints of jury trials, and we
felt that it was too bad that flocks of people didn’t enjoy them. We sat
there with our one receptionist-telephone operator-filing clerk-stenog-
rapher and waited for clients. I recall seriously discussing with my wife
the advisability of a gas station job for some take-home pay. It seemed .
better than selling apples. But time cures all things, and we stuck it out
and the rent and stenographer somehow got paid and eventually clients
came, some of them paying clients. However, there was plenty of time
to be perennial secretary of the Harvard Club of Western Pennsyl-
vania, solicitor of funds for the Community Chest and needler of hope-
ful tycoons for Republican campaign funds. In the late ’30’s the pressure
eased and then came the war.
Back in the late ’20’s I had been willingly persuaded by a good Har-
vard friend to ride with the officers of his Reserve regiment in the ar-
mory. An apparently innocent evolution through boots, breeches, cam-
paign hat, and correspondence courses resulted in a commission as
second lieutenant, Cavalry Reserve. In March of 1941, at the age of
thirty-seven, I was still a first heutenant but the Adjutant General and
Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces didn’t mind that at all. Be-
fore I could catch my breath I had reported to the 2nd Armored Divi-
sion, cadred on to the 3rd and found myself company commander of a
scout car outfit in the 83rd Reconnaissance Battalion. From horse to
tank, from sabre to monkey wrench — glamour took a nose-dive.

The family, complete with wife, four children, dog, and assorted
lares and penates, camp-followed me through Louisiana, Kentucky, Ar-
kansas, California, Kansas, and back to California, where V-J Day
found me in command of the 742nd Amphibian Tank Battalion at Fort
Ord, ready to ship out for the invasion of Japan. Those were hectic,
exciting days of house-hunting, moving, getting settled, moving again,
house-hunting and so around the horn. I count eleven different houses.
For the children I count in the five years ten public and three private
schools of variable standards scattered from Massachusetts to California.
Incidentally, we picked up two more boys in this period. What a rut!
Thank the Lord for Elinor and two recent Bradford father-daughter
softball games where my sterling second-base play showed the fine train-
ing of Coach Mitchell of the old Harvard J.V.’s.

Children. In a bull session in Gore Hall E-33, winter of 1922-23;

[ 267 ]

1m Me than ies elaat cnt OS OC EL ALA

Harvard Class of 1926

with Jack and Bill Fordyce, Howard Fisher, Dave Sommers, et al., I
gave forth with something profound about “‘A guy otta have a lotta
kids.” Or maybe it was Fisher. With me it “took.” They have kept us
very, very busy and out of a lot of trouble. The last two war babies will
continue to keep us occupied for a time. I shudder to think of the day
when the house will be so quiet you can hear Arthur Godfrey. What
shall I do then with my spare time?

Spare time. What has happened to it? In the ’30’s there was a lot of
tennis, a fair amount of golf. The children have long since appropriated
and worn out my racquets and clubs. When the evenings aren’t taken
up with my civic or professional meetings, we read, play a little bridge,
listen occasionally to radio. Michael sometimes takes me at chess. I find
myself re-reading the simple things, Treasure Island, Kim, Huck Finn,
with a liberal sprinkling of detective stories and current stuff, With a
family of six there’s a lot of stay-at-home and elaborate vacations we
talk about.

Vacations. In the early ’30’s, spring and early summer babies filled up
the traditional vacation period. The late ’30’s brought a few trips to
Canada or to friends in New England — we never got around to a
settled spot on lake, shore, or mountain. Somehow we haven’t missed it;
there has been so much else to do. In 1929 Wally and Florence Beer,
Kay and I made a pact to play St. Andrews in Scotland within ten years.
Twenty years later we are still determined to do it soon. I keep saying,
“When my children are all through college. . .”

College. I wouldn’t trade what I had as an undergraduate for all the
tea in China. This profound truth is confirmed daily at our H-Y-P Club
as I sit cheerfully among the Philistines and listen to their boastings. A
football team isn’t everything and anyway don’t we have some prom-
ising freshmen and sophomores who are coming along? Only once has
my pride in Harvard been dashed, and that momentarily, when, in a
recent inauguration of the President of Carnegie Tech, the delegate
from Harvard was alas preceded in the academic procession by a ringer
from the University of Mexico.

At this writing I would rather practise law than anything I know. It
isn’t the easiest vocation and Lord knows not the best paid, but there are

compensations I couldn’t imagine in other callings. Someone has said,
“Lawyers live well, die poor, and go straight to hell.” Be that as it may,
I wouldn’t trade. |

Kind people say with a slap on the back, “Fay, you don’t look a day
older.” It is flattering to hear but when in the evening I make the last
dash for the last car on the last commuting train and plump exhausted

{ 268 ]

. sa nena

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

and breathless into the last vacant seat —— you know what I mean. All
of the foregoing to the contrary notwithstanding, as we lawyers say to
confuse the public, if the next twenty-five years are as much fun as the
last, I shall have “enjoyed greatly . . . both with those that love me,
and alone.” Here’s looking forward to the 50th.

RAYMOND JOSEPH FEIST
Address: 1608 W. Shangri La Rd., Phoenix, Ariz.
Bora: March 11, 1903, East Liverpool, Ohio. Parents: William James Feist,

Mary McGarry.
Prepared at: Chicopee High School, Chicopee, Mass,
Years in College: 1922-1923, 1924-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.
Occupation: Insurance,
The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Feist did

not return a questionnaire.

DANIEL AARON FELDMAN

Address: c/o Moses Feldman, 1932 W. Sixth St., Brooklyn, N. ¥.
Born: Nov. 1, 1904, New York, N. Y. Parents: Moses Feldman, Bessie Lerner.

Prepared at: Stuyvesant High School, New York, N. Y.
Years in College: 1922-1925. Degrees: §.B., 1926(25); LL.B. (Columbia
Univ.), 1928.
Occupation: Law.
The information printed above is from the Secretary’ s files. Feldman

did not return a questionnaire.

MOSES CRONSON FERGENSON

Home Address: 110-21 73rd Rd., Forest Hills, N. Y.

Office Address: Igoe Brothers, Inc., 234 Poinier St., Newark 5, N. J.

Born: March 26, 1906, Fitchburg, Mass. Parents: Harry Fergenson, Lena
Cronson. |

Prepared at: Worcester Classical High School, Worcester, Mass,

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926.
Married: Ruth Leavitt, July 3, 1932, New York, N. Y. CAild: Katharine San-

dra, June 26, 1934.
Occupation: Economist and investment manager, Igoe Brothers, Inc.

Member of: American Economic Association; New York Society of Security

Analysts.
Publications: Contributor to Risk Capital and the American Investor.

[ 269 |

Harvard Class of 1926

During the twenty-five years since graduation I have been in finance.
Starting in foreign arbitrage I have been through bond trading and
statistics and finally I am now in portfolio and financial management.

Igoe Brothers, Inc., are wholesale distributors of building and allied
products and manufacturers of wire and nails. The affiliated company,
Eybro Realty Corporation, is really a family investment corporation and
as assistant treasurer I am in charge of the portfolio. Because Eybro has
large holdings in several companies, I frequently become involved in
their financial problems and policies. I also manage the investment port-
folio of the First National Bank, Belleville, New Jersey.

iMy avocation these past years has been the endeavor to combine theo-
retical economics with practical investing. Economists who speak in
terms of “propensity to consume” and “indifference curves” rarely have
to calculate current ratios or project earnings. However, I find theory a
good background for practice. I hope to be able to prove this.

My wife (Radcliffe ’28), is living up to all her academic honors as
head of the library at Forest Hills High School, Katharine is about to
graduate from the same school. We're proud of the fact that she is a
senior class officer as well as one of the highest ranking students of her
class.

GORDON MacKENZIE FERGUSON

Home and Office Address: Fay School, Southboro, Mass.

Bora: Jan. 12, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parents: James Charles Ferguson, Eliza-
beth M. MacKenzie.

Prepared at: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass. |

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; A.M., 1929.

Married: Helen G. Lawson, Aug. 24, 1932, New Bedford, Mass. CAild: Scott
MacKenzie, Dec. 28, 1934.

Occupation: Education.

Trained for university teaching, I did two years of it at University of
Maine, went back for more graduate work, and finished in 1932, with-
out my Ph.D. |

I was in my father’s business for five years, but disliked it. Then I
went into insurance for five years, but disliked it even more. After these
ten years my unceasing efforts to get back into teaching were rewarded
by a post in an elementary boarding school, a field in which I have been
ever since.

My family of only three (we lost two children at birth) has always
been a closely-knit and happy one. My wife, who is an extraordinarily

[ 270 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

able woman, both teaches and maintains a “home,” in the old-fashioned
sense of the word.

I spent the summer of 1929 in England, the objects, fun and educa-
tion. My hobby is my two-hundred-acre run-out farm on the edge of a
small lake in North Weare, New Hampshire. My religious convictions:
western civilization must remain essentially Christian or . . . else! I
do my bit to support this conviction. Personal religion: essentially Uni-
tarian. My political-social-economic philosophy: After thinking in Fa-
bian-Socialist terms for many years, I found myself leaning ever more
strongly towards a “solution” (end save the mark!) of our society’s
problems which would be based upon a long-term and continuing ad-
justment of our capitalist system to contemporary needs. We can and
will develop a peculiarly American “solution” which will not be as
“socialistic” as Britain’s. (Is this thumb-nail treatment of a subject, upon
which any thinking man could write a book, as clear as mud? )

Ihave never developed much ambition for place and power, although
I regard my work in my little puddle as being both constructive and im-
portant. I count my life rich and full, but I would not dream of describ-
ing it, as it really is, for a Class publication, or any other publication.

ROBERT ALEXANDER FERREIRA

Home Address: 137 N. State St., Concord, N. H.

Office Address: Concord Electric Co., 15 Capitol St., Concord, N. H.

Bora: Jan. 16, 1906, East Boston, Mass, Parewts: Arthur William Ferreira,
Jeannette Corinne MacDonald.

Prepared at: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Ellen Bayley, July 25, 1931, Needham, Mass. Children: Sandra
Ellen, May 14, 1933; Catherine Jean, June 25, 1936; Ruth Bayley,
Aug. 7, 1939.

Occupation: Office manager, Concord Electric Company; treasurer, Concord
Steam Corporation.

Offices Held: Director, New Hampshire Chapter, National Association of Cost
Accountants, 1945-47; trustee, 1945-47, treasurer, 1948-49, First
Congregational Church of Concord.

Member of : New Hampshire Chapter, National Association of Cost Account-
ants. |

June, 1926, found me still undecided on a career. I had concentrated
on mathematics but had not completed enough to go into actuarial
work, which had been my chief aim. Funds were lacking to go on to

[ 271 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

graduate school for this work or in preparation for a teaching career,
After a lazy summer of recuperation I worked for the City of Boston
in the School Business Agent’s office. From this I went to substitute
teaching at Roxbury Latin School, until April, 1927, when I entered
the employ of Charles H. ‘Tenney & Company as an office boy. A few
months later I was transferred to the accounting department and found
that I needed to take accounting courses in order to advance at all, That
fall I enrolled in the Graduate School of the Boston University College
of Business Administration, which I attended evenings for several years,
gaining some credits towards an M.B.A. Meanwhile Dan Cupid was
getting in his work and in July, 1931, I was married (supra). This
latter event had been delayed by the débacle of 1929. After the New
‘Deal passed the Holding Company Act, the future of the company was
threatened and it seemed wisest to transfer to one of the operating utili-
ties which they were managing. In 1935 an opportunity arose to go to
Concord, New Hampshire, and in April we moved there to work in the
Concord Electric Company.

The change from life in Boston, where I had lived all my life, to the
quiet of Concord (population 27,000) was a happy one. No more trains
to run for, no crowded stores, an easy walk to and from work all made
life much easier. Our family by now included one daughter, and two
others followed in the next four years to complete our family (I hope).

Here in Concord I have tried to add my bit in the service of the com-
munity by participating in various ways, as solicitor in Community Chest
and Hospital Fund drives, as officer in Home-School groups, and as
trustee and treasurer in my church. For recreation I play golf, bridge,
and canasta, and escort my daughters to the various school athletic
events. I have never participated in politics and still hope to vote some
day for another successful Republican candidate for president.

Life’s biggest problem at present is assisting my wife in rearing our
three daughters, each one in a different state of adolescence. The eldest
daughter hopes to enter college this fall, which will lessen the strain on
the nerves but increase it on the pocketbook. All of us are looking for-
ward to Cambridge in June.

RICHARD HINCKLEY FIELD

Hume Address: 74 Sudbury Rd., Weston, Mass.
Office Address: Harvard Law School, Cambridge, Mass,

Born: May 29, 1903, Phillips, Maine, Parents: Daniel F. Field, Clara Eliza-
beth Hinckley.
Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N, H.

[ 272 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; LL.B. magna cum
laude, 1929.

Married: Caroline Crosby, June 28, 1930, Wayzata, Minn. Children: Mary
Hamlin, April 6, 1932; Margaret Hastings, Feb. 18, 1934; Daniel,
July 26, 1938.

Occupation: Professor of law, Harvard Law School.

Wartime Government Posts: Regional Attorney, Boston, 1942-43, General
Counsel, Washington, 1943-46, Office of Price Administration.

Offices Held: ‘Treasurer, 1926-36, secretary, since 1936, Class of 1926; Har-
vard Law Review, 1927-29, treasurer, 1928-29; vice-president, Massa-
chusetts Mothers’ Health Council, 19403 president, Massachusetts Law
Society, 1944; vice-president, Federal Bar Association, 1945, Weston
(Mass.) Finance Committee, since 1948; board of trustees, since 1948,
president, since 1949, Cambridge School, Weston; president, First Par-
ish Friendly Society, Weston, since 1949; special adviser to Secretary of
Commerce Harriman, 1947; consultant, Economic Stabilization Ad-
ministration, 1950-51.

Member of: Union Club, Boston; St. Botolph Club, Boston; Weston Golf
Club; American, M assachusetts, Middlesex, and Boston Bar Associations.

Publications: The White House at Pook Corner (co-author with F, Winsor, Jr.)
privately printed, St. Botolph Club, 1938; various articles in legal pe-
riodicals.

As Class Secretary I receive complimentary copies of Class Reports
from other classes. Perusing them has led me to several discouraging
conclusions. When sitting down to the unaccustomed task of autobiog-
raphy, the typical Harvard man twenty-five years out seems to think
that the occasion calls for (1) a touch of humor, usually best achieved
by references to expanding waistline and receding hairline, with a pass-
ing fillip about his poor golf game; (2) an indication, either subtle or
direct, that he likes his wife and thinks well of his children; (3) a bit of
political and economic philosophy, customarily including a reference to
the sad state of affairs in Washington since March, 1933; (4) a reluc-
tant admission, with a proper regard for modesty, that life has treated
him pretty satisfactorily; and (5) a nostalgic reference to the good old
days at Harvard, coupled perhaps with the complaint that things don’t
seem to be that way at Harvard any more. ,

The problems of keeping humor from being unfunny, sentiment
from sounding maudlin, philosophy from sounding stuffy, and self-ap-
praisal from sounding smug have often proved to be insurmountable. Yet
the alternative of letting it go by default (“The above information is
from the Secretary’s files. So-and-so did not return a questionnaire.” )
sounds a trifle odd when coming from the Secretary. So what to do?

[ 273 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

After graduating from Harvard Law School in 1929, I practised in

Boston with the firm of Brown, Field & McCarthy until 1942, when

I was appointed Regional Attorney of O.P.A., for the New England
region. In December, 1943, I went to Washington as General Counsel
of O.P.A., and there I remained for three years. Instead of returning
to private practice, I accepted an appointment to the faculty of Harvard -
Law School. I have been there ever since. Currently I am teaching
courses in procedure, administrative law, and corporations and collabo-
rating with several of my associates in a new course entitled “Legal As-
pects of Mobilization for Defense.” I do a modest amount of law prac-
tice on the side, in association with the Boston firm of Hill, Barlow,
Goodale & Wiswall. I have also done a certain amount of commuting
to Washington, first as a special adviser to Secretary Harriman in 1947
and more recently as a consultant to the Economic Stabilization Agency.
So far I have a perfect record in the latter rsle— none of the advice I
have proferred has been taken. ,

In 1930 I married Caroline Crosby and we moved into a Beacon Hill
apartment. We moved to Weston in 1933 and built a modern house
which occasioned more remarks then than it does today, We have lived
there ever since except for our wartime sojourn in Washington. Our
elder daughter, Mary, a sophomore at Connecticut College, has just be-
come engaged to Rienzi B. Parker, Jr.,’50, an event which they assure
me was not hastened by their desire for it to be included in this report.
Our younger daughter, Margaret, will graduate this year from Cam-
bridge School in Weston, as did her sister two years earlier. Our son,
Daniel, is in the seventh grade in the Weston Junior High School.

One of my chief interests in the last few years has been the Cam-
bridge School, a co-educational day and boarding school in Weston, of
which I am now president of the board of trustees. (Catalogues on re-
quest — advt.) I have had the pleasure of working with Charlie Platt,
’26, who has been our very successful headmaster for the last three
years. Charlie has just resigned and I am happy to say that our board has
again turned to the Class of 1926 for a headmaster. Dolph Cheek, after
fifteen years as headmaster of the Park School in Buffalo, will take over
at Cambridge School this fall.

I still play tennis, despite the regrettable change in the rules increasing
the distance from the back-line to the net, and my prospective son-in-law
has sought with some success to arouse my dormant interest in golf. I
have, as a less strenuous hobby, dabbled in writing light verse. I was
co-author of The White House at Pooh Corner, the Twelfth Night pro-
duction of the St. Botolph Club in 1938, My only other published work

[ 274 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report
is a limerick which may be found on page 215 of The Pocket Book of Hu-

morous Verse.

In lieu of any extended statement of my personal philosophy, the dif-
ficulties of which I have already adverted to, I shall simply say that I
take pride in the fact that I have been adversely criticized by Fulton
Lewis, Jr., over the air and by the Chicago Tribune editorially.

WILLIAM B. OSGOOD FIELD, JR.

Home Address: 18 W. 12th St., New York 11, N.Y.

Office Address: American Geographical Society, Broadway at 156th St., New
York 32, N.Y.

Born: Jan. 30, 1904, New York, N. Y. Parents: William Broadhurst Osgood
Field, Lila Vanderbilt Sloane.

Prepared at: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Alice Steelman Withrow, April 5, 1929, New York, N. Y. CAildren:
Diana Sloane, Dec. 30,1930; John Osgood, June 13, 1940.

Harvard Brother: Frederick Vanderbilt Field, ’27.

Occupation: Head of Department of Exploration and Field Research, Ameri-
can Geographical Society.

Military or Naval Record: World War IL; served as Photographic Officer in
Signal Corps, U.S. Army, October, 1942, to January, 1946; entered as
lieutenant, terminated as major; training Film Production Laboratory,
Wright Field; Signal Corps Photographic Center, New York City; Sig-
nal Photo Company, India and Burma; overseas service, Alaska, winter,
1943, India and Burma, 1944 and 1945; received Bronze Star Medal.

Offices Held: Photographer-director, University Film Foundation, 1928-30,
Fitzpatrick Pictures, Inc., 193 I-33, other companies engaged in making
educational and documentary pictures, 1934-39; professional lecturing,
1930-33, glaciological studies, 1931-37; research associate, 1940-47
(except for period in Army), head of department of Exploration and
Field Research, since 1947, American Geographical Society.

Member of: American Geophysical Union; Association of American Geogra-
phers; Geological Society of America; New York Academy of Sciences;
British Glaciological Society; Council on Foreign Relations; Harvard
Club of New York; Century Association; Camp Fire Club of America
(secretary Conservation Committee); American Alpine Club (eastern
vice-president since 1949); Alpine Club of Canada; Explorers Club;
Himalayan Club; Appalachian Mountain Club; Harvard Travellers
Club; Harvard Mountaineering Club.

Publications: Articles primarily on glaciological research and mountaineering
in the Geographical Review, American Alpine Journal, Canadian Alpine
Journal, and others; principal papers in the Geographical Review: “Gla-

[ 275 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Although my work was non-political and concerned primarily with a
geographical study of the inhabitants of the Caucasus Mountains, I be-
came interested in what was going on in the whole country, spurred on
in large part by the lack of accurate information and the prejudiced and
rather unrealistic approach current in our country. It was obvious that
history was being made; and although it wasn’t clear how this new
political-social-economic system would work out, it seemed obvious that
we in the United States should know as much as we could about it. For
some time I worked in my spare time on the problems of providing such
objective information, colored by the wishful thinking neither of those
who believed that the Soviet Union was about to collapse nor of those who
saw itas a Utopia and political fatherland. I was also interested in oppos-
ing in every way possible the spread of Hitlerism and the principles of
Fascism of which for some years the people of our country seemed
strangely unaware, At the same time the horrors and inequities of the
Spanish Civil War were distressingly apparent.

It did look at that time as though the Soviet Union in its opposition
to Hitler would be drawn closer to the ways of western democracy
rather than towards further totalitarianism, and that in developing its
own form of society, it would seek to remain at peace with the rest of
the world. However, its trend towards reaction and the growth of a
colonial and imperialistic program, with the continued use of local Com-
munist parties to promote its interests, is a tragic development of the
past few years. At the same time it points up how vital it is for us to
preserve the best in our own democratic tradition and our need to
strengthen and expand the democratic processes even in periods of tense
emergency and threatened attack such as we now face.

Hobbies, interests, and other extra-curricular activities have always
blended with my work. Photography, both still and motion picture, once
was my profession but now is merely an important adjunct in my work
and remains an active hobby. Tennis, swimming, skiing, and baseball
have all played their part in my every-day activities when the necessary
facilities and other participants have been available. Further afield, my
interest In mountaineering and mountain exploration has always been
strong. However, the opportunities have been relatively few, so in these
I rate primarily as an “armchair” participant.

A concluding paragraph is necessary, but what can one say early in
1951 with the first half of one’s normal span of adult life finished, and
the second half starting in the midst of threatened global warfare? Pro-
fessionally, 1 have much unfinished business to complete in the years
ahead, and I have a family to see grow up and develop. I hope fervently

[ 278 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

that we shall live once again, as in our college days, in an atmosphere
free of political and military aggression, and that we shall succeed in
maintaining a truly democratic society in which we can remain free to
call things as we see them and not according to a prescribed dogma. In
helping to preserve such a society, I hope that we may always be counted
on to take a stand against intolerance and special privilege, and against
those who “push other people around” whether for political, financial,
religious, or racial reasons. The principle of the Golden Rule still seems

a pretty fundamental concept by which to try to govern one’s life.

ABBEE FIELDING

Home Address: 138—39 78th Ave., Flushing, N. Y.
Office Address: 170 Varick St., New York, N. Y.
Born: Nov. 18, 1904, Worcester, Mass. Parents: Moses Fielding, Jeannette

Feingold.
Prepared at: North High School, Worcester, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B., 1929.
Married: Frances Shwabsky, June 4, 1939, Philadelphia, Pa.
Occupation: Operations Analyst, Social Security Administration.

ARTHUR LEONARD FINNEY

Home Address: 92 Brooks St., West Medford, Mass.

Office Address: 45 Newbury St., Boston, Mass.
Born: Nov. 10, 1903, Boston, Mass. Parents: Arthur Leonard Finney, Mar-

guerite Hutchins.
Prepared at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-19265.
Occupation: Interior decorator and designer.

Wartime Government Posts: Air raid warden.
Offices Held: Chairman of restoration and annual art exhibits, Royall House

Association, Medford, Mass.
Member of : Royall House Association; West Medford Reading Club.

My choice of the profession of interior decoration seems to have been
made because of its all-embracing heterogenesis —a sort of first-and-
last resort for exploiting whatever latent aptitudes might be tapped from
an untutored but potential career. It has often occurred to me that life
would have been quite different had the housing plan been inaugurated
during our curriculum. Much needed guidance would have obviated
the diversity of interests which proved so disastrous to me. My various
unguided missiles exploded in space not even as near misses!

But interior decoration can be taken as seriously as one likes, and it

[ 279 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

can be developed into a profession which can, for instance
beneficially the taste of a growing family. It can also be abs

? Influence

. orbing as a
study in psychology for the one who practises as a decorator. One jg con

stantly being invited into the polite parlors of the mind only to be led
gradually on through dimly lit corridors to the intimacies of the bed.
chamber! Perhaps only doctors and psychiatrists are confided in more
extensively than that. For the sociologist this ground is fertile indeed!
The Rockefeller restoration of colonial Williamsburg in Virginia has
had a profound influence on the general taste in American architecture
and decoration. As a result of this I began ten years ago to be deeply
nterested in the superb Isaac Royall House in Medford. Annually we
ave held exhibits of local artists and craftsmen and with contributions
; well, plus volunteers, the work of restoration has made substantial
‘ogress, The summer of 1950 brought an exceptionally fine collection
eighteenth-century furniture to the mansion, the gift of Frederick
idge. Visitors are urged to see the house between May and October.
The writing of plays and attending the theatre have been my chief
rces of diversion. I have also greatly enjoyed travelling abroad, and
n spending the month of February, 1951, in Jamaica, B.WI., my
nd visit there. I plan to do as much designing as tropic allure will
v. My tendencies in this direction are towards a naturalistic style,
make a particular effort to favor whatever is good in any period.
particularly to keep abreast of contemporary art in all its media
‘trust I may feel sincerely sympathetic to it always. I could no more
isolationist in this field than I could be in world affairs.

HOWARD FINNEY, JR.

[ddress: 33 Fairfield St., Montclair, N, J.
‘ddress: C/o Bear Stearns & Co., 1 Wall St., New York 5, N. Y.

ct. 6, 1903, Everett, Wash. Parents: Howard Finney, Stella Steckel.
J at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,

College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.
: Susan Mary Leach, Aug. 14, 1929, Davenport, lowa. Childres:

ward, 3d, Sept. 11, 1930; John Rodman, Sept. 23, 1938.
Sou: Howard Finney, 3d, 753.

a: Investment banking; manager municipal bond department, Bear
rns & Company.

eld: Chapter director, American Red Cross, 1949-503 chairmals
4 Drive, 1949.

: Harvard Club of New York; Municipal Bond Club of New Yorks
Municipal Forum; Montclair Golf Club, |

[ 280 ]

 

Twenty- fifth Anntversary Report

Shortly before we graduated, some of us gathered in Lionel Hall to
discuss our future and I well recall the group headed for Wall Street
vowing to be making $1 0,000 in three years or “know the reason why
not!” No idle dream in those days! Five lears later 1 was glad to have
a job and the $10 Christmas bonus seemed like a windfall.

Wall Street has had its ups and downs since then but the stress and
strain has seemed tame after that spectacular beginning. T am still there
and, looking backward from the vantage point of twenty-five years out,
J would not choose to have done otherwise. Despite its hazards, lack of
gecurity, and the frustrations of chasing its rainbows, it has never been

iy first four years were spent with Glidden Morris & Company as a
salesman and branch office manager in upper New York State; the fol-
lowing five years with the First Boston Corporation as a representative,
investment supervisor, and security trader in the New York office. In

1935 I went with C. J. Devine & Company where I started their mu-
nicipal bond department and seven years later T joined my fortunes with
Bear Stearns & Company to do the same thing. I may have succeeded ~
too well as | have never worked harder than during the past several
years.

My hobbies have varied from writing (and sellin zg) short stories dur-
ing the depression of 1930-35 to keep the sheriff from the door, to
coaching a boys? football team during the four years 1941-44, inclusive.
My son, who was a member of that team (naturally!) is now working
at the game as a member of the Class of 1953, and our star tackle, now
also Class of 1953, shows promise of making a first string varsity berth
as a sophomore — as this is written (September 23, 1950).

_ After playing tennis for years I am now trying out golf for the first
time in my life, in the hope that I can do better at that game. So far my
score for nine holes is the same as son’s record for eighteen.

Since I have two sons eight years apart in age, my skill at all card
games, parchesi, backgammon, pick-up-sticks, croquet, etc., and at a
Variety of sports ranging from football to short fifty-yard sprints has

een maintained at a high level, but I refuse to wrestle any more!

Our travelling was limited until the past summer, when we took a
Combination automobile and train trip to California, and saw so much in
mt a short span of time that we don’t know whether we should boast
aout it or be ashamed! Otherwise our safaris have been confined to

antucket or New England.

sa After voting for F.D.R. in 1932 and 1936 I woke up, and I would
y that I am now somewhat to the right of Taft! After the results of

[ 281 |

Harvard Class of 1926

the last presidential election my political deliberations and convictions
have seemed somewhat academic, and I have decided to relax.

In fact, our only serious worry at the moment is whether the Twen-
ty-fifth Reunion of Vassar ’26 will conflict with Harvard ’26. If so, my

wife has no interest in Poughkeepsie —such is the reputation of the
Harvard Twenty-fifth !

HOWARD TAYLOR FISHER

Home Address: 1060 Sheridan Rd., Hubbard Woods, Winnetka, Ill.

Office Address: Howard T. Fisher & Associates, Inc., 322 W. Washington St.,
Chicago 6, Il.

Born: Oct. 30, 1903, Chicago, Ill. Parents: Walter Lowrie Fisher, Mabel
Taylor,

Prepared at: Asheville School, Asheville, N. C.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B. magna cum laude, 1926.

Married: Marion Ethel Hall, Feb. 11, 1939, Washington, D. C. CAildren:
Ann Bourne, May 6, 1940; Morgan Hall, June 13, 194253 Alan Hall,
July 16, 1945. |

Harvard Brothers: Walter Taylor Fisher, °13; Arthur Fisher, ’15; ‘Thomas
Hart Fisher, ’18; Frederick Taylor Fisher, ’19.

Occupation: Architect, engineer, and industrial designer.

Offices Held: Chairman, Howard T. Fisher & Associates, Inc., Civil Defense
Committee, Chicago Chapter, American Institute of Architects; for-
merly, contributing editor, Architectural Record; special consultant, Na-
tional Housing Agency and Office of Housing Expediter; president,
General Houses, Inc., Parkbelt Homes, Inc.

Member of: American Institute of Architects (Chicago and New York Chap-
ters); Illinois Society of Architects; Architects Association of Illinois;
New York State Association of Architects; American Society of Planning
Officials; Chicago Regional Planning Association; Urban Land Institute;
Clay Products Advisory Board, Modern Brick Builder.

Publications: Various articles in the architectural and construction industry
press.

My post-Commencement life started with an adventure — which
has continued ever since.

Mexico, in the summer of 1926, was in a state of upheaval bordering
on, but never quite achieving, revolution; it was decidedly not a tourist
agent’s stock in trade. But it fascinated me — for nothing I had seen in
Europe was half so foreign, nothing I had studied at Harvard half so
stimulating. For three months I travelled in a daze of delight. Subse-
quent familiarity has not lessened the impact of those first impressions:
Mexico City, Popocatepetl and Ixtacihuatl, village markets, the great

[ 282 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

16th-century monasteries, Oaxaca and Mitla by narrow gauge, the
convent of Tepozotlan, the giant tree of Tule, to Taxco by muleback, a
bandit swinging gently in the breeze.

The history books may show that Cortes discovered the Valley of
Mexico in 1519, but I discovered it in 1926, and it has been mine ever
since. Of course, I have shared it with my wife since I first took her, on
our wedding trip, to our cliff-side island home in the Tarascan Indian
fishing village of Janitzio. And, more recently, I have shared it with my
young daughter, whose enthusiasm proved no disappointment to her
father. Canoeing in giant dugouts, sailing, fiestas, markets, all the varied
adventures incident to life in a primitive Indian community, have now
been hers. I hope they may soon be her younger brother’s also.

But if Mexico has been both the hors d’oeuvres and the salad of my
adult life, the building industry has been the potatoes and the hamburger.
For a year and a half after graduation I continued my architectural
studies, while at the same time teaching at both Harvard and Radcliffe, ©
an experience which I much enjoyed. The intervening summer I spent
in Europe making measured drawings of assorted architectural “monu-
ments,” in the pleasant but irrelevant manner of architectural students
of those days. |

The awakening came in February, 1928, when I left Cambridge to
undertake my first professional assignment. For reasons too numerous
to explain here, this proved an unexpectedly revealing experience and
furnished a much accelerated education in what was wrong with our
nation’s second largest industry. I felt that somehow order should be
brought out of chaos and that the customer should receive a dollar’s
worth of value for every dollar spent. I saw clearly the road the building
industry would have to travel to reach such goals; I failed utterly to
realize the years that it would take to reach them. But attempting to
travel that road — towards better construction methods, better build-
ings, and better cities — has constituted my professional career.

A far more extensive use of our country’s great pool of industrial
skills seemed basic to progress — and this conviction led to the forma-
tion of General Houses, Inc. It was the first American company of its
kind and it established the approach and the goals for all prefabricators
since. |

For a number of years my efforts were thus concentrated in the field
of housing. Since this constituted the most backward and the most over-
priced segment of the building industry, since only relatively small and
simple structures were involved, and since customers were almost un-
limited, I believed that housing would offer an ideal proving ground for

[ 283 ]

cei gr oe

Harvard Class of 1926

progress. Not so, for this of all fields proved also to be the most irrational
and emotion-bound, and the least subject to the influences of facts and
figures. The technical problems were relatively easy to solve, the public
was ready and eager to buy, but distribution created a hurdle only now
finally in the process of solution.

Other classes of work have proved less frustrating. Since the end of
World War IT, I have been spending more and more effort upon such
things as drive-in shopping centers, multi-story construction, city plan-
ning and trafhc — and the effort to improve and define individual items
of building material and equipment.

During the last two years military work has been playing an increas-
ingly important role for us. Most recently, we have been wrestling with
the awe-inspiring problem of trying to develop, in the structural field,
adequate protective measures against atomic warfare. May our solutions
never be needed!

As for matrimony, my long-sought bride proved to be Marion Hall,
an example of that rare species, the native-born Washingtonian working
for Uncle Sam. Starting with the Division of Building and Housing of
the Bureau of Standards, she had proceeded via the Tennessee Valley
Authority to a variety of assignments in the Office of Indian Affairs.
Thus equipped to be the wife of an architect who owned a house on an
Indian Island in Mexico, events inevitably took their course.

Being one of seven myself, our three children seem entirely inade-
quate in quantity; in quality, however, and in amusement value, we feel
that they rank very high.

As for hobbies, I am afraid I have too many — since they seem con-
stantly to be getting in each other’s way. Figure skating, skiing, camp-
ing, mountain climbing (in the non-Alpine sense), music, and photog-
raphy, have assumed varying importance at varying times. This is my
thirty-eighth year as a beekeeper; when I was young I kept bees for the
honey they produced, but I long ago discovered that any such emphasis
interfered with getting the most fun out of them as pets.

I should perhaps mention particularly an era of serious horseback rid-
ing. This began when, egged on by our classmate, Bill Fordyce (and his
ranching younger brother, Allen), I brought back two western cayuses
from Wyoming. For a decade or so thereafter I had to devote every
weekend to exercising these animals and their assorted successors. The
local drag hunt provided an excellent medium for breaking bones in
good company, but I am afraid I never took the costume aspect of the
sport as seriously as I might have.

As I now inevitably seek to expose my children to the extra-curricular

[ 284 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

interests of my own younger days, I can see a new era developing which
may reverse the more sedentary trends of recent years.

BRADLEY FISK

Home Address: 20 Berkley Pl., Buffalo 9, N. Y.

Office Address: Flint & Kent, Buffalo 2, N. Y.

Born: July 8, 1904, Buffalo, N. Y. Parents: Irving Lester Fisk, ’97, Edith
Sarah Bradley.

Prepared at: Nichols School, Buffalo, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B., 1926; M.B.A., 1928.

Married: Erma Johnson, Aug. 7, 1926, Brookline, Mass, Czildren: Bradley,
Jr-» March 3, 1927 (m, Corinne Edwards, June 4, 1949) ; Irving Lester,
2d, Oct. 3, 1929; Amanda, Jan. 18, 1936.

Harvard Son: Irving Lester Fisk, 2d, 50.

Occupation: Merchandise manager, department store.

Offices Held: President, Harvard Club of Buffalo, 1940; trustee, 1943-45,
president, 1946, Park School of Buffalo; member executive committee,
Community Chest, since 1945, Philharmonic Orchestra Society, since
19473 director, Guidance Center of Buffalo, since 1948; member, Har-
vard Fund Council, since 1946; District Air Raid Warden, 1941-45;
chairman, USO In-Transit Lounges, 1942-453 chairman, Special Gifts,
United War Fund, 1942-43.

Member of: Buffalo Club; Mid-Day Club; Harvard Club of New York; Eta
Mu Pi, honorary retailing fraternity.

As I review twenty-five years of a very calm existence, I find little to
mark my career for posterity. I have worked for two department stores
in that time; the first for ten years, the second for the last fifteen and, I
hope, another fifteen to come.,I have had experience in nearly every
phase of the business and now hold the rather mysterious position of
merchandise manager — mysterious because this responsibility is some-
where between that of buyer and boss and it depends variously on each
buyer under the mm’s supervision how much of either function the
merchandise manager fills. It’s a swell job, even now that the day is rare
when at least one new item, method, service, promotion, or complaint
previously unheard of does not develop.

Outside of business, I find that my wife has been subtly guiding my
career for years. She speaks for the Community Chest; I am appointed
to its board. She puts the children in Park School; I’m asked to be a
trustee. She takes up figure skating; I become treasurer of the club and
janitor of the rink. She renews her childhood interest in the piano; I’m
elected to the board of the Philharmonic. She subscribes to American

[ 285 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Forestry; we buy a lake-front lot, clear the timber, and build a house in
the woods. It’s a nice house; even our grown sons like to return to it
from time to time. So far her enthusiasms have not given me much
trouble and have introduced me to a wide circle of interesting people,
causes, and activities. Her present absorption in ceramics has not yet
claimed my services, but if you want a sure bet on the next secretary of
the Pot, Plate, and Ash-tray Workers Union, Pm as good as in right
now.

Our children are entirely satisfactory, but for their itching feet. Brad,
Jr., is expecting an appointment to the University of Iraq, now that he
has his A.M. from Clark in geography. Irv tends to become a lawyer,
but finds it hard to resist the lure of climbing another mountain to add to
the Alps, the Canadian Rockies, and other lesser ranges. Amanda po-
litely stays with the old folks at present, but the light of adventure gleams
when she hears her brothers talk of their plans. It’s a good thing my wife
has developed those collateral interests; our senescence will be a lone-
some one.

That seems to cover history, family, travels, and hobbies. My social,
political, and religious convictions are mild, perhaps flaccid. I know that
those who come after us will think of these as the good old days and I do
my best to fee] that each one of them is as I live it. My do-good activities
have been no more than I owe a community that has been good to me,
probably a great deal less; I am basically a lazy man.

As I write this a delegate from the University of Buffalo calls to tell
me that I have been elected an honorary member of their retailing fra-
ternity in recognition of my services as sometime member of the faculty
and adviser to the department of retailing of that institution. Often my
associates tell me I should have been a teacher. Perhaps there is a finer
epitaph than that the teachers considered him a successful retailer and
the retailers thought him a fine teacher, but it seems to be my lot and ’m
proud of it.

KERBY HEATH FISK

Home Address: 185, Gates Ave., Montclair, N. J.

Office Address: Prudential Insurance Company of America, Newark, N. J.

Born: June 5, 1903, East Orange, N. J. Parents: Arthur Aylmer Fisk, Helen
Rose Heath.

Prepared at: Fast Orange High School, Fast Orange, N. J.

Years tn College: 1922-1926. Degree: 8.B., 1926.

Married: Grace Thornton Emery, Nov. 30, 1928, Montclair, N. J. Children:
Anne Comer, Nov. 21, 1929; Helen Heath, Oct. 22, 1 936.

[ 286 ]

~

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Harvard Brother: Arthur Aylmer Fisk, Jr., ’22.
Occtipation: Second vice-president, Prudential Insurance Company of America.
Offices Held: Trustee, Kimberley School; director, Montclair Trust Company.

Member of : Montclair Golf Club.

Goad No. 4, plus an insistent wife, finally turned the trick. The idea
of aself-written “obituary” did not appeal very much, but in this day of
mass movement, there is probably no reason sufficiently good to ignore
the appeals of the Class Report Committee. In one sentence I think it
would be fair to say that I have had more than a reasonable share of
good fortune —a delightful wife, two charming daughters, vice-presi-
dency of a large corporation, membership in the local golf club, director-
ship of the town bank, and presidency of the board of trustees of our
daughters’ private school. In all of these things there is little doubt that
whatever I took away from Harvard, perhaps even the simple fact that
I graduated from Harvard, has played an important part. At Reunion it
will be good to renew many friendships. I am sure I shall again leave
Cambridge with a stronger feeling of admiration for Harvard as an in-
stitution of learning and with a stronger conviction of the important part
that such a private institution for learning has played and must continue

to play in our national life.

GEORGE AUSTIN FITTS

Address: 1946 Ivar Ave., Hollywood 28, Calif.
Born: June 17, 1904, Framingham, Mass. Parents: Arthur McClellan Fitts,

Mary Louise Amsden.
Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degree: A.B., 1926(27).
Occupation: Research.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files, Fitts did
not return a questionnaire.

-! WALTER FirzGERALD
Born: May 3, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parents: John FitzGerald, Helen Harring-

ton.
Prepared at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B., 1926; M.D., 1930.
Married: Alice Burton, 1928 (died 1932). Child: Nancy Alice, 1932.
Died: Jan. 25, 1933, New York, N.Y.

[ 287 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Walter FitzGerald came to Harvard from Milton Academy where
he was graduated with honors, After graduating from Harvard, he at-
tended Harvard Medical School. In 1930 he went to Bellevue Hospital
in New York City as a substitute intern. There he was outstanding for
his interest in his profession and his conscientiousness in the care of his
patients. He was subsequently appointed an intern. At the time of his
death he was assistant to the head of the department of pathology at
Bellevue and had just been promised the coveted position of resident sur-
geon. He was survived by his infant daughter.

WILLIAM WELCH FLEXNER

Home Address: 431 E. 20th St., New York 10, N.Y.
Office Address: United Nations Statistical Office, Lake Success, N. Y.

Born: Oct. 5, 1904, New York, N. Y. Parents: Simon Flexner, Helen Whitall
Thomas.

Prepared at: Lincoln School of Teachers’ College, New York, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B. cum laude, 1926; A.M. (Princeton
Univ.), 1927; Pu.D, (ibid.), 1930.

Married: Magdalen Glaser Hupfel, June 16, 1932, New Haven, Conn. (di-
vorced 1946); Elizabeth Anne Wrey, 1946.

Harvard Brother: James Carey Thomas Flexner, *29.

Occupation: International civil servant; senior statistician, United Nations
Statistical Office. |

Wartime Government Posts: Supplies officer, United Nations Relief and Rehabil-
itation Organization, 1944-45.

Member of: American Mathematical Society; American Statistical Association ;
American Geographical Society; American Association of University
Professors.

Publications: Mathematical papers in fields of topology and algebra; Military
and Naval Maps and Grids (with G. L. Walker), Dryden Press, 1942.

After leaving Harvard, I took a Ph.D. in mathematics at Princeton
and for the next fifteen years taught mathematics at Princeton, Bryn
Mawr, and eventually as an associate professor at Cornell. I was at
Cornell for most of the war teaching, among other things, spherical
trigonometry and navigation to naval cadets.

In the spring of 1944 I joined the supplies office of UNRRA. In
1945 I joined another inter-governmental organization, the European
Central Inland Transport Organization, which was set up by the allied
governments to ease the transition from military to civilian control of
European transport. Its headquarters were first in London and then in
Paris.

[ 288 ]

Twenty-fifih Anneversary Report

In the fall of 1947 I returned to teaching at Cornell but shortly ob-
tained leave again to serve for a month as adviser on Inland Transport
to the President’s Committee on Foreign Aid (called the Harriman
Committee) which was studying plans for what became ECA. In the
spring of 1948 I resigned my job at Cornell to take charge of the work
on transport statistics in the Statistical Office of the United Nations. I
have to do a certain amount of travelling for the United Nations and
find it very stimulating to work with people of different nationalities.

In politics I keep the middle of the road and have voted for Demo-
cratic and Republican candidates. I play tennis (badly) and sail or climb
when I get the chance. I still have the habit of reading which I acquired
at Harvard.

CHARLES RAYMOND FLOOD

Home Address: 161 Butman Rd., Lowell, Mass.

Office Address: Flood, Valentine & Foisy, 174 Central St., Lowell, Mass.

Born: Sept. 19, 1905, Lowell, Mass. Parents: James Henry Flood, Ann Vera-
cunda Murphy.

Prepared at: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degrees: A.B., 1926(27) ; LL.B. (Suffolk Law
School), 1937.

Married: Alice M,. McCallen, June 15, 19495 Rye, N. H.

Harvard Brothers: James Warren Flood, ° 24, LL.B., ?27; Richard Russell
Flood, ’39, LL.B., °42, M.B.A,, 747.

Occupation: Lawyer.

Member of: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of Lowell; Exchange
Club; Yorick Club.

Not having pointed for any particular field, I drifted painlessly into
the securities business where I spent many a dry, dreary year until 1 937)
when I was admitted to the practice of law in Massachusetts. Variations
from the normal, however, were two trips to the Continent, one after
graduation, and one in 1933; and a two-year term as City Treasurer
and Tax Collector of my home town, Lowell. Since 1937 I have con-
tinued in the general practice of law, tending somewhat to specialization
in the trial of tort cases for defendants.

As for sports, I’ve done my share of wandering over various golf
courses; have done a good bit of salt water bathing, and for many years
kept an odd assortment of saddle horses, which claimed too much of my
time in care, in proportion to the amount of riding I did.

I married in the summer of 1949 at Rye Beach, New Hampshire,
where I spend most of my leisure time in all but the most severe weather.

[ 289 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

DAVIS FORREST FOLJAMBE

Home Address: 78 Robinwood Ave., Jamaica Plain, Mass.

Born: Oct. 10, 1903, Jamaica Plain, Mass. Parents: Eugene Stillman Fol-
jambe, Stella Davis.

Prepared at: Los Angeles High School, Los Angeles, Calif.

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926.

The Secretary has been informed that Foljambe has been ill for many
years.

ALBERT GARDNER FORBES

Home Address: 4 Harley Pl., Saddle River Township, N. J. (Rochelle Park
P.O.).

Office Address: Crowell-Collier Publishing Co., 640 Fifth Ave., New York 19,
N.Y.

Born: Jan. 15, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Fred Bettinson Forbes, Anna
Maude Soule.

Prepared at: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; M.B.A., 1929.

Married: Virginia Tarr, May 9, 1936, Somerville, Mass. (divorced 1947) ;
Miriam Agnes Campo, Jan. 10, 1948, New York, N. Y. Children: Pris-
cilla Louise, Oct. 7, 1940; Donald Albert, Sept. 4, 1943.

Occupation: Member research staff, Crowell-Collier Publishing Company.

Offices Held: Trustee, Fourth Universalist Society.

Member of: American Marketing Association; Harvard Business School Club
of New York.

Although I am heartily in favor of taking special note of the passing
of a quarter-century since college graduation, for me (as for many) it
represents only an artificial stopping place in the stream of events —
neither the beginning nor the ending of a phase of my life. Choosing the
significant highlights from the experiences of twenty-five years is a task
made more exacting by a realization that whatever I select is likely to
appear unedited in the published volume. Yet, remembering the hun-
dreds of classmates with a similar problem, I gladly make the effort.

While graduation from college means the end of a phase for most
men, it was especially true for me, as I date the beginnings of my social
progress from this point. (This is intended as a warning against allowing
your studious-minded son to attend college while living at home.) From
the day I entered the Graduate School of Business Administration and
joined the University Glee Club and choir for the first time, my outlook
began to expand. Symptomatic of the change was my taking up smoking
(I quit for good, I hope, in January, 1950) and raising a mustache

[ 290 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

(now in its third edition). Each of a succession of outside contact jobs
contributed its bit to my personal metamorphosis. During this first post-
collegiate phase I became extremely active in a Little Theatre Group,
continued my choral singing in a paid church choir (King’s Chapel,
Boston ) and participated extensively in bicycle road racing. I could not
be writing this record at all, had it not been for my extreme good fortune
in 1931 of stepping out of a demolished automobile, following a barrel
roll, without so much as a wrinkle in the crease of my trousers.

The beginning of the second phase of my life since graduation coin-
cides almost exactly with our Tenth Class Anniversary. Marriage and
removal from the home where I had lived for seventeen years were soon
followed by acceptance of a position in the home office of American Mu-
tual Liability Insurance Company at Boston. Employee activities at this
company were so numerous and varied that they became the focus of
much of my social as well as working life. I became proficient enough to
win a trophy at ping-pong, bowled well enough to be on a team which
won a league roll-off (once), and paired with a duplicate contract
bridge player for considerable success in inter-company competition.

My daughter was born in 1940, a few months after we moved from
Somerville to Watertown, Massachusetts ——a change which had been
accomplished as housing preparation for the glorious event. The coming
of war made no drastic personal change. An offer of service to the Navy
got me no further than the eye chart. Later, in 1943, my son arrived,
increasing the excitement and the responsibilities in the Forbes house-
hold. The war did give me an interest in vegetable gardening (which I
still retain) and caused me to complete a Red Cross First Aid Course
(most of which I have forgotten). At the office I moved over from
house organ editor and advertising assistant to office methods analyst
and procedures coordinator. I participated enthusiastically in a variety
show for servicemen, staged by our Employee Association and pre-
sented more than thirty times at various Army and Navy camps and
hospitals over an eighteen-month period.

Strangely enough, the second phase of my life as an alumnus ended
at about our Twentieth Reunion. What followed is really a long period
of transition. Within a few days I was no longer (after eight and a half
years) an employee of American Mutual. Within a few weeks I was
working in New York City as a member of the market research staff of
the Crowell-Collier Publishing Company. For several months I com-
muted weekends from New York to Boston. This was the peak of the
post-war housing shortage. Eventually it became clear that it was point-
less to continue a search for housing. In less than a year I had returned

[ 291 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

to the same court house in Cambridge where I had served as a juror ten
years before and came outa single man. I continued to room in Flushing
with a family who were good enough to allow me to have my children
with me for a week’s visit. My social life centered more and more in the
activities of the New York Universalist Church, including one evening a
week of badminton. In 1948 I married a girl whom I had first met at
the church.
The present phase of my life really began with our setting up house-
keeping in a small Manhattan apartment. Since we both work in the
same general location it has been possible to go back and forth to work
together. We are comrades as well as sweethearts. As the months
lengthen into years we seem to become more and more completely in
tune. We have both become members of the Church of the Divine
Paternity and have become increasingly active in its work. Early in
1950 I was elected a member of its board of trustees. Every six weeks or
so we make a weekend drive to Boston to see Priscilla and Donald. Last
summer they visited for a week with us in New Jersey (we moved to
Saddle River Township late in October, 1949) and we are looking for-
ward to the time when they will be old enough to travel alone to see us.
I am still with Crowell-Collier, where I am Woman’s Home Companion
research manager, and am active in the New York chapter of the Amer-
ican Marketing Association, having accepted the editorship of the chap-
ter newsletter in the fall of 1950.

In September, 1949, Miriam and I took a three-week motor trip to
Yellowstone Park and the Grand Canyon, visiting many other points of
interest en route. We are reserving a part of our 1951 vacation for the
Reunion but hope to hit the road again in 1952. And may we all gather
together again for our Fiftieth.

ROBERT FORD

Address: R.F.D. 1, Box 410, Martinez, Calif.

Born: July 195 1906, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Jeremiah Denis Mathias
Ford, ’94, Anna Winifred Fearns,

Prepared at: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1925, 1920-1927. Degree: A.B, cum laude, 1926(27).

Married: Elizabeth Ruth Evans, April 22, 1933, Fort Lee, N. J. Children:
Michael Evans, Jan. 13, 19395; Timothy John, Aug. 15, 1941; Mary
Jennifer, Aug. 22, 19453; William Denis, April 3, 1949.

Occupation: Airline captain, Pan American Airways,

Questionnaire received too late for inclusion of biography.

[ 292 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

*§ JOHN RISON FORDYCE, JR.

Born: Dec. 5, 1903, Little Rock, Ark. Parents: John Rison Fordyce, Lillian
Augusta Powell.

Prepared at; Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years ia College: 1922-1926, Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Helen Gale Thompson, Feb. 18, 1928, Coronado, Calif. (died Sept.
30, 1933); Mary Downs Lander, Feb. 1, 1936, Little Rock, Ark.
Children: Helen Lillian, Dec. 9, 1928; John Rison, 3d, March 25,
1931; Mary Hamilton, Oct. 28, 19363 Roswell Lander, June 20, 1939.

Died: May 23, 1943, North Africa.

John Rison Fordyce, Jr., was active in undergraduate athletics at
Harvard. In his junior year he was a member of the football team, and
was awarded an “H” in this sport. While at Phillips Exeter Academy,
he had captained the crew and he later became a member of the crew
squad at Harvard. His memberships included the Harvard Flying Club,
the Phoenix Club, of which he was vice-president for a year, Hasty Pud-
ding-Institute of 1770, the D.U. Club, and the Varsity Club. After
graduation from Harvard College, he attended the Graduate School of
Business Administration for a year. Then followed a year’s active duty
in the Navy as a member of the U.S. Naval Reserve. Soon after his mar-
riage in 1928, he entered the insurance business, first selling life insur-
ance and later fire and casualty insurance. He became head of the in-
surance firm of Fordyce & Company in Little Rock. In addition he in-
terested himself in public affairs and was twice elected to the Arkansas
State Legislature. |

Fordyce’s family was traditionally active in military affairs and he
himself displayed a continuing interest in Army and Navy activities. He
first learned flying as a naval aviator while in college. In April, 1935, he
entered the Army as a second lieutenant of the 154th Observation
Squadron of the Arkansas National Guard. This squadron was activated
in September, 1940, and by the time the United States became involved
in the second World War, he had attained the rank of captain. He was
graduated from the Command and General Staff School at Fort Leav-
enworth, Kansas, in 1941. He became commanding officer of the 68th
Observation Group. After participating in the early landing near Casa-
blanca, French Morocco, on November 8, 1942, he was placed in com-
mand of a nearby air base at Cazes, At the time of his death he was
commanding officer of the 320th Bombardment Group in North Af-
rica, a post he had assumed in March, 1943, and he had recently at-
tained the rank of full colonel.

[ 293 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Fordyce was the recipient of many tributes and awards. He was
awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross and the Air Medal with two ©
Oak Leaf Clusters for extraordinary achievement in military operations
in the Mediterranean area, When he left command in Casablanca, the
French personnel presented him with an aluminum trophy representing
an elephant holding a bombing plane with its trunk, in recognition of
their appreciation of his skill and tact in his handling of problems as the
first American officer to command a French air base in North Africa.
The air base in North Africa which was the scene of the accident result-
ing in his death was named Fordyce Field in his honor.

He was survived by his wife and four children.

WILLIAM CHADICK FORDYCE, JR.

Home Address: 6331 Pershing Ave., University City 5, Mo.

Office Address: Fordyce, Mayne, Williams & Hartman, 506 Olive St., St.
Louis 1, Mo.

Bora: Dec. 25, 1903, St. Louis, Mo. Parents: William Chadick Fordyce, ’95,
Christine Orrick.

Prepared at: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis County, Mo.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926.

Married: Elizabeth Russe Kluckhohn, June 15, 1946, St. Louis, Mo. CAil-
dren: Peter, Dec. 29, 1938 (stepson) ; William Chadick, 3d, Nov. 2,
19473 Elizabeth Duvall, March 28, 1950.

Harvard Brother: Allen Orrick Fordyce, ’28.

Occupation: Lawyer.

Military or Naval Record: Army Air Force, May 16, 1942, to Oct. 2, 19453
overseas, Sept. 9, 1942, to Aug. 19, 1944; entered as first lieutenant;
now major, Air Force Reserve.

Wartime Government Posts: Legal Adviser, 25th Ward Draft Board, April-May
12,1942.

Offices Held: Treasurer, 1927-29, 1933-37, vice-president, 1948—49, presi-
dent, 1949-50, Harvard Club of St. Louis; chairman, Scholarship Com-
mittee, 1950; trustee, St. Louis Historical Documents Foundation;
member executive board, University City Charter Committee.

Member of: Noonday Club, St. Louis; Harvard Club of St. Louis; St. Louis
Historical Documents Foundation.

Since 1932, except for military service in World War IT, I have been
engaged in the active practice of law in the same office.

The stork did not darken my door until 1947, but the wolf has never
been very far away.

My wife is a graduate of Smith College, ’34, and her father has three
[ 294 ]

Twenty-fifth Anntversary Report

degrees from Harvard. Consequently I hope to have one child at least
who will be bright enough to be admitted to Harvard.

My present interests and avocations are limited to gardening of sorts,
household repairs, and books, particularly books which are called
“Americana.” Occasionally I get in some tennis or horseback riding,
since I still spend most vacations in northern Wyoming.

I have no very strong social convictions except that it’s always well to
leave a party early. I do a medium amount of civic work of various
kinds. I was christened in the Episcopal Church, but all of our gifts
thereto are made in my wife’s name. In politics ] am a Democrat, prob-
ably because practically all my friends are staunch Republicans.

I hope to attend our Twenty-fifth Reunion.

CHARLES SPRAGUE FORSYTH

Address: P.O, Box 1196, Santa Barbara, Calif,

Boru: Aug. 13, 1903, Milwaukee, Wis. Parents: Charles Sprague Forsyth,
Margaret Knight.

Prepared at: St. George’s School, Newport, R.1.

Years in College: 1922-1926.

Married: Rebecca Graham, Dec. 27, 1930, Washington, D. C. CAildren: Anne
Cameron, Dec. 27, 1932; Charles Sprague, Jr., April 12, 1935; Eliza-
beth Pickering, April 16, 1937. .

Occupation: Real Estate.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Forsyth
did not return a questionnaire.

IRA CALVIN FOSS

Home Address: 90 Arnold Rd., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.

Office Address: National Tag and Label Corp., 26 Bridge St., Watertown 11,
Mass.

Born: Dec. 9, 1904, Scarboro, Maine. Parents: Ira Calvin Foss, Mary Harris
Larrabee,

Prepared at: Portland High School, Portland, Maine.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Glena Wells, Jan. 17, 1925, Providence, R. I, Children: Ira Calvin,
Jr., Dec. 3, 1925 (a. Nancy Shaw, June 24, 1950); David Wells, Jan.
30, 1930; Jerome, July 21, 1936; Peter, Feb. 10, 1948.

Harvard Sons: \ra Calvin Foss, Jr., 49; David Wells Foss, ’51.

Occupation: President, National Tag and Label Corporation, manufacturers of
paper products.

Member of : Harvard Club of Boston.

[ 295 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

GIRAUD van NEST FOSTER

Home and Office Address: Beech Grover Plantation, Wilson, La.

Born: Jan. 4, 1904, New York, N. Y¥. Parents: Giraud Foster, Jeannie van Nest.

Prepared at; Groton School, Groton, Mass.

years an College: 1922-1923.

Married: Valerie Vernam, April 26, 1926, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1928) ;
Suzanne Holloway, July 29, 1946. Cdildren: Giraud Vernam, June 13,
1927; Jane, June 8, 1947.

Occupation: Cattle breeder and commercial cattleman.

Military or Naval Record: Carpenter’ s mate, 1/c, U.S. Navy, May, 1942, to
March, 19453 active service in Solomon Islands; medical discharge.

Offices Held: Chairman, Louisiana Farm Bureau; vice-chairman, Louisiana

Production and Marketing Association; president, Ingalls Manufactur-
ing Company; member, Parish School Board.

Member of: Lions International; Knickerbocker Club, New York; Boston
Club, New Orleans, La.

I left Harvard in my freshman year feeling that I was too important
to be wasting my time at college, and I have regretted that ever since.
I worked in Wall Street until I bought a farm in Louisiana in 1935.
Since then my hobby has been my work, raising cattle. I am a sad and
dissatisfied Republican in a solid Democratic South. The South doesn’t
like the welfare state, Why don’t the Republicans do something about it
down here? My religious convictions are for a united Christian church,

but realizing the futility of this, I am an active member of our Episcopal
church.

ROBERT CRICHTON FOSTER

Home Address: 43 Kenwood Pk., Springfield, Mass,

Office Address: Gray Herbarium, 79 Garden St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

Born: July 21, 1904, Springfield, Mass, Parents: Festus Harvey Foster, Jr.,
Barbara Crichton.

Prepared at: Central High School, Springfield, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926, Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; A.M., 19273
Pu.D., 1936.

Unmarried.

Occupation: Botanist; acting curator, Gray Herbarium, Harvard.

Offices Held: Treasurer, American Society of Plant Taxonomists, since 1 950.

Member of: American Society of Plant Taxonomists; New England Botanical
Club.

Publications: Numerous technical monographs of plant groups.

[ 296 J

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

RICHARD MELVILLE FOWLER

Home Address: 4035 Deepwood Rd., Baltimore 18, Md.
Office Address: Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Co, of Baltimore City, 320

St. Paul Pl., Baltimore 2, Md.
Born: Jan. 17; 1905, Malden, Mass. Parents: Halley Melville Fowler, Kath-

erine Louise Danforth.
Prepared at: Mansfield High School, Mansfield, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926.

Married: Helen Sarah Crandall, April 24, 1939, New York, N. Y. Children:
Carol Abby, Oct. 8, 1940; Richard Melville, Jr., Sept. 12, 1944.
Occupation: Auditor of disbursements, Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone

Company of Baltimore City.

LUCIEN JULIEN FOWLKES

Last Known Address: 819 Westminster Hotel, Boston, Mass,
Born: March 9, 1895, Birmingham, Ala, Parents: Matthew Louis Fowlkes,
Mayme Christy.
Years in College: 1916-1917, 1919-1 920, 1922-1926,
Occupation: Government service.
Fowlkes has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since mail
was returned from the above address in 1948.

RECTOR KERR FOX, JR.

Home Address: Stanwich Road, Greenwich, Conn.
Office Address: c/o Central Hanover Bank and Trust Co., 70 Broadway, New
York, N. Y.

Born: May 3, 1903. Parents: Rector Kerr Fox, ’96, Hilda Caroline Seccomb.

Prepared at: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N, H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Edith Darrach, June 20, 1931, Greenwich, Conn. Children: Joan
Darrach, April 29, 1932; Rector Kerr, 3d, Sept. 25, 1934,

Occupation: Vice-president, Central Hanover Bank and Trust Company.

Offices Held: Secretary and chairman, Finance Committee; representative,
Town Meeting, 1946-49; member Republican Town Committee,
1948-49; member Board of Estimate and Taxation, since 1950.

Member of : Harvard Club of New York; Field Club, Greenwich; Manursing

Island Club, Rye, N. ¥.

We have poured out our shy stories in that confidential questionnaire
for the Recording and Statistical Corporation and have waded through
sample lives from the T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report of the Class of

[ 297 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

1925, to say nothing of much interesting data in the volume you are
now reading. As you are probably a little tired and somewhat unnerved
hy the experience, I shall make this one brief.

I am still plodding along in the commuting groove in an uneventful
sort of way and finding very little spare time in which to grumble
(much), I have a very nice family, a few gray hairs, and nary a list of
publications or degrees to flourish before you. We are in the midst of
much school and college except for Junior, the latest addition to the
family, who stays home with the old folks, Junior is a Cairn pup who is
superior in many little ways to some of the master minds operating out

of Washington, D. C., lo these many years.

CHESTER B. FRANKLIN

Home Address: 35-46 74th St., Jackson Heights, N. Y.

Office Address: Reuben H. Donnelley Corp., 305 E. 45th St., New York, N. Y.

Born: April 25, 1902, Flushing, N. Y. Parents: Abraham Samuel Finkelstein,
Lillian Schiffrin,

Prepared at: Dwight School, New York, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: $.B., 1926.

Married: Annafay Bayuk, Feb. 7, 1933. Children: Susan Fay, April 1 5, 19343
Marc Bayuk, May 9, 1937.

Occupation: Advertising sales.

GEORGE HUBERT FRARY, JR.

Home Address: 34 Main St., Farmington, Maine.

Office Address: Stratton Co., Stratton, Maine.

Born: March 21, 1904, Charlemont, Mass. Parents: George Hubert Frary,
Eliza Alvord Newton.

Prepared at: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926.

Married: Margaret Vincent Palmer, May 21, 1931, New York, N. Y. CAil-
dren: Anne Alvord, Dec. 30, 19323 Joseph Palmer, Aug. 26, 1939; John
Newton, Dec. 2, 19405 Carolyn Richardson, May 30, 1946.

Occupation: President, Stratton Company, Stratton, Maine; Frary Wood
Turning Company, Inc., Wilton, Maine, manufacturers of wood turn-
ings.

Offices Held: Marketing assistant, Standard-Vacuum Oil Company, 1927-353
president, Frary Wood Turning Company, Inc., since 1935, Rangeley
Lumber Company, 1946-49; partner, Wilton Dowel & Disc Company,
1945-50.

During 1926-27 I was classics instructor at the Gunnery School in
[ 298 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Washington, Connecticut. From 1927 to 1935, I was marketing as-
sistant with the South China department of Socony. In 1931 I married
Margaret Palmer, a graduate of the University of Washington, en-
gaged in the interior decorating business in New York City. Since 1935
I have been engaged in the manufacture of wood turnings in Maine.

CHARLES HARRISON FRAZIER

Home Address: Schoo] Lane House, Philadelphia 44, Pa. .

Office Address: Philadelphia Gas Works Co., 1401 Arch St., Philadelphia 5, Pa.

Born: July 26, 1904, Atlantic City, N. J. Parents: Charles Harrison Frazier,
Mary Spring Gardiner.

Prepared at: Montgomery School, Wynnewood, Pa.

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degrees: A.B. (Haverford Coll.), 1924; S.B.
in E. Enon. cum laude (Harvard Univ.), 1926.

Married: Anne Laurence Harris, Sept. 20, 1929, St. Louis, Mo. Children:
Mary Spring, March 12, 1935; Judith, May 15, 1937; James Terry
Gardiner, March 19, 1940.

Occupation: Assistant to president, Philadelphia Gas Works Company.

Offices Held: President, Philadelphia Chapter, Society for Advancement of
Management, 1945; chairman of board, Miquon School, 1942-463
treasurer (currently), Miquon School, Friends Service, Inc.; treasurer,
Public Charities Association of Pennsy lvania, 1936-45 ; vice-president,
Pennsylvania Citizens Association for Health and Welfare, World Af-
fairs Council of Philadelphia; president, Whitemarsh Township Citi-
zens’ Council, 1947-49.

Member of : Harvard Engineering Society; Society for Advancement of Man-
agement; Institute of Internal Auditors; Engineers Club of Philadel-
phia; American Gas Association ; Philadelphia Chamber of Commerce;
Episcopal Hospital (member of board).

Publications: Magazine articles in the public utility field.

My professional life, after leaving the Engineering School, has been
more or less of one piece, with a succession of jobs in the public utility
business. However, I have wavered from electric to gas utilities, and am
now a died-in-the-wool gas man. Jobs have taken me from Texas, New
Mexico, and Arizona back to Philadelphia, where I have been working
with the municipal gas works for some fifteen years. ‘The early part of
this period was spent in engineering, some of it in industrial engineering,
and finally in general management activities. During the war I com-
muted all too regularly between Philadelphia and Washington, in an
effort (successful) to keep the gas works in materials and enable it to
fulfill its part in the war economy. More recently one of my special

[ 299 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

activities has been working towards initiating and enlarging the supply
of natural gas to Philadelphia, involving more Washington commuting,
since the center of all things natural-gaseous is the Federal Power Com-
mission. This has been an exciting and stimulating period, and what
with the world as it is now, there seems little promise of a letup in the
years to come.

Somewhere along the line claims of various civic and charitable or-
ganizations began to absorb a considerable part of my time and energy.
I am continually amazed and depressed at the multitude of organiza-
tions, mostly manned by volunteers among the citizenry, which seem to
be necessary in a functioning democracy. Nothing makes me happier
than to sit in on the demise of such an organization when it no longer
proves necessary. However, many of these organizations do play a vital
part in our every-day life, and contribute to its enrichment. One of my
concerns at the present time is to involve a greater percentage of the
leadership of the community in its civic and charitable affairs, in order
that the burden on individuals be not too great. Be that as it may, I con-
sider work of this kind in the community to be a valuable part of any
man’s life. .

During much of the time that I have been back in Philadelphia, my
family and I have been living in the suburbs, in as country an atmos-
phere as we could find, Miquon is not very far from Philadelphia, but
still unspoiled. It is the site of a small, codperative, progressive school, in
which the family has been involved for a number of years. While my
children have all passed through the school now, and are further along
the educational road, my labors in that particular vineyard are not yet
completed. These include chairman of the board of the school for a
number of years, treasurer, superintendent of building for a three-class-
room addition, which the parents built a few years ago, as well as being
involved in a building program going on this summer. This work with
my own children and with others has also been a rewarding experience.
If it were not for this form of contact with my children, the crowded

condition of my life would have prevented me from being as close to
them as T hope lam.

This record of fairly solid work has left me little time for travel or
hobbies, although I found time to travel in the Orient and in Europe
before I became too involved. What time I have had since then (the last
trip being in 1929) has been spent mountain climbing and camping in
New York and New England. I think that I am happiest on a moun-
tain top, although it does seem increasingly difficult to get there.

[ 300 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

HAROLD PERLEY FREEMAN ©

Home and Office Address: 88 College Ave., West Somerville, Mass.

Born: Dec. 3, 1903, Somerville, Mass. Parents: Ebenezer Sparrow Freeman,
Anna Frances Lombard.

Prepared at: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; M.D., 1930.

Married: Marjorie W. Parker, Aug. 4, 1932, Winchester, Mass. CAild: Bar-
bara Parker, Feb. 23, 1935.

Occupation: Medicine.

Wartime Government Posts: Examining physician, local Draft Board, Somerville,
Mass.

Offices Held: Trustee, Somerset Savings Bank; member, corporations of Som-
erville Hospital, Somerville Home for Aged; anesthetist, Somerville
Hospital.

Member of: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
Somerville Medical Society; American Society of Anesthesiologists;
New England Society of Anesthesiologists; American College of An-
esthesiologists (fellow); New England Obstetrical and Gynecological
Society.

The first four years after graduation were spent at Harvard Medical
School. Then followed a year and a half’s internship at Hartford Hos-
pital, Hartford, Connecticut, and in 1932 I began general practice of
medicine in my home city of Somerville, Massachusetts. I have been so
engaged to the present time. From the beginning of my practice I have
had a special interest in anesthesia, and as the years have passed, I have
gradually restricted my general practice as the time spent in the practice
of anesthesiology has increased. In 1948 I was admitted a Fellow of the
American College of Anesthesiologists and now spend over sixty per
cent of my time in this specialty.

As a hobby, I am still interested in steamboat history, and find the
collection of pictures of steamboats, old and new, a very pleasant pastime
and change from the worries involved in taking care of sick people. My
panacea for fatigue used to be to take a short boat trip of four days toa
week out of Boston, and I, therefore, mourn the passing of our several
coastwise steamship lines such as the Merchants and Miners, Savannah
Line, Clyde Mallory Line, Fall River Line, and Eastern Steamship
Company, the last now reduced to only one ship between Boston and
Yarmouth, Nova Scotia. All this, I believe, is due to the competition of
the freight-car-sized trailer trucks, whose right of way we maintain |
with our gasoline taxes, and the ever increasing demands of the long-
shoremen’s unions. It is unfortunate indeed that there is but one pas-

[ 301 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

senger steamship line in operation the year ’round on the Atlantic Coast,
that is the Old Bay Line from Norfolk, Virginia, to Baltimore, Mary-
land. The remaining few operate on a short seasonal basis only. There-
fore, my only recent ocean voyage has been a crossing to Bermuda, and
I have had to be content during vacation periods to sit on my front porch
in Scituate and watch freighters pass up and down the coast between
Boston and the Cape Cod Canal.

Politically, I am still a Republican in spite of my inability to pick a
winner. However, I wouldn’t mind casting a vote for a good Democrat
if I could find one on the ballot.

HOLLIS STRATTON FRENCH

Home Address: 117 Main &t., Farmington, Conn.

Office Address: Miss Porter’s School, Farmington, Conn.

Born: Aug. 15, 1904, Annisquam, Mass. Parents: Hollis French, Helen Good-
win,

Prepared at: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A. B. , 1926; A.M. (Middlebury Coll.),
1936.

Married: Mary Norris Frick, Sept. 28, 1929, Bethlehem, Pa. Children: Robert
Heysham Sayre, Oct. 7, 19313 Sarah Hollis, March 24, 19343 Deborah
Penniman, Sept. 19, 1940.

Harvard Brothers: Alden French, ’21; Stanley Goodwin French, ’25.

Occupation: Education.

Offices Held: Secretary, St. Mark’s Alumni Association, 1942—50}; treasurer,
St. Mark’s Alumni Fund, 1945-50; treasurer, St. Mark’s Church, 1943-
50; member of corporation, Beaver Country Day School.

Member of : Tavern Club, Boston; Annisquam, Mass., Yacht Club; Society for
the Preservation of New England Antiquities.

After a year at Oxford following graduation, I spent five years in
downtown Boston, with the First National Bank, and with Eaton &
Howard, Inc. In 1932 a decision to try teaching on my part, plus a long
shot on the part of St. Mark’s School, began an eighteen-year association
which was a very happy one for me and my family. One of my pleas-
anter duties was acting as secretary of the school’s alumni association,
a capacity in which I came to know a larger number of graduates of all
ages than otherwise would have been my privilege. A sabbatical leave in
1938 took us, complete with children aged four and seven, to England
and France. In 1946 and 1947, accompanied by the family, I went as
an exchange teacher to Punahou School, Honolulu.

Last fall, after so many years at St. Mark’s, it was an interesting

[ 302 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

change from crew cuts to permanent waves when I joined the faculty of
Miss Porter’s School—— better known as Farmington — primarily in
the capacity of business manager. And that brings us right up to date.

In summer we go to Annisquam, Massachusetts, where we have a
little house with one bedroom in it. There, converting halls and porches
into sleeping quarters, all five of us live in complete chaos but complete
bliss. We have a couple of sailboats — or rather the kids have — and our
life is utterly and exclusively regulated by starting guns, tide calendars,
and wind velocities. |

Besides boats, my interests lie in birds and music: birds to the extent
that I am miserable unless I can identify every bird I hear; music to the
extent of playing (cello) in a quartet or orchestra whenever possible. I
have no violent political or religious views, other than being Republican
and Episcopalian respectively. Finally, I prefer movies to ball games,
records to radio, pre-prandial drinks to post-prandial smokes, adventure
yarns to fiction, and tennis to golf.

JAMES HART FREUDENTHAL

Home and Office Address: Route 2, Box 807, Tucson, Ariz.

Born; May 16, 1906, Chicago, Ill. Parents: George Solomon Freudenthal,
Maude Emil Hart.

Prepared at: University High School, Chicago, Ill.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B. cum laude, 1926.

Married: Margaret Eisenstaedt, June 2, 1931, Highland Park, Ill. Children:
Barbara, March 19, 19333; Jean, Dec. 26, 1935.

Harvard Brother: George S. Freudenthal, Jr., ’29.

Occupation: Rancher.

Member of : Harvard Club of Southern Arizona; University Club of Tucson.

After graduating from college and attending the Harvard Business
School for one year, I made my home with my family in Chicago where
I entered the investment security business. When I became married in
1931, my wife and I decided to raise our family in Highland Park, one
' of Chicago’s attractive north shore suburbs where we lived until the fall
of 1946. Golf and gardening were my main outside interests, so that by
the time the war came along we had a Jarge plot of ground under culti-
vation and raised and froze hundreds of quarts of fresh vegetables and
of course there was very little time left for golf. Music has always been
another major interest and one of Highland Park’s major attractions is
the fact that it is the site of Ravinia Music festival which lasts several
weeks each summer,

[ 303 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

All of us knew that eventually we would land out West, preferably in
Arizona, so in September, 1946, we loaded the station wagon and
headed for our new home near Tucson. Deep Well Ranch is located
some eighteen miles east of town in the saguaro (giant cactus) country
in the foothills of the Tanque Verde mountains. Here we raise turkeys
and hope that the coyotes don’t walk off with too many of them. There
are few Harvard men in the vicinity but we do manage to hold at least
the annual meeting each year as well as joint undertakings with some
of the other university clubs, I hope that the long distance will not keep
me and my family away from Cambridge next June when our Reunion
rolls around.

JAMES KNOX FRIEDMAN

Home Address: 2129 Collingwood Blvd., Toledo, Ohio.

Office Address: 1037 Edison Bldg., Toledo, Ohio.

Born: Oct. 15, 1904, Toledo, Ohio. Parents: Charles Knox Friedman, Nuna
Landman.

Prepared at: Scott High School, Toledo, Ohio.

Years in College: 1923-1926. Degree: 8.B., 1926.

Married: Frances Meyer, Sept. 16, 1938, New York, N. Y. (divorced). Child:
Claire, July 22, 1940.

Occupation: Real estate and insurance.

Member of : Toledo Real Estate Board; Glengarry Country Club.

SAMUEL FRIEDMAN

Home Address: P.O. Box W, Newtown, Conn.

Office Address: Fairfield State Hospital, Newtown, Conn.

Bora; Oct. 2, 1906, Poland. Parents: Morris Friedman, Anna Ludwin.

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B, cum laude, 1926; M.D. (Boston
Univ.), 1931.

Married: Dr. Jane E. Oltman, Sept. 3, 1937, Concord, N. H. Cézld: Judith,
July 12, 1950.

Occupation: Psychiatrist and neurologist; assistant superintendent, Fairfield
State Hospital.

Military or Naval Record: Captain, Army Medical Corps, 1942-46.

Member of : Connecticut Society P. & N.; A.P.A.; American Academy of Neu-
rology.

Publications: A number of articles in general medical and psychiatric literature.

My historical data are quite routine. I became an M.D., and am cur-
rently assistant superintendent at Fairficld State Hospital and assistant

[ 304 J

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

clinical professor of psychiatry at (may Harvard forgive me) Yale Med-
ical School. I am certified as a specialist in psychiatry and neurology by
the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology.

My personal data: Among other activities I have been an amateur
artist for the past few years. However, my best one-man show occurred
on July 12, 1950, when (with a minor assist from the dear wife) I un-
veiled a baby daughter at the New Haven General Hospital. (This
practically puts me in Stokowski’s Class.) This young child combines
the best qualities of Madeleine Carroll, Hedy Lamarr, the Queen of
Sheba — and Prexy Conant!

FLOYD DELAVAN FROST

Home Address: Mead Street, Waccabuc, N. Y.

Office Address: Bankers Trust Co., 16 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

Born: Oct. 20, 1904, Nyack, N. Y. Parents: LeRoy Frost, Marion Lydecker
Towt.

Prepared at: Allen-Stevenson School, New York, N. Y.

Years ia College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Henrietta Quarrier Brockenbrough, Dec. 3, 1932, New York, N. Y.
Children: Floyd Delavan, Jr., Jan. 22, 1936; John Stevens, April 21,
1938; Archie Quarrier, Sept. 10,1940; Henrietta Brockenbrough, July
19, 1944.

Harvard Brother: LeRoy Frost, Jr., ’23.

Occupation: Trust officer, Bankers Trust Company.

Member of : Harvard Club of New York; Sons of the American Revolution of
the State of New York.

I attended Harvard Law School after graduation and then com-
menced practising in New York City and continued until 1946 when I
became house attorney and vice-president in charge of the trust depart-
ment of Lawyers Trust Company. I continued in that capacity until
1950 when Lawyers Trust Company was merged with Bankers Trust
Company and I went with the latter as trust officer, the position I now
hold.

Aside from the full-time job of trying to bring up four children, I
have taken up flying and commute between Maine and New York in the
summer — which is probably the nearest I shall ever get to Heaven. I
have continued to lose my hair since college days worrying about taxes,
and stewing about some of the more notorious members of the Class. I
hopefully vote Republican at each election.

[ 305 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

ANDREW DANIEL FULLER, JR.

Home Address: Fairfax Hall, Cambridge, Mass.
Office Address: 9 Park St., Boston, Mass. .
Born: Nov. 1, 1903, Wakefield, Mass. Parents: Andrew Daniel Fuller, Carrie
Williams Clapp.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
Years #2 College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B., 19263 A.M. (Calvin Coolidge
Coll.), 1948; Psy.D. (Windsor Univ.), 19493 LL.D. (ibid.), 1950,

Jur. D. (Portia Law School), 1950; Dr. Unrv. (Avon Univ.), 1951,

Occupation: Trustee; education; taxation.

Tamartitd.

Offices Held: Scientific specialist, Boston Public Library, 1926-35; vice-presi-
dent, Andrew D. Fuller Company, 1933-42; tax counsel, American
Tax & Accounting Bureau, since 1942; member of faculty, American
Institute for Economic Research, 1945-46, Newton Junior College,

1948-49, Calvin Coolidge College, 1947-50; professor of human re-
lations, Institute of Research and Advanced Learning, Windsor Uni-
versity, since 1950; member board of sponsors, Poor Richard’s Associa-
tion; member, New England Society Contemporary Art (governor,

1932-34), Academy Artists (trustee, 1933-35), New England Council
of Fine Arts (treasurer, 1935-37); trustee, Church Convalescent Home,

1950. '

“er of: Harvard Club of Boston; Chicago Society Artists; Harvard Facul-

y Club, Cambridge.

sions: Associate editor: Troland’s Mystery of Mind, 1926; “Principles

f Psychophysiology — Psychology and Perception,” 1929; ‘‘Sensation,”

930; ‘“Cerebration and Action,” 1932; “General Psychophysiology” ;
jitor and designer, “Contemporary Paintings,” 1932-33; “Modern

d Academic Paintings,” “Catalogs of Paintings” (designed at Banyan-

ee Press) ; “Essays on Massachusetts, Its Places and People,” 19373
eview of Contracts,” 1950.

lied esthetics under Langfeld, fine painting and typographical
nder George Parker Winship, naval architecture under George
ind mural design under Robin Feild. My principal works in-
ree of Knowledge (mural design), 1932, and Rise of Civiliza-
son which I am working. I have exhibited at the Museum of
, Boston, Fine Arts Theatre, Academy Artists.

1g to add a human touch to the above: my tax practice has been
successful — I have never lost a case (knocking on w0°

Je me to find the leisure to devote about half my time °°

ork, research, and education, which have always been my
sts.

[ 306 ]

T wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Being chairman of the Department of Social Sciences at Calvin Cool-
jdge College and professor at Portia Law School, and especially in teach-
ing the subjects of psychology and human relations, by contact with
fresh young minds full of zest for life, has managed to keep the moss
from creeping too rapidly over the old stone. [ heartily recommend to
frustrated tired business classmates (if any) that they shelve the psychi-
atrist and try a little college teaching or take some other part in a creative
educational program.

As trustee of the Town and Country School where under low-pres-
sure methods emotionally disturbed children are skillfully made whole
again, by therapy in human relations, I have seen much of what can be —
done by clinical psychology mixed with sound common sense. One of
my greatest satisfactions recently has been being the junior teaching
member, in conjunction with my father, of a course on making “Dream
Houses” come true; as part of a program in Designs for Living, partly
aimed at basically helping people, especially arts and graduate doctorate
scholars, to remain in the chosen channels of their life work.

Our “confidential questionnaire” asked what's wrong with Harvard.
Well, circulating through the students of the Harvard Summer School
this year, who are a wide sampling from colleges all over the country,
I still heard the age old complaint, ““The professors and their courses
waste too much of our time”’ (by poor organization of knowledge, medi-
ocre ability, and bureaucratic friction). have a dark suspicion they may
be right! Perhaps adoption of the system of that planetary Utopia of
Eimar O’Duffy where the students mercilessly upbraided the dull pro-
fessors accompanied by lusty blows of a switch, might have its merits in
the important task of keeping us from wasting the talents of our youth
at a time when enthusiasm, energy, and opportunity are at their peak.

Among the other traditional bugbears, from which our Alma Mater
suffers along with other colleges, are cutting the high cost of education,
making the best of it easily available to the gifted students and adults past
the usual college age whose circumstances do not allow of full-time
work, as well as creating a favorable atmosphere in which talents of “off
Pattern students” may flourish, a type from whom so much of genius
has flowered.
as Cecently as a trustee and Dean of Faculty at the Art Foundation and

ancellor of Avon College following a program similar to the Uni-

yersity of London, combined with a touch of the spirit of “All Souls Col-

e >) e .

Be Thave had the opportunity of trying to solve some of these prob-

cus, an arduous but fascinating task. To all those interested I say
Ome on in—the water’s fine!”

L 307 |

Harvard Class of 1926

HOYT RODNEY GALE

Home Address: 669 Sturtevant Drive, Sierra Madre, Calif.

Office Address: Pasadena City College, Pasadena 4, Calif.

Born: Aug. 1, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parents: Hoyt Stoddard Gale, ’00, Almira
Louise Miller Saunders,

Prepared at: Central High School, Washington, D. C.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. magna cum laude, 1926; Pu.D.
(Stanford Univ.), 1929; A.M. (Univ. of California at Los Angeles),
1936.

Married: Violet Jane Ransome, Aug. 4, 1929, San Gabriel, Calif. (died Oct.
18, 1933) Marian Lucille Blewitt, June 20, 1940, Fullerton, Calif.
(divorced 1948). Children: Laurence Stanley, Nov. 1, 1942; Carole
Lorraine, April 3, 1948.

Occupation: Teacher of geology and paleontology.

Publications: “Marine Pliocene and Pleistocene Mollusca of California,”
1931; “Principles of Economics,” 1941.

When I started out from college, I was full of ambition to make a
name for myself in intellectual fields and to become a professional busi-
ness success, but the depression of the thirties slowed my start, and the
loss of my first wife forced me to grope deeply among the values of life.
I steered away instinctively from the specializations that my field of
work seemed to require and turned for a time to the study of economics.
Then I began teaching geology, paleontology, and economics. I am
most interested now in following out the clues as to the meaning of life
that are furnished, much more than people generally realize, by the
study of fossils, In this field there are exciting opportunities for making
useful to each other the best elements in science and religion. In this way
T hope to make significant contributions towards the solving of our most
serious problems in social and personal relations.

HIRAM SELIG GANS

Home Address: 17 E. 631d St., New York 21,N. ¥.

Office Address: Amen, Gans, Weisman & Butler, 50 Broadway, New York 4,
N.Y.

Bora: July 13, 1905, New York, N. Y. Parents: Joseph Gans, Delia London.

Prepared at: Manual High School, New York, N. Y.

Years in College: 1923-1926. Degrees: $.B., 1926; J.D. (New York Univ.),

1929.
Married: Ethelyne P. Holzman, June 24, 1928, Brookline, Mass.
Harvard Brother: Ralph Abraham Gans, ’29.

[ 308 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Occupation: Attorney-at-law; partner, Amen, Gans, Weisman & Butler; corpo-
rate director; counsel for Nationalist Government.

Military or Naval Record: First lieutenant, Signal Corps; Third Infantry Divi-
sion North Africa and Sicily; Headquarters 141 Force, Amphibious
(Combined) Operations, Sicily; 2675 Regiment; AMGOT, Sicily;
instructor, American School Center, Shrivenham, England; COSSAC,
England; SHAEF (captain), England, France, Luxembourg, Belgium
(21st Army Group); Holland, Germany; major, General Staff Corps
with troops; SHAEF, chairman planning committee, Military Govern-
ment Finance and Property Control; chief, Financial Institutions
Branch; Chief, Foreign Exchange and Blocking Controls Branch; Al-
lied Control Council for Germany — Deputy Director, Division Inves-
tigation of Cartels; U.S. member, Quadripartite Committees (U.S.,
U.K., U.S.S.R., and France) on Central Banking, Foreign Exchange,
Financial Institutions in Germany; Counter Intelligence Corps Interro-
gator of Goering, Von Papen, etc.

Offices Held: Director of research and writing, New York Democratic State
Committee, 1946-48; campaign headquarters of Senator Lehman
1949-50; member committees on municipal affairs and state legislation,
Association of the Bar of the City of New York; director, Security Bank-
note Company, U.S. Air Conditioning Company, Hamilton Bank Note,
Madison Investing, etc., 1950; president, Military Government Asso-
clation, 1950-51.

Member of : City Midday Club; Century Country Club; United Hunts, Lon-
don, England; Allied Military Finance Officers Association, England;
Academy of Political Science; American Academy; Economic Club of
New York; American Bar Association; International Bar Association;
Association of the Bar of the City of New York; New York County
Lawyers Association.

Publications: Editor: Finance & Property Coniral, Technical Manual for Mili-
tary Government of Germany; “Resumption of Operation of German
Railway System”; “Financing the Operation German Inland Water-
ways System.”

Since my contribution to this quarter-century seems so unspectacular
to me, a résumé of it would bore my classmates! I shall spare myself the
telling, cut down the cost of printing this Dictionary of Nutty Biogra-
phies and thereby reduce the deficit Pll be asked to make up —if past
performance is any guide.

Casting up accounts of the twenty-five years since graduation for the
edification of my classmates, I find J am still doing the same old things I
did at Harvard. I have the same wife, the same hobbies — collecting
books, pictures, and sculpture — and the same interests — law, my vo-
cation, and government and politics, my avocations. Guess I’m an old

[ 309 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

stick-in-the-mud. About the only change seems to be that I Stopped
playing soccer after graduation — but nothing else.

Like so many of our Class, I served in the war. My principal recollec_

tions of that “great experience” are that on occasion I was scared to
death, thrilled to death, and bored to death — and didn’t die. I guess |
owe to the Third Infantry Division and Headquarters 141 Force, as wel]
as AMGOT, my intimate knowledge of North Africa and Sicily, their
shores, mountains, deserts, and other putrefying places. Twenty years
after President Lowell nominated me for a Rhodes Scholarship in 1 924,
I got to Oxford. But then I was an unexalted member of the faculty of
the American School Center, a place where the art and science of mak-
ing war in all its phases were taught. Uncle Sam had neither the desire
nor the leisure to see me complete my education there.

The few things worth mentioning at all in my post-Harvard career
are: I have worked long and hard and successfully for the election of all
the presidents of the U.S. elected in the last twenty years— both of
them —you Republican vested, yea, coat and vested but de-trousered
——interests! I have known intimately and still work with people from
all over the world who have fascinating cultures, personalities, and view-
points not always understood and appreciated by us. I have studied, in-
vestigated, and fenced with some of the greatest scoundrels of all time
— from Hermann Goering and Franz von Papen down — and learned
that there are times of no compromise and no self-respect. I have beena
corporate director, counsel for the Nationalist Government of the Re-
public of China and the Republic of Poland on certain matters, and
special counsel to the Department of Justice for certain alien properties
vested in the attorney general of the United States. And I have spent
more that twenty years in a profession that is now so much a part of me
that I often work and read in it for pleasure.

If the next twenty-five years go by with as little trouble and as much
speed, Pll not complain.

+ BERNARD JASPER GARDENER

Born: April 15, 1905, Thomasville, Ga. Parents: Barnette Brock Gardene!,
Julia Marguerita Schwartz.

Prepared at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees; A.B., 1926; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.)>
19209.

Married: Edna Dorothea Vandam, June 30,1 932, New York, N. Y. (divorced
1945) 5 Helen Colgan, Sept. 27, 1950, Westchester County, N. Y.

Military or Naval Record: Forward observer for 105 Howitzers, 104th Infan-

[ 310 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

try Division, 1942-453 awarded three battle stars; 207 consecutive days
of combat; rank, corporal. :

Died: Jan. 25,19515 Commack, Long Island, N. Y.

Widow: Mrs. Bernard J. Gardener, P.O. Box 96, Commack, Long Island,
N.Y. .

Bernard Jasper Gardener died on January 25, 1951, as this Report
was being prepared for the printer. Since he had returned his question-
naire the Secretary thought it best to print it as it is. On September 23,
1950, the Secretary received the following:

uy practised law in New York in my own firm from 1929 to 1942
and I heartily detested it. From 1942 to 1945 I was in the U.S. Army
and since 1945 have been general counsel and assistant to the president
of a largish export house.

“During most of this time my hobby has been tropical fish. I am now
specializing in marine tropicals, a completely unknown and unsearched
field (my book is the only book written on the subject since 1846 in any
language). I have had to be a pioneer learning the subject painfully and
expensively, viz., normal aquarium cements are not adequate for salt
water. I have had to (with the aid of a chemist) produce my own. Spe-
cial filters had to be designed with different filter material. Special foods
had to be produced as nutrition became the most important problem.
Parasites, bacteria, and diseases of the fish were different and thus I
have special remedies including aureomycin and chlormycetin. After
five years of most expensive experimentation, I finally have a formula
for artificial sea water that works, and I make up for the lack of micro
organisms in it by the introduction of certain soluble vitamins. I have
had a small marine laboratory of my own, a chemist, a fisheries biologist,
an advanced ichthyologist and, least important, myself.

“Starting in January, I go back to college in New York to become a

fisheries biologist. At the same time I shall write, do some research, and
Manage my fish business, which is prospering. I am alone in the field
pecause of general lack of ‘know how.’ As you can see by the above, I
ove it,
_ “As to my religion, there are I believe 146 different Christian re-
ligions. Make it 147 and add mine. I am a profound and daily reader of
the New Testament and I cannot find any of the known religions in it.
However, I believe that all religions are good and if followed faithfully
and with understanding will lead to the same goal.

“As to world conditions, I believe that the period we are now in may

e likened to the period of the Thirty Years’ War, when there was a
Tevolution and revolt against the feudal system, against the economic

[ 311 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

rigidity of the Guilds, against the Church and generally against every-
thing the Middle Ages stood for. This was accompanied by thirty years
of war as revolution usually is. In our time we have had two world wars
(a third is about to start) and we have had a revolt against everything
that the nineteenth century has stood for. We have had a revolt against
capitalism, free trade, and free enterprise, against religion, against law
as we knew it, and against the sanctity and freedom of the individual and
the Christian concept of the dignity of man. The twentieth century
mass man wants security, three meals a day for himself and his family, a
roof over his head, and is willing to sacrifice his freedom for this security.
This economic and social revolution has been going on since 1910 and
we are still in the midst of it. It will have its concomitant, another war
— this time ‘to stop Communism’ — but nothing ever has or will stop a
revolution from its evolutionary progress, be it good or bad.

“As to Harvard (and this is not nostalgia—I used to come back be-
fore vacations were over), those were the days of real freedom and
opportunity and leisure for study and good talk and intellectual pursuits
which I neglected. My regret —seventeen is too young or I matured
slowly, for I didn’t realize my opportunities until my senior year.

“Further regrets: I knew I could be a lawyer, doctor, engineer, and
business man; I never knew that if I loved animals there were a half-
dozen vocations and professions I could pursue. The same for trees,
flowers, or whatever under the sun one’s interest could be. I never heard
of a fisheries biologist, agricultural bacteriologist, entomologist, animal
fiber technologist, food preservation specialist, public health nutritionist,
seed technologist, agricultural economist, agronomist, forester, soil con-
servationist, etc. I never knew that if my interest were birds or insects I
could do what I wanted and make a living at it, as I do with fish now.
I think that’s where Harvard failed me. A course on vocations given

each of the four years would save many years of fruitless, thankless work
and would be the only thing I can think of to add to a Harvard edu-
cation.”

CHARLES ALEXANDER GARDINER

Home Address: 150 Millard Ave., Philipse Manor, North Tarrytown, N. Y.

Office Address: Hudson Wire Co., Ossining, N. Y.

Born: Jan. 9, 1905, New York, N. Y. Parents: Alfred Paul Gardiner, Adele
Radway Troup.

Prepared at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass,

Years in College: 1922-1923, 1924-1925,

[ 312 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Married: Margaret Mary Quinn, Feb, 19, 1927, Tarrytown, N. Y¥. Children:
Alfred Paul, June 19, 1930; Charles Alexander, Jr., June 15, 1936.
Occupation: ‘Treasurer, Hudson Wire Company, manufacturers of bare and
magnet wire.

Member of : Shattemuc Yacht and Canoe Club.

BERNARD JOSEPH GATES

Address: Monogram Pictures, 1560 Broadway, New York 19, N.Y.

Born: June 18, 1905, New York, N. Y. Parents: Abraham Jacob Gottlieb, Belle
Berger.

Prepared at: De Witt Clinton High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.

Married: Eugenie Riacchi, March 9, 1928, New York, N. Y¥. Child: Joyce
Margaret, Nov. 12, 1 929 (m. Fabio C. Maluf). Grandchild: Fabio Ri-
cardo Maluf.

Occupation: Motion Pictures—— Latin-American supervisor.

Questionnaire received too late for inclusion of biography.

DONALD COATS GATES

Home Address: 264 Nayatt Road, Barrington, R.I.

Office Address: US. Veterans Administration Hospital, Davis Park, Provi-
dence 8,R. I. -

Born: March 31, 1903, New York, N. Y. Parents: Thomas Bush Matthew
Gates, Susan Higgins Perley.

Prepared at: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 19263 B.A. (Univ. of Cam-
bridge), 1930; M.D. (Harvard Univ.), 1933; M.A. (Univ. of Cam-
bridge), 1934.

Married: Helen Elizabeth Mary Diedrich, June 10, 1941, Chicago, III.
Child: Thomas Henry Matthew, Feb. 21, 1945.

Occupation: Physician.

Military or Naval Record: Entered active duty as lieutenant (M.C.) U.S.N.R.,
Aug. 27, 1940; member, Harvard-Navy-C.A.A. pilot selection research
team, Pensacola, 1940—41; officer-in-charge, Low Pressure Chambers
and Oxygen—High Altitude Training Unit, Pensacola, 1942-43; flight
surgeon, Marine Bombing Squadron 433, 1943-44; staff; Air Force
Atlantic Fleet, Aviation Safety Division, 1944-46; promoted command-
er, October, 1945; received citation, Air Force Atlantic Fleet; returned
to inactive duty, April 27, 1946.

Offices Held: Vice-chairman, Committee on the Lionel de Jersey Harvard
Studentship of the Associated Harvard Clubs, 1933-38; superintendent,
Massachusetts Hospital School, 1946-50.

[ 313 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

WILLIAM DAVID GAY

11 E. 68th Terr, Kansas City, Mo.
] ance Bldg., Kansas City, Mo. David G
April 23, 1995 Chicago, Ill. Parents, William David Gay, Mary Belle
Born: April 23» >

Scott. bridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass,

Prepared at: Cam "SB, 1926.
ars fi 1922-1926. Degree: 9D +s ;
Yar iON erie Patton, Sept. 9, 1931, Greenwich, Conn. C4ild: Sandra

M,, July 21; 1936.
Occupation: Natural gas. |

JOHN HERBERT GEBELEIN

dress: 4 Cliff Rd., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.

ofa dadien Gebelein Silversmiths, Inc., 79 Chestnut St., Boston 8, Mass.

Born: June 18, 1906, Wellesley Hills, Mass. Parents: George Christian Gebe-
lein, Eva Mary Pelren.

Prepared at: Wellesley High School, Wellesley, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Unmarried.

Harvard Brothers: Ernest George Gebelein, 25; Arthur David Gebelein, 733;
George Christian Gebelein, Jr., 43.

Occupation: Manager, Gebelein Silversmiths, Inc., silverware manufacturing
and retailing.

Miliary or Naval Record: Harvard Military Science Department, 1923-
1926; candidate for commission, R.O,T.C., Field Artillery (graduated
with fourth year on contract left pending). World War II: entered
Army as Private, Infantry, March 15, 1941; trained in United States at
several military posts and field areas, together with interim unit assign-
ren to Eastern Defense Command coastal patrol, 26th Infantry “Yan-
e Pivsions served overseas in campaigns in northern France, Rhine-
ETO siened later duty as casual under Reinforcement Command
liminary orcupation Gutachment 32nd General Hospital during pre
sergeant, Ex-Infant (Comb, ny (Br itish Sector) ; terminated, technica

Member of : Harvard Club of Bost . Wrcligence), Oct, 3, T945- b:
New England Historie G ‘neat Wellesley Country Club; Maugus Club;
tucky Colonels; Re Sb Bical Society; Honorable Order of Ken-
Veterans Associations YD Mt Club of Massachusetts; Yankee Divisio?

B . emorial Club of Boston.
oth by omission a
on the subjects indic

Previous publication

41 when I was alre

Home Address. U
Office Address: Fin

nd commisg}
ated for this
3 and in pe
ady three

on, the above may speak amply of tse
Space, J reported for the record of each
Tson at all our reunions except the one
months under military restraint.

[ 316 ]

+ ill lll aid ad

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

A nice coincidence of that pre-Pearl Harbor year was being one of
five Harvard alumni among other ex-college and non-college “buddies”
sharing experiences In the same platoon of intelligence scout infantry-
men, working out of headquarters, 18 ist Infantry.

In the faster course of action after the infamous attack, qualification
for Army and Navy commissions scattered this representation. Having
seen enough years obscure my undergraduate commitment towards
preparedness, I stayed put in non-commissioned grades in the “Yankee”
Division, becoming “I & R” Platoon Sergeant with S-2, and later as-
signed to the division headquarters section. Service in the line of the
organization for intelligence training and operations was of course
under the Commanding General’s Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, which
meant I was incidentally privileged to be connected with another mem-
ber of our Class of ’26, during his tenure of office. |

My vacation extravaganza, as I might call it, of time off with the
Army, produced many changes of residence both in this country and
abroad, geographically speaking of course, “residence” in this meaning
being inclusive of the great outdoors. As for my observations on the
European scene, both as generally incidental to the paths and environs
of duty’s course and as diversionary to some extent with the advantage
taken of any eventual respite opportunities, actually I feel I realized in
all somewhat of a pretender “‘tourist’s” share in reward, although most
of it in hasty snatches and under the atmosphere and conditions of war-
time or its immediate aftermath, which, however, gave the uniformed
USS. visitor, if he or his compatriots did not abuse his welcome, a favored
position. For this civilian soldier evidence of friendliness and significant
befriending was the rule rather than the exception, all adding up to inter-
esting personal associations as well as place impressions, and attesting to
the basic potential for understanding with charitableness and good fel-
lowship underlying the natural order of the human family irrespective
of natural lines, | |

This is the report of one who, except for the war service travels, never
wandered very far or very long from proximity to “the Square,” at-
tended most of the Stadium games, and through all shades of its ascend-
ancy and adversity still considered Harvard football the most interesting
to watch, without qualification of support and credit to the available ma-
terial, granted that the competitive situation should be recognized by a
Policy designed to obtain the full representation of Harvard's attractions
or the worthy athletic student who would like to get his education there
and play an important part in his favorite sports. Having myself only
attained my growth by about the end of our junior year, I did not suc-

[ 317 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

ceed in curbing athletic energy disposed in the direction of team pla
after graduation, and for much of the period from first incipient « ros.
perity” through the depression that was prolonged up until the war-
necessitated resurgence (had to get something about that in), | was
mixing business with the resumed extra-curricula of a certain amount of
competitive sports. I continued to play basketball for several years. Foot.
ball, played and coached in company with the ex-Harvard, JV, or rank-
ing ineligibles represented, and otherwise ex-affiliated enthusiasts at~
tracted to bolster the home town talent’s amateur organization, was
prominent on the seasonal program from the fall of ’29 until after a
season of just coaching in ’34, I dropped the course — for touch footbal]
and yet a little preparatory school coaching assistance thereafter. I had
also followed up my liking for ice hockey into considerable devotion to
competitive activity with the Wellesley Hockey Club which I kept going
as player-manager until I entered the service, with our last trio of suc-
cessive evening games including a scoring margin over the Harvard
JV’s at the Skating Club. Golf had become the usual chief summer sport,
but I never maintained even “third flight” consistency, I played sched-
uled soft ball for a few seasons with little better certainty afield; and
some postwar informal hard ball among a bunch of more youthful vet-
erans set me up for our I'wentieth Reunion game. ,

I bowl again in the men’s league at the local Maugus Club, like to
have color pictures, keep a small vegetable garden, have been a hard-
working deckhand once in a while sailing with my brother, Ernie —last
time taking orders from his son, Bob — in Provincetown. I qualified by
an inside-the-park reunion for complete coverage of the last Boston
World Series by courtesy of baseball’s high commissioner, who served
with admiration as my certainly able and “Happy” high school football
and basketball coach during the year he attended Harvard Law School.
There have been no more travels worth mentioning except for first
exploration of our islands, Martha’s Vineyard and Nantucket, a return
to familiar grounds in northern Vermont, and for another adventure
enjoyment of a week at a very recreational co-ed camp in New Hamp-
shire and doings therefrom one recent summer.

While I have been marking time in my “freedom-trained” status, the
family group has doubled in the effect of casting me in the rdle Oo
“Uncle Herbie,” a title which serves to distinguish me seven times
among nieces and nephews. Since the war I resumed the business left by
my father with whom I was in close association from 1 926 until 1941

and also the same domicile in Wellesley Hills where I grew up (ques
tion? ). I reside there with my mother who turned from home affairs 0

[ 318 J

T wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

vesiding over the Gebelein silver business, and my brother, George, Jr.,

Pho entered the lumber business as a much travelling man soon after

fnishing college, ex-WW II interruption of four years, 1942-46, spent
with an infantry division, amphibious operative across the Pacific, in the
job of a battalion communications officer completing the full tour not
without meeting friends in the Harvard Club of Tokyo on the home-
ward course from Hokkaido, My 1925 and 1933 brothers have their
business interests in Taunton, Massachusetts, and their farmside homes
are not far apart on the outskirts. My three sisters did not claim Harvard
husbands, no slight implied in any direction, with all hands rooters for
the Crimson, and one brother-in-law a Harvard son of a former Varsity
pitcher. ok ,

To complete the accounting, along with my “bachelor’s degree” and
presumably in evidence of its benevolent exercise, I have achieved the
honorary degree of godfatherhood and at least a nominal share of extra
unclehood presumptive in further super-numerary surveillance of the
rising generation, and far from speciously avowing a chosen emancipa-
tion of singularity apart, I share among you a special admiration for all
my classmates’ offspring and look forward to looking on at some of the

evidences of the “Fun in ’5r.””.

+ FLOYD TOMKINS GIBSON

Born: Jan. 6, 1905, Providence, R. I. Parents: Percy Bunce Gibson, Ann

Maria Cutter Tomkins. a |
Prepared at: Episcopal Academy, Overbrook, Pa.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926. :
Married: Dagny A. C. Moller, June 18, 1927, Cambridge, England.
Died: Aug. 7, 1932, Philadelphia, Pa. |

Floyd Tomkins Gibson was an active and prominent member of our
Class. He was sub-chairman of the freshman finance committee, a
member of the junior dance committee, chairman of the senior smoker
Committee, and assistant business manager of the Advocate. He partici-
Pated in track events as assistant interscholastic track manager in 1925
and manager in 1926. For two years he was a member of the Speakers’
Committee of the Phillips Brooks House, and of the Chapel Committee.

€ was also a member of the Glee Club, Pierian Sodality, Speakers’
Club, the Phoenix Club, and Hasty Pudding-Institute of 1770. During

: Ms reshman year he received the Harvard Club of Philadelphia Schol-
rs lp.
After graduating from Harvard, he went to the University of Cam-

[ 319 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

bridge, England, to do graduate work in history. He was at Trinity Hall
from October, 1926, to June, 1927. He became interested in motion
picture production and for several years travelled and worked in Europe,
mainly at Nice, Berlin with UF A, and Paris with Paramount’s Foreign
Studios. In the spring of 1931 he wasin charge of Paramount S German
production.

Gibson and his wife returned to the United States i in 1932. He had
obtained a promising position in Hollywood. En route to Hollywood he
visited his family in Philadelphia, where he contracted the illness which
resulted in his death. He was survived by his wife.

ft

ERSKINE FULLERTON GILBERT

Home Address: Quarry Hill, Gilbertsville, N. ¥.

Born: Sept. 11, 1904, Columbus, Ohio. Parents: Henry Lathrop Gilbert, 88,
Laura Fullerton.

Prepared at: Columbus Academy, Columbus, Ohio; Tome Institute, Port De-
posit, Md.

Years tn College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; A.M., 193 I.

Married: Helena Horton, Sept. 1, 1939, Irvington-on-Hudson, N. Y. CAil-
dren: Henry Horton, Dec. 14, 1943; Laurel Brooks, June 13, 1947.

Harvard Brother: Henry Lathrop Gilbert, ’24.

Occupation: Free-lance motion picture writer and producer,

Military or Naval Record: Lieutenant commander, U.S, Naval Reserve, 1942—

46.
M. ber of: Harvard Club of New York; U.S, Naval Reserve.

%+ BERNARD ANTHONY GILFOY

Bern: July 16, 1904, Adams, Mass, Parents: Frank Joseph Gilfoy, Emma
Marie Perry,

Prepared at: Adams High School, Adams, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1923.

Died: Oct. 11, 1923, Cambridge, Mass.

In his freshman year at Harvard, Bernard Anthony Gilfoy received
the Samuel C. Cobb Scholarship and Alumni Scholarship. He was a
member of the freshman boxing squad, freshman wrestling squad, and
freshman Glee Club. During the summer following his freshman year
he secured a job which demanded strenuous manual labor and long
hours. This work left him physically exhausted. Early in his sophomore
year he contracted typhoid fever which resulted in his death at the Still-
man Infirmary. |

[ 320 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

CHARLES WYLLIE GILLIES

Home Address: Cognewaugh Rd., Greenwich, Conn.

Office Address: Hayden, Stone & Co., 25 Broad St., New York, N. Y.

Bora: March 15, 1904, Boston, Mass, Parents: James Gillies, Agnes Wyllie
' Brown,

Prepared at: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass,

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926,

Married: Marjorie Ruth Sullivan, Sept. 10, 1929, Braintree, Mass. Children:
Richard Wyllie, Sept. 13, 1930; Barbara Ruth, Nov. 11, 1931 (died
Dec. 1, 1935) 3 Donald Cunningham, June 22, 1937; Charles Gregory,
March 6, 1939.

Harvard Son: Richard Wyllie Gillies, 52.

Occupation: Partner, Hayden, Stone & Company, stock brokers and dealers in
investment securities and commodities.

Offices Held: Director, 1946—49, Stock Clearing Corporation of Boston; vice-
president, 1946-49, Old Colony Council, member Town Committee,
1943-49, chairman, Town Committee, 1947-49, member executive
committee, since 1950, Greenwich Council, Boy Scouts of America;
chairman, Braintree District, 1947-49, director, Boston Board, 1947—
49, American Red Cross,

Member of : Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New York; Downtown
Athletic Club; City Mid-Day ‘Chub; Riverside Yacht Club; Box 52 As-

sociation.

My story of life since graduation in June, 1926, continues just as it
appears in our earlier Class Reports. After spending several summers
working at Hayden, Stone & Company while in school, I found I liked
the business. Remember the ’20’s, when a stock broker was just the tops
in careers? In spite of the depression and following restrictive legislation
and rules, I still like the business, and have been with Hayden, Stone
ever since. As reported earlier, in 1944 I became a partner. In 1947 I
started making weekly trips to our New York office, and it developed -
that I spent more time in New York than in Boston. By the middle of
1948 we, that is, the family, decided that we would have more home
life if the family moved to New York. Uprooting from a small town,
where you knew and were known, where we had been active in Red
Cross, Boy Scout, and Community Fund affairs, even as a call member
of the Fire Department, and facing New York living was mitigated by
finding a charming home in Greenwich, Connecticut. There are three
hours a day commuting to the office, but we live in the country, and we
are still New Englanders.

Our boys are growing up; our number one son is in the Class of

[ 321 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926 ©

1952; the others, twelve and fourteen, are in a Greenwich schoo]
Through my brother’s death in 1947 we have added my nephew, eigh
een, to our household. The companionship and activities of our boys
grow each year, so that I still maintain an active interest in Boy Scout
and other youth affairs. I have strong hopes that our other three boys
will gravitate successfully towards Harvard and that when their time
comes to file Class Reports, they, too, will pause while writing and think
“T am glad that I went to Harvard.” : ”

IRVING LESTER GINSBURG

Address: 1387 Main St., Springfield, Mass.

Born: May 17, 1904, Springfield, Mass. Parents: Jacob Ginsberg, Sarah Pra-
valla,

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degree: §.B., 1926.

Occupation: Law.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Irving
Ginsburg did not return a questionnaire.

LESTER GINSBURG

Home Address: 519 E. 86th St., New York 28, N. Y.
Office Address: Electric Bond & Share Co., 2 Rector St., New York 6, N.Y.
Born: Dec. 17, 1906, Roxbury, Mass. Parents: Nathan Ginsburg, Anna Re-

becca Berlow.

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass. /

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. summa cum laude, 1926; M.B.A.
magna cum laude, 1929.

Married: Rosslyn Gorney, Jan. 16, 1932, New York, N. Y. Child: Paula Bess,
July 19, 1939. : :

Harvard Brother: Alfred Philip Ginsburg, ’21. Do ,

Occupation: Vice-president, public utility holding company with engineering;
construction and business consulting subsidiary (Ebasco Services Inc.).

Wartime Government Posts: Special assistant to the Director General for Oper
tions, War Production Board. .

Offices Held: Vice-president and director, Electric Bond & Share Company
associate treasurer and director, New York Association for New Ametl
cans.

Publications: Various articles on market surveys as a tool of management in Gas
Age Record, and other trade publications. . |

The summer after graduation I spent in the bond cage at Lees Hig-
ginson & Company, one of our more dignified and reputable Boston 11°

[ 322 ]
<

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

yestment banking houses. Presumably I was training for something or
other, but I found putting sealing wax on envelopes, and counting bonds
(which I did not own) a little less than stimulating, so I decided that
perhaps I needed more than just academic training to be a success in
business, particularly since my family connections did not seem likely to
land me in a partner’s position within the next year or two. I returned
to the Harvard Business School in the fall of 1926, the first year in which
the new buildings donated by George F. Baker were occupied.

The year 1926-27 was uneventful, and this time I decided to spend
my summer in California. I must admit | had ideas of entering the
movies — not as another Rudolph Valentino, but perhaps to help Louis
B. Mayer run MGM alittle more efficiently. After all, I had had a year
of the Harvard Business School and he hadn’t. Mr. Mayer was very
cordial but somehow or other there was no opening for men in MGM.
But I did like California, and I had had investment banking experience
— with Lee, Higginson & Company, as noted above. That name, plus
a Harvard degree and a Phi Beta Kappa key, had magic effects on a
Yale graduate by the name of Richard Nevins — and he gave me a job
with Hunter, Dulin & Company. The job was that of a bond salesman.
(My wife has edited out the next sentence.) After a year and a half of
pretty good fun, I decided I still needed more training to succeed in
business, and I came back to finish up my course at the Business School,
a step for which I have had reason to be grateful more than once in my
subsequent career. ‘ -- : -

It was in my second year at Business School that I met Philp Cabot,
then professor of public utility management. Professor Cabot had a
marked influence on my philosophy of life and business, and on the
course of my career. After a few initial tiffs in class, my respect and ad-
mMiration for Professor Cabot grew with each meeting, and at the end of
the year when he asked me to stay on at the Business School as his re=
search assistant, I grasped the opportunity eagerly. I spent the next year
working with Professor Cabot as research assistant, and later with a
faculty appointment as assistant in public utility management, and in
later years I worked with him on marketing consulting work. I look
back on those years of working with Professor Cabot as among the most
fruitful and enrichin g years of my life. | .

While I was probably really cut out for an academic or a research
Career in science or medicine, having chosen business as a career in order
to make a living, I was anxious to get going. An opportunity arose as a
result of a market survey Professor Cabot and I made for the Pittsfield

ass.) Coal Gas Company. I went to Pittsfield in a consulting capac~

[ 323 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

future program. This calls for our retaining our investment in Foreign
Power, our investment in United Gas Corporation, and expanding the
work of Ebasco Services Inc. (which has already grown rapidly in the
last five years and is today one of the largest engineering, construction
and business consulting firms in the country), and utilizing the funds
realized from the sale of non-retainable utility assets in non-utility jn-

vestments. We trust that our program will not only be profitable for 9
stockholders but will be socially and economically useful.

That brings me up-to-date except to report that I am now a yic

ur

Ca
president and director of Bond & Share. a

MILTON BACHRACH GLICK >
Home Address: 58 Hoyt St., Darien, Conn.
Office Address: The Viking Press, 18 E. 48th St., New York 17, N. Y,

Born: Sept. 13, 1904, Willard, Ohio. Parents: William Glick, Belle Bachrach
Prepared at: Willard High School, Willard, Ohio.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926. | |
Married: Evelyn Harter, Sept. 17, 1933, Dover Plains, N. Y. Children: Wil-
liam Jonathan Harter, April 11, 1937; Thomas Harter Bachrach, May
15,1939.

Occupation: Director of production, The Viking Press, book publishing.
Military or Naval Record: Coast Guard Reserve (T), July, 1944, to September,
1945, involving twenty-four hours per week of service at Staten Island

Coast Guard Base; also aircraft spotting and other civilian defense activi-
ties.

Wartime Government Posts: Typographic consultant, Office of the Geographer,

Department of State; production consultant, Overseas Editions, Office
of War Information.

Dffices Held: Director and at various times chairman of committees, such as
awards, nomination, finance, etc., of the American Institute of Graphic
Arts; chairman, Trade Book Clinic; twice juror for “Fifty Books of the

Year”; guest speaker at various times for courses in publishing or boo
production at Columbia and New York Universities and before
groups of printers and typographers.

various
ember of: Grolier Club, New York; American Institute of Graphic

Arts}
Harvard Club of Connecticut.
blications: Commentary on bookmaking and publishing problems in publish
ingj ournals,

If these notes are to reveal something of myself and the kind of life I
J, Ican think of no better point of departure than some of the items
hat ingenious questionnaire which Neil DuBois concocted.

-haven’t ever consulted a psychiatrist and so far as I can foresee that

[ 326 J

cl dda lh st

T wenty- fifth Anntversary Report

rofession is unlikely to enrich itself at my expense. The fact is that lam
a fortunate and happy husband and father with an interesting job which
I find stimulating and enjoyable in spite of daily pressure and problems.
However, these fundamental harmonies in my life do not delude me
into thinking all’s right with the world, Tt may be that those of us who so
far, at least, are spared personal tribulation, have the greater obligation

to try to think out and work for the right answer to national and world
problems. , 7 Bo So

I can’t pretend to have accomplished anything worth reporting in this
respect, but I shall note a few conclusions which I have reached (subject
to change, of course).

1. The United World Federalist movement seems to me to offer the

combination of idealism and practical possibility of achievement most
likely to result in long-term World Peace.

2. The maintenance of civil liberties seems to me to be one of our
most important national problems. I do not suggest that national se-
curity and other matters may not be of equal importance to our welfare,
but these are getting ample attention, while the struggle for the mainte-
nance of our constitutional freedoms is not. There is much lip-service
being given to Freedom, but to paraphrase the Negro spiritual, “Every-
body talkin’ bout freedom ain’t gettin’ it.”
- This brings me to another question in the DuBois Quiz Show. I do
not think that professors at Harvard or any other university are either
too conservative or too radical. I believe that the professor, scientist, en-
gineer, artist, or anyone else, has the right to his own political and social
opinions so long as these opinions are not thrust upon others either cov-
ertly or overtly, and so long as such persons do not commit acts of sedi-
tion. I am very proud of the Harvard tradition in this regard, and I
applaud President Conant’s outspoken reaffirmation of it.
_ Talways exercise my right to vote, and although I consider myself an
independent, I have become affiliated with a major party because par-
tcipating in the choice of candidates is as important as selecting the best
of the nominees in the final elections.
ly non-political civil service has been devoted to the Boy Scouts.
uring the past four years I have been active as committee member and
Committee chairman of our local group of younger scouts, the Cubs.
As a typographer, book designer, or whatever one prefers to call the
arcpitect of books, I have had great pleasure in working hard at my job,

Tr T have been fortunate in the recognition my books have received.
A Cyyhave frequently been chosen by the American Institute of Graphic

rts for the annual “Fifty Books of the Year” exhibitions. I also have

[ 327 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

had the privilege of serving on a number of committees and
asa director of the American Institute of Graphic Arts.

My wife, our two sons, and I enjoy music, tennis, riding, SWwimmin
picnicking, talking, and vacationing together. To these family Activities
we adults would add special interest in fine printing, reading, the the.
atre, and gardening. We do not have time or inclination to play cards or

watch television. In May, 1950, I became husband of an author when
my wife’s first novel was published by Doubleday & Company under her
maiden name, Evelyn Harter. Her previous writing had been con cerned
with printing and typography, a field in which she worked with distinc.
tion before we were married, but this publication of a creative work
constituted a landmark in the personal history of our family. Our sons,
now eleven and thirteen years old, enjoy the usual sports; as they share
the lawn-mowing with me, I share their sports with them. Their school
records so far lead me to hope that they will choose to go to Harvard and
will be welcomed there. :

J uries, and

AARON MOSES GOLD

Home Address: 2743 Arlington Ave., Bronx 63, N. ¥.

Office Address: 300 Central Park W,, New York 24, N. Y.

3orn: May 10, 1906, Lowe, Minsk, Russia, Parents: Abraham Gold, Sarah

Ravich. |

‘repared at: Salem High School, Salem, Mass.; English High School, Boston,

Mass. .
zars in College: 1922—1926. Degrees: S.B. cum laude, 1926; M.D., 1931.
Yarried: Ethel Zuckerman, Feb. 3, 1930, Boston, Mass. CAsidren: Avram,
Aug. 29, 1941; Berril, Jan. 22, 1944. | |

<cupation: Physician; specialist in orthopedic surgery. .

dlitary or Naval Record; World War II: captain, Army Medical Corps; ser ved
as surgeon, 1943-45; awarded New Guinea and Philippine campaig®
ribbons.

‘ues Held: Associate in orthopedic surgery, Harlem Hospital, New York
City; associate orthopedic surgeon, Hospital for Joint Diseases, New
York City. : .

nber of: American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons; American Medical
Association ; Medical Society of the County of New York. | ;

‘ications: A number of papers dealing with my surgical specialty in B wlletim,

Hospital for Joint Diseases; Bulletin of Harlem Hospital; J ournal of Bote
and Joint Surgery.

did the usual four-year stint to obtain an M.D. degree at Harvar d

ical School in June, 1931. Combining a bent for mechanics wit

[ 328 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

medicine, I became interested in orthopedic surgery. After conscien-
tiously serving a two-year internship, I settled down at the Hospital for
oint Diseases, New York City, for a two-year residency in my chosen
held. The residency was followed by a two-year fellowship in orthopedic
surgery with emphasis on bone pathology, under the able guidance of
Dr. Henry L. Jaffe, an outstanding pioneer in that field. All this took
me through January, 1938. ae

I decided it was about time to undertake the tussle known as “‘private
practice.” I was managing to convince both the patients and referring
doctors that I knew what 1 was doing when I considered it my solemn
duty to offer my services to my country in January, 1943.

Followed three years of travel (and tribulations), two of them in the
Pacific area watching gorgeous sunsets in New Guinea, and picking up
shells from the coral strands of Biak and admiring the lush and magnifi-
cent semi-tropical foliage of Manila. Of course there were more serious
duties — but why speak of those? I was back in “civies” in January,
1946, to begin the tussle of private practice all over again. This time to
cheer me on I had not only a wife but two fine boys. I resumed my hos-
pital connections and duties. The present finds me working hard and
“making out.” Let’s hope it continues thus uneventfully without further
interruptions. -

EDWARD JOSEPH GOLDEN

Home Address: 28 Lourdes Lane, Jamaica Plain, Mass.

Office Address: Boston Technical High School, Boston, Mass. .

Born: June 6, 1905, Boston, Mass. Parents: William Henry Golden, Mary
Ellen Hagerty. .

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

Years in Callege: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; A.M. (Boston Coll.),
1928; Ep.M. (Boston Teachers’ Coll.), 1939. .

Married: Marie H. Hohman, July 30, 1932, Dorchester, Mass. Children:
Edward Joseph, Jr., March 11, 19345 Jane Marie, Jan. 9, 1937; Wil-
liam Francis, March 1, 1941; Alicia Mary, July 7, 1944; Mark Chris-
topher, Jan. 16, 1948. -

Occupation: Teacher of English.

Member of: Boston Schoolmen’s Association; American Schoolmen’s Associa-
tion. . |

T have been teaching English in two Boston high schools, Roxbury
Memorial High for Boys, 1929-1942, and Boston Technical High
School since 1942. Since a teacher with a family must perform many
chores, if the family is going to eat, I am also: a golf and tennis coach,

[ 329 ]

we ran ae

Harvard Class of 1926

a night school teacher, a garden supervisor, and a track official. With a
few other oddly assorted jobs I keep an arm’s length ahead of the
sheriff. At times it seems all very confusing.

I expect that Ed, Jr., will enter Harvard this fall. Dramatics is his
line. He has a radio show of his own and last summer played at the Brat-
tle Theatre with John Carradine in Judius Caesar. His interest in drama-
tics is shared by my two daughters, Jane has played in several Tributary
Theatre productions in Boston. Alicia appeared last fall at the Brattle
Theatre with Ruth Ford and Joseph Schildkraut in Pirandello’s Six
Characters tn Search of an Author, | warn them that even teachers may
eat more regularly than actors, but they just laugh. Pm trying to interest
the other two boys in plumbing or brick-laying, or even medicine. Any-
way, none of them wants to teach.

BENJAMIN GOLDMAN

Home Address: 88 Bowdoin St., Boston, Mass.
Office Address: 84 State St., Boston 9, Mass.
Bora: Feb. 2, 1906, Somerville, Mass. Parents: Lowe Goldman, Gertrude
Silverman,
Prepared at: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B., 1929.
Married: Estelle R. Lowenstein, March 28, 1933, Brookline, Mass. (divorced
1947). Child: Carl Allen, Feb. 9, 1934.
Harvard Brothers: Meyer Harold Goldman, ’26, LL.B., ?29; Morris Gold-
man,’33, M.B.A., ’37.
Occupation: Lawyer, law office of Mark M. Horblit, Esq.
Military or N aval Record: U.S. Army Air Force, corporal, aviation mechanic,
Jan., 1943—Sept. 26, 1945.
Offices Held: Member, committee on Amendment of the Law of the Boston
Bar Association, 1946-47; Judge Advocate, Boston Metropolitan Post
#1, AMVETS, 1945-49; Judge Advocate, AMVETS, Department of
Massachusetts, 1945-46; member, National Executive Committee of
AMVETS, 1948-50, Massachusetts Allied Veterans Housing Council,
1946-49.
Member of: Boston Bar Association; Massachusetts Bar Association; Law So-
ciety of Massachusetts; American Bar Association; Boston Zionist Club.
Publications: “The Scope of Review in Equity Suits” 23 B.U. Law Reewew
66-106 (Jan. 1943); “Facilitating Appeals in Equity,” Law Seciery

Journal 16-47, Feb., 1946; “Proposed Changes in Equity Appeals,” 17
Boston Bar Bulletin 78, April, 1946.

Since my graduation from Harvard Law School in 1929, I have been
associated in the practice of law with the firm of Mark M. Horblit, Esq.

[ 330 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

(Harvard ’05, LL.B. ’07), in Boston. We are what are called in the
profession, ‘ ‘lawyers’ lawyers.” I am in general practice, but I specialize,
toa large degree, in trial and appellate work, particularly j in equity suits
and corporation cases.

In January, 1943, I joined the Army asa private. I was sent to West
Virginia University where I studied advanced mechanical engineering
under ASTP. From there I was sent to Greensboro, North Carolina,
where I became director of lecturers. Then I was sent to the Aviation
Mechanics School at Gulfport Field, Mississippi. On March 29, 1944,
I was graduated as an aviation and engine mechanic. Then I attended
the B-24 bomber (Liberator) school which was an adjunct to the Ford
plant at Willow Run, Michigan. I graduated from that school on May
30, 1944. From June, 1944, to September, 1945, I worked for the
Troop Carrier Command on the line as a full-fledged (skilled) airplane
and engine mechanic in the repair and maintenance of C-47 and C-46
cargo and troop transport planes. I was discharged from the Army on
September 26, 1945.

After the Army I had to start the practice of law all over again —
from scratch. I took refresher courses given by the Bar Association. My
old office was waiting for me. At the request of an officer of the Bar
Association, I filed and presented a bill in the Massachusetts legislature
to revamp the procedure on appeals in equity suits. I wrote and spoke
extensively on the subject. It has borne fruit.

My connection with the American Veterans of World War IT,
AMVETS, was an interesting experience in postwar resettlement of the
soldier. I was elected the judge advocate of my post, the judge advocate
of the State department, and a member of the Massachusetts Allied
Veterans Housing Council. It certainly was an education in both the
selflessness of man and the selfishness of man.

Allin all, I have had quite an interesting life: lawyer, author, lecturer,
teacher, mathematician, engineer, machinist, airplane mechanic, sales-
man, businessman, and soldier.

My son is seventeen years old, six feet, one inch tall, husky, good look-
ing, plays tackle on the Brookline High School football team, is an all-
round athlete, and an excellent student. He aspires to Harvard.

[ 331 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

MEYER HAROLD GOLDMAN

Home Address: 2035 Commonwealth Ave., Brighton, Mass.
Office Address: 216 Barristers Hall, Pemberton Sq., Boston 8, Mass.

Born: Feb, 22, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Lowe Goldman, Gertrude
Silverman.

Prepared at: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass,

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.Pa, 1926; LL.B., 1929.

Married: Gladys F. Michelman, March 5, 1933, Brookline, Mass. CAild:
Josephine Marsha, Oct. 28, 1939.

Harvard Brothers: Benjamin Goldman, ’26, LL.B., ’29; Morris Goldman,
33, M.B.A., 37.

Occupation: General law practice.

Offices Held: Chairman of membership and member Board of Governors,
Boston City Club, 1939-42 proprietor, Social Law Library.

Member of: American Bar Association; Massachusetts Bar Association ; Social
Law Library ; Academy of Political Science.

I became a lawyer in 1929, the year of the crash and the depression.
I was married on March 4, 1933, the day the banks closed. (No one
can say I lacked courage. )

From 1929 to 1933 I served my legal apprenticeship in the law office
of George Stanley Harvey, a celebrated criminal lawyer and leading
Republican of that day. (The two don’t necessarily go together. )

In 1934 and 1935 I served without compensation as one of the
lawyers representing two defendants in a sensational murder trial. My
clients were executed. That really wasn’t my fault — there were twelve
jurymen against me. Anyway the defendants had only about a half-
dozen murders charged to them.

In 1937 my wife and I went to California for a vacation trip. The
outstanding feature of that trip was the refusal of the San Francisco Bar
Association to cash my check of $25.00. (Who should know a lawyer’s
credit standing better than the Bar Association?) I promptly went
across the street to a bank, which cashed my check without any question.

When my spirits are low, I try my violin and when my violin is low, —
I try spirits.

I have had some interesting and celebrated cases in my legal career
and have tried my best to live up to the tradition of the Bar in general
and of Harvard in particular.

During my college and law school years, I took part in various school
activities. Out of school, I have tried to do my bit in communal organiza-
tions, too numerous to mention. I belong to two synagogues: Congrega-
tion Beth Israel in Cambridge and Temple Israel in Boston, Massachu-
setts.

[ 332 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

From 1929 to 1934 I was quite active in children’s clubs, and for
most of my adult life I have been especially interested in Zionist efforts
to establish a homeland for the Jews in Palestine.

There is one thing about the law which is very amusing. There are
literally hundreds of thousands of books and pamphlets and suggestions
from various sources on how to find the law. If only somebody could
now tell us how to find the client. 7

| PAUL KERVIN GOLDMAN >

Home Address: 112 Gordon Rd. , Waban, Mass.

Office Address: H. Goldman’s Sons Corp., 15 East St., Boston, Mass.

Born: April 19, 1906, Boston, Mass. Parents: Charles Goldman, Frances G.
Solomont.

Prepared at; English High School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.

Married: Margaret Linenthal, Feb. 16, 1936, Boston, Mass, Children: Paula,
June 1, 1938; Carol, May 10, 1946.

Harvard Brother: Sumner Solomont Goldman, *33.

Occupation: Manufacturing leather cut soles.

Offices Held: Past Master, Shawmut Lodge, A.F. & A.M., 1941-43.

Member of: Shoe and leather associations; charitable associations; Belmont

Country Club; Masons,

My whole life since leaving school has centered around women and
women’s soles. About eight hours a day is devoted to supplying millions
of pairs of women’s soles a year to shoe manufacturers. A good part of
another eight hours is devoted to my little Woman and to my smaller
Women. The balance of eight hours a day — well, it’s time to sleep. As
somewhat of a diversion we have gone into the field of high grade
women’s shoes at retail under the name of “Charles Sumner.”

Business takes me to the shoe manufacturing centers of the country
several times a year. Other than that, my travelling has been more or
less limited to vacation trips part way and all the way down the Atlantic
coast during the winter, and Maine and New Hampshire in the summer.
The Harvard-Stanford game was the chief excuse for a flying trip to
California. Incidentally, I was perhaps the only faithful outside of the
official Harvard football family to see every game during the 1949 sea-
son. During the game at Stanford I overheard just behind me “in ’26
the ends were not sucked in that way” — which resulted in a pleasant
reunion with “Wild Bill’? Combs.

My family — my business — supporting the boys at gin-rummy —

[ 333 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

golfing at which I can best manage to win only on the first tee — put-
tering around my “estate” at times — in short, just a happy home-body!

JOSEPH GOODMAN, JR.

Home Address: 85 Mayflower Rd., Needham 92, Mass. -

Office Address: 375 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

Born: Oct. 16, 1904, Hartford, Conn. Parents: Joseph Goodman, Rosie Stern.

Prepared at: Hartford Public High School, Hartford, Conn.; Phillips Acad-
emy; Andover, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B. cum bande, 19265 M.D. cum laude,
1932.

Married: Doris Ryan, Sept. 3, 1929, Schenectady, N. Y. (divorced 1945) 3
Velma Sweet, Sept. 26, 1945, Dover, Mass. CAildren> Joseph Wilfred,
Feb, 8, 1936; Richard Alan, July 12, 1938.

Occupation: Physician, specializing in dermatology.

Offices Held: Chief of the Department of Dermatology, Beth Israel Hospital,
Boston, Mass.; Diplomate, American Board of Dermatology and Syphi-
lology.

Member of: American Medical Association; New England Dermatological So-

ciety; Academy of Dermatology and Syphilology; Society for Investiga-
tive Dermatology.

Publications: Various papers concerned with dermatological subjects,

On graduation from college, my main interest was in music. The
year after graduation was spent with the idea of making a career in
music in some way. The year sufficed to show me that my talents were
not sufficient for the job. Therefore the next year was spent as a special
student in Harvard, taking the courses which were necessary for en-
trance into medical school.

In 1928 I entered Harvard Medical School, praduating i in 1932.
There followed further medical training which consisted of six months
as voluntary assistant in dermatology at the Massachusetts General Hos-
pital in Boston, eighteen months of internship on the Fifth Medical
Service of the Boston City Hospital, one year in the Syphilis Clinic and
the Laboratory of Experimental Syphilis (under Dr. Earl Moore and

Dr. Alan Chesney) at the Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, and
two years during which my time was divided between the Skin and
Cancer Unit of the New York Postgraduate Hospital (where I was ap-
pointed assistant in dermatology) and the office of Dr. Marion Sulz-
berger (where I learned much about the theory and practice of the

specialty of dermatology ). Since the fall of 1937 I have been i in practice
in Boston and Framingham.

{ 334 ]

Twenty-fifth Anntversary Report

My interest in music has continued. I take great pleasure in playing
trios with two friends, attending concerts, operas, and the theatre. These
constitute my principal interests outside my family, and these interests
are shared by my wife. |

DOUGLAS HUNTLY GORDON

Home Address: 8 Charlecote Pl., Baltimore 18, Md.

Office Address: 1125 Fidelity Bldg., Baltimore, Md.

Born: April 22, 1902, Baltimore, Md. Parents: Douglas Huntly, Gordon,
Elizabeth Southall Clarke.

Prepared at: Gilman Country School, Baltimore, Md.

Years in College: 1922~1925. Degrees: A.B. magna cum laude, 1926; LL.B.,
1928; LL.D. (Univ. of Maryland), 1932.

Married; Winifred Macmillan Claude, June 2, 1934, Annapolis, Md.

Occupation: Lawyer.

Wartime Government Posts: Appeal agent, Baltimore City Draft Board #5,

Offices Held: Member, House of Delegates, General Assembly of Maryland,
1930-34; assistant United States Attorney, 1934-39.

Member of : Century Association of New York; Grolier Club of New York.

Publications: “The Censoring of Diderot’s Encyclopédie,” Columbia Univer-
sity Press, 1948 (jointly with Norman L. Torrey); articles in the
American Bar Association Journal, Maryland Historical Magazine, Walters
Art Gallery Journal, . .

T have practised law since graduation from the Law School in 1928.
But I also have used my profession as a center for other activities. I have
been somewhat involved in local politics, and for a while represented
the city of Baltimore in the State Legislature. I have been greatly inter-
ested in education and have been on the boards of many educational in-
stitutions, in particular, of St. John’s College of which, after one year
as secretary, I was president for three years.

Being extremely fond of the older residential section of the city in
which I was born, and until recently always lived, I have been active
in the planning and zoning for that district and, to some extent, for the
city as a whole, and have helped preserve that portion of the city and
others, as well as the most beautiful part of Annapolis, the ancient State
capital, from senseless destruction. I am afraid I must confess that my
happiest moments are during my annual trips to the Continent, where
in the intervals of working with European clients and lawyers, and see-
ing many foreign friends, I add to my small collection of books and
works of art. The interests associated with these were the subject of my
studies at college and are my most agreeable relaxation at present.

[ 335 ]

o

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

Lately I have been able to devote more time to literary pursuits than J
could do when I first came to the Bar. I hope sooner or later to be able
to give the bulk of my time to such activities and to the pleasures of
European travel unalloyed: with any professional cares.

ISRAEL GOROVITZ

Home Address: 1572 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass.
Office Address: Lurie, Alper & Gorovitz, 85 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.
Born: July 9, 1905, Kreslawa, Russia. Parents: Benjamin Gorovitz, Rachel
Waldstein.
Prepared at: Hyde Park High School, Hyde Park, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; LL.B., 1929.
Married: Della London, Jan. 3, 1937, Boston, Mass. C’Aildren: Samuel, Nov.
23, 1938; David Urdang, Feb. 17, 1945 (died Aug. 10,1945).
Occupation: Lawyer.
Wartime Government Posts: Legal staff of OPA, 1942~44.
Publications: “Child Labor in the United States,” Social Service Magazine
(Univ. of Chicago), December, 1928; “Tax Injunctions and the Stand-
ard Nut Cases,” Tax Magazine, December, 1932.

HILTON PROCTOR GOSS

Home Address: 11 Courtland Drive, Montgomery 6, Ala.

Office Address: Air University, Maxwell Air Force Base, Ala.

Born: Dec. 5, 1903, Brooklyn, N. Y. Parents: Adam Proctor Goss, Florence
Adele Ernst.

Prepared at: Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1923, 1924-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; Pu.D. (Univ.
of California), 1942.

Married: Helen Mitchell Rocca, Jan. 7, 1936, Berkeley, Calif.

Occepation: Professor of political science, Air University.

Military or Naval Record: Commissioned 2nd lieutenant, U.S. Army Air Force,
February, 1943; service with Western Flying Training Command at
Santa Ana, Calif., and Fort Sumner, N, Mex., February, 1943—Aptib
1944} Overseas service with Central African Division, Air Transport
Command, Accra, Gold Coast; North African Division, ATC, Cas4-
blanca, French Morocco; and European Division, ATC, Paris, France;
May, 1944—April, 1946; separated July, 1946, as captain; receive
Army Commendation Award, 1946,

Wartime Government Posts: Civilian Defense Warden, Pullman, Washingto™
1941-43.

Offices Held: Professor of political science, Air University, since 19465 mem
ber, board of education, Glen Rock, N. J., 1 934-35 (elected) ; member,
Governor’s Committee on Education, New Jersey, 1934-35 (appointed).

[ 336 ]

T wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Member of: American Political Science Association; American Association of
University Professors; Montgomery Forum.

Publications: American Experience with Subversivism, 1947; Civilian Morale under
Aerial Bombardment, 1914-39 (1949). | |

If variety is the spice of life, my career since graduation has certainly
been well seasoned. To cover twenty-five years briefly is a challenge,
especially, as many have remarked, when the quarter-century has been
so momentous a period in the lives of all of us.

Writing advertising copy and doing sales promotional work in my
native New York occupied me from 1926 to 1930, as it had for a year
out of college, 1923-24. Then came a five-year span when I lived,
travelled, and worked in most countries of Europe and many states of
the Union, with brief excursions into politics, trips on freight ships, and
unremunerative efforts at belles lettres. Simultaneously in January,
1936, I ventured into matrimony and into graduate study in political
science. Both ventures proved satisfactory, but marriage, for me, was
and continues to be a happier pursuit than higher learning. Nevertheless,
the University of California awarded me a Ph.D. degree and hired me
to teach comparative government for several years.

From San Francisco Bay we went to the wheatlands of the Palouse
country in eastern Washington. There at the State College of Washing-
ton I taught political science and history quite happily, and, for a while,
had the distinction of possessing the only Harvard Bachelor’s degree on
a good-sized and able faculty. The onset of the war disturbed and dis-
rupted academic circles at Washington State just as we were hoping to
build a home and settle down for a long pull towards emeritus rank.

Early in 1943 I was accepted by the Air Force as an overage de-
stroyer, After a year in Southern California and in New Mexico, the
Air Transport Command, prompted by Oliver La Farge, ’24, sent me
to Africa, With the whole continent as my province I flew, rode the
rails, and motored from the Gold Coast to the Red Sea, from Cairo to’
Johannesburg, and from the Congo to Casablanca, Jungle, bush, veldt,
desert, and mountains, together with cosmopolitan cities, isolated air

ases, and tribal villages, became as familiar to me as the streets, high-
Ways, and seashores of the United States. Thousands of miles and
eighteen months later I won a reprieve in the form of a transfer to Paris
ene’ I spent a chilly but rewarding winter filled with work, art gal-
S, the theatre and operas, museums, and many of the pleasures of
ars Thad experienced during 1930-31.
Pon separation from the Air Force in the summer of 1946 I had
“xpected to return to teaching at Washington State. However, I was

[ 337 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

asked to join the civilian research and advisory staff being set up at the
Air University, newly created graduate school system of the Air Force.
This brought us to the Deep South, the fourth corner of the United
States in which I have had a more or less long-time residence. In mid-
1948 the State Department asked me to accept a permanent appoint-
ment in the Foreign Service, but we decided to stay with the educational
branch of the Air Force, partly because we felt that the Air Force
needed education more than the Foreign Service needed another Har-
vard man.

The postwar years have been interesting and it has been stimulating
to assist in the higher education of many of the colonels under whom I
served in uniform. Montgomery is a pleasant place to live, in spite of the
atrocious summer climate. Research and planning for the Air Force
answer some of my desires to be of service to the nation. And the oppor-
tunity to be a part of the gradual, but steady progress of the South
towards enlightenment has many attractions. Montgomery and the Air
University are busy crossroads between Washington and the great globe
itself. At one time or another most of the Harvard men who are leaders
in education, politics, government, and science come here for lectures
and consultations. In almost every instance they reflect creditably upon
their Cambridge upbringing and stack up well against the visitors from
New Haven, Princeton, New York, Chicago, and, especially, Washing-
ton.

Our hope is to return to the Pacific Coast eventually. Just now it ap-
pears that we shall have to wait until retirement to attain that objective.
In the main there is much about the world of today which we do not
like; but like it or not, it is the world in which we are going to have to
live out the rest of our time, and no atom bomb is apt to be purposely
dropped around here to solve all our personal problems for all the future.
Meanwhile, there are reasonably good health, our home and garden,
our friends, our occasional travels, and our stumbling (but, we like to
feel, sincere) efforts to temper our zeal for reform with good humor
and tolerance to balance against the parlous state of the universe.’

DICKINSON MENEELY GOULD

Home Address: 181 Nighbert Ave., Logan, W. Va.

Office Address: Logan General Hospital, Logan, W. Va.

Born: Dec. 2, 1904, Fort MacPherson, Ga. Parents: Henry Graton Gould,
Grace Lois Meneely.

Prepared at: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass,

[ 338 ]

Twenty-fifth Annrversary Report

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Gladys A. Brewer, May 16, 1930, Louisville, Ky. Children: Paul
Brewer, Sept. 18, 1937; Dickinson Meneely, Jr., Jan. 21, 1944.

Occupation : Superintendent, Logan General Hospital.

Offices Held: Secretary and treasurer, Merrill Coal Company, 1941-45; presi-
dent, Logan Paint Company, 1944-50; secretary and treasurer, Frozen
Industries, Inc., 1943-503 president, Logan County Crippled Chil-
dren’s Society, 1949-50.

Member of: Logan Country Club; Logan Rotary Club.

When I descended upon New York City in the fall of 1926, I found
no great clamor for my services. ‘This may have been due partly to the
fact that I had made no unusual academic record in college and partly
because I had no definite idea as to my life’s work. After some investiga-
tion, I landed in Wall Street in the employ of one of the old-line con-
servative bond houses. I was just one of the boys and a little crestfallen
to think that a Harvard education did not get me a better start, but this
soon disappeared as I began to outdistance some of the people who had
been “one of the boys” for many years.

The stock market crash of 1929 found me unprepared for the loss of
the easy gains which had accrued in the bull market, but I managed to
stay away from windows in high buildings. The partners of the firm
were also taken by surprise and as a result we were taken over as the
securities affiliate of one of the world’s largest banks. Just prior to this
I made my wisest decision. Peg and I were married in Louisville and
honeymooned on Lookout Mountain, ‘Tennessee.

Asa result of the New Deal and its Securities and Exchange Act, all
securities affiliates of banks were divorced which put me and some four
hundred others of my firm on the street in 1933 at about the low point
of the depression. However, in less than two weeks I was back in harness
in the Street and stayed there until early in 1941, concentrating mostly
on railroad securities with some financial success.

In 1941 I was offered an opportunity to enter the field of hospital
administration and accepted without much delay as the opportunities
seemed to be diminishing in Wall Street. The change has been very
fruitful, not only because of the interesting work but also the change
from a very large to a very small community. Although the background
of large impersonal New York is invaluable for its training and experi-
ence, it cannot compare with the warm personal contact and friendship
of my adopted home town in southern West Virginia, though it is about
90% dependent upon coal mining. Participation in local charities, civic
activities, church affairs, sports activities, and various outside business

[ 339 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

activities have been far more rewarding than anything I experienced
before coming here, despite greater demands on time and energy.

My great distance from Cambridge is cause for regret as I have had
very little opportunity for contact with classmates or Harvard men.
However, the Twenty-fifth Reunion will be a compelling reason for a
return to Cambridge in company with Peg and my elder son, Paul,
aged thirteen. Neither Paul nor my young son, Dickie, has yet thought
much about college but Paul, I believe, will have an experience at the
Reunion which he will not forget and will pass on to his younger brother.

ARTHUR EDWARDS GRANNIS, JR.

Address: P.O, Box 28, Wayland, Mass.

Bora: Nov. 19, 1904, New York, N. Y. Parents: Arthur Edwards Grannis,
Annie lasigi.

Years in College: 1922-1924.

Married: Dorothy Weld, May 25, 1929, Chestnut Hill, Mass. Children:
Dorothy, April 6, 1931; Arthur Edwards, 3d, Nov. 18, 1933.

Occupation: Manufacturing.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Grannis
did not return a questionnaire.

EUGENE GRASSELLI

Home Address: P.O, Box 997, Balboa Island, Calif.

Born: Dec. 11, 1901, Cleveland, Ohio. Parents: Eugene Ramiro Grasselli,
Mabel Field.

Prepared at: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1924.

Married : Louise Hammond, Dec. 5, 1931, New York, N. Y.

Occupation: Retired.

SAMUEL EARL GRAY

Home and Office Address: 309 Grace St., Pittsburgh 11, Pa,

Born: Dec. 17, 1896, Duntroon, Ont., Canada. Parents: Robert T. Gray;
Harriet Almira Caswell.

Prepared at: Francis Parker School, Chicago, Ill.

Years in College: 1922-1924. Degrees: B.Tu. (Gordon Coll.), 1927; S.T.B.
(Western Theological Seminary), 1930.

Married: Catherine Margaret Kohne, Aug. §, 1930, Pittsburgh, Pa. CAz-

dren: Louise Kohne, July 10, 1931; Evelyn Kohne, July 15, 19333
Bruce Kohne, Aug. 11, 1936.

[ 340 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Occupation: Insurance broker; owner, S. E. Gray Agency.

Offices Held: President, Branch Council, Y.M.C.A.; member social committee,
Lions Club; editor, Accident and Health Underwriters for Western
Pennsylvania; manager, Charles E. Knight, real estate broker, comedian,
and speaker. |

Member of: Lions Club; ¥.M.C.A.; Orpheus Singing Society 5 First Presby-
terian Church.

My hobby is religious work. I seek to help keep the Y.M.C.A. on a
proper religious beam. I endeavor to help the church to develop an in-
terest in social work as an expression of the Gospel it preaches. I take an
interest in the development of small struggling churches. My conviction
is that Christianity holds the key to world betterment.

My daughter, Evelyn, soon enters her second year in the Ice Capades
training class at the Gardens in Pittsburgh. My son, Bruce, wears an
emblem “Pee-wee Hockey Champions.” His team was coached by his
Canadian father in the Pittsburgh Gardens. Louise has finished two
years at the Pennsylvania State Teachers College at Indiana, Pennsyl-
vania, and is selling in Horne’s Department Store.

WILLIAM CALHOUN GRAY |.

Home Address: 2029 Connecticut Ave., N.W., Washington, D.C.

Office Address: c/o Dept. of Army, General Staff, Pentagon Bldg., Washing-
ton, D.C.

Born: Aug. 29, 1903, Chestnut Hill, Mass. Parents: William Holder Gray,
’98, Corinne Calhoun.

Prepared at: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Sarah M. Knowles, June 9, 1928, Worcester, Mass. (divorced
1934); Elizabeth Baldwin Gorrissen, April 5, 1941, New York, N. Y.
Children: William Calhoun, Jr., Jan. 24, 1930; James Knowles, June 3,
1932; Mary Deirdre, June 25, 1946.

Harvard Son: William Calhoun Gray, Jr. °5 3.

Harvard Brother: Charles Chauncey Gray,” 29.

Occupation: Civilian administrative assistant, Department of Army—G-4, Gen-
eral Staff.

Military or Naval Record: Captain, U. S, Army; Quartermaster Staff Officer,
Washington, D. C., December, 1942, to December, 1945.

Wartime Government Posts: Special consultant to the Quartermaster General,
January—December, 1942.

Member of : Harvard Club of Boston.

During the past twenty-five years my activities have been varied be-
yond the average. Depressions, wars, booms have all had their effect. I

[ 341 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

have been manager of a bleachery and dye works, an insurance broker,
a retail store executive, a garment manufacturer, a paint salesman, a
soldier, and unemployed. I have also fitted in a few years of government
work, and am back at this work again. Among the nightmares of this
type of existence has been the frequency with which we’ve had to move
furniture and household effects. We hope to be settled in Washington
for some time to come,

Since our Twentieth Reunion a daughter has been added to the fam-
ily, She is slightly red-headed both physically and tempermentally and is
an adorable “little iodine” that keeps us on the move. Like others, I find
it very difficult to get sons into Harvard. Bill, Jr., is a sophomore after
a year’s additional schooling before getting in, and Jim has graduated
from Noble’s, doing well athletically but dismally scholastic-wise. A year
of tutoring is in store for him,

I don’t have too much time for outside activities but I still retain my
interest in golf and bridge. I am an ardent rooter for the Boston Red
Sox. I bemoan the low estate to which Harvard football has fallen and
endure the high elation of my father-in-law, a retired Army colonel,
who glories in West Point’s achievements.

Politically, I remain a steadfast Republican, being unenthusiastic
towards New or Fair Dealers but am not rabid on the subject.

The possibility of war is ever present in the daily papers and I assume
the boys will be called sooner or later though they have physical limita-
tions of ears and eyes at present. I am feeling a little old in enough ways
to hope I shall be no further involved.

On the whole existence has been interesting, exciting, and while at
times thwarting and discouraging, it has not been dull. I consider my-
self most fortunate in a devoted wife and the now nearly five-year-old
daughter is an ever present pleasure (when not biting me). I guess she’s
being spoiled.

DAVID ELY GREEN

Home Address: 430 Verde Lane, South Pasadena, Calif,

Office Address: Filtrol Corp., 3250 E. Washington Blvd., Vernon, Calif.

Born: Jan. 6, 1907, West Orange, N. J. Parents: David Ely Green, Rena Sims
Seabu

Prepared at: "Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

Years in College: 1923-1927. Degrees: A.B., 1926(27); A.B. (Stanford
Univ.), 1926; E.M. (ibid.), 1930.

Married: Margaret Hayes, Jan. 23, 1932, San Francisco, Calif, CAild: David
Ely, Jr., April 8, 1 943-

Occupation: Chemical engineer.

[ 342 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Milstary or Naval Record: World War Il: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, over-
seas duty in North Africa, Italy, France.

Offices Held: Director, South Pasadena Republican Club.

Meméer of : American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers.

Publications: “Calorimetric Microdetermination of Zirconium,” Analytical
Chemistry, Vol. 20, No. 4.

EDWARD BARRY GREENE

Home Address: 5 Monument St., Concord, Mass.

Born: March 8, 1905, Passaic, N. J. Parents: Edward Allen Greene, Marion
Bartlett Barry.

Prepared at: Passaic High School, Passaic, N. J.

Years in College: 1922—1926. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926.

Married: Jane Bannard Adams, Oct. 12, 1939, Northampton, Mass, (di-
vorced 1947). Children: Anne Nicholson, April 17, 1943; David Allen,
May 10,1945.

Harvard Brother: Allen Walker Greene, 42.

Occupation: Free-lance pianist and writer.

Wartime Government Posts: Assistant director and director of job relations train-
ing, Training Within Industry, War Manpower Commission.

Offices Held: Assistant professor of music, Wellesley College, 1932-40, Prince-
ton University, 1940-43, Brown University, 1946-50.

Member of : American Association for the United Nations; World Federalists.

Publications: Choral arrangements for women’s and men’s voices, published by
E. C. Schirmer and Harold Flammer; Wellesley Appreciation Album
(for piano), 2 vols.

My history since 1926 has been chiefly a musical one. I have spent
most of my time teaching and conducting choruses in the colleges men-
tioned above, with some emphasis, too, on organ and piano-playing and
voice-teaching. In line with Harvard (and Concord) tradition, I have
crusaded somewhat for the cause of good music in the schools and I hope
that at least a few of my students still listen to Bach and Beethoven with-
out considering them either highbrow or effete.

In 1931-32 I spent a profitable year of study in Munich and with
Nadia Boulanger in Paris. For three years during the war I forsook
music to enter the business world, first travelling from plant to plant
training foremen in an effort to speed up production, later taking charge
of one of the War Manpower Commission training programs for the
state of New Jersey — an experience I would not have missed but one
T should not want to repeat. The work not only taught me much about

human relations and what the genus homo can accomplish when chal-
lenged to do his best, but also gave me an insight into the ethics (or lack

[ 343 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

of ethics!) of the average business man. I emerged from it somewhat
chastened and wondering what cataclysm would be needed to show y,
all the folly of our present philosophy —a philosophy, as I see ‘it, of
“simme,” gadgets, materialism, and the lust for power. But I have
hopes that, given time, we shall see it and mend our ways.

I left teaching this June for a year (perhaps more) of free-lance
work, thus giving myself a chance to pursue some of the many interests
that have been crowded out by a rather inordinate teaching schedule,
Anyone looking for an excellent two-piano recital is urged to apply at
the above address!

Politically, I am an independent of liberal leanings. Since I am con-
vinced that vision and the courage to make mistakes are hallmarks of a
great man, I voted four times for Franklin Roosevelt, and would do so
again if it were possible. For the problems we now face, sincerity and
camaraderie are not enough. But they are better, at any rate, than the
negativisms and bovine standpatism of the Republican party of the last

few years.

Our best hope of avoiding World War ITI lies, I believe, in a rebirth
of spiritual values, not necessarily along orthodox, church-sponsored
lines. There are signs, especially in present-day literature, that we are
beginning to realize this. But it will take time — and since we do not
have time, I have joined the World Federalists as a second-best and rec-

ommend the work of that organization to others as the quickest, most
practicable means of escaping disaster.

WILLIAM PHILIP GREENFELD

Home Address: 3351 Ruckle St., Indianapolis, Ind. .
Office Address: Congregation Beth-E1 Zedeck, 3357 Ruckle St., Indianapolis,
Ind.
Born: May 8, 1906, Russia. Parents: Hyman Greenfeld, Sara Weiner.
Prepared at: Malden High School, Malden, Mass. © :
Years in College: 1922-1924, 1925-1928. Degrees: A.B., 1926(2 8) Rabb:
(Jewish Theological Seminary), 1932.
Married: Buzya Rich, Sept. 12, 1932, New York, N. Y. Child: Debra Sa™
June 12,1947.
Occupation: Rabbi of Congregation Beth-E] Zedeck.
Offices Held: Delegate, World Jewish Congress in Geneva, 1936; delegat®
World Zionist Congress, 1937-39; member executive committee, ! 93 im
50, member law committee, secretary, since 1950, Rabbinical Assembly
National Executive of Zionist Organization of America, ! 94345?
1949-50.

L 344 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Member of: Rabbinical Assembly; United Synagogue; Rotary Club.

pyplications: “Conservative Judaism” ; “Jewish Law Committee”; articles
(English and Hebrew) in the Reconstructionist,

Jt was in the fall of 1928 that I was admitted to the Jewish Theolog-
.-al Seminary in New York, and after four years I managed to receive
my Rabbinical degree. Waterbury, Connecticut, called for the use of
my questionable talents and with the knowledge that a living wage was
agured (the year was IQ 32), I immediately married Buzya Rich of
Newark. ;

We spent fourteen enjoyable years in Waterbury. During this time
we managed to make several trips to Europe to attend meetings of the
World Jewish Congress and the World Zionist Organization.

In 1946 I was called to Indianapolis. It was shortly thereafter, fol-
lowing more than fourteen years of married life, that we were blessed
with the advent of Debra Sara. Need I state that since then she has been
the main interest of our lives? Life has been kind to us. We enjoy fairly
good health. We have all the material blessings that we want. We have
an opportunity to follow our cultural interests. And we have Debra
Sara. For these blessings we are thankful.

MILTON TURNER GREENMAN

Address: 4129 Magnolia Ave., St. Louis 10, Mo.

Bora: July 6, 1904, Newton Lower Falls, Mass. Parents Jesse More Greenman,
Anne Louise Turner.

Prepared at: Soldan High School, St. Louis, Mo.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Occupation: Manufacturing.

. . . . 3 | -
The information printed above is from the Secretary's files. Green
man did not return a questionnaire.

ALVAN RUCKMAN GRIER, Il

Address: Penn St., Huntington, Pa. i
ora: Aug. 7, 1902, Boston, Mass. Parents: Alvan Ruckman Grier, Mary Vir-
ginia Campbell.
we ared at: Haverford School, Haver ford, Pa.
carsin College: 1 923-1926. Degree: S.B.; 1926(27) .
“pation: Education.

. ’ i f
hn The Information printed above is from the Secretary $ files. Grier did
0 . .
treturn a questionnaire.

[ 345 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

JOHN SEGUENOT GRIMES

Home Address: 709 W. University Pkwy., Baltimore 10, Md.

Office Address: Commercial Credit Co., 14 Light St., Baltimore 2, Md.

Born: Jan. 15 1906, St. Louis, Mo. Parents: William Hearne Grimes, ’97,
Isabel Clementine Seguenot.

Prepared at: University School for Boys, Baltimore, Md.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Mary Elizabeth Miller, Dec. 13, 1930, Catonsville, Md. Children:
Shirley Carter, March 9, 1933; Anne Seguenot, Nov. 9, 1936.

Harvard Brother: William Alexander Grimes, ’25, LL.B., ’28.

Occupation: Vice-president, Commercial Credit Company.

Member of : Harvard Club of Maryland; Merchants Club; Baltimore Country
Club; L’Hirondelle Club; Big Brother Movement.

It was indeed with a shock that I started receiving information about,
and requests that I should supply data to be used in connection with, our
Class’s Twenty-fifth anniversary. It didn’t seem possible that it could
have been almost twenty-five years since the time when, as a symbol of
four years’ efforts in Cambridge, I had been presented with a sheepskin
bearing my name and was turned loose on a world which at that time
offered opportunities of a kind not now — thanks in no small part to an-
other Harvard alumnus — available to those just being placed in a simi-
lar position. However, my calendar which, along with other printed
matter, I can read quite well when I wear glasses, despite the fact that
the figures and letters they now use are so much smaller than they for-
merly were, assures me that such a passage of time really has taken place.

It didn’t take a very large percentage of that time to make me realize
the fallacy of the belief held by some that the combination of a Harvard
education and a little work — not necessarily too hard — would quickly
result in the accumulation of an initial million dollars as a start. Now,
after almost twenty-five years, I still find myself at least several dollars
short of that goal, even in our present depreciated currency. On the

other hand, I cannot truthfully say that I have been greatly distressed by
this fact or that my family and I have been seriously inconvenienced by
any inability to possess or enjoy those things which we felt we needed or
even just badly wanted. Life has in fact been very good to me and more
than just a few minutes would be required to count the many blessings
with which I have been bestowed. At the head of the list of them is my
family. Being somewhat of the old-fashioned school of thought, I have
confined myself to just one wife; she also is apparently quite well satis-
fied with such an arrangement and, as we have known each other since

[ 346 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

we were six years old, she has had a reasonable opportunity to judge
whether or not she made a bad bargain. In keeping with Harvard tradi-
tion, I have done my share in seeing that children do not outnumber
their parents, but can nevertheless proudly present to the world, even
if not as candidates for Harvard, two daughters who add a final touch
in making our home a happy one.

As to the business side of my life, I have, but for a short interval, been
associated with Commercial Credit Company ever since I started to
work in the fall following graduation. Here, too, I was fortunate in be-
ing given the opportunity to learn the various phases of the company’s
operations and while some of my jobs may not have been what I might
have chosen myself, still each one has added at least something to my
knowledge and, I hope, to my worth to my employer. One of my assign-
ments was to go to New York for a “temporary” period. Under the cir-
cumstances I did not move my family, but instead commuted to and
from Baltimore on weekends. And how glad I am that I never did
change my domicile, for a short time ago, after only a little over eleven
years of such a mode of existence, I was transferred back to the com-
pany’s home office in Baltimore. If I am late in submitting this report it
is at least in part due to that move with the resultant purchase of a new
home and all the work and confusion arising therefrom. I do, however,
promise to appear promptly in Cambridge next June.

LEROY WHITNEY GROSSMAN

Home Address: 8224 N. Graylog Lane, Milwaukee, Wis.

Office Address: Marine National Exchange Bank, Milwaukee, Wis.

Born: Jan. 30, 1904, Milwaukee, Wis. Parents: Michael Henry Grossman,
Lucy Barker Whitney.

Prepared at: Riverside High School, Milwaukee, Wis. |

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B., 1926(27) ; M.B.A., 1928.

Married: Dorothy Nickerson, June 16, 1927, Hartford, Conn. Children:
Thomas Whitney, April 29, 1929; Leroy Whitney, Jr., Dec. 29, 19313
Richard Parker, May 9, 1934.

Harvard Sons: Thomas Whitney Grossman, ’51; Leroy Whitney Grossman,

Tey 53.

Oceeprim: Commercial banking; vice-president, Marine National Exchange
Bank.

Wartime Government Posts: War Price & Rationing Board.

Offices Held: Instructor in finance, American Institute of Banking, 1933-39:
since 1950; lecturer in finance, Marquette University, 1933-405 di-
rector, treasurer, Stark Hospital, since 1937, Fox Point School, 1939-

[ 347 ]

Flarvard Class of 1926

47; member, 1939-47, Vice-president, 1943-44, Milwaukee County
Association of School Boards; director, 1940-50, Vice-president, 1945—
47, president, 1947-48, Family Service of Milwaukee; director, treas-
urer, Milwaukee Friends of Music, 1942-47; director, since 1945,
secretary, 1945-46, Vice-president, 1946-47, president, 1947-49, Mil-
waukee Country Day School; chairman, Milwaukee County School
Committee, since 19473 trustee, North Shore Congregational Church,
since 1950.

Member of: University Club of Milwaukee; Harvard Club of Milwaukee (sec-
retary-treasurer, 1935-36, vice-president, 1936-37, president, 1937—
40); Harvard Business Schoo] Club of Milwaukee.

Publications: Investment Principles and Practice, Longmans, Green & Co., 1939.

After leaving college I entered the Business School to acquire pro-
ficiency in the art of investment banking. My first job was in Wall Street
where I experienced the 1929 market disturbance as a statistician for a
New York Stock Exchange firm. Shortly thereafter it seemed a good
idea to leave those parts and return home to this truly wonderful com-
munity of Milwaukee.

My breadwinning activity consists of serving as an executive officer
of a commercial bank. In making note of my extra-curricular activities it
looks as though my principal interest has been education and J guess that
is true. I have been active in the administration of both a public and a
private school and I am currently involved as chairman of a statutory
body charged with the duty of reorganizing the public school districts of
Milwaukee County.

I suppose my interest in education developed naturally with three sons
trying to get smart —two in Harvard College and one threatening.
Incidentally, I wonder how many of my classmates are engaged in that
delightfully challenging exercise of trying to educate three offspring
and eat at the same time. It’s tough but it’s a hell of a lot of fun.

DONALD BROUGHTON GROVER

Home Address: 43 E, Wheelock St., Hanover, N. H.

Office Address: Hanover High School, Hanover, N. H.

Born: Jan. 14, 1903, Boston, Mass. Parents: Richard Baxter Grover, Eva In-
gersol Broughton.

Prepared at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; Ep.M. (Boston Univ.),

1939.
Married: Esther Carlson, June 22, 1929, Petersham, Mass. Children: Richard
Broughton, Sept. 17, 1934; Carl Allen, Dec. 10, 1937.

[ 348 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Occupation: Teacher of mathematics and head of department of audio-visual
instruction, High School, Hanover, N. H.
Offices Held: Treasurer, Church of Christ (Congregational) , Hanover, N. H,

FRANK SANBORN GUTMANN

Home Address: 120 Highland Ave., Auburn, Maine.

Office Address: Worumbo Manufacturing Co., Lisbon Falls, Maine. —

Born: July 3, 1903, Lewiston, Maine. Parents: Walter Usher Gutmann, Ellen
Dunlap Sanborn.

Prepared at: Classical High School, Springfield, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1924.

Married: Helen R. Trafton, Oct. 29, 1932, Auburn, Maine. Children: Frank
Trafton, March 9, 1934; James Trafton, March 23, 1943.

Occupation: Woolen textile manufacturing; vice-president and director, Wo-
rumbo Manufacturing Company, duties including purchasing, personnel,
and certain manufacturing responsibilities.

Military or Naval Record: Entered active duty as Ist lieutenant, Air Corps,
Aug. 7, 1942; served in U.S. and Iceland in Intelligence and Air In-
spector’s capacities; reverted to inactive status, Dec. 9, 1945; major,

U.S. Army Reserve.

JOHN DANIEL HAGGART

Address: Hotel Duane, 237 Madison Ave., New York 16, N. Y.

Born: June 28, 1906, Durango, Colo. Parents: John Haggart, Lounette Eliza-
beth Jackson.

Prepared at: Durango High School, Durango, Colo.

Years in College: 1923-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926,

Occupation: Radio and screen writer.

The information given above is from the Secretary’s files. s. Haggart
did not return a questionnaire.

EDMUND DERBY HAIGLER

Home Address: Westwind, North York Rd., Hatboro, Pa.

Office Address: Fischer & Porter Co., Hatboro, Pa.

Born: June 28, 1905, Houghton, Mich. Parents: Charles Edmund Haigler,
’09, Florence Harlow Derby.

Prepared at: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degree: S.B, summa cum laude, 1927.

Married: Oleta Fowler, Oct. 12, 1929, Lakewood, Ohio; Barbara Hewitson,
Aug. 20, 1947, Salt Lake City, Utah. Children: Edmund Derby, Jr-s

[ 349 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

May 22, 1936, Sarah Ann, Jan. 17, 1940; Richard Fowler, Oct. 23,
19g4!.

Occupation: Staff engineering manager, Fischer & Porter Company, manufac-
turers of industrial instruments.

Military or Naval Record: U.S. Scientific Consultant under Joint Chiefs of
Staff and Foreign Economic Administration (rank of colonel) on survey
of industry in Germany and surrounding countries, July~December,
1945.

Warting Posts: Member, industry committee on scarce materials.

Offices Held: Treasurer, chairman, parish committee, First Church, Sharon,
Mass., 1940-47; board member, YM.C.A. Camp Dorchester, 1945—
47; chairman program committee, Eastern Nevada Section NSPE,
1948-49.

Member of: AS.M.E.; A.LE.E.; A.1.M.E.; N.S.P.E.; Harvard Engineering
Society ; American Ordnance Association.

Publications: “Application of Temperature Controllers,” Trans. A.S.M.E.,
November, 1938; “Considering Controllability in Plant Design,”
Chemical and Metallurgical Engineering, May, 1943; “Simple Setting Pro-
cedures for Controllers of the Proportional Class,” Instruments, March,
1945; co-author, Report No. PB 4600, FIAT, USA, “Study of Indus-
trial Processing Instrument Industry in Germany”; sections on Auto-
matic Control and Governors, Marler’ Mechanical Engineer? Handbook,
5th edition.

I had prepared for automotive engineering and after an exchange
fellowship in Europe, I started with Chevrolet Research in June, 1929.
Unhappy with cut and try methods, I devised equipment and methods
for measurement. Next year I moved to the instrument department of
duPont Ammonia Works, then expanding and developing new meas-
urements and controls for fifteen thousand pounds pressure operation of
ammonia and alcohol syntheses. In 1933 I was transferred to duPont
Cellophane and in 1935 to rayon on similar instrumentation assign-
ments. In 1938 I became manager of application engineering at the
Foxboro Company, makers of industrial instruments. In 1945 I was
lent to the government for five months to study German industry, and
during the trip I took about twelve hundred general and technical pic-

tures,

Shortly after the last Class Report and Reunion I was assigned to
mining engineering in the high, dry, and empty West, a marked change
from previous life and work, but a challenging field for an instrument
engineer. When a ton of waste must be moved to get at a ton of ore,
which then must be transported miles, crushed and ground to a slurry,
the values concentrated, smelted and refined —all to recover about

[ 350 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

34% or three dollars’ worth of copper — it is obvious that some nice
judgments and/or measurements are necessary. When typical opera-
tions handle tens of thousands of tons of ore per day, it is equally obvious
that these operations are some of the largest chemical processes.

Happy consequence of the assignment was marriage and a home for
my children. Wide business travel with the family continued through
1949, by which time the sales experience thus gained had prepared me
for a demanding new job in the east with Fischer & Porter, instrument
and precision glass makers.

Interest in the pictures from my 1945 mission in Germany has been
kept alive by ineptitude or worse in our State Department, so the pictures
(which a few of you have seen) have been shown a great many times to
all sorts of groups. During the same years my expense account was kept
open by red tape. After being threatened in 1949 with prosecution if I
did not pay the government $359.75 forthwith, no explanation being
given, I wrote my senator and instead $587.75 was paid me per contract
for expenses. Many colleagues had similar experiences until a special Act

of Congress directed adherence to the contracts instead of to obscure
Treasury rules applied retroactively.

Next I suppose I shall have to struggle to keep a few of our most
promising young engineers from being drafted. Again and again on the
mission we turned up evidence of German war industry being crippled
by excessive drafting of key technical personnel, and only too late was
the error recognized and many scientists and engineers returned to in-
dustry. Panic and politics are poor substitutes for plans and policy.

PRENTIS CARNES HALE

Address: Southern California Edison Co., Ltd., Los Angeles, Calif.

Born: Feb, 27, 1905, South Haven, Mich. Parents: Channing Ward Hale,
Fannie Barbara Moore.

Prepared at: Claremont High School.

Years in College: 1924-1926.

Married: Janet Lindsay Clark, Nov. 2§, 1933, Santa Barbara, Calif. Children:
Linda Moore, Nov. 30, 1941; Thomas Lindsay, Dec. 2, 1944.

Occupation: Public utilities; treasurer, Southern California Edison Company, °
Ltd.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files, Hale did
not return a questionnaire,

[ 351 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

SAMUEL CHARLES HALPERT

Home Address: 244 W. San Marino Drive, Miami Beach, Fla.
Office Address: 407 Biscayne Bldg., Miami, Fla.
Born: Dec. 18, 1903, Peabody, Mass, Parents: Charles George Halpert, Dora
Angelson,
Prepared at: Detroit Central High School, Detroit, Mich.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B., 1932.
Unmarried.
Occupation: Lawyer.

JAMES ADDISON HALSTED

Home Address: 89 Hasse Ave., Los Angeles 25, Calif.
Office Address: Wadsworth Hospital, V.A.C., Los Angeles 25, Calif.

Born: April 19, 1905, Syracuse, N. Y. Parents: Thomas Henry Halsted, Char-
lotte Cook Palmer.

Prepared at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926, Degrees: A.B., 1926; M.D., 1930.

Married: \sabelle Hopkinson, Nov. 25, 1930, Manchester, Mass. Children:
Elinor, Jan. 23, 1932; Thomas Addison, Oct. 8, 1933; Charles Hop-
kinson, Oct. 2, 1936; Isabella, May 8, 1938.

Occupation: Physician; section chief, Gastroenterological Section, Wadsworth
Hospital, V.A.C., Los Angeles; assistant clinical professor of medicine,
University of California at Los Angeles.

Military or Naval Record: Entered U.S. Army Medical Corps, as major in
1942; served in North Africa and Italy for 33 months; received Legion
of Merit; discharged as lieutenant colonel, 1946.

Member of : St. Botolph Club; Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New
York; American College of Physicians (fellow) ; American Gastroentero-
logical Association (associate member) ; American Clinical and Climato-
logical Association; American Psychosomatic Society; Massachusetts

Medical Society; American Medical Association.

Publications: About twenty-five papers in various medical journals,

On looking back over the past twenty-five years I think how imma-
ture and inexperienced some of us were in 1926. Fundamentally, per-
haps, this was a reflection of the youth of the country which now seems
to be coming of age. Instead of feeling that the young are going to the
dogs, which is the standard attitude of an older generation, it seems to
me that our children are better educated and better equipped for life
than we were.

After leaving college I began to enjoy education for the first time at
the Harvard Medical School. This was followed by an internship and

{ 352 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

assistant residency at the Massachusetts General and Lakeside Hospi-
tals, respectively. In 1933 I began to earn a living as a family doctor in
Dedham.

In 1930 I married and by 1938 we had four children. When I en-
tered the Army in 1942, I had developed a good-sized practice, had
been largely responsible for establishing a group clinic in Dedham, and
was doing a little teaching at the Medical School. We had a large house
on the Charles River. All seemed serene and in the groove.

In 1946, when I resumed practice after the war, I found myself rest-
less and eager to devote more time to teaching and clinical investigation
than was possible in my job as a busy practitioner. In 1946 I was made
chief of the medical service of a medium-sized private hospital, the
Faulkner, but despite many satisfactions there, | became constantly
more involved with private practice. When an opportunity arose, a year
ago, to take a full-time job in a veterans’ hospital in Los Angeles with a
faculty appointment at the University of California, and excellent op-
portunities for teaching and research, I decided to make the complete
break of starting such a new kind of life. So far it is premature to report
fully on the effects of this decision, but the prospects seem bright. There

isa great deal of work, but the hours are regular.

So much for the skeleton outline of my doings. I have not yet devel-
oped any serious hobbies, but think it is time to do so. I have no unusual
interests, but like such things as fishing, skiing, and spending vacations
in the mountains. I enjoy modern art and French literature. Politically,
I am somewhat left of center, possibly, having voted consistently for
Roosevelt and ‘Truman and not regretting it. I disapprove of almost all
of the American Medical Association policies, though I’m not in favor
of compulsory health insurance as currently proposed. I am sure the
doctors ought to run any such type of program, but am sure that unless
the A.M.A. changes its point of view it will have nothing to say about it.

The current witch hunting seems one of the most dangerous signs of
the times. All in all, however, I think the collective public has good sense
and does the right thing when presented with major decisions — in the
Jong run.

HERBERT MOORE HAMBLEN

Home Address: East 711 Plateau Rd., Spokane, Wash.

Office Address: 91§ Paulsen Bldg., Spokane, Wash.

Born: Dec. 12, 1905, Spokane, Wash. Parents: Laurence Rankin Hamblen,
Frances Ada Gilbert.

Prepared at: Lewis and Clark High School, Spokane, Wash.

[ 353 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; LL.B., 1929,

Married: Helen Marion Whitehouse, Sept. 16, 1933, Spokane, Wash. CAil-
dren: Laurence H., March 20, 1938; Catherine F., July 22, 1941.

Occupation: Attorney; general civil practice.

Offices Held: Member, State Legislature, 1943-48 ; speaker, Washington State
House of Representatives, 1947-48; president, Spokane County Bar
Association, 1945-46, Spokane Community Welfare Association, 1944.

Member of: American Bar Association; Washington Bar Association; Univer-
sity Club of Spokane; Spokane Municipal League; Eastern Washington
Historical Society; Rotary International.

I doubt that many of you realize how remote Harvard seems to those
of us who have spent the greater part of the past twenty-five years in the
northwest corner of the United States. Not only are we a long way from
Harvard Square, but we are also a long way from each other. ‘There are
just five of our Class in the states of Oregon and Washington, and my
nearest classmate is three hundred miles away. The Northwest has bet-
ter numerical representation than that in Congress — which leads me
to express the wish that Harvard might do more to encourage our west-
ern boys to journey east and try their brains against the best undergradu-
ate competition in the country.
Remoteness, notwithstanding, friends and classmates do still rise up
in mind as close as yesterday —and I trust will so continue until our
Fiftieth, our Seventy-fifth, and the final trumpet. For these I am glad
to list a few items in the annals of my quarter-century:
Three years of Harvard Law School (LL.B.).
A strenuous summer tour of Europe (1929).
Return to Spokane, Washington. (Where have you been? )
Law clerk and partner in the family firm.
Marriage, fun, and work through the depression.
Two normal, healthy children.
Pleasure planning and building two houses.
An unsuccessful attempt to enter the Navy (why 20/20).
A successful attempt to enter politics (20/20 not required ).
Three terms in the State Legislature — one as Speaker of the House
(Republican).

Retirement from office in the 1948 surprise (courtesy of the elector-
ate).

Increasing commitment to the practice of law,

Belated confirmation as a member of the Episcopal Church.

High hopes for a family tour of the country (including Cambridge)
in June, 1951.

L 354 ]

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

I have just pulled off the shelf the little volume of President Lowell’s
Baccalaureate addresses and turned to the one which he gave us on June
20, 1926. I wish I had looked at it more often: “The art of life lies |
largely in distinguishing the eddy from the stream. . . . Progress and
usefulness mean keeping abreast of new conditions, and unending adap-
tation to new environment, yet always with the same objective, the
eternal quest for the true and the just. . . . Before the last member of
this class shall pass away the world will be very different from what it is
today, a better world if. . . .”

CHARLES LEWIS HARDING, JR.

Home Address: Split Rock Road, Syosset, Long Island, N. Y.
Office Address: Meinhard, Greeff & Co., Inc., 51 Madison Ave., New York,

N.Y.

Born: Nov. 16, 1903, Dedham, Mass. Pareats: Charles Lewis Harding, ’oo,
Harriette Appleton Knowles.

Prepared at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.; St. Paul’s School, Concord,
N.H.

Years ia College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926(28).

Married: Marie Parish, Oct. 31, 1930, New York, N. Y. CAildren: Charles
Lewis, 3d, Jan. 29, 1934; Edward Parish, Jan. 6, 1936; Marie, Nov.
13,1941.

Harvard Brothers: Francis Appleton Harding, ’30; John Bryard Harding, ’34.

Occupation: Textile factoring (financing).

Military or Naval Record: Entered Supply Corps, U.S. Naval Reserve, as lieu-
tenant, September, 1942; served as purchasing officer of textiles, Bureau
of Supplies and Accounts, Washington, D. C., and New York, N. Y;
discharged lieutenant commander, October, 1945.

Offices Held: Vice-president and director in charge of new business and ac-
count executive, Meinhard, Greeff & Co., Inc.

Member of : Racquet & Tennis Club; Harvard Club of New York; Manhattan
Club; Merchants’ Club; Piping Rock Club; Agamenticus Yacht Club;
Reading Room of York, Maine.

On leaving college in 1926, I took a trip around the world with class-
mate Tax Cumings (who is my next-door neighbor now at York Har-
bor, Maine, in the summer, where classmates Jack Adie and Eddie
Marshall also live). We travelled through Japan, Korea, China, did
some shooting in Indo-China, covered India and Egypt, and landed in
Europe before returning home in June, 1927. After a fling at summer
school to get my degree finally, as of 1926, I started working in the
family cotton mills in New Bedford. I moved to New York City in 1928

L 355 ] .

Harvard Class of 1926

to become a textile salesman, specializing at that time in selling rayon
and cotton fancy jacquard piece goods to the corset trade. These were
the depression years and I saw the mills with which I was connected in
New England go from bad to worse as I went about selling everything
from airplane cloth to necktie fabrics, dress goods, cotton, and worsted
yarns. For a while I even had charge of one of the family cotton bag-
ging mills in Oklahoma. I remember motoring out there with Marie in
March, 1933, in a brand new Pontiac convertible coupe for which I
paid $840. This trip was during the bank holiday and I couldn’t get
change for ten dollars in currency in Jackson, Tennessee. And when we
got to the mill, we were paying the help with credit slips from the local
grocery stores, Cotton was around six cents a pound at the time.

All of this experience was made to order as training for the business
I finally got into, my present one, textile factoring, which involves the
financing of all kinds of textile operations and in which I was offered a
job by Meinhard, Greeff & Company, Inc., in New York in 1926.

In 1930 I married Marie Parish, who is the sister of classmate Harry
Parish, whose family I had known well through the college years. Our
eldest, Charlie, is at Brooks School in the fifth form while Eddie is at
St. Paul’s in the third. Little Marie is home for some years yet, we hope.
One of the really good investments we made was four acres of land and
the house we built in 1938 in Syosset, Long Island.

I consider myself very lucky to be one of the people who was com-
missioned in the Navy and given a job along the lines of my business
experience, that of buying textiles, principally woolen goods, uniform
fabrics, blankets, etc. I had the excellent experience of contracting with
and running a large portion of the woolen industry on Navy materials
in connection with which I spent well over $300,000,000 of the tax-
payers’ money, I hope wisely.

I returned to Meinhard, Greeff & Company, Inc., in New York,
after the war with a great many new textile contacts which have stood

me in very good stead in the development of new business for the com-
pany.

Pve kept up a reasonable amount of tennis and a little squash and
have some ambitions towards golf in my old age. In the summer my
great interest on weekends and vacations at York Harbor, Maine, is
boats and boat racing, and the whole family takes part in this in every-
thing from the “Scuttlebutt,” our “International 210,” down to an
eight-foot home-made hydroplane which is the scourge of the York
River. :

[ 356 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

ERNEST ANTHONY HARDING

Home Address: Mile’s End, Ipswich, Mass.
Office Address: 47 Federal St., Salem, Mass,
Bors: March 21, 1905, Weston, Mass, Parents: Albert Ernest Harding, Alice
Phoebe Carroll.
Prepared at: Weston High School, Weston, Mass,
Years at College: 1922-1 926. Degrees: A.B., 1926(27); LL.B. (Northeastern
Univ.), 1931.
Married: Althea Veronica Hayes, July 19, 1930, Ipswich, Mass. Children:
Mary Ann, May 6, 1931; Suzanne, June 21, 1939.
Occupation: Attorney-at-law.
Military or Naval Record: Entered Navy, January, 1943; served with Anti-
_ Submarine Aircraft Squadron; permanent commission in Naval Reserve
as lieutenant commander.
Offices Held: Secretary treasurer, North Shore Harvard Club.
Member of : Kiwanis Club.

The sum and substance of my ambition has been to lead the quiet, full
life of a country squire. Clients have been numerous enough and wealthy
enough to insure the fulfillment of this ambition in a moderate way, but
not so numerous as to prevent my finding plenty of time for sailing, fish-
ing, woodworking and entertaining good friends. My family has been
all that any man could ask for and it was due to their codperation and
help that three years in the Navy did not wreck the attainment of my
ambitions. I do not regret that three-year hitch, however, for service
with an anti-submarine aircraft squadron on “‘j jeep’ ’ carriers in the
North Atlantic has given me some fine yarns to spin to the grandchil-
dren I hope to have, and those yarns improve with age. I now hold a
commission as lieutenant commander but I certainly hope Uncle Sam

does not need to call me.

REUEL DURKEE HARMON

Home Address: Sunfish Lake, St. Paul 7, Minn.

Office Address: Webb Publishing Co., 55 E. Tenth St., St. Paul 2, Minn.

Born: Feb. 6, 1904, St. Paul, Minn. Parents: Albert Hiram Harmon, Carolyn
Durkee.

Prepared at: St. Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Catharine Gray Beattie, April 14, 1928, Littleton, N. H. Ca4ild:
Elizabeth Ann, July 22, 1931.

Occupation: Vice-president and treasurer, Webb Publishing Company.

Military or Naval Record: Major, Army, Special Services Division, 1942—-45+

[ 357 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Member of : St. Paul Athletic Club; Minnesota Club; Somerset Country Club;
Minneapolis Club; Harvard Club of Minnesota; Harvard Club of New
York; Informal Club of St. Paul.

CONRAD AARON HARPER

Home Address: 150-03 88th Ave., Jamaica, N. Y.
Office Address: Hazeltine Electronics Corp., 58-25 Little Neck Pkwy., Little
Neck, Long Island, N. Y.
Born: Nov. 12, 1904, Fitchburg, Mass. Parents: John Oscar Harper, Maria
Sophia Hietala.
Prepared at: Fitchburg High School, Fitchburg, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1926.
Unmarried.
Harvard Brothers: Rudolph John Harper, ’25; Raphael Simond Harper, ’32.
Occupation: General auditor for Hazeltine Electronics Corporation.
Military or Naval Record: U.S. Army, March 11, 1941, to Dec. 11, 1944.
Offices Held: Treasurer, Prestoline Company; vice-president, D. E. Thomas
& Company; director, Racquet Club, Portland, Oregon.
Member of: Harvard Club of New York (formerly) ; Multnomah Club; Rac-
quet Club, Portland, Oregon.

The visions of youth have encountered the facts of life. First sound-
ings were taken in a pleasant year, leading the outdoor life in the Smoky
Mountains at Asheville, North Carolina. After five years the financial
interests of Wall Street abandoned me. Another five years were spent
helping to serve the nation the Wonder of its daily bread and to Hostess
its cake requirements.

By this time I acquired a gyroscopic compass and learned of the satis-
factions of the accounting profession. While with Price, Waterhouse &
Company in the public field, I studied the art of accounts at Columbia
and struggled with C.P.A. exams.

This activity was interrupted by the duty to help General Simpson
open up Camp Wolters in Texas early in 1941. J was at O.C.5. at Fort
Benning, Georgia, when General Bradley flashed to us the news of
Pearl Harbor. This initiated a more arduous tour.

Afterwards Henry Kaiser needed help auditing and renegotiating his
affairs with the Maritime Commission on his Victory ship contracts on
the west coast.

Bearing onwards to the continuity of the main stream, after the ed-
dies, I have been back in New York City for the past four years auditing
useful pursuits. In this year the endless conflict with the ignoble and un-
worthy projects itself and again I find my company manufacturing ra-
dios and televisions entirely for war purposes.

L 358 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Since I am of Finnish origin, I have been interested in keeping posted
on the history of the relations of the land of my ancestors with the Rus-
sians. Some observations may be of interest. Russia’s many centuries
of relations with Finland reveal the transparency of the Iron Curtain.
Russian behaviour is motivated by fear — fear of national security and
the personal anxiety of the current tyrants of the Politburo. The naked
plains of Russia provide no defensible frontiers. These plains have served
as highways for the invading armies of Genghis Khan, of the Tartars,
Poles, Swedes, French, and Germans. Since 1800 hostile troops have
invaded fourteen times across the western border; Minsk has suffered
over one hundred foreign occupations. ‘The Russian obsession with se-
curity, its suspicion of foreigners, was developed fully centuries before
the present regime.

General Jackson invaded Florida in 1818, and later, naval exigencies
led to the conquest of the Philippines, Puerto Rico, and Cuba, and facili-
tated the annexation of Hawaii. The Russians contemplate the same
type of security measures.

The Politburo remembers how it rose to power. Its police machine
was organized as protection against other groups of conspirators. With
the domestic enemy crushed, this bureaucracy maintains itself by pre-
fabrication of intelligence of fresh dangers of capitalist encirclement.
The Politburo is aware of its country’s enfeebled condition. The back-
ward agricultural nation just beginning to emerge industrially scraped
through World War II by the narrow margin of Hitler’s bad judgment
and American Lend-Lease. German destruction of its tools and equip-
ment, the crippling loss of its transportation, and the lack of a Navy,
provide little prospect of near future world annexations.

Ideology is the least of the Russian motivations. It provides a conven-
ient front for the oppressions of the tyranny. I think it likely that the
Soviet Union does not plan to start a major war within the next twenty
or thirty years. There is the chance that it may blunder into one through
an error in its calculations about the outside world as it strives under the
pressure of its fear to build a protective core by attrition and seizure out-
side its vulnerable borders.

LEMENT UPHAM HARRIS

Home Address: 2865 Faber Terr., Far Rockaway, Long Island, N. Y.

Born: March 1, 1904, Chicago, Ill, Parents: John Francis Harris, Gertrude
Upham.

Prepared at: St, Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

[ 359 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Married: Katharine Lewis, March 20, 1934, Grand Island, Nebr. Children:
Joel Upham, Aug. 13, 1938; Sara Bacon, June 19, 19413; Nancy Wil-
lett, July 16, 1947.

Harvard Brothers: Henry Pratt Upham Harris, 23; John Upham Harris, ’24.

Occupation: Agriculture (research and organization).

Member of: American Alpine Club.

Publications: Contributor to Daily Worker (up to time of passage of McCarran
Act).

Upon graduation from Harvard I was sure of little other than that.
ordinary commercial occupations held little attraction. I spent three
years working on a Pennsylvania dairy farm, and then in 1929 went to
the Soviet Union where for a year and a half I worked as a farm me-
chanic both on state farms and in two agricultural implement factories.
I travelled widely in that country, learned the language, and naturally
acquired an intimate knowledge of the socialist society and of the Soviet
people. Both appeared then and now to me as admirable.

In 1931 I made an agricultural survey of the United States, visiting
virtually all farming regions, many agricultural experiment stations, and
farms of special interest. This included a study of the conditions of life
of sharecroppers of the deep South, where I encountered examples of the
terror which hovers over the lives of Negroes who put up any struggle
for their rights.

Since that time I have been associated with various farm organizations
and cooperatives which attempt to build up the living standards of the
rural poor. This included the Farm Holiday Association, which during
the depression years of the thirties conducted “penny sales” enforced by
crowds of farmers as a means of halting that cataract of foreclosures and
evictions of that time.

I am at present working with a considerable number of farm group-
ings in different parts of the country who feel that present foreign poli-
cies are heading towards unnecessary war and who see in the draft of
farm youth and the projected war economy a disastrous situation for our
country as a whole and for small, family-type farmers in particular.

Unfortunately, in these days of hysteria my type of activity is frowned
upon by the type of mentality responsible for a McCarran Anti-Subver-
sive Bill, It virtually confronts me with the alternative of abandoning
present associations and principles or run afoul of that unconstitutional
act. Naturally I shall stick by my guns and hope to write an interesting
sequel for the Fiftieth Reunion of the distinguished Class of 1926.

[ 360 ]

T wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

DAVID SAMSON HARRISON

Address: 4601 Ventnor Ave., Atlantic City, N. J.
Born: Sept. 12, 1904, Marlinton, W. Va. Pareats: Abraham Mark Harrison,
Mary Anna Miller.
Prepared at: Fairmont High School.
Years in College: 1922-1927. Degrees: S.B., 1926(27); LL.B. (Cumberland
—Univ.), 1928.
Occupation: Lawyer.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Harrison
did not return a questionnaire.

JOHN COATE HARROLD

Home Address: 713 Devonshire Rd., Takoma Park 12, Md.

Office Address: Office Chief of Engineers, Dept. of the Army, Washington,
D.C.

Bora: April 9, 1905, Kokomo, Ind. Parents: Henry Harvey Harrold, Martha
Coate.

Prepared at: Steele High School, Dayton, Ohio.

Years in College: 1922-1923, 1924-1927. Degree: S.B. magna cum laude, 1927.

Married: Virginia Isabel Wheeler, Jan. 25, 1931, Baltimore, Md.

Occupation: Chief, Hydraulic Design Section, Engineering Division, Civil
Works, Office of Engineers, Department of the Army.

Offices Held: Member of committee on Cavitation in Hydraulic Structures,
American Society of Civil Engineers, 1942-48; member of committee
on Hydraulic Data and Facts, A.S.C.E., since 1944; trustee, 1946-48,
First Reader, 1948—51, Fourth Church of Christ, Scientist, Washington,
D. C.; trustee, Eighth Church of Christ, Scientist, St. Louis, Mo., 1934.

Member of : International Association for Hydraulic Structures Research ; Per-
manent International Association of Navigation Congresses; Harvard
Engineering Society; American Society of Civil Engineers; American
Geophysical Union; ‘Tau Beta Pi; Lambda Chi Alpha,

Publications: “Cavitation in Hydraulic Structures — Experiences of the Corps
of Engineers,” Transactions of the American Society of Civil Engineers, 1947)

pp. 16-42.

First, I would like to express my humble appreciation to the many in-
dividuals and organizations which helped me to obtain a Harvard engi-
neering education through loans and scholarships. These included the
Harvard Club of Dayton, Ohio, the Rotary Club of Dayton, and the
Harvard University Corporation.

Next, I would like to explain, for the benefit of those who do not
know it, that the apparent discrepancy between my class year (1926)

[ 361 ]

se seco resent

 

Harvard Class of 1926

Comforter promised by the Master, then it behooves us all to learn
something about it. This can be done by a study of the textbook of Chris-
tian Science, Science and Health with Key to the Scriptures written by Mary
Baker Eddy, or by attending the church services.

I have also taken some active part in the engineering organizations to
which I belong — not as much as I would like to, but as much as time
has permitted. I have occasionally presented papers or discussions of
papers at engineering society meetings. One such paper is the one on
“Cavitation in Hydraulic Structures” listed above. This paper was pre-
sented at the annual meeting of the American Society of Civil Engineers
held in New York City in 1945. I have also served on two technical
committees of the American Society of Civil Engineers, Committee of
Cavitation in Hydraulic Structures and the Committee on Hydraulic
Data and Facts.

Of course, having a wife and a home, I also take a reasonable amount
of time out for recreation and work around the house, enjoying having
guests, reading, playing bridge, ping-pong, pool, and tennis, attending
movies, hiking, and other indoor and outdoor sports. In all of these
activities, including church work, I am joined by an equally enthusiastic
wife, which makes for a very happy companionship.

HENRY MELVIN HART, JR.

Home Address: 50 Fayerweather St., Cambridge, Mass.

Ofice Address: Langdell Hall, Harvard Law School, Cambridge, Mass.

Birn: Dec. 25, 1904, Butte, Mont. Parents: Henry Melvin Hart, Mary Lan-
ette Tyson.

Prepared at: Lewis and Clark High School, Spokane, Wash.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. summa cum laude, 1926; LL.B.
magna cum laude, 1930; 5.].D., 1931.

Married: Mary Jane White, Dec. 3, 1932, Glens Falls, N. Y. CAild: Elizabeth
Tyson, May 27, 1943.

Wartime Government Posts: Associate General Counsel for Price, Office of Price
Administration, 1942~45; general counsel, Office of Economic Stabili-
zation, 1945-46.

Publications: Various articles in legal periodicals,

I wonder why I have had so much trouble sitting down to sum up the
last twenty-five years. It must be because of some obscure dissatisfaction
with them. Yet by any usual standard they have been pleasant ones.

I like my work. Teaching seems to me the best way there is to keep
young or at least slow down the process of getting old —in the head if
not the body. This is particularly true in a professional school in which

[ 364 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

successive waves of oncoming generations have at you with enthusiasm,
and you are forced in some fashion to have back at them.

Whatever might have been the monotony of these interchanges has
been broken by a series of Washington jobs which, if not invariably
pleasant, were never dull. The year before I began to teach I spent as
law clerk to Mr. Justice Brandeis. Five years later I was back in what
was then spoken of, and I think rightfully, as the best law office in the
world — the Solicitor General’s Office in the Department of Justice —
writing briefs in Supreme Court cases. During 1940-41 I had another
tour of duty in the department, assigned this time to the newly-trans-
ferred Immigration and Naturalization Service which was struggling
with the problems of aliens in a war-torn world. Beginning in 1942, I
spent more than three years as Associate General Counsel for Price in
OPA, in charge of the legal work in drafting and amending price regu-
lations. That was capped by nearly a year as General Counsel of the
Office of Economic Stabilization. As an outgrowth of these experiences
I have been asked from time to time by various agencies to act as a con-
sultant — a position which I have come to think of as much superior to
one in which you actually do the hard work and make the hard decisions.

On the personal side, my life has been even more obviously satisfac-
tory. If I had it to do all over again, I would still marry the same girl.
And although I’ve had only a seven years’ test of this question, I don’t
yet know how I could have improved materially on the daughter I finally
managed to produce. We live in a converted barn in Cambridge, con-
veniently close to the Law School, which is a delight to us, and all the
more to me because of the nearly limitless scope it provides for my rela-
tively recent hobbies of painting (bathrooms, etc.) and gardening. In
summers, when things are quiet enough, we go back to our old homes in
and about Spokane, Washington, and in that way almost convince our-
selves that we haven’t yet become irredeemable easterners.

I think the flaw in this picture is the sense of opportunity still un-
realized. After twenty-five years you have got to stop thinking of your-
self as a promising young man and begin to face the question of when you
are going to deliver. My consuming interest is law — not law asa lot of
sterile rules, but law as a vital process, or group of processes, by which
people living together in the same society, or on the face of the same
globe, confront their common problems and somehow manage to solve
them in such a way as to promote the common good. I have a substan-
tial side interest in the law of the federal courts and the federal system;
but my primary field is the rather newly blocked-out one of legislation.
I shall be happier at the Fiftieth Reunion if I can tell you more about

[ 365 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

how to legislate (and not legislate) so as to make the country and the
world a steadily more satisfactory place for the people who live in it,

JOHN LATHROP JEROME HART

Home Address: 2001 E, 11th Ave., Denver, Colo.

Office Address: Holland & Hart, Equitable Bldg., Denver, Colo.

Born: Aug. 15, 1904, Denver, Colo. Parents: Richard Huson Hart, ’97, Eliza-
beth Jerome.

Prepared at: East Denver High School, Denver, Colo.

Years in College: 1922-1925. Degrees: A.B., 1926 (25); B.A. 1x Jur. (Univ.
of Oxford), 1927; B.C.L. (ibid.), 1928; M.A. (ibid.), 1932.

Married: Jane Kelsey, Oct. 19, 1935, Salem, Mass. Children: Katherine, June
5, 1938; Sarah Jane, May 14, 1940; John Jerome, Jr., March 14,1944.

Harvard Brother: Stephen Harding Hart, L’29~30.

Occupation: Lawyer; partner, Holland & Hart.

Offices Held: Vice-president, secretary, treasurer, Law Club of Denver, 1931-
35; secretary, Denver Trust Officers Association, 1929-35, Reorganiza-
tion Committee, 1945-47, and Escrow Trustees, 1947-—50, for D. &
R. G. W. Railroad Company; trustee, Denver Bar Association, 1949-50;
governor, Colorado Bar Association, 1950.

Member of: Rocky Mountain Harvard Club (former president) ; American
Alpine Club; Colorado Arlberg Club; Colorado Mountain Club (hon-
orary) ; Mile High Club; Phi Delta Phi.

Publications: Fourteen Thousand Feet, first edition, 1925; second edition, 1931;
various articles in legal and mountaineering magazines.

After taking my degree at the end of our junior year, I spent three
years at Oxford and devoted my time largely to rowing and other
sports, as well as to the study of law during term-time, with skiing,
mountaineering, and travel during the numerous vacations. Then fol-
lowed six years of law practice in Denver, chiefly with the Colorado
National Bank, during which I managed to keep up skiing and moun-
taineering, to edit various magazines, and to be active in athletic and
social clubs.

In 1935 I married Jane Kelsey (Smith ’34), sister of a member of
the Class of 1926, Harlan P. Kelsey. We spent three years in Washing-
ton where I was attorney for the RFC and for the Bureau of Internal
Revenue, I saw many of my old Harvard and Oxford friends during
these three years. I then spent ten years practising law in Denver in as-
sociation with Henry McAllister. The work was particularly enjoyable
as a great deal of it was done in Washington, New York, Chicago, and
California, which gave me an opportunity to keep up with many of my

[ 366 ]

T wenty- fifth Anniversary Report |

college friends. For the last two years I have been a partner in Holland
& Hart. Of my four partners and four associates, all are Yale men except
one, but this is due to the fact that Denver is a Yale town and there are
hardly any lawyers here who went to Harvard.

My wife and three children are all ardent skiers, and we spend as
many weekends as possible in the mountains during the winter. We usu-
ally take our vacations in the spring, in California, During the summer
we have a house in the mountains where the children and I indulge in
rock climbing and swimming.

I attended the meeting of the Associated Harvard Clubs in San Fran-
cisco last year, and became enthusiastic enough to take over the chair-
manship of the Scholarship Committee of the Rocky Mountain Harvard
Club. I have also been a member of the Selection Committee for Rhodes
Scholarships off and on during the last twenty years.

I have collected several hundred volumes of mountaineering litera-
ture, and am now an arm-chair mountaineer, except for climbing with
the children. I have also collected most of the novels of R. Austin Free-
man, Freeman Wills Crofts, Eric Linklater, Richard Aldington, and
other authors suitable for the tired businessman.

** GORDON CECIL HARTLEY

Born: Feb. 1, 1903, Brookline, Mass. Parents: Harry Hartley, Jane Elizabeth
Fletcher.

Prepared at: Eton College, Windsor, England.

Years in College: 1922~1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Elizabeth Hill, April 30, 1927, Baltimore, Md. CAildren: Elizabeth,
Oct. 23, 19303 Douglas Gordon, March 25, 1934.

Harvard Brother: Harry Livingston Hartley, ’23.

Died: March 27, 1949, Salerno, Italy.

Brother: H. Livingston Hartley, 3122 O St., N.W., Washington, D.C.

Gordon Cecil Hartley attended Harvard for three and one-half years
with our Class, spending one year at Amherst College. He was a mem-
ber of the Speakers’ Club at Harvard. After his marriage in 1927, he
went to England, where he became associated with Elkin Mathews,
Limited, of London, in the mercantile business. He later became a part-
ner in Land Yachts, Inc. He was a member of the Wentworth Club of
Surrey, England. In 1940 he retired from active association with this
company, though he remained a director. He had been in the Army
Officers’ Emergency Reserve and served as a section leader in the Home
Guard, and in 1940 he was commissioned second lieutenant in the Cold-

[ 367 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

stream Guards. He was discharged a captain after the war. He then
came to the United States and made his home in Maryland. At the time
of his death he was travelling with his wife through Europe.

He was survived by his wife, his son and daughter, and his brother,
H, Livingston Hartley, Class of 1923.

DAVID JOSEPH HARTWELL

Home Address: 98 Church St., Manchester, Conn.

Office Address: Manchester High School, Manchester, Conn.

Born: July 6, 1902, Portsmouth, N. H. Parests: David Henry Hartwell, Mary
Geary.

Prepared at: Portsmouth High School, Portsmouth, N. H.

Years tn College: 1923-1926. Degree: S.B. cum laude, 1926.

Married: Edna Harding, 1933, Chatham, Mass. C4ild: Linda Harding, Oct.

19, 1942.
Occupation: Teacher of mathematics, Manchester High School.

To follow the outline suggested above, upon graduation my room-
mate in 56 Matthews, Bill Strickland, and I started teaching at a boys’
school in New Hampton, New Hampshire. One year of that was
enough for me and I quit — Bill stayed on because he had married. I
then taught in a New Hampshire high school, a Massachusetts high
school, and during the depression drifted to my present job of teaching
mathematics in the high school at Manchester, Connecticut, where I
have been very happy on the whole. That is the whole of my career. It
is a rather startling fact to realize this after the passage of twenty-five
years.

As indicated by answers to the specific questions on this sheet, I have
done nothing of any moment — for the record —in this quarter of a
century. I have had no war record, no government post, no offices,
joined no organizations, and published nothing.

As to social, political, and religious convictions, I find that mine, like
everybody else’s, are run-of-the-mill, and subject to the changes of cir-
cumstances. I haven’t had the fervor or fanaticism or whatever you call
it to get out and push any belief. Socially I think we’re doing about as
well in this country under our institutions and economic setup as man
can contrive, Politically, I have no fervor and find that neither of our
American parties has a monopoly on wisdom or virtue. As to religion,
whatever will give any man some solace is all right with me.

Finally: how the years have flown! ‘The past twenty-five years seem
almost a void. I have accomplished nothing except to be moderately

[ 368 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

happy. The remaining years don’t seem to hold much achievement, and
an individual’s achievement doesn’t seem so much anyway.

I knew few fellows in college. I have seen more of them since gradu-
ation. However, to all of them I wish much happiness.

LATHROP STANLEY HASKINS

Home Address: 1435 Lexington Ave., New York 8, N. Y.

Office Address: J. P. Morgan & Co., Inc., 23 Wall St., New York 8, N. Y.

Born: Nov. 16, 1903, South Orange, N. J. Parents: Henry Stanley Haskins,
Marian Graves Lathrop.

Prepared at: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Barbara Ewing, April 29, 1932, Pittsburgh, Pa. Children: Thomas
Ewing, March 7, 19353; Mary Lathrop, July 3, 1942.

Harvard Brother: Stanley Graves Haskins, ’35.

Occupation: Vice-president, J. P. Morgan & Company.

Member of: Harvard Club of New York; Racquet and Tennis Club.

Since graduation I have acquired only one family and worked in only
one bank. I have travelled some here and abroad but seldom far by bus.
However, one of my convictions is that one should change his habits now
and again.

I get satisfaction from people, music, golf, and tennis, collecting odd
facts, reading (not writing) and arithmetic, and, of course, from having
gone to Harvard. I am looking forward to Reunion next year.

THERON McDOWELL HATCH

Home Address: 97 Ardsmoor Rd., Melrose, Mass.

Office Address: 12 Porter St., Melrose, Mass. :

Born: June 27, 1905, Chelsea, Mass. Parents: ‘Theron Harrington Hatch,
Ella McDowell.

Prepared at: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1923. Degree: D.M.D., 1927.

Married: Mabel G. Tukey, Feb. 12, 1935, Somerville, Mass. Children: Vic-
toria Ann, May 8, 1938; Theron McDowell, 3d, Dec. 16, 19393
Stephen Lindsay, Feb. 14, 1941; Christopher Tukey, June 5, 1942.

Occupation: Dentist.

Offices Held: Alderman, City of Melrose, 1938-47; High Priest of Waverley
Chapter of Masons, 1940-41; president, Melrose Rotary Club, 1938-

39-
Member of : Massachusetts Dental Society; American Dental Association.

[ 369 ]

ae te

Le

 

Harvard Class of 1926

At the end of the freshman year with the Class of 1926, having com-
pleted the required pre-dental training, I transferred to the Dental
School. In 1927, having graduated with the degree of Doctor of Dental
Medicine, I completed a life-long ambition and entered the profession
of dentistry. The next seven years were spent in association with my
father, with offices in Boston and Melrose, until his death in August,
1934. Since that time, I have continued my practice in the city of
Melrose.

On February 12, 1935, I was married to Mabel G. Tukey (Farm-
ington, Maine —N.S., 1927-29; B.Ed., 36; M.Ed., *44 at Boston
University). During the next three years, we travelled to South Amer-
ica and Europe. Since the arrival of our children, our travelling has been
confined to the eastern section of our own country. We have been blessed
with four healthy children, with all the responsibilities and pleasures that
go with them.

I served as a member of the Board of Aldermen in the city of Mel-
rose from 1938 to 1947, serving unopposed for four terms, and retiring
in 1947. My experience here was such as to add much to my education.
A good deal of it would have benefited me earlier in life. It certainly re-
moved at least a veneer of idealism and contributed largely to what I
might at the present time refer to as an attitude not of cynicism, but of
“enlightened enjoyment.” ,

My membership in Rotary International has been a satisfying experi-
ence. In 1937 our trip to Europe was primarily to attend an interna-
tional convention at Nice, France. The whole trip was made particularly
enjoyable by the hospitality of Rotarians. We were entertained by them
for sixteen days in London alone. During 1938-39, I served as presi-
dent of our Melrose Club. At present I am in my sixteenth year, not
having missed a weekly meeting during that time. In addition, during
this period I was an officer in the Masonic Chapter. After a period of
several years in line, I was elected High Priest, a position I filled during
1940-41, |

One day in the early 1940s, my wife left a magazine article where I
would be sure to observe it — the title was “Have you time to be a good
Father?” Since then I have been confining most of my activities to the
home and family. At best, with the pressure of economic affairs, too
much of my energy is required to make a living. At least we are aware of
the problem and are attempting to give them the attention that growing
children require and ought to have.

As I look back over the years, there are many things which I view
with regret. Among them the lack of opportunity to remain longer in

[ 370 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

the Class of ’26, so that acquaintances could have been strengthened,
More and more as the years pass J am impressed with the truth of the
French proverb I viewed so lightly when I learned it back in high school
days — “‘Si jeunesse savait, Se vieillesse pouvait!”

ALFRED HOLL HAUSER

Home Address: 87 Old Hollow Rd., Short Hills, N. J.

Office Address: Chemical Bank & Trust Co., 30 Broad St., New York, N. Y.

Born: May 21, 1904, St. Paul, Minn. Parents: Paul Hauser, Jr., Clara Holl.

Prepared at: Mechanic Arts High School, St. Paul, Minn.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: §.B., 1926.

Married: Helen P. Bassett, Dec. 24, 1926, Brooklyn, N. Y. Children: Joan
Holl, Jan. 19, 1929 (m. Lt. Robert J. Daeschler, U.S.M.C., Sept. 15,
1950); Mary Preston, Feb. 23, 1930; Edward Bassett, Dec. 28, 1937.

Occupation: Vice-president in charge of investments, Chemical Bank and Trust
Company, New York, N. Y.

Offices Held: Director, Maracaibo Oil Exploration Corporation, New York
Casualty Company; member investment committee, Board of Home
Missions of the Congregational and Christian Churches, International
College, Beirut, Syria; American College in Madura, India; president,
The Money Marketeers of New York University; chairman, Millburn
Community Chest; Board of Education, Millburn Township (1941-
46).

Member ie Short Hills Club. .

As the tempo of wedding preparations rises to fever pitch, I find it a
bit difficult to codrdinate the confused events of the last twenty-five
years, My elder daughter is to be married in five days. Nevertheless, it
does seem rather appropriate timing to have this big event coincide with
the beginning of preparations for our T'wenty-fifth. It is the completion
of an era and the beginning of a new one, the end of which in turn may
be marked by her sitting down at the typewriter to compose her twenty-
five-year history for Wellesley, Class of 1950. Since 1926 my wife and
kids have been the focal point of my own activities. Summer vacations
together have been the high spots of each year, and as soon as one was
finished we would start planning together for the next one.

Our most extended journey was a European trip in 1947, when we
visited Switzerland and the family of our English “daughter” who spent
four years with us during the war. During the war years, when travel
was out of order, we spent a month of each summer at a lake in eastern
Pennsylvania, not far from home. It was there that we became en-
thusiastic about sailing small boats, especially Ted and I. He won the
Junior Cup this summer.

[ 37: ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Winter trips without the kids have included Bermuda and Nassau.
Most of the year, however, we spend at home in Short Hills, near
enough to make the daily trip to New York with comfort and ease. I sup-
pose our goings and comings are typically suburban — tennis in sum-
mer, paddle tennis in winter, giving way to the rush of cocktail parties
(during the Christmas holidays), dances, bridge, poker, and community
service. I should be able to make a living at money-raising. I have been
on so many committees that all but my closest friends now run into the
basement and refuse to answer the doorbell (if they see me first), for
fear of being dunned for the Red Cross, the National War Fund, or the
Community Chest. For six years I served on the local Board of Educa-
tion, after having been a member of the Taxpayers Association and ap-

pearing too frequently at School Board meetings.

Other “community service” activities have been sort of off-shoots of
my job, which has been in the field of investing (other people’s) money.
I am a trustee of a couple of foreign colleges, for example, not because
of proficiency in education, but so as to be eligible for membership on the
investment committee. This investment work is fascinating. When
combined with a part in the administration of a large banking operation,
a continual study of the national economy, and an attempt to outguess
the stock market, it is hard to think of a way of life or an occupation that
I could enjoy more. It has broadened my point of view and mellowed
me to the extent that I not only can endure Princeton men, but I can
actually like some of them. The president of our bank is one.

JAMES MacLELLAN HAWKES

Address: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

Born: Jan. 31, 1906, Wareham, Mass. Parents: James Powers Hawkes, Susanna
Carolina Kaercher.

Prepared at: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. magna cum laude, 1926; A.M.,
19283 Pu.D., 1943.

Occupation; Education.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Hawkes
did not return a questionnaire.

BARTLETT HARDING HAYES, JR.

Home Address: Off Phillips Street, Andover, Mass,
Office Address: Addison Gallery of American Art, Phillips Academy, Andover,
Mass.

[ 372 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Born: Aug. §, 1904, Andover, Mass. Parents: Bartlett Harding Hayes, 98,
Marjorie Scull.

Prepared at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Clare Wadleigh, Sept. 15, 1932, Alassio, Italy. Children: Bridget,
March 4, 1940; Deborah, March 15, 1942; Hilary, Aug. 27, 1945;
Delia Maria Claretta, Sept. 26, 1949.

Harvard Brother: Guy Scull Hayes, ?34, M.D., 39.

Occupation: Director, Addison Gallery and instructor in art, Phillips Academy.

Military or Naval Record: Resigned ROTC commission in Field Artillery,
1926.

Offices Held: Member, various advisory committees established by schools, col-
leges, museums, art, craft, and national, state and local educational or-
ganizations; member editorial boards, Magazine of Art and Art in Amer-
ica; regional chairman, Committee for Protection of Valuable Objects,

- Massachusetts Commission of Public Safety, 1942-43; chairman, New
England Inter-museum Committee on Armed Services, 1944-45 ; mem-
ber executive council, Committee on Art Education, New York, 1948;
member board of directors, College Art Association of America, 1946—
50; chairman Sub-committee on Art, Secondary Education Board, since
1947; trustee, since 1940, first vice-president, 1949, American Federa-
tion of Arts; trustee, Cambridge School of Design, since 19495 Wood-
stock Country School, since 1950.

Member of ; American Association of Museums; American Federation of Arts;
American Institute of Decorators; American Society of Architectural
Historians; Adult Education Association; Art Museum Directors Asso-
ciation; Collective Art Association of America; Eastern Arts Association ;
Early American Industries Association; Museums Association of Great
Britain; International Society for General Semantics; Committee on Art
Education, New York; Committee on Art Education, Boston; Boston
Printmakers; Essex Institute; Peabody Marine Association; Society for
the Preservation of New England Antiquities; New England Association
for Contemporary Sculpture; Andover Historical Society; Colonial So-
ciety of Massachusetts; Century Club, New York; Tavern Club, Boston;
American Academy of Arts and Sciences (fellow).

Publications: Editor, various monographs; occasional contributor to periodicals;
co-author Layman’s Guide to Modern Art.

In 1926 the sun shone more brightly for me outdoors than it did
through the greystone embrasures of Boylston Laboratory. Though my
field of concentration had been chemistry, I distributed myself promptly
among other interests in scattered portions of North America and, sub-
sequently, Europe. This mitosis (disengagement of self) took a little over
six years to accomplish, as well as the assistance of Columbus Iselin, with
whom I peered at the Arctic Circle and into the deeps which surround

[ 373 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

the Azores, and of John Knowlton, who demonstrated the retarding
influence of a West Indies hurricane in the midst of his mountainous,
Carib-ringed jungle, and of John Churchill, who humored my fum-
blings with the arts by sharing the cost of a flat on the ungilded slope of
Beacon Hill, Thereafter, I struck out on my own and shuttled between
the bigness of California and the monumentality of Europe in an effort
to weave some kind of individual destiny.
The stock market collapse of 1929 finished what I might have more
proudly finished on a more pleasurable scale, and I was soon threading
my way through the pittance I had left, The thread led into labyrinthian
corners, both indoors and out, and I found myself, by turns, moving
among the hushed pictures of the Uffizi Gallery in Florence, when the
doors had swung to and the turnstiles no longer clocked pattering flocks
of tourists; awakening at two a.M. to the resonant enchantment of a
chorus of Dutch girls as they passed below the open window, their sing-
ing punctuated by the rhythmically fading echoes of wooden shoes,
faintly reéchoed from the black water of Amsterdam’s canals and re-
echoed into the now empty and restless night; joining energetically, of
necessity, the agile citizens of Madrid as they twisted and balanced
_ under the rearing hooves and drawn sabres of the mounted Civil Guard,
as if they were participants in some immense bull-ring, whilst King
Alphonso XIII slipped insignificantly from his throne; suffering the
advice of the French shopkeepers who emerged from fly-guarded door-
ways into the cobbled brilliance beneath the palace of the Popes to de-
plore my technical inadequacy in sketching the image of their adored
Virgin; awkwardly providing in the Roman studios of M.G.M. an
Americanized-Italian voice for Stan Laure] (of Laurel and Hardy) so
that his buffoonery might be appropriately matched on the sound track
— all incidental to seeking source information about the subject of art
that would give me the sunshine I had not seen in the Bunsen burner.
Since I have probably been Jess out-of-doors during the past eighteen
years than most of my business acquaintances, I look back on this early
fancy with curiosity.

Well, it led to a steady job which a change of status (as the tax blanks
term it) demanded. So, with my wife who, though American, had never
seen America, I embarked on the adventure of returning to settle down
locally. This was in 1933. I have taught school and, since 1940, ad-
ministered a museum, to date. The fact that I was born, educated, and
now find my livelihood in the same small town gives me the impression
that I am going native.

%

[ 374 ]

a

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

FRANCIS BOURN HAYNE

Home Adaress: P.O. Box 156, Kentfield, Marin Co., Calif.

Office Address: 320 Market St., San Francisco 11, Calif.

Born: Sept. 6, 1903, San Francisco, Calif. Parents: William Alston Hayne,
Maud Eloise Chase Bourn.

Prepared at: Santa Barbara School, Carpinteria, Calif.

Years in College: 1922~1926. Degrees: $.B., 1926; M.Arcu., 1937.

Married: Anna Walcott, June 27, 1931, Marblehead, Mass. Children: Martha
Walcott, Aug. 3, 19323 Sarah Bourn, Aug: 21, 1934; Francis Bourn, Jr.,
Aug. 30, 1937.

Occupation: Architect; owner of business.

Military or Naval Record: Military Science at Harvard, Field Artillery, 1922-
243 sergeant, Infantry Company, Arizona National Guard, 1928-29;
sergeant, Field Artillery, California National Guard, 1930~313 Ist ser-
geant, Infantry Company, California State Guard, 1941-425 corporal,
Corps of Engineers, Camouflage, 1942-45.

Offices Held: Chief Air Raid Warden, District #3, Kentfield, Calif., 1942;
chairman, Cub Scout committee, Kentfield, Calif., 1948-50; program
chairman, American Institute of Architects, San Francisco Chapter,
1949-50; editor of Chapter Bulletin; committee chairman, Boy Scouts,
Kentfield, 1950-51.

Member of : San Francisco Commonwealth Club; Nogales Lodge No, 11, F. &
A.M.; Harvard Club of San Francisco (president, 1950-51) ; Los Ala-
mos Society (president, 1950-51) (a group of forty-nine Santa Barbara
county ranchers and old-timers, or their sons who gather yearly for a
barbecue) ; Sierra Club; University Club.

In my clothes closet hang two suits. One is my tuxedo or dinner
jacket (black tie), the other my claw hammer creation officially known
as full dress (white tie). Both of these were constructed for me my
sophomore year at Harvard, and they still fit me. The dinner jacket has
a somewhat greenish hue in the daylight but, since I now try to return
from an evening’s entertainment before the rosy glow of dawn, this
mossy aspect makes no difference. My hair is still thick, dark, and
abundant.

In spite of the way Nature has smiled at me in some respects, those
words of Henry V ring true when he says that, “‘A good leg will fall, a.
straight back will stoop; etc., etc.” The bitter truth was fully brought to
mind last summer when my wife, Anna, and I found on top of a bleak
Sierra pass the following message from our thirteen-year-old son: “Dear
parents; I waited at top an hour and a half. I will meet you at store.
Bouie.”

About an hour after Bouie had left this thoughtful message, Anna

[ 375 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

THEODORE DWIGHT HAZEN

Home Address: 2021 Knollwood Rd., Lake Forest, Hl.
Office Address: 1358 Merchandise Mart, Chicago 54, Ill.
Born: April 13, 1902, Belchertown, Mass. Parents: Daniel Dwight Hazen,
Alice Gold.
Prepared at: Central High School, Springfield, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1924, 1925-1926.
Married: Jean McLean, May 17, 1931, Goderich, Ont., Canada. Children:
Theodore Dwight, Jr., Aug. 10, 1937; William James, Dec. 5, 1942.
Occupation: Manufacturers’ agent for several firms who produce ready-made
slip covers, draperies, and printed fabrics.
Member of : Knollwood Country Club, Lake Forest, Ill.; Presbyterian Church;
. Merchants and Manufacturers Club; Parent Teachers Association;

Men’s Garden Club.

After leaving college in 1926, I became engaged as a manufacturer’s
representative travelling the eastern seaboard from New York to Flor-
ida. My contacts were with automotive jobbers, which proved to be an
interesting and challenging sales experience. My firm produced high
pressure lubricating equipment. Shortly after I joined this firm, it be-
came involved in intensive patent litigation. I soon found it necessary
not only to persuade customers to make purchases but also to convince
their patent attorneys that our products were non-infringing.

From this field of activity I moved into the automotive slip cover
business in 1930. It was my privilege to help pioneer the sale of patented
custom quality slip covers to various car manufacturers.

In the summer of 1931, six weeks after my marriage to a lovely
Canadian girl, I was advised to go west for my health. My bride and I
spent two and one-half years in beautiful Colorado and New Mexico to
complete my recovery from tuberculosis. This abrupt interruption in an
active career of selling had many beneficial effects in addition to the
restoration of my health, I believe that it is good for all of us to be forced
to stop along Life’s pathway and take stock of ourselves — our direction,
our purposes in life, our contributions to others’ happiness, and our gen-
eral usefulness as members of society. Though this experience seemed
tragic to both my wife and me at the time, in retrospect we now judge
those years as some of the happiest of our lives.

After leaving Colorado, I spent another year in Florida in partial
activity. By early 1935 I was ready to go back to work in earnest, having
effected a complete recovery. My health has been good ever since.

I continued my work with car manufacturers and subsequently
broadened this activity to include the sale of patented ready-made furni-

[ 378 ]

T wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

ture slip covers. My work necessitated extensive travel and I found it
expedient to employ salesmen to handle this expanded line.

Frequent out-of-town trips make me especially appreciative of the
serenity of a nice home in the country and a wonderful wife and two
active boys. My days at Harvard were limited but I have cherished every
one of them! I hope and pray that my two sons may both qualify and
enter Harvard.

HERBERT EMANUEL HEDBERG

Home Address: 40 Drury Lane, Worcester, Mass.

Office Address: 36 Pleasant St., Worcester 8, Mass.

Born: April 7, 1905, Boston, Mass. Parents: Emil Olaf Hedberg, Bertha Eliza-
beth Larson.

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1925. Degree: M.D., 1929.

Married: Leone Beryl Irish, Oct. 6, 1928, Boston, Mass, Children: Stephen
Emanuel, Nov. 17, 1929 (7. Betsey Johnston) ; David Leigh, Feb. 12,
19313 Richard Bancroft, Jan. 26, 19333 Nancy Leone, Dec. 18, 1935.

Harvard Sons: Stephen Emanuel Hedberg, ’52; David Leigh Hedberg, ’5 3.

Occupation: Physician, obstetrics and gynecology; obstetrician-in-chief,
Worcester Memorial Hospital.

Military or Naval Record: Enlisted October, 1942, Army Medical Corps, cap-
tain; received medical discharge, May, 1943.

Offices 1 eld : President, Harvard Club of Worcester, 1947, 1948.

Member of: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
Obstetrical Society of Boston; New England Obstetrical and Gynecologi-
cal Society; American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology; American
College of Surgeons; Harvard Club of Worcester; Harvard Club of Bos-
ton; University Club of Worcester; Athelstan Lodge, A.F. & A.M.;
Tatnuck Country Club; Worcester Country Club; Worcester Club; ;
Odin Club.

One of my chief regrets in reviewing my life is that I did not stay in
college another year and get my A.B. with the rest of my class. How-
ever, I should consider myself fortunate in being taken into Harvard
Medical School after my third year, thereby saving myself a year in the
long road ahead. Asa matter of fact, had I not been accepted into Medi-
cal School at that time, I would undoubtedly be some kind of chemist
now instead of a surgeon and baby-snatcher. After four pleasant years
at the Medical School, I spent two years at the Carney Hospital acquir-
ing some knowledge of surgery and another year at the Boston Lying-in
Hospital and Free Hospital for Women where I learned the funda-
mentals of obstetrics and gynecology. At long last, in August, 1932, I

[ 379 ]

Flarvard Class of 1926

hung out my shingle in Worcester, Massachusetts, where I have been
ever since. The line of patients I expected to form outside my door
failed to materialize and the first five years were lean ones indeed and
it required all of my wife’s ingenuity to keep us from starving to death.
In 1938 people started having babies and operations again, and since
then I have been working myself to death. Sometimes I think I would
rather be hungry again. I have attained some eminence in my field
here in Worcester and by virtue of the fact that the retiring age has
caught up with my seniors, I am now obstetrician-in-chief at the
Worcester Memorial Hospital.

My main extra-curricular activity has been raising a family — three
boys and a girl. My eldest, Steve, is a junior at Harvard, a good student,
No. 5 on last year’s varsity crew and recently married to a lovely girl,
Betsey Johnston of Littleton, Colorado. Dave, the second one, is a
sophomore at Harvard, also a good student, captain of last year’s fresh-
man swimming team and a member of this year’s varsity team. He is
also a golfer of considerable promise. The third son, Dick, is in his last
year at Exeter and I hope he will be a freshman at Harvard next year.
He is also a swimmer. The baby, Nancy, is fifteen, goes to Bancroft
School in Worcester, and is planning to go to Emma Willard next year.
She has a real talent for music and is a pretty fair swimmer too. We are
very proud of our children.

The task of supporting and educating my large and expensive family
has not afforded me much opportunity for travel except for an occa-
sional brief holiday at Sea Island, Pinehurst, or Bermuda, but in spite of
my hectic life, I still find time for frequent rounds of golf at Tatnuck
and Worcester Country Clubs during the summer and many pleasant
hours of bridge and pool in the winter. Someday, perhaps, things will be
different and — Well, a fellow can dream, can’t he?

EARL WENTWORTH HEMMINGER

Home and Office Address: Montgomery Road, Ellicott City, Md,

Born: Oct. 8, 1904, Meyersdale, Pa, Parents: John Henry Ross Hemminger,
Victoria Walker.

Prepared at: Gettysburg Academy, Gettysburg, Pa.

Years in College: 1923-1927. Degrees: 8.B., 1927; M.D. (Univ. of Mary-
land), 1933.

Married: Evelyn Cromwell Chenoweth, Jan. 2, 1937, Ellicott City, Md.
Child: Sally Cromwell, Sept. 25, 1950.

Harvard Brother: Ralph Walker Hemminger, ’28,

Occupation: Physician.

[ 380 ]

Le

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Military or Naval Record: World War II: Navy, lieutenant commander, Medi-
cal Corps, November, 1943, to June, 1946; U.S.N.R.

Member of : Masons, 32d degree; A.M.A.; Pennsylvania Society of Ophthal-
mology and Otolaryngology.

CHARLES JEFFERSON HENDERSON

Home Address: 3944 Noela Drive, Honolulu, Hawaii.

Office Address: Castle & Cooke, Ltd., P.O. Box 2990, Honolulu, Hawaii.

Born: Sept. §, 1903, Elko, Nev. Parents: Charles Belknap Henderson, Ethel
Smith.

Prepared at: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

Years in College: 1922-1926, Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Louise Erdman, May 25, 1929, Honolulu, Hawaii, CAildren: Har-
old Erdman, April 30, 19333 Charles Belknap, 2d, Jan. 25, 1936.
Occupation: Vice-president, Castle & Cooke, Ltd., sugar and shipping agents;

interest in pineapple industry, tuna packing, insurance, merchandising.

Wartime Government Posts: Deputy director of Civilian Defense.

Offices Held: Director, Honolulu Chapter of American Red Cross, World War
II; president and director, Waialua Water Company, Wahiawa Water
Company, Honolulu Community Chest; vice-president and director,
Waialua Agricultural Company, Ewa Plantation Company, Kohala Sugar
Company, Helemano Company, Ltd., Kahua Ranch, Ltd., Coca-Cola
Bottling Company of Honolulu; director, Hawaiian Pineapple Com-
pany, Hawaiian Equipment Company; trustee, Hawaiian Foundation;
chairman, Finance Committee of Republican Party of Hawaii.

Member of : Hawaii Employers Council; Oahu Health Council; Social Science
Association; Pacific-Union Club, San Francisco; Pacific Club of Hono-
lulu; Outrigger Canoe Club; Beretania Tennis Club.

After leaving the Business School in 1927, I joined the American
Trust Company of San Francisco and worked in that city for approxi-
mately a year and then for a few months in their New York branch. I
was transferred to run their Honolulu office in 1928. In 1930 I joined
Theo. H. Davies & Company, Ltd., a large mercantile sugar and ship-
ping firm, as assistant to the president, primarily in charge of finances.
In 1931, 1932, and 1933 I spent some time in the Philippines and
China developing an office for that firm in Manila and on the latter trip
I drew up a five-year sugar plan for the South Chinese government. In
1937 I accepted an offer from the Hawaiian Pineapple Company as
assistant to the president and later I became vice-president and treasurer.
Because of the company’s nation-wide problems and branches the job
required considerable travel, particularly to the eastern seaboard and
West Coast. In 1945 I accepted the position I now occupy. Castle &

[ 38: ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Cooke represents the largest stock interest in the Hawaiian Pineapple
Company, as well as having extensive sugar and shipping interests,

Although born in a Democratic family, I have taken an active part in
recent years in the Republican party in Hawaii in the belief that it is only
through the success of this party and our two-party system that eventual
socialism can be avoided. We have been successful in maintaining Re-
publican majorities in the Territorial Legislature and I Rope that we can
achieve statehood and send some good Republicans to the National
Congress.

KENNETH ATWOOD HENDERSON

Home Address: 29 Agawam Rd., Waban 68, Mass.

Office Address: John P. Chase Inc., 75 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Oct. 18, 1905, Watertown, Mass. Parents: Charles William Henderson,
Jr., Anna Lyons Atwood.

Prepared at: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.

Married: Elizabeth Berry Marshall, June 10, 1944, Cambridge, Mass. CAéld:
Caroline Marshall, Oct. 8, 1948.

Harvard Brother: Clayton Leslie Henderson, ’17.

Occupation: Investment counsel; account manager, John P. Chase Inc.

Military or Naval Record: Commissioned lieutenant, U.S. Naval Reserve, Au-
gust, 19423 served in various capacities at N.A.F., N.A.S., and N.O.B.,
Adak, Alaska, and N.A.S., St. Simons Island, Ga.; separated as lieutenant
commander, January, 1946.

Wartime Government Posts: Adviser to War Department on mountain troops,
and to Army Quartermaster on mountain and cold weather equipment.

Member of : Alpine Club (London); American Alpine Club; Harvard Moun-
taineering Club; Harvard Travelers Club; Appalachian Mountain Club;
Alpine Club of Canada; American Association for the Advancement of

Science; Boston Society of Security Analysts.

Publications: Handbook of American Mountaineering, Houghton Mifflin Co.,
Boston, 1942; many articles on climbing, skiing, and canoeing in Ameri-
can and foreign publications.

The past twenty-five years have been busy ones but varied. My busi-
ness life has been largely devoted to finance; from juggling foreign ex~
change in the early years out of college, when exchange rates fluctuated
and the law of supply and demand still held, to the past twelve years or
more when I have tried to act in the wise réle of an investment counsel-
lor. In between, there were excursions into financial analysis and writing,
and even selling, when the Standard Oil Company endeavored to con-
vince me that the life of an oil burner salesman was superior to that of an

[ 382 ]

~~

Mla le tesa

Twenty-fifth Anntversary Report

economist or banker. It was unsuccessful in its attempt, I am glad to
report, as I am better pleased with my present occupation.

I had early conceived a great liking for the mountains and have spent
many happy days among them, in college and afterwards, on this con-
tinent and in Europe. I have written many articles on my adventures,
which have been published in mountaineering journals in this country
and in Europe, mostly in English, although I managed to produce sev-
eral in French upon sufficient urging. As a member of the editorial staff
of the American Alpine Journal and of A ppalachia, I have also contributed
many notes and book reviews of climbing or geographical interest. As
the chairman of the American Alpine Club’s Committee on Guides, in
which capacity I set up standards for the nationwide training and licens-
ing of mountaineering guides, | undertook in 1941 the preparation of a
climbing manual. A group from the club had successfully persuaded
Secretary of War Henry L. Stimpson, a former club member, that
mountain troops were desirable, but the Army authorities complained
of an absence of any training manual. This lack I endeavored to correct,
and with the aid of collaborators, not as numerous nor as complete as at
first anticipated, I produced a manual of climbing technique, which was
published in 1942 by Houghton Mifflin Company under the title of
Handbook of American Mountaineering. The Army never did use it or any
part of it, but the Air Force proved a receptive customer for the book.

Finding the Army slow to carry out its original idea of training moun-
tain troops, a task for which a number of us volunteered, I joined the
Navy in 1942, supposedly to utilize my knowledge of languages. With
the exception of censoring mail and one visit to a Russian ship while
stationed in the Aleutians, I found English quite sufficient for all the
tasks assigned to me. Returning to this country in 1944, I married and
took my bride to my new Naval Air Station, St. Simons Island, Georgia,
where we remained for the rest of the war. I returned to private life a
lieutenant commander but suspect that the present world situation may
give the wheel of fate another spin and cause me to set sail for a new
destination.

My interest in the mountains led me to take up skiing many years ago.
Although I have never become an expert, I find the boards an excellent
means of getting around in the snow-covered hills. When the snows
begin to melt and the streams are full, I like to try my skill at dodging
the rocks and boulders in the New England rivers. I have found it excit-
ing and have developed a fair proficiency, sufficient at least to win the
canoe event in the National White-Water Championships on the Rapid
River in Maine in 1940. My distinction was short-lived for I was only

[ 383 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

runner-up in 1941 and since then there have been no races. Photog-
raphy has increased my enjoyment of all these activities, and with the
pictures and movies I obtained, I have done some lecturing.

My Harvard associations have been confined to a survey of the
mountaineering literature in the college library in 1931, with recom-
mendations for rounding out the collections, and an active interest, as a
graduate member, in the Harvard Mountaineering Club. For this or-
ganization, I led many rock-climbing and ice-climbing trips in the
White Mountains, in the course of which I introduced many since fa-
mous climbers to the sport. I am still active as the chairman of its
Advisory Committee although I find that the demands of family life
leave less time for participation in its activities than formerly.

During the last few years I have been spending more time at home
trying to win the race with the high cost of living by producing many of
our needs in my workshop, and enjoying my family.

BERNARD HENICK

Home Address: 90 Brower Ave., Woodmere, Long Island, N. Y.

- Office Address: Titman Ege Co., 105 Hudson St., New York, N. Y.

Born: Dec. 6, 1904, New York, N. Y. Parents: Charles Henick, Esther Marco-
vicl.

Prepared at: Boys’ High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926,

Married: Eva Titman, June 23, 1931, New York, N. Y. Children: Susan,
March 7, 1937; Steven, July 29, 1942.

Occupation: Partner in Titman Egg Company — breaking, processing, and
freezing of eggs for bakers, noodle manufacturers, and similar processors
of food products.

Member of : Harvard Club of New York.

Publications: Contributor to business publications such as Barron’s,

The earlier Class books carried no record of me other than that I was
among the living, because I was waiting for something to happen that
would be worth printer’s ink. With the passing of a quarter-century,
however, there is little likelihood now that the New York Times will ever
see anything about me that will make news fit to print. Under the cir-
cumstances, I feel that only a Class book provides the means for my
breaking out in print.

The remark that I am still among the living is no idle phrase of resig-
nation. Living in a locality served(?) by the Long Island Railroad re-
duces the inhabitants to the status of the hunted where every foot of the

[ 384 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

way is beset with mortal danger. To claim to be among the living is no
mere boast for a Long Islander. I have eluded the terror of the iron
horse by commuting to the city by motor car. This, alas, has made us
into a two-car family — one for the breadwinner and one for the pools,
Our family timetable calls for a Sunday School car pool, a dancing class
pool, 2 dramatic class pool, a Cub Scout pool, and pools still to be
formed if anyone can dream up another project that will be good for the
children. This timetable unfortunately is not subject to change with or
without notice because a delay of mere minutes will rouse the household
with shrill telephone calls inquiring sweetly whether the car is on the
way. )

With the transportation problem solved happily, life assumes its nor-
mal aspects and proportions. I am off each day to the egg business. No,
Thave not read The Egg and I. I could write, however, about the egg
and you — why eggs are so high priced, why the GI’s don’t like them
powdered, and what to tell your Congressman; but, I want to keep my
equilibrium in and politics out of this,

At home we are engaged in learning to appreciate adolescent girls
and in trying to understand why little boys behave like little boys. We
have learned already that as the children grow older their problems be-
come bigger and that we must try to grow big enough to cope with
them. If we succeed at all, I believe it will be due to Eva. Quite some
years ago, she took to the lecture platform to discuss contemporary fic-
tion and news events. The benefits of this work are reflected directly
into our home life. We are the best informed family on the latest best
sellers and most important facts on the domestic and foreign news
fronts, The fact that Eva assumes a responsibility completely different
from domestic routines provides for her an unusual interest. With her

ability to analyze and evaluate audience reactions to different situations,
she is able to reach the essentials of many problems that bear on our
home life. Dad and the children are the principal beneficiaries of this
extra-curricular activity — Dad consciously some of the time and the
children unknowingly all of the time.

While we cannot be sure that what we do is right, it is all done with
the hope that when the time comes for Susan and Steven to take wing,
they will know how to take advantage of the favorable air currents and
to cope with the headwinds as fully as we can prepare them. As for that
which is among my most tender thoughts, suffice it to say that while
Cambridge may be far away, Harvard is with me every day.

[ 385 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

% CARL RUMSEY HEUSSY

Bora: Aug. 24, 1905, Seattle, Wash. Parents: William Charles Heussy, Henrj
etta Emiline Rumsey. ~

Prepared at; St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B. (Univ. of Washing-

ton), 1930.

Married: Loyal Lamont, Nov. 12, 1927, Seattle, Wash. Children: Petey Ya.
mont, July 24, 1933; William Charles.

Died; April 6, 1943, Port Angeles, Wash.

Carl Rumsey Heussy came to Harvard from St. Paul’s School where
he was a good athlete and an excellent scholar. As an undergraduate he
joined the Glee Club and was a member of the 1924 University Glee
Club which toured the country giving recitals. His special athletic in-

terest was sculling and he won the double sculls championship in 1924
and the single sculls championship in 1925. In his senior year he was
vice-president of the Styx Club. He received his law degree in 1 930 and
for a while practised law by himself. From 1934 to March, 1936, he
served as deputy prosecuting attorney, trying thirty-seven cases and se-
‘uring a conviction in every one. He then became a member of the law
‘rm, Bailey & Heussy. A large portion of this firm’s business concerned
1e Automobile Distributors Association of Washington and other auto-
obile interests in the state. Heussy engaged in many civic activities and
s memberships were wide. He was managing secretary of the Seattle
itomobile Dealers’ Association and the Washington Automotive
rade Association. He served on the board of trustees of the Municipal
ague and the legislative committee of the Seattle Chamber of Com-
rce and was one of the leaders of the Young Republican League. At
: time he was secretary of the board of trustees of the Seattle Tennis
b and president of the Seattle Squash Racquets Association. Other
-es included chairman of schools committee of the Harvard Club of
‘tle, member of the judiciary committee of the Seattle Bar Associa-
, member of the executive committee of the Industrial Council of
hington, and manager of the Seattle Automobile Show from 193?
935 inclusive. He was a member of the University Club, the Col-

Club, the Washington Athletic Club, the Washington State Bar
siation, the American Bar Association, the Military Order of the
] Legion, and Phi Delta Phi, honorary legal fraternity.
the outbreak of the war, Heussy left his law practice to go on active
as a lieutenant (j.g.) in the Coast Guard, leaving Seattle for #
Guard air base in Port Angeles, He and other airmen were 4°”

[ 386 J

Twenty-fifth A nniversary Report

ned to patrol the Washington coast by plane. On one of these flights
ne crashed and he and the other members of the crew were killed.
urvived by his wife and two sons.

slg
his pla
He is $

*k CHARLES ATWOOD HICKS

Born: July 4, 1904, at San Francisco, Calif. Parents: Samuel Wilson Hicks,
Blanche Elwood Felter.

Prepared at: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.; Albany Academy, Albany,
N.Y.

Years in College: 1922-1928. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926(28).
Unmarried.

Died: Nov. 19, 1932, North Chatham, N. Y.

While an undergraduate at Harvard, Charles Atwood Hicks inter-
ested himself in social service work, music, and amateur dramatics. He
was a member of the Freshman Glee Club, Social Service, the Hotch-
kiss Club, the Pierian Sodality, the Albany Academy Club, of which he
was secretary in his junior year, and the Dramatic Club. During his
freshman year he received Price Greenleaf Aid. He discontinued his
studies for a time during our senior year, but later returned to Cam-
bridge and in 1928 received his degree as of our Class. He intended
upon graduation to go into farming, but instead entered the motion
picture business. He was with the University Film Foundation from
1928 to 1931. In our Sexennial Report he wrote, “At present I am
collaborating on a book exposing welfare organizations. It will be pub-
lished in the fall. I am also working with Scotty Wilson on cartoons and
humorous drawings. Also collecting Oklahoma folk songs.” At the time
of his death he was engaged in advertising work.

CHARLES JARVIS HILL

Home Address: 231 Crescent St., Northampton, Mass.
Office Address: Smith College, Northampton, Mass.
Born: Jan, 12, 1904, Rutland, Mass. Parents: William Colver Hill, Carrie
Sarah Hayward.
P Tepared at: Classical High School, Springfield, Mass.
Years ing College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; A.M., 19273
M Pu.D. (Yale Univ.), 1930.
arrted: Ruth Elizabeth Hillyar, June 21, 1930, Springfield, Mass. Children:
0 Katherine Elizabeth, Aug. 19, 1932; Margaret Ruth, Jan. 29, 1935.
“tation: Professor of English, Smith College.
“lication: The Literary Career of Richard Graves; The Complete Plays and
Poems of William Shakespeare, edited with William Allan Neilson,

[ 387 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

All my life my lines have fallen in pleasant places. Iam fortunate in

a happy family life and in a professional community where there is m ore

harmony and less tension than is frequently to be met with; so J have

doubtless, an obligation to be happy. But it is difficult to be really happ ,
in the world as it is today, and I find myself constantly beset (like every.
body else) with doubts and fears, and deeply preoccupied with the prob-
lem of appraising the values for which it is my personal wish and my pro-
fessional responsibility to stand. The contribution of the humanities, the
function of art and literature in a free society, are challenged and threat.
ened now along with freedom of inquiry itself, and the Opportunity to
make these things seem important to the younger generation today is a
sobering business. But these are platitudes, although staggeringly mean-
ingful ones.

For what you can make of it, I may say that my favorite composer js

Mozart, my favorite authors are Jane Austen, George Eliot, and Henry
James, and my favorite sport (which I don’t play any more) is tennis.
The Episcopal Church is the one that I stay away from, and the Repub-
lican party is the one that I don’t vote for. (I have made serious mis-
takes in the past.) My primary detestation is Senator McCarthy and all
his ilk. I subscribe to the Mew York Herald Tribune, the New Yorker, and
the Nation. I like travelling — in a style superior to what I can afford.
In the summer of 1949 I crowned a sabbatical leave with a trip to Eng-
land, and I am (not merely as a consequence of that) excessively anglo-
phile. But I’m glad that I live in the U.S.A., and in a small city rather
than a large one. In my unoffending rut I could be a king of infinite
space, were it not that I have bad dreams.

FREDERICK BRACKETT HILL, JR.

Home Address: 317 8. Drexel Ave., Columbus, Ohio.

Office Address: Yardley Industries, 138 Parsons Ave., Columbus, Ohio.

Born: Nov. §, 1903, Framingham, Mass. Parents: Frederick Brackett Hill,
’95, Edith Pickering Draper.

Prepared at: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926. d

Married: Constance Olney Doe, Sept. 9, 1926, Columbus, Ohio (divorced
1936); Elizabeth Wood Gibson, 1938, Columbus, Ohio. Children:
Frederick Brackett, 3d, Aug. 21, 1927 (m. Betty Lou Heppel, Marc
18, 1950); James C., April 6, 1930; Robert Gibson, June 25; 1943-

Harvard Brother: Leroy Draper Hill, ’22.

Occupation: President, Yardley Industries,

[ 388 ]

  

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

ofices Held: Member board of trustees, Bexley Methodist Church, White
Cross Hospital, Red Cross, ¥.M.C.A., Columbus Better Business Bureau,
Citizens Research; vice-president, Columbus Players Club; director,
Society of Plastics Engineers,

Member of: Columbus University Club (president 1949); Kiwanis Club

1928-59} Society of Plastics Engineers; Masonic Orders; Young Busi-

nessmen’s Club; Columbus Officers Club.

Though my English major in college pointed to an outstanding ca-
reer in letters(? ), 1am ashamed to say that this autobiographical sketch
sone of my first literary ventures other than business papers. I left our
good Class of 26 six months early to start a fortune in Florida real
estate. Lhe heavy storms in the spring of that year, however, deflated
the boom and my ego, bringing me back north a sadder and wiser Har-
yard graduate.

After this experience I went to Ohio and tried retail selling and bank-
ing in Columbus, Loaded with financial courses of the American Insti-
tute of Banking, I tried my business wings again in buying a small
manufacturing company. This prospered, and in 1932 I bought the
Yardley Company, which has kept me busy ever since. Our organiza-
tion, of which I am president, includes several different phases of manu-
facturing, such as the production of plastics, metal mouldings, Venetian
blinds, storm sashes, insulation, and presently products for the armed
forces. .

Our Twenty-fifth Harvard Reunion will also mark the twenty-fifth
anniversary of my hegira to Ohio from Massachusetts. On this silver
anniversary, therefore, perhaps I should review my assets acquired dur-
ing the quarter-century. My first and greatest is a splendid “Buckeye”
family. Betty, my wife, isa Theta from Ohio State University. Ted, 3d,
my eldest, has just graduated in business administration from the same
institution and is starting to advise his old man on how “our’” business
should be run. Jim, our next, is a sophomore. Yes, in the same college, I
can hear some of you asking why these boys went to Ohio State rather
than Harvard. Both of them had a stretch in the Navy before college,
and when they returned, the entire family was unanimous in not want-
ing them to go away again so soon — and besides O.S.U. is a splendid
university, Our third boy, Bobby, is now seven, and his mother and I are
trying to make a graceful re-entry into the younger set of parents with
children in the early grades.

often wish I could thrill my family and classmates with exciting
a ventures, voyages, mergers, and conquests, but alas I can’t.

[ 389 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926
And often did beguile her of her tears

When I did speak of some distressful stroke

That my youth suffered.
OTHELLO

My life since college has doubtless been duplicated by thousands of men
through the United States, and could be summarized as follows: Youn
man graduates; hunts around two or three years for @ Suitable life.
work; hits the type of thing he loves; expands in activity and waistline;
joins the National Association of Manufacturers; works for social and
civic organizations; raises a family. From the earlier reports of our
Class, I have read of remarkable accomplishments of many of my class-
mates. Compared with them, my endeavors have been commonplace.
Since, however, each of us wants to justify his existence, let me say that
verhaps I represent the small manufacturer, the American individualist
—a proponent of the democratic way of life.

CHARLES WELLESLEY HILLARD

nt Address: 3506 Byron Ave., Nashville, Tenn.

ce Address: Longmans, Green & Co., §5 Fifth Ave., New York 3, N. Y.

»: Sept. 9, 1904, Nashville, Tenn. Pareats: Charles Wesley Hillard, Flor-
ence Bridges Houston.

sred at: Morristown School, Morristown, N, J.

in College: 1922-1927. Degree: A.B., 1926(27).

ation: College textbook publishing; travelling editor, Longmans, Green

¢ Company.

ry or Naval Record: Inducted, A.U.S., August, 1942; Army Air Base,

incoln, Nebr., September, 1942, to August, 1943; Consolidated-

ultee Aircraft, Nashville, Tenn., September, 1943—December, 19453

scharged, December, 1945.

GERSON THAL HIRSCH
dress: “Deer Hill,” Hardscrabble Rd., R.F.D. 1, Briarcliff Manor,
J

loss: 9 E. 45th St., New York, N. Y.

’ 29, 1905, Arverne, Long Island, N. Y. Parents: Herman Gerson
hy Sybil Thal.

: Roger Ascham School, Scarsdale, N. Y.

lege: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; B. Ancu. (New York
), 1932.

arolyn Swartz, Dec. 15, 1929, San Francisco, Calif. Children:
varolyn, Feb. 9, 1931; David Lawrence, April 12, 1935.

[ 390 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

rd Brother: Alfred Herman Hirsch, ’29,
ation: Architect. _

aie Government Posts: Civilian construction engineer with New York Dis-

{far trict of U.S. Engineer Office, War Department, Corps of Engineers.

Member of: New York Society of Architects; American Institute of Architects,
Westchester Chapters New York State Association of Architects; West-
chester County Agricultural Association,

publications: Occasional short papers in professional periodicals.

Herve

As I have already given the more literate members of the Class three,
or maybe four, installments of my tale, I shall just continue where I left
off some four or five years ago.

But, first, 1 would like to read into the record an autobiographical
commentary entitled “My Life and Times with the U.S. Engineers,”
or “Memoirs of a Wartime Civil Servant,” written at various occasions
during my war employment, and hitherto unpublished. I have edited
them downward a little, but probably not enough.

These paragraphs were intended to constitute a sort of small-time
“Private Hargrove” as applied to a civilian employee of the War De-
partment. They may look as if I were always sore about something, and
felt that nothing the Department (or at any rate, my office) could do
was right. Of course that’s not the case. ‘he volume of emergency
business handled by the office was huge, of primary importance, well
handled by all concerned, and was interesting and stimulating to me as
a participant. ‘The men in the office were a great group to work with in
every way, |

But there is little of general interest in the smooth-flowing routine of
big operations going along well, and indeed such accounts are found in
the factual annual reports of businesses and bureaus, and make very dull
reading. It is in the idiocies and idiosyncrasies of the organization and
the men that the spots of life and color appear, and accordingly I have
centered on a few of these.

] September, 1942.“AmI an Engineer?”

Back in early 1942, I became anxious to take part in war work along
the lines for which I was best fitted. Since I was an architect, that meant
, activity bearing on the planning and/or supervision of building con-
teen Tread in the papers of men needed by the Construction Quar-
catinn and later by the U.S. Engineer Office, and I duly filed appli-
1 thee with them. Subsequent inquiry informed me that all employment
© and other federal offices would be handled through the U.S.

vil . . ; oe 3
€rvice Commission. This organization has an application, “form

[ 391 |

Harvard Class of 1926

and raises hamsters. Our daughter helps here and there. I push the
vegetables up and raise chickens. Busy is no word for it.

My daughter is at Syracuse, Class of ’52, and hopes to be an art
teacher and free-lance textile designer. My son looks towards Harvard,
Class of ’5 7, but is growing so scientific that he may end up at Tech.

Is this Korean thing another war coming up? Do we have to go
through all that again!

CECIL BENGT NORMAND HOAGLAND

Home Address: 119 Sterling Pl., Bridgeport, Conn.

Office Address: Hoagland Manufacturing Co., 29 Winton St., Bridgeport,
Conn.

Born: Dec. 3, 1905, Hartford, Conn. Parents: Frank Oscar Hoagland, Frida
Jungquist.

Prepared at: Central High School, Bridgeport, Conn.

Years in College: 1922-1928. Degree: S.B. in Mecu. E. ann Bus. Apin.
summa cum laude, 1927.

Married: Frances Lindstrom, Oct. 10, 1931, Bridgeport, Conn. CAildren:
Nancy Jane, May 30, 1936; Mary Elizabeth, June 26, 1937.

Occupation: President, Hoagland Manufacturing Company.

Member of : Brooklawn Country Club; Contemporary Club; Harvard Club of
New York; American Society of Mechanical Engineers; American So-
ciety of Too] Engineers.

Thinking back over the past twenty-five years, undoubtedly the
nicest thing that happened to me was getting married. Both our sons are
daughters, which means that our only chance to carry on in the Harvard
tradition is for at least one of the girls to pick the right man. For the next
few years I can only hope that our pooch ‘“‘Rusty”’ stays with us to help
offset by just a little bit the hopeless unbalance that otherwise exists
between my three girls and me.

Our social life revolves around a small circle of very staunch and
sincere friends, backed up by a larger group of pleasant faces. Our fam-
ilies tend to run as teams, which means that at times it is a question who
plans our activities — our children or ourselves. During the course of
our infrequent travels, we have seen a little of Canada and a few spots
in South America — quite a bit of Europe and some of the Middle West.
There has been skiing on the side of the Little Head Wall, and a swim
or two in tropical waters. We find our second home on Candelwood Isle
being used increasingly both winter and summer.

Over the years we have been wedded alternately to big business and

[ 398 ]

Se

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

to small. The war period was spent running a shell plant in Brooklyn,
all other years in Bridgeport industry. During the course of our three
moves a pattern was gradually being evolved, until finally we realized
that our own little business was the final solution. As a result we have
been “going it alone” for the past four years, and in so doing have
achieved a real sense of pleasure in business.

Altogether our life over the past quarter-century may not have been
a particularly outstanding achievement as measured by material stand-
ards — the best we can show is a listing in Who’s Who in the East. We
have made our share of mistakes, yet if we had to live these years over —
again I don’t know how much we would want to change. Taken as a
whole, this era has been a most pleasant experience, and we are so glad
that after our struggles we now seem to be finding that inner happiness
we have been seeking.

GEORGE HOAGUE, JR.

Address: La Capite, Geneva, Switzerland.

Born: Aug. 30, 1904, Brookline, Mass. Parents: George Hoague, ’95, Ann
Phelps Card.

Prepared at: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922~-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Irene Hardy, Oct. 18, 1943, Lanslan, England. C4ildren: Daphne,
July 3, 1930 (by previous marriage) ; George, 3d, Oct. 18, 1945.

Occupation: Naval architecture.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Hoague
did not return a questionnaire.

RICHARD SUTTON HODGKINS

Home Address: 76 East St., Ipswich, Mass.

Office Address: ‘Trustees of Public Reservations, 50 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Nov. 12, 1904, Ipswich, Mass, Parents: George Ellis Hodgkins, Louise
Sutton Glover.

Prepared at: Ipswich High School, Ipswich, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Adelaide Louise Osthues, Nov. 27, 1928, Framingham, Mass. C4il-
dren: Louise Story, June 10, 1929; George Ellis, 3d, April 5, 1935.
Occupation: Associated with the Trustees of Public Reservations in the admin-

istration of their property in Ipswich, Mass.
Member of : pswich Bay Yacht Club.

[ 399 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

CARROL JAMES HOFFMAN

Home Address: 35 Vineyard Rd., Newton Center, Mass.
Office Address: 53 State St., Boston, Mass.
Born: Aug. 28, 1899, Dansville, Mich. Parents: Heman L. Hoffman, Flora
Augusta Selfe.
Prepared at: Jackson Hi gh School, Jackson, Mich.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; M.B.A., 1928.
Married: Evelyn Baird, Nov. 15, 1921, Chicago, Ill. Children: Harriet Baird
Oct. 19, 1931; Carrol Julian, Jan. 28, 19333 Rollyn, Jan. 2, 1940.”
Occupation: Partner, Draper, Sears & Company, investment bankers and brok-
ers.
Military or Naval Record: Corporal, 49th Infantry, February, 1918—January,
1919; overseas service, Le Mans, France, July, 1918—January, 1919.
ifember of: Boston Investment Club; Advertising Club of Boston; Newton
Board of Aldermen (ex-member) ; University Club of Boston; Newton
Republican City Committee (treasurer); Newton Legion Post #48;
Boston Chamber of Commerce.

I wrote in my last report: “I hope sometime in the next few years to
- to persuade leading citizens that Newton should adopt a city man-
*r plan.” I do not think I ever undertook anything that was as near
00% failure as was that effort. Although we secured over 50% of
signatures required to put Plan E on the ballot, this work was all
e by new workers and not one of my previous political associates
ed me in this campaign. On the contrary, this latter group raised
$ to fight a city manager plan charter. Although I am chairman of
Vard Six (Newton Center—Chestnut Hill) Republican Committee
-reasurer of the Republican city committee, I have pretty much
ved out of local politics. This defeat was a good thing for me per-
y as it gave me a logical exit from active local politics.

the last few years I have given more of my spare time to organiza-
ssociated with my business, to the much greater benefit and pleas-
my family. One of the activities from which I have obtained quite
pleasure, outside of business, has been organizing and carrying t
ssful conclusion a pioneer course in successful investment sales
5. The Boston Investment Club, an investment club organize
.1.’s, saw fit to make me chairman of their education committee.
the first studies made by this club, which attracted nationwide

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

they were dependent for income — salesmanship. The logical conclu-
on was the course In investment salesmanship,
$I

The lectures were given at Boston University and printed in the
Commercial and Financial Chronicle. Later these talks were assembled in a

book. The young Boston Club added nearly $2,000 to its treasury from
the sale of the book and Barron’s has since republished it.

As to recreation, I spend my summers at Rockport, Massachusetts,
enjoying motor boating, swimming, and fishing. Rockport is the one
subject on which every member of our family agrees, We all enjoy it

there.
My wife (Radcliffe 20) and I received a great thrill over our

daughter’s entering Radcliffe this fall. With one son at Proctor Acad-
emy in New Hampshire and another in Shady Hill School, Cambridge,
I feel that what money I see only passes through my hands on the way
to two places: (1) private schools, and (2) government. The small
amount left has not permitted much saving yet but 1 am sure I shall
continue to get greater satisfaction from the school investment than
from the tax expenditure.

I look forward to the Reunion and it will be interesting to read what
the rest of the Class has been doing since 1946 and hear the collective
statistics of that very penetrating and somewhat amusing questionnaire.

SIDNEY HOFFMAN, JR.

Home Address: 62 Clark Rd., Brookline, Mass,

Office Address: 490 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

Bora: Feb. 4, 1906, Boston, Mass. Parents: Sidney Hoffman, Fannie Freed-
man,

Prepared at: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Audrey Franklin, Sept. 5, 1932, Boston, Mass. Children: Barbara

Carol, March 1 9, 19343 Paul Franklin, Jan. 30, 1937.

Occupation: Owner of retail ower shop.

Offices Held: District representative, Florist Telegraph Delivery Association,

I _~
Ment A345:

of Boston; Hotel Greeters of America; Kenmore Association.

ber of : Harvard Club of Boston; Ancient & Honorable Artillery Company

1, showed that over 75 Yo of the G.I.’s entering the investment After Commencement I joined the advertising staff of the Boston
in the New England area have since left and gone into other rald-Traveler where I remained for three years. T then entered my
s. In studying the causes of this large casualty list, we found that father’s retail florist business where 1 learned that most exacting pro-
] these men were weak in that phase of investments on whic sion. In the spring of 1933 I opened my own shop which is now in

[ 400 | [ 401 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

Kenmore Square, three blocks above the Harvard Club. Durin

past eighteen years I have catered to the floral needs of Harvard’ the

and others, in happiness, illness, and sorrow. While I am not in a men
ness calculated to make anyone wealthy, at the same time I am enjoy; se
my work because of its variety and opportunity to meet so many int crest
ing individuals.
My wife and J are very busy raising two teen-agers. Barbara expects
to go to college in Cambridge next year (not Harvard or Radcliffe),
Paul to enter the Class of 1958 at Harvard.

RAYMOND CLIFTON HOLGATE

Home Address: 3336 Divisadero St., San Francisco 23, Calif.

Office Address: Zinke Renewing Shoe Corp., 983 Harrison St., San Francisco
8, Calif.

Born: July 14, 1903, Somerville, Mass. Parents: Charles Henry Holgate, Lucy
Gertrude Downs.

Prepared at: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

Years in College: 1923-1926. Degree: §.B., 1926.

Married: Kathryn Muir, West Newton, Mass. (divorced 1941); Helen P.
Ahola, July 3, 1942, San Francisco, Calif.

Qecupation: Regional general manager, Zinke Renewing Shoe Corporation,
shoe repair chain.

Yffices Held: Chairman, board of directors, Alano Club of San Francisco,
1943-44; secretary, St. Francis Men’s Group of San Francisco, 1945-
46; executive chairman, Northern California-Nevada Council, 1946-
47; group chairman, Community Chest, 1948-49, American Red Cross,
1949-50.
"ember of : Harvard Club of San Francisco; Alano Club of San Francisco; St.
Francis Men’s Group of San Francisco; May-Ah-Mee Lodge, Lake
Tahoe, Calif.; Northern California-Nevada Council; Employer’s Coun-

cil of San Francisco.

Grant us the serenity
To accept things we cannot change,
Courage to change things we can,
And wisdom to know the difference.

> above quotation adequately sums up my evaluation of reality and
jon since the “daze” in the Yard. Asa direct result of per sonal a
ve been irrevocably forced to the conclusion that I am not open
Jed nor rigorously honest with myself. This revelation cam a a8
with some measure of shock. Incidentally, this discovery ?)

[ 402 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report
not the result of being psychoanalyzed or of dabbling with dianoetics —
that is the hell of it! . .

No person of mature discernment (including Yale and Princeton
men) can observe the ominous portents of our times without some acute
concern. All thoughtful persons (viz. Harvard men) must be well
aware that a third World War would probably mark the end of our
(ivilization in this Atomic Age. Both scientists and military experts, who
represent the two groups most competent to evaluate the relative facts,
amply confirm that judgment. Yet vast numbers of people proceed un-
concernedly about their immediate individual affairs as if either totally
ignorant of the imminent peril or else pretending ignorance because of
the feeling of complete personal impotence to do anything about it. The
crucial need is for a cure for both the ignorance and the impotence, This
calls for persons (leaders) who have the perception to comprehend the
danger, the insight to discover the answer, and the courage to put it
into operation.

Further, it must be obvious to all thinking persons that our problem is
Man himself. Our psychological development has failed to keep pace
with our technological advances. Our spiritual growth has failed to live
up to our religious heritage. The Judean-Christian tradition of our
western civilization professes the brotherhood of Man. Is this a reality
or an illusion? What do you think? As for me, I truly destre to be open-
minded and rigorously honest with myself.

ALVA MUNROE HOLLANDER

Home Address: 161 W. Forest Ave., Arcadia, Calif.

Office Address: Welsh-Hollander, 412 W. Sixth &t., Los Angeles 14, Calif.

Born: April 14, 1904, Pasadena, Calif. Parents: Earle Munroe Hollander,
Amanda Faulkes. |

Prepared at: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Beatrice Bennett, April 30, 1928, Pasadena, Calif. (divorced 1 938);
Helen Tomey, Feb. 15, 1940, Glendale, Calif. Children: Alva Lefferts,
Feb. 11, 1929; Theresa Anne, Dec. 2, 19333 Susan Wrightington, Sept.
12,1945,

Occupation: Portner and account executive with Welsh-Hollander, advertising
agency.

Offices Held: Blood Bank chairman, Arcadia Chapter, American Red Cross,
1947-49; chairman, inter-agency committee, Southern California Asso-
ciation of Advertising Agencies, 1948 board of directors, Harvard Club
of Southern California, 1944-48.

[ 403 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Hlarvard Class of 1926
Member of: Harvard Club of Southern California; University Club,

I have a son, a nice average kid who will graduate from the Univer.
sity of California next June (if the world doesn’t explode meanwhile

He is now home for the holidays and seems to have only Parties, girls

and musical records on his mind. The other night he threw a platter on

the machine and remarked to me in that pleasantly patronizing tone that
only twenty-two can achieve: “Say, Dad, I don’t suppose you’ve heard
this new one yet. Youll like it.”
And I’m damned if Artie Whoozit’s band didn’t bust into the strains
of Valencia!

Is there anyone whose picture appears in this album who doesn’t
remember how six different bands scattered over the Yard — beat
he bejabers out of that tune on a warm June night, twenty-five long
ears ago? The wheel has come full circle. A baby is now the young
1an I was, hearing the same old, old song that is once more new,

Now that I read that last purple patch it doesn’t seem to make much
ase but anyhow, kiddies, that is how the full, pear-shaped meaning of
ddle-age — and the ‘Twenty-fifth — was borne in on Hollander.

As to facts and dates: A true native son, I have lived in southern Cali-
ua since graduation. (N.B.: My skin ts dry, my neckties loud, and I
e lightly over a thick shell of extroversion.) I have polished my cor-
successively in the bond business (circa 1929), newspaper business,
azine publishing, and in my present advertising agency. Quite
ly, I’ve never made very much money out of any of these endeav-
hope and expect to stick to advertising however; in a macabre way
ute relaxing and I enjoy the characters I meet.

ve in Arcadia, a bedroom town near Los Angeles, that entertains a
r of carefully reared eastern horses during the winter season.
‘eally know anything about these horses at all, horses being the
ce I have managed to avoid.

ve a wife with whom I harmonize (not vocally), a twenty-two
1 son, seventeen-year-old daughter, and a five-year-old daughter
itely embarrasses the son at times — he suspects that he 1s taken
ather. .

es? Sedentary. Religious convictions? Mild. Political conv

us has got to end somewhere. Period.

der if my grandson, just before my Fiftieth, will throw 4 r¢
achine and remark: “Grandpop, here’s a hot new num er
mia, and... .”

cord

[ 404 ]

 

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report
IRA METCALF HOLMES

ome Address: 4120 Commonwealth St., Detroit 8, Mich,
ine Address: Chrysler Corp., Engineering Division, 12800 Oakland St.,

Detroit 31, Mich.

porw: Jan. 23» 19045 Denver, Colo. Parents: Dudleigh Dickinson Holmes,
Mabel Metcalf.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H,

Years in College: 1922-1 926, 1927-1928. Degree: 8.B., 1928. .

Married: Harriet Lewis, April 3, 1931, Detroit, Mich. Child: Mary Kathe-~
rine, June 2, 1934.

Occupation: Supervisor, Fuel System Department, Carburetor Laboratory,
Chrysler Corporation.

Member of : Thursup Club; “75” Club (past president).

I would like to record here those things which I in turn would like to
know about my classmates. Perhaps some of us will be overly modest;
others can perhaps do a little forgivable bragging. P'll let you all decide
what I’m doing and read between the lines what you can.
Iam, have been, and expect to remain one of the most happily mar-
ried men of all time. Harriet possesses, without her seeming to realize it,
an unfailing and endless range of those qualities of character and per-
sonality which make living with her a constant challenge and satisfac-
tion. Going-on-seventeen daughter, Mary, is our proverbial pride and
joy. If I do say so myself, she is a beautiful dancer, with greater em-
phasis on the ballet. She claims that because she is an introvert explains
her equally amazing ability at dress design and costume illustration.
That’s the immediate family. We are a happy trio that can and does
spend time in reminiscence about the past and in speculation about the
future, :
Chronologically, this business of earning a living has been a lot of ups
and downs, with the ups predominating lately. In retrospect, I seem to
have travelled several roads, finally arriving at a common junction point
from which I could proceed. “This dewy-eyed college graduate first
learned (I know now) a lot at the Packard factory. During those six
years T held a variety of jobs. None became of such importance that it
could survive the year 1932. There followed six years’ experience with
eneral Motors Truck collecting delinquent accounts and general
Credit work, For a truly broad education in almost all kinds of business
and trucking in particular, those years were wonderful. I won’t say why
I nally quit and/or was fired. Fortunately for me, it did happen. About
this time I Imagined that 1 was pretty well fed up with the whole auto-

[ 405 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

mobile industry. And so, let’s say that in desperation I turned to teach

ing. For the ensuing six years I gave myself to this noblest of Profession,
with an enthusiasm which only those of you who have taught wil] Un.
derstand. I wound up teaching aircraft drafting in a high schoo] and a
wide variety of subjects in our war-training programs.

Quite by accident, I one day took a part-time wartime job with
Chrysler in their engineering division. This turned out to be the june.
tion point of my wanderings. I knew for sure, by the end of the firg
week, that this was “it.” And so, during the past seven years, my prog-

ress has been most gratifying and I am happily confident about the
future. I work for and with one of those rare men who seems constantly
to inspire those about him. I fondly hope that I may play my small part
in bringing to you all “the best things first from Chrysler.” Don’t you

 

envy me!

It is hard to write this, thinking about our Twenty-fifth and Har-

vard, without being just a bit sentimental. We were all given degrees
“with all the rights and privileges thereunto pertaining.” It takes time
and experience to find out just what those words mean. To me, it has

recome right to be privileged to proclaim proudly that I am one of those
Jarvard men. |

ROGER WELLINGTON HOLMES

me Address: 3 Stanton Ave., South Hadley, Mass,
we Address: Mount Holyoke College, South Hadley, Mass.

7: Sept. 2, 1905, Dorchester, Mass. Parents: John Haynes Holmes, 02,
S.T.B. ’04, Madeleine Hosmer Baker.

ared at: Brooklyn Friends School, Brooklyn, N. Y.
s in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B. cum laude, 1926; Ep.M., 19273
A.M., 19323 Pu.D., 1933. .
“ied: Louise Taylor, June 30, 1933, Chicago, Ill. CAildren: Adria, April
28, 19353 Janice, Sept. 11, 1938.
»ation: Professor of philosophy and chairman of department of philoso-
shy, Mount Holyoke College.
ne Government Posts: Air raid warden; trainer of officer candidates 1
ryptography and cryptanalysis for Army and Navy.
Held: Visiting professor, Amherst College, 1939-40, 1941-44) 1946-
7; visiting lecturer, Smith College, 1944-46, 1948-50, America”
ternational College, 1950-51; lecturer in arts program, Association 0
nerican Colleges, since 1948; secretary-treasurer, program chairman)
d member, National Board of Officers, Eastern Division, America”
ilosophical Association, 1945-47.

[ 406 ]

T wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Member of: American Philosophical Association; American Association of Uni-
versity Professors.

pyblications: The Idealism of Giovanni Gentile, Macmillan, New York, 19373
The Rhyme of Reason, D. Appleton-Century, New York, 1939; Az Outline
of Logic and E wercises in Reasoning, D. Appleton-Century, New York,
1940; “Citizenship: Its Privileges and Its Responsibilities,” Atlantic
Monthly (prize essay), 1940; articles in Atlantic Monthly, The American
Mercury, and professional journals; book reviews in New York Times,
Atlantic Monthly, and professional journals.

My first years out of college were spent learning what college should
have taught me: the importance of being an individual, the difference
between living and earning a living, the need for the application of rea-
son to human affairs. Following a false start at the Harvard Graduate
School of Education and a compensatory year of study at European uni-
versities as a Sheldon Travelling Fellow, I finally entered the Harvard
Graduate School of Arts and Sciences in the field of philosophy. I ac-
quired my Ph.D., a Bowdoin Prize, a job, and, after a marvelous whirl-
wind courtship, a wife in June, 1933. Thanks to her my life really began
at this point. If I have any regret looking backward it is that I was not
fortunate enough to meet her sooner.

The job was an instructorship in education at Mount Holyoke Col-
lege. Louise and I thought we were going to the end of nowhere, but a
job was a job. We have been here ever since. ‘There were chances to go
elsewhere, but it was either to New York or near Los Angeles, or the
institution was too large or its standards low, or the fraternities were too
powerful or the teaching not what I wanted. We learned that there are
few better places to teach than Mount Holyoke and few better places to
live than a New England village in the foothills of the Berkshires, I
switched to the department of philosophy in 1936 and since then have
ascended the academic ladder in the customary manner of using job
offers as blackmail. By this method I became chairman of the depart-
ment of philosophy in 1944 and a full professor in 1945. And I might
aS Well admit getting a kick out of making the twenty-sixth edition of

?s Who in America. Teaching is my dish and teaching philosophy,
Sreat fun. T am certain only that “the unexamined life is not worth liv-
ing” and am content if a few of my students understand what Socrates
meant by these words. I have written the usual scholarly tome and text-
book ut am more interested in good teaching. I have no illusions about
the Importance of my work, but it permits me to earn a living. Louise
‘ometimes wishes we were in a men’s college, but casting pearls before
‘nnies suits me fine.

[ 407 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

We have acquired two charming, intelligent, and beautiful da
who take after their mother. Together we have found a quiet Count
life, devoted to our family, which I for one would not change fo, a
other I know. We like our country walks, our vegetables fresh from th
garden in the summer and our clean snow in the winter, our bookg and
records, our games of cribbage before the open fire, our trips to the Bi
City for museums and the theatre. We have both appeared in the Atlan.
tic Monthly and my wife has done some interesting work with Japanese
prints at the Boston Museum — indeed she was working there when ]
found her.
Raising a family may be hectic, but it is still the happiest and most in.
structive human occupation. Slowly and unobtrusively we are exposing
our daughters to the things we love best in nature and art and music, and
it is thrilling to watch the infection spread. Adria and Janice are the best
of companions, are becoming individuals in their own rights, and the
four of us, together with a dog and two cats, make up quite a household.
Like all academic families, we have found the financial side a struggle,
but we have not had to deny ourselves anything important. We own
nothing that might be called an estate in any sense of the word but so
far have, to our great surprise, kept out of the red. Because I like the
change and we need the money, I have for some years done extra teach-
ing at Smith College or Amherst or American International College,
and each year I make an annual Iecture trip to smaller colleges for the
Association of American Colleges.
In the early years my hobbies were skiing in the winter, tennis in the
spring and fall, and sailing in the summer. The arrival of our children
constituted a financial crisis and, since no one would buy the children,
we had to sell the Friendship sloop on which we had spent many happy
hours off the coast of Maine. I have always been interested in music an
for a time played the ’cello in an amateur quartet Sunday evenings.
About ten years ago a congenitally weak back gave out on me and since
hen I have had to give up strenuous exercise and ’cello playing: Gar-
lening gives me exercise and relaxation now and I find the first aspar@-
‘us, green peas, shell beans, corn, and Brussels sprouts a satisfying sub-
itute for sailing. I own a Hallicrafter radio that brings in the best from
imost anywhere, a large phonograph record collection, numerous high
delity speakers and pre-amplifiers, and have recently added a wire Te
order which has increased immeasurably our enjoyment of musi
elevision is still a dream in this neck of the woods. j
During the second World War one of my hobbies, cryptograms an’
cret writing, became useful. I taught military cryptanalysis t0 office

[ 408 ]

Uughters

 

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

didates for the Army and Navy and am told that some of my students
vt ally in winning the crucial Battle of Midway. Thanks to thi
aided materially in winning the crucial Battle of Midway. ks to this
york my anagram game 1s unbeatable, I also taught a course in the de-
artment of mathematics at Mount Holyoke. Being classified 4-F, I
sould make my official contribution only as an air raid warden.

For a homelover I have been quite a traveller, While studying in
Europe in 1928-29 I made a side trip to Egypt, Palestine, Syria, and
Greece. In 1947 I went with my father to India, where we spent three
wonderful months visiting Indian universities. We talked twice with
Gandhi, discussed political philosophy with Nehru, and had luncheon at
the Viceroyal Lodge with Lord and Lady Mountbatten. We flew out by
way of London and Paris, and home with stops at Tokyo and Honolulu,
so that I have been around the world and experienced one more sunrise
than most of my classmates.

A favorite quotation from my favorite philosopher, Spinoza, will
speak my basic belief. “It is the part of a wise man — to refresh and in-
vigorate himself with moderate and pleasant eating and drinking, with
sweet scents and the beauty of green plants, with ornament, with music,
with sports, with the theatre, and with all things of this kind which one
man can enjoy without hurting another.” Economically I am a socialist,
politically, a Democrat who believes that FDR was one of the greatest
of our presidents. In religion I have no convictions except that the super-
natural in all of its forms is a pleasant but not always desirable figment
of the human imagination. I believe that the Communist disregard for
truth and the human freedoms is the most serious menace of our time.
Since my trip around the world I have come to regard the survival of
our way of life as improbable, if only because of our past sins in the direc-
tion of capitalistic imperialism and white supremacy, but I still hope. Our
generation has been hit hard and will never again see the peace and
security into which it was born. But it is at least our privilege to witness
the crucial hour in modern history. I hope for my children and my chil-
dren’s children that the important human values will prevail and that
men will survive to enjoy them, but I doubt that it is of the slightest

Importance to the universe.

CARL HOLZHEIMER

fmt Address: 8 25S, Linden Ave., Highland Park, Ill.
lite Address: Security Supervisors, 135 5. LaSalle St., Chicago, Ill.
“7m: March 14, 1905, Elmira, N. ¥. Parents: Joseph Holzheimer, Fanny
ahn,

Prepared at: University Hi gh School, Chicago, Ul.
[ 409 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

Years ts College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B. cum laude, 1926.
Married: Harriet Freiberg, Jan. 6, 1930, Cincinnati, Ohio, Child: Arth
March 17, 1932. ur,

Occupation: Investment cou nsel,

Offices Held: Trustee, Highland Park Public Library, since 19473 cha
Red Cross Fund, 1950; treasurer, Selected American Shares Inc.
president, Selected Investment Company; partner, Security Supe

Member of: Standard Club; Harvard Club.

irman,
> Vice.
visors,

Fall, 1926, home from Europe, and the family business, of course
How simple — but then it wasn’t. I couldn’t get used to nine hours of
desk sitting and the cockiness rubbed associates the wrong way. I learned

slowly — tried several] businesses as the depression came on and married
when prosperity was just around the corner. Marvelous wife, wonder.
‘ul backing from inspiring parents made depression pretty simple for me
nd then a settling down in the infant profession of investment coun-
‘ling (infant at least to the Middle West). Now really thanks and ap-
eciation to Harvard for a fine background in history and economics —
‘s to unlearn but the method of study well in hand.

And a baby son growing up and a move to suburbia, and a Gluyas
Jliams life all around — but good fun, good books, and happiness in
*k and play.

;owadays a different, more permanent sense of values. Wars, de-
ions, ups and downs, little pleasures and little pains, to what end?
nove so narrowly, are exercised over so much nothingness as it all
5. It’s all vanity.

let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God and keep
mmandments: for this is the whole duty of man.

DANIEL HOLZMAN

/dress: 1477 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass,
‘dress: Cushing VA. Hospital, Framingham, Mass.
ril 22, 1905, New York, N. Y. Parents: Ellis Holzman, Nellie Water-

2t: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
"ollege: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; M.D. (Boston Univ);
,
sylvia Berkowitz, July 29, 1943, Brookline, Mass. Child: Susan
+, April 26, 1949.

Physician.

Naval Record: Lieutenant colonel, Medical Corps, U.S, Army
aber, 1942, to August, 1946.

[ 410 ]

 

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Member of Massachusetts Medical Society; New England Heart Association ;
American Board of Internal Medicine; American College of Physicians

(associate) .

WILLIAM FLAGG HOMER, JR.

Home Address: 9 Ravine St., Arlington, Mass. .
Office Address: Boston Herald-Traveler Corp., 80 Mason St., Boston, Mass.
Born: Sept. 3» 1904, Arlington, Mass. Parents: William Flagg Homer, Alberta

Hersey Bott.
Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926.
Married: Charlotte Lloyd, April 27, 1935, Arlington, Mass. Children: Rosa-
mond, Jan. §, 19383 Stephen William, Feb. 25, 1941.

Occupation: Newspaperman.
Wartime Government Posts: U.S. Treasury, War Finance Committee, public re-

lations (N.E.), 1942-46.

Offices Held: Trustee, First Parish Church (Unitarian), Arlington, 1938-40,
member Parish Committee, 1949.

Member of : Arlington Historical Society.

Publications: Magazine articles in Barron’s and H ygeia.

Life with two newspapers for twenty-three of the twenty-five years
and a family for sixteen years brings real, if unspectacular, reward. A
preview of what is going on in the world atones for the irritations, the
incongruities, and the “interesting people” (keep my name out of this)
that fit the newspaper pattern.

What started as a specialty of the house, a restricted diet of financial
writing, turned into a complete blue plate of newspaper toil. There were
editing and editorials, feature and finance, composing room profanity to
head table dignity, and return. Up to now, have never acted as fashion
editor, other than a voluntary damning of the “New Look.” Still, every
day isa fresh adventure, so don’t be surprised.

Sometimes, when I can stop to think, | wonder if this kaleidoscope
serves either me or others. But occasionally we hear about it when
things go right, and always when they go wrong. Apparently somebody
Cares,

On the credit side, there is a quarter-century that has gone like a flash.

here is a joy in living and the conviction that if the calendar again
showed June, 1926, the newspaper field is where I should go.

or me, the Death of a Salesman was written in 1928. Selling equip-
ment for Bronx walkups in the heyday of arson rackets, it seems, was
Not the career of a lifetime. That first major error was at least a lesson

[ 411 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

in recognizing incompetence in high places, and appreciatin & publi
servants and private entrepreneurs who know their stuff and do it. ec
A second principal mistake was taking the bachelor part of a H arvard
decree too seriously for nine years. A family, it turns out, is a blessin
and a privilege, a comfort and joy, and (rarely) a headache, With a
peculiar talent for doing things backwards, the Homers passed up the
customary apartment to begin life in a fourteen-room Victorian. Our
middle age finds this cut to nine, for which the bank shares in our en.
thusiasm. Suburbs and the soil still charm one who 1s supposed to chain.
smoke, sneer at life, and spend his non-working hours with the boys in

he back room.

To the confusion of Hollywood and the Front Page, a house garden
spring, and obligations to church and community leave little time.
-adlines, too, rule out the life of a joiner. Clubs, societies, and emulat-

the Joneses, to this corner, represent work, not recreation. We’]]
-ours in the sun.
here are a couple of hours weekly of college teaching, with a cata-
> dignity of assistant professor. It’s customary to gloss over the fiscal
id say that it keeps me young in heart. Frankly, I think it does. A
shakedown cruise in newspaper technique with a classroom med-
ugh school graduates and realistic GI’s keeps the mustiness away.
en-agers and early voters, I am convinced, can be people.
with this youthful spirit, the armed services didn’t seem to want
--20 vision guy with glasses. The Treasurwwasn’t so fussy, and

four war years ingloriously, teaching the public about War
bonds, and 2.9 per cent yields, The war emergency squared
ence with a distaste for the New Deal and its more impractical
men. Socially, politically, and economically I regarded the
regime as the espousal of mediocrity. The first Tuesday of
1948, I regard as mediocrity’s triumph.
ad into this that I have soured on Harvard. Respect and ad-
ve deepened with the years. My business has kept me in con-
rvard and other New England colleges perhaps more than
|. Harvard still believes that anything worth doing is worth
rhe 1936 Tercentenary, the physical growth, the round-
training, and the development of general education under
ant come quickly to mind.

, Harvard comes in for a sniping from the press and oth-
was foothall and “indifference.” Twenty-five years Jater

and “Reds.” Greatness is invariably a target for d

nee of a variety of beliefs characterized the Harvaré ©

[ 412 ]

 

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

_ In these eyes, Harvard of the present still carries the banner

our day ted leadership in liberal education.

for undic ta

HARDY HOOVER

Address: 40 N. Hemlock St., Ventura, Calif.
Born: Jan. 28, 1902 Port Huron, Mich. Parents: Jay F. Hoover, Sylvia Smith.
Prepared at Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degrees: A.B. magna cum laude, 1926; Pu-D.,

1929.
The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Hoover
did not return a questionnaire.

FRANK TRIPLETTE HORD

Home Address: 1302 Cherokee Rd., Louisville 5, Ky.
Office Address: 48% Starks Bldg., Louisville 2, Ky.
Born: Jan. 31, 1903, Philadelphia, Pa. Parents: Percy Charles Hord, Anna

Grace Brady.
Prepared at: Francis W. Parker School, Chicago, Il.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.
Married: Lyda Prewitte Hundley.
Occupation: Christian Science Practitioner; Christian Science Committee on

Publication for Kentucky.

Military or Naval Record: Entered Army as chaplain (ist It.), June, 1942;
terminated chaplain (captain), April, 1946; 102nd Inf. Div., 173rd
Ord. Bn., 147th Engr.(C) Bn., 494th AAA gun Bn.(SM), Hq. Camp
Pall Mall, Hq. Camp Home Run, Transport uss Gea. J. R. Brook,
combat duty with 147th Ener.(C) Bn., and 4g4th AAA Gun Bn.(SM) ;
awarded American Theatre Ribbon, ETO Ribbon, Victory Ribbon,
battle stars for Northern France and Rhineland, Belgian Fourragere

(outfit twice cited with it).

Politics: I am a Republican at heart but am officially known as a
€mocrat in order to insure my physical safety and my mental peace.
Ou would be too, if you were married to an enthusiastic admirer of
Genera] John Hunt Morgan and his men. Or, may I say, 1 am both —
‘mMocrat and Republican.
Hobbies: Golf, basketball, travel, bowling, and my granddaughters.
ne by one I have given up all hobbies but the last.
Harvard contacts: I returned to but one football game which we lost
to Army by about 32-0. Jack Crickard, or a player by some such name,
Just couldn’t hold the ball when those Army men tackled him, Unfortu-

[ 413 |

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

EZarvard Class of 1926

nately, I have been exposed only occasionally to Harvard Club Activities
principally at Milwaukee, Indianapolis, Kansas City, Cincinnati, and
once in Louisville for the Harvard-Yale game luncheon. The most ene
joyable events were the two Harvard-Yale-Princeton annua] alumn;
ball games at Kansas City with Hal Jones and a few other friends.

Tt has been quite a thrill to run into a number of my old student and
professor friends by chance in various corners of the world. I recall
meeting up with Professor Stetson of the astronomy department on ,
ship between Hong Kong and Manila. He was bound for Sumatra ty

view an eclipse, It has always been a pleasure to make new Harvard
acquaintances everywhere.

Looking back over twenty-five eventful and happy years, I cannot
fail to recognize a steady trend towards the devotion of my life wholly
to religious endeavor. Each stage of experience contributed a most im-
yortant influence towards the background of this work. At the time of
raduation I, like many others, had not the slightest idea as to what I
-anted to do. The comings and goings of the business world held no
terest for me. I figured that, if I were to go to work for two years, I
yuld know whether to return to the Harvard Law School or to the
rvard School of Business Administration. ‘The prophecy of all my
nds came true when I returned to neither school.

Ay first employment involved stoking furnaces in the heat-treat de-
ment of the Link-Belt Company in Indianapolis, part of the process
arning the business in order to become a sales engineer. After earn-
ny spurs in the sales office in Indianapolis, I was transferred to the
land office which took care of the profitable industrial district of
il and northeastern Ohio. Two years rolled by. I was considering
ment for two years in the Engineering School. This would pro-
e necessary educational requirements for anything that the Link-
ompany might offer.

n, however, a change of events took place that put the enginee!-
er quite out of the picture. Because of my father’s health I was
0 ask for a leave of absence from my work in order to accompany
1 trip around the world, While in Japan, we struck up 4 friend-
_a man who had done all of the Oriental buying for many y¢4"
of Chicago’s leading department stores. The following yea!

1 to assist this friend in conducting an annual tour throught °
Ithough this tour failed to materialize due to the war in Chin’
course of my business world had changed. I became associa*
vel bureau in Kansas City. While escorting a group throug

; . . t-
> following summer, the president of one of the Paris oper4

[ 414 ]

 

T wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

_. companies convinced me that I should open a travel office of my

ng One thing led to another until I found myself operating as the

" T. Hord Travel Service in Lexington, Kentucky.

Shortly after taking up residence in the Southland I became actively
associated with the Christian Science Church. In connection with the
foreign travel business one rubs shoulders with many who are endeavor-
ing to escape from problems at home or to overcome grief. 1 found that
I was able to help raise the viewpoint of clients who were in need of

healing. ae . _ :
Each year church activities were absorbing more of my time and in-

terest until, by 1937, I was devoting most of my time in that direction.
] was preparing to go into the full-time practice of Christian Science,
which might be called the Pastoral Ministry of the Christian Science
Church, when along came World War LIL. June, 1942, found me in the
uniform of an Army chaplain,

Shortly after my return from the service 1 married and moved to
Louisville. In addition to being in the practice of Christian Science, lam
the Christian Science Committee on Publication for Kentucky. In this
latter capacity 1 am responsible for the contacts of our denomination
with the public in the state of Kentucky through newspaper and radio,
also through addresses on Christian Science to interested gatherings. At
the present time I am the Division Artillery Chaplain in the tooth Air-
borne Division, a reserve unit at Bowman Field near Louisville.

It would be quite negligent on my part to close this brief narrative
without conveying my gratitude for a Harvard education. Each suc-
ceeding year brings a fuller understanding of what President Lowell
meant when he addressed us one day in June, 1926: “I welcome you
into the society of educated men.”

EDWARD NEWMAN HORN

Home Address+ 60 Central Park, $., New York, N.Y.
Office Address: Sun Chemical Corp., Long Island City, N.Y.
Born: July 15, 1903, New York, N. Y. Parents: Aaron Charles Horn, Blanch
ewman,

P '¢pared at: Horace Mann School for Boys, New York, N.Y.

“arsin College: 1922-1925.

arried: Beatrice Sawmelle (divorced about 1930).

“tpation: Chemical manufacture; aid to the president, Sun Chemical Cor-
Mu, Poration administrative work.

aber of: Mark Twain Society (honorary member).

Ublications Poems for Small Apartments; Faster, Faster (a novel), 1946.

[ 415 |

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Flarvard Class of 1926

The best that I can say is that whatever I write here will bear no rele
tionship whatever to the confidential report. I believe that there is
considerable pattern or meaning to any twenty-five years of life but

that most of it rests well below or above the surface.

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Mariel: Lydia Lee Smith, Oct. 26, 1935, Ilion, N.Y. Child: Anne Mow-
bray, Dec. 13, 1938-

Occupation: Lawyer and trustee.

Offiees Held: Chairman, Lowell Plan E Committee, 1942; mayor, chairman
of City Council, chairman of School Committee, City of Lowell, 1944—
453 member, Lowell City Council, 1944-49; vice-president, State Club,
Inc., since 1948.

Member of : Kilwinning Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; president, Lowell Chess Club.

DONALD KIMM HOWARD
Present Address: Hdqtrs. Japan Logistical Command, APO 343, c/o Postmas-

ter, San Francisco, Calif.
Home Address: 1428 N. Second St., Harrisburg, Pa.
Bora: Feb, 21, 1903, Arlington, Mass. Parents: Lemuel Frederic Howard
Anna Kimm. ,
Prepared at; Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1927. Degree: §.B., 1926(27).
WUarried: Jean Snyder, Oct. 15,'1932, Harrisburg, Pa. C4ildren> Donald
Kimm, Jr., Oct. 18, 1934; Peter Brigham, July 1, 1938.

ccupation: Lieutenant colonel, Ordnance Corps.

Five years ago I sent in a graphic account, complete with lantern
dides, of my struggle to bring home the benefits of Harvard education
(sic) to the various elements of the body Demos in my native city of
Lowell, the first American “fruit of the loom.”

A gnawing political virus had injected me into municipal politics as
chairman of the Plan E Committee and first mayor under that charter
during 1944-45.

After six years, and at the last bi-annual, elaborate blood-letting, the
disgraceful spectacle of a Harvard man serving as a member of the
Lowell City Council yielded to the ultimate requirements of political
logistics.

Don’t get me wrong. It wasn’t the “Harvard” that beat me. I have
only to read my Class Reports to see how many Harvard “apostates”
have successfully reached the higher echelons of the new “liberalism” in
government. But I left Harvard with the idea that the constitution does
not guarantee a “‘free lunch,” and I guess I am stuck with it,

It is not that I am an illiberal Tory, but I can’t seem to fall in line
with the current illusion that there is a special virtue in being careless
with other people’s money.

Now that I have been remanded to the pecuniary vagaries of a gen-
eral practice, I look upon the political scene with the ennui peculiar only
to those who have been in it and are now out of it. My younger law
‘ssociate has just been elected to the State Senate, and I gaze upon his
Political enthusiasm with bemused tolerance.

Right now, supplementing a weekly ‘I’'V scanning of the bankruptcy
of Harvard football, I nibble chastely at chess, using Howard’s variation
of the Reti-Zukertort opening. I also enjoy LP classics in what has been
* Comparatively late conversion to the sublime in music. They are still
Prforming Beethoven as he wrote it and the laws of chess haven’t been
“anged in three hundred years,

ot to get out of touch with the times, my wife and I (I am the better
Player, but she has more luck) enjoy a spot of Canasta now and then, .

“Sing the new set of Bedlam Rules: 12 packs thoroughly shuffled in a

[ 417 |

Questionnaire received too late for inclusion of biography.

WOODBURY HOWARD

ress: 19 Kensington Rd., Concord, N. H.

: May 10, 1905, Nashua, N. H. Parents: Charles Woodbury, Blanche
Louise Baldwin.

red at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
in College: 1922—-1924.
ed: Jane Phillips Graves, June 9, 1931, Concord, N. H. Children:

tharles Woodbury, 2d, Oct. 6, 1932; Jonathan Ayers, Feb. 2, 19345
ine Hesselton, March 24, 1939.

40a: Wholesale drugs.

information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Wood-
oward did not return a questionnaire.

WOODBURY FISKE HOWARD

yess: 24 Nesmith St., Lowell, Mass,

ess: Howard & Achin, 4§ Merrimack St., Lowell, Mass.

13, 1905, Lowell, Mass. Parents: Albert Straw Howard, ’96, Edn4
' Hopkins.

Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass,

Jege: 1922-1926, Degrees: A.B, magna cum laude, 19263 LL.B.

[ 416 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

eaten

Harvard Class of 1926

washing-machine, simmer for twenty minutes, and serve with French

dressing or yogurt.
Most of this doesn’t make much sense. But, after twenty-five years,

what does?

NATHANIEL SALTONSTALL HOWE

Lome Address: E. Main Street, Oyster Bay, Long Island, N. Y.
fice Address: White, Weld & Co., 40 Wall St., New York 5, N.Y.
ora: Sept. 4, 1903, New York, N. ¥- Parents: Henry Wainwright Howe, ? 97,

Ethe! Gardner.

pared at: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

mr in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

ried: Margaret Barclay, April 22, 1933, New Haven, Conn. Children:

Margaret Wainwright, Aug. 7, 1934; Nathaniel Saltonstall, Jr., May 24,

1937; Barclay Gardner, Sept. 1, 19413 Laura W., Nov. 21, 1947.

rd Brother: Henry Wainwright Howe, ’23.

von: Stock broker; member, New York Stock Exchange.

v or Naval Record: Commissioned lieutenant (j.g.), U.S. Naval Re-

ve, September, 1940; called to active duty May, 1941; with Head-

rters, Third Naval District, New York City, until transferred to sea

y in April, 1942; commanding officer on uss yP 204 and sc 1303 and

onvoy escort duty in the Atlantic, Caribbean, and South Atlantic;

-submarine Warfare Shakedown Staff, November, 1943, Miami,

ja; operations and executive officer, Shakedown Staff, Amphibious

ing Command, U.S, Atlantic Fleet, March, 1944; separated from

duty as commander, December, 1945.

Trustee, North Country Community Hospital, Glen Cove, N. ¥,

46.

arvard Club of New York; Cold Spring Harbor Beach Club.

‘sly reported, I have been in the investment banking and

iness since leaving college in 1926. I have been associated

of White, Weld & Company as employee, partner, and

broker during this time. I am presently a member of the

ck Exchange, and a partner in the firm of Hallowell

ompany, Philadelphia, whose New York correspondent

& Company. With this Wall Street background, Tam

blican, though not necessarily an old-line one, 4”

perhaps before our Fiftieth Reunion we may S¢¢ a

tration in Washington.

ars I have been interested in the New York Harv
* S-

1 one term on the board of managers, and J am p'®’

1 term on the committee of admissions. As state m

[ 418 J

ard

 

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

the gtatistics above, there are now four young Howes, two girls and two
oys. This situation has necessarily limited my social activities and op-
‘es to travel, although my wife and I did manage to take a trip
including England, France, Italy, Germany, in 19236. In
one Way OF another the next generation seems to take up most of my
evenings and weekends, whether it be acting as chauffeur or baby sitter.

My elder daughter is in her second year at Miss Porter’s School, Far-
rington, Connecticut, and my elder son at St. Paul’s School. My second
gon is at the Green Vale School, Glen Head, New York, being ably
guided through his younger years by our classmate, Howard Corning.
My younger daughter, aged two and a half, a war dividend, if you like,
is presently unattached. I can hardly claim for her the distinction of
being the oldest child of any member of the Class, but 1 believe she
could successfully compete, in fact, might even win the distinction of

being our Class Baby in reverse.

THOMAS CARR HOWE, JR.

Home Address: 2345 Hyde St., San Francisco 9, Calif.
Office Address: California Palace of the Legion of Honor, Lincoln Park, San

Francisco 21, Calif.
Born: Aug. 12, 1904, Kokomo, Ind. Parents: Thomas Carr Howe, A™M.,’97,

Pu.D., 99, Jennie Armstrong.

Prepared at: Shortridge High School, Indianapolis, Ind. |

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. magna cum laude, 1926, A.M,,
1929. |

Married: Francesca Craft Deering, April 9, 1932, San Francisco, Calif.
Child: Francesca Deering, Dec. 9, 1937-

Harvard Brother: Addison Armstrong Howe,’28 (deceased).

Occupation: Director of the California Palace of the Legion of Honor, a mu-

nicipal museum of the fine arts.

Military or Naval Record: U.S. Naval Reserve, World War WL; commissioned
lieutenant, January, 1943; attended Indoctrination School, Tucson,
Ariz., February to April, 19433 staff of Commander Western Sea Fron-
tier until April, 1945; monuments, fine arts and archives officer, attached
to SHAEF in Germany and Austria, April, 1945, to March, 1946; dep-
uty chief of section at Frankfurt Headquarters, October, 1945, to March,

_ 1946; final rank, lieutenant commander.
fices Held: Vice-chairman, P.W.A.P., federal art project, San Francisco,
1933; special art commissioner, Golden Gate International Exposition,
San Francisco, 1940; president, Western Association of Art Museum
Directors, 1941-42; chairman for San Francisco County to raise funds

for Harvard Foundation for Advanced Study and Research, spring, 1950.

[ 419 |

Lb

Harvard Class of 1926

Member of: Association of American Art Museum Directors; Association of
American Museums; American Federation of Arts; Western Association
of Art Museum Directors; American Society of the French Legion of
Honor.

Publications: Salt Mines and Castles, Bobbs-Merrill, 1946, an account of experi-
ences in Europe in connection with the recovery of works of art looted by
the Germans; articles on various art subjects in numerous periodicals in

this field.

Upon completion of graduate studies at Harvard in 1931, I came to
San Francisco as assistant director of the California Palace of the Legion
of Honor. I assumed the directorship of this museum in June, 1939, a
post which I have held ever since, interrupted only by service in the U.S.
Naval Reserve from 1943 to 1946. In 1940, in the capacity of special
art commissioner for the Golden Gate International Exposition, I as-
sembled in Mexico City a comprehensive exhibition of contemporary
Mexican painting. |

For services rendered in connection with post-war activities in Eu-
rope, I was decorated by the French (Chevalier, Legion of Honor) and
Dutch (Officier, Order of Orange-Nassau with the Swords) govern-
ments.

RICHARD SEBASTIAN HOWEY

Home Address: 917 Kentucky St., Lawrence, Kans,

Office Address: University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kans.

Born: Dec. 9, 1903, Carthage, S. Dak. Parents: True W. Howey, Etabel Mor-
ton.

Prepared at: Monrovia High School, Monrovia, Calif.

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; A.M. (Univ. of
Southern California).

Married: Marion L. Dresser, June 17, 1941, Leavenworth, Kans. Children:
Susan Louise, Oct. 11, 1942; Judith Elaine, Jan. 1, 1944; Richard
Morton, May 26, 1948.

Occupation: Professor of economics, University of Kansas,

Military or Naval Record: Army; entered private, Nov. 10, 19423; terminated
private, Feb. 18, 19433 Headquarters and Headquarters Battery, 104th
Division Artillery.

EDWARD REED HUBBARD

Home Address: 210 Wake Forest Rd., Portsmouth, Va.

Office Address: U.S. Naval Hospital, Portsmouth, Va.

Born: Feb. 7, 1905, Taunton, Mass. Parents: Frank Allen Hubbard, ’73;
Elizabeth Anna Wheeler.

Prepared at: Taunton High School, Taunton, Mass.

[ 420 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; M.D.C.M. (McGill

Univ.), 1931.
Married: Elizabeth Stetson Linscott, Sept. 14, 1935, Melrose, Mass. Children:

Annelisa Hurst, July 3, 1937; Edward Allen, March 5, 1940.
Harvard Brothers: Merrill Field Hubbard, ’09; Leonard Field Hubbard, 31.

Occupation: Surgeon.
Military or Naval Record: Surgeon, U.S. Navy, since 1948.

Member of : Medical societies.
I engaged in general medical practice in Taunton for four or five
years, with emphasis on the surgical part during the succeeding years.

Since 1942 I have done nothing but surgical practice.
During the war a commission in the U.S. Public Health Service was

all that physical status would win; by 1948, however, conditions had
improved sufficiently to allow entrance into the Navy, where | have been

since.
At present Tam actively engaged in the practice of surgery, with part

of the time devoted to teaching.

HAROLD KENNEDY HUDNER

Address: 130 S, Main St., Fall River, Mass.
Born: April 11, 1902, Fall River, Mass, Parents: Michael Thomas Hudner,

Helena Kennedy.
Prepared at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
Years in College: 1921-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B., 1929(31).

Married: Dorothy L. Sweeney, Jan. 30, 1943. CAild: Cornelia, May 5,1945.
Occupation: Law.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Hudner
did not return a questionnaire.

HOLLIS HUNNEWELL

Home Address: Pond Road, Wellesley, Mass.
Office Address: c/o Hunnewell & Co., 136 Federal St., Boston, Mass.
Born: Jan. 31, 1905, Natick, Mass. Parents: Hollis Horatio Hunnewell, ’90,

Mary Isabelle Neilson.

Prepared at: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Mary Frances Oakes, April 7, 1928, Paris, France. Children: Horatio
Hollis, Oct. 5, 1929; Louisa Bronson, July 30, 1936; Frances Oakes,
Dec. 3, 1938.

Harvard Son: Horatio Hollis Hunnewell, ’5 1.

Occupation: Stock broker; partner, Hunnewell & Company.

[ 421 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

Afember of: Harvard Club of Boston; Racquet & Tennis Club, New York, The

Country Club, Brookline, Mass.

After trying to gradua te from the Harvard Engin eering Schoo] with

no success, I got married and went into the brokerage business first
prior to the big break in 1929. I have continued on in this business ever
since and finally wound up as a partner. I am now looking forward to
my retirement in the not too distant future which will allow me to con.
centrate on bookbinding, construction work around the house, and win.
ter vacations in the South.

WILLARD PHILLIPS HUNNEWELL

ne Address: 130 Woodridge Ave., Silver Spring, Md.

“2 Address: Ayares Finance Co., 7902 Georgia Ave., Silver Spring, Md,

+ Jan. 26, 1903, Boston, Mass. Parents: William Hardy Hunnewell,
Abbie Phillips.

red at: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

m College: 1922-1924.

¢: Doris Greene, June, 1924, Providence, R. I. (divorced 1935);
‘'azel F. Townsend, May 15, 1937, Pelham, N. H. CAildren: Joy, Oct.
, 1926 (m. August, 1947); Janice and Judith (twins), March 4,
34. Grandchild: Carol Lee Charlebois, Aug. 10, 1948.

a: Credit manager, Ayares Finance Company.

f- Masons; Moose.

“st marriage was a dismal failure with a wife who was never
vith her lot because of her social ambitions — “keep up with
25” idea. Though we had everything necessary for happiness
me, and a car, were well liked in our neighborhood and well
1 the community — she always demanded more than I could
I lost home, car, fine job — everything.
J have earned the success in the business world which I en-
zy my first marriage, I would have all I wanted in life during
narriage. But we havea fine home in a most pleasant neigh-
all I ask now ts for my health to hold out until we can g¢t
e and clear. Two years ago I had a severe attack of coro-
sis and I have to watch myself very closely — seven
was too much for me.

d our “ups and downs” — mostly on the hard side but
II has never complained, In fact, her shoulder has been
ways and right now the clouds are a little brighter, 4”

[ 422 ]

T wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

-< Dame Fortune will just let her smile break with a grin, the rest of the

if 1 will be very pleasant to travel.

eA I look back over the years, I feel that education should be in a
specific direction as soon as the individual shows a decided bent. For far

too many a general education is poor investment for their business life —
few are the leaders (at the top) — but many are the followers, whether
the work be in a trade or commercial life.

Although the world situation is bad, I know there is a power greater
than Lam and I feel sure that that power will keep things fairly well in
ine as it has in the past. About all I can do is to live my life according to

my lights — doing harm to no one in the process.

CARLETON HUNT

Home Address: 28 Chestnut St., Boston, Mass.

Office Address: Boston Stock Exchange, 53 State St., Boston, Mass.

Born: July 23, 1903, Boston, Mass. Parents: Thomas Hunt, 786, LL.B., 90,
Carrie Speiden.

Prepared at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.; Stone School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Helen Lois Chatterton, Nov. 15, 1926, Brookline, Mass. (divorced
1950); Anne Stevens Hamilton, Jan. 11, 1951, Boston, Mass. Children:
Carolyn Lois, June 14, 1927 (am. Neil Ross Munro, Jr., Sept. 17,
1946) ; Thomas Chatterton, Oct. 16, 1936.

Occupation: Odd lot dealer and floorbroker on the Boston Stock Exchange.

Offices Held: Collector, Red Cross and Community Fund campaigns, Cam-

' bridge.

Another five years have come and gone. We are again facing the pos-

sibility of another war, We are again in a spiral of inflation, thanks to
dear Mr, Truman. |

My entire life, except for a year in the Harvard Law School, has been
spent in the security and investment business with its “ups? and
“downs.” From 1926 to 1947 we lived in Cambridge and after my
father’s death in 1 947 we moved to Boston.

My life has been singularly uneventful except for the summer of
1947 which we spent driving to California to visit my married daughter.

. ‘ave done but little travelling except for short vacations, usually spent

"Vanada, My business associations on the Boston Stock Exchange are

ms are been a constant pleasure and I see a great deal of Lee Todd
arding Newman,

ly daughter has spent the past year at the University of California

[ 423 |

Harvard Class of 1926 ©

and my son is in his last year at Fay School, Southboro. I suppose from
there he will go to St. Mark’s.

Frankly, I am still a Republican although that seems to be a losing
cause. I believe still in the capitalistic system, and I occasionally go to
the Episcopal Church. So this is just the story of an ordinary man who
has accomplished nothing particularly worth while, except to try to edu-
cate, clothe, and feed two children and a wife. ‘There are many class-
mates who have really accomplished something in this world, and I
congratulate them. They have proved something, I nothing. But such
is life and now let us have fun at our Twenty-fifth Reunion. Best luck
to all of us remaining.

ROSS FRANKLIN HUNT

Home Address: 406 North View Terr., Alexandria, Va.

Office Address: 1229 King St., Alexandria, Va.

Born: Nov. 27, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parents: Richard Harold Hunt, ’96,
Mabel Ross.

Prepared at: Central High School, Springfield, Mass. ©

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Edna Hargett, Feb. 24,1934, Frederick, Md. Children: Ross Frank-
lin, Jr., Feb. 27, 19413 Judith Hargett, April 11, 1944.

Harvard Brother: Richard Henry Hunt, 732.

Occupation: Owner, independent §¢ and 10¢ store.

Offices Held: Vice-president, Retail Merchants Association, 1941-423 board
of directors, Guitan Club of Alexandria, 1946-49, Alexandria Chamber
of Commerce, 1947-50. |

Member of : Isaac Walton League, Alexandria Chapter.

After graduating, I took a very modest trip to Europe visiting Eng-
land, France, Italy, etc. Upon returning I went to work for the S. S.
Kresge Company in Lynn, Massachusetts. During the next eight years
I worked at various stores in Allentown, Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Brooklyn, New York, Portsmouth, Virginia, and Shamokin, Pennsyl-
vania. Then in 1932 I was appointed manager of their unit in Frederick,
Maryland, where I met and later married my good wife.

Now it is common knowledge that a chain organization is not easy to
work for, especially as manager. He is entrusted with considerable capi-
tal investment and to say they expect a great deal is an understatement.
I doubt that God Himself could run one of their units to their complete
satisfaction. As I look back on it, I cannot say I was any “ball of fire.”
But I did well enough to get promoted to Alexandria, Virginia, a much
busier store. Everything went swimmingly until competition came in

[ 424 ]

T wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

with a tremendous modern plant. From then on it was no bed of roses,
After two nightmare years of continuing falling off of volume, I was
fired — about two jumps ahead of a complete nervous breakdown. Ac-
tually I did not have one but am sure I would have if I had had six
months more of it.

It was a blessing in disguise. After floundering around for a month

or so, I chanced to find a party with a small independent five-and-ten
store to sell. With some financial hocus pocus I raised the necessary
“scratch” and have been at it ever since. The fates were kind, as Alex-
andria has doubled in size and my business along with it. The hours are
long and there are other drawbacks, but I like the work and I am my
own boss (Mr. Whiskers excepted ). Also I am able to take a day off in
the middle of the week which fits in nicely with my hobbies — the fore-
most of which is fishing. Nothing fancy, just bottom fishing with a row-
boat and outboard in the Chesapeake and lower Patuxent River, and
occasionally, a little trolling for stripers. When weather does not permit,
Tlike to hunt out foreign movies, being partial to the English and Italian.
Being so close to Washington, I think I have seen nearly all of the best
ones,

T have a fine family which is really the important thing in my life. I
have a better wife than I deserve and, as indicated above, a boy of eleven
and a girl of eight. A more congenial brother and sister I have never
seen; they are real pals, and, perhaps because their mother is an ex-school
teacher, their school work is excellent.

As for the future, I cannot see how anyone can be very sanguine
about it. Perhaps the least said, the better.

PRESCOTT BUTLER HUNTINGTON

Home Address: Long Beach Road, St. James, Long Island, N. Y.

Office Address: Lord & Huntington, 71 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y.

Born: July 26, 1905, St. James, Long Island, N. ¥. Parents: Francis Cleaveland
Huntington, 787, Susan Louisa Butler.

Prepared at: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926(27); LL.B., 1929.

Married: Sarah Hopper Powell, Jan. 11, 1930, New York, N. Y. Children:
Francis Cleaveland, Sept. 20, 1931; Sarah Powell, June 9, 1934; Law-
rence Smith, June 13, 1935; Samuel, April 24, 1939; Susan Butler,
May 18, 1942.

Harvard Son: Francis Cleaveland Huntington, ’5 3.

Harvard Brothers: William Reed Huntington, ’28; Christopher Huntington,

>32, A.M., 36.
[ 425 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Occupation: Lawyer and officer of real estate corporation.

Military or Naval Record: Lieutenant and lieutenant commander, U.S. Naval
Reserve; active duty Dec. 22, 1942, to Feb. 22, 1946; assigned to (1)
staff of Naval Training School (Indoctrination), Quonset Point, R, L.;
(2) Minesweeping, N arragansett Group, Eastern Sea Frontier, New-

port, R.I.; (3) secretariat, Joint Chiefs of Staff, Washington, D.C.
Offices Held: President, 1940-42, and since 1946, director, since 1935, Gar-~
den City Company, Garden City, N. Y.; vestryman and clerk, 1939-42,
warden and treasurer, since 1947, St. James Episcopal Church, St. James,
Long Island; trustee, 1931-41, and since 1948, mayor, 1933-41, In-
corporated Village of Nissequogue, N. Y.; trustee, 1933-42, secretary,
1935-40, president, 1940-42, Society of St. Johnland, Kings Park, N.Y.
Member of : Association of Bar of the City of New York; Harvard Club of New
York; Harvard Club of Boston; Cruising Club of America (member
Board of Governors) ; Off-Soundings Club (former commodore) ; The
Corinthians (former Master of Afterguard) ; Down Town Association ;

Garden City Golf Club (honorary member).

If the above statistical information seems extensive, it is only because
filling out forms during the war got to be such a habit that I find that I
know my obituary by heart, and all titles and positions, however unim-
portant, come readily to mind.

Twenty-five years have gone quickly and in unspectacular fashion.
It is difficult to realize as I look out of my office window at the building
across the street (neither the street nor the sky being visible) that I have
looked out of the same window since 1930 and that the chances are
against my obtaining any change of view for quite a while, as I continue
the practice of law and all of the odd jobs that go with it. The words
“practice of law” are of course practically meaningless in describing a
particular person’s activity. ‘he wizard of the court room and the
drudge in the office both have the same certificate of admission to the
Bar. I am no court room wizard.

Between the office and my home stretch some fifty miles of railroad
track, which accounts for a large portion of the time I have lived since
1926. If all of this travel had been in one direction on the equator, I
might now be completing my seventeenth trip around the world; as it
is, I have not yet been around it once, and even a crossing of the Hudson
River is a rare adventure. The Long Island Railroad has received much

public and private abuse, all of which is thoroughly deserved; but it is
one of the places I live in, and I put up with it. All of my fellow-com-
muters agree that the distance is too great, and of course anybody who
does not commute assumes with some justification that I am completely
crazy. But I take much consolation in the fact that while I am sur-

[ 426 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

rounded on the train by people who complain that they live too far from
their work, my complaint is that I work too far from my home.

Which brings us, after a five-mile ride from the station in the jeep,
tomy home, where I can enjoy evenings and breakfast and Sundays and
holidays and — best of all, in the last few years——Saturdays. Here I
must admit that there is some evidence of change. For while, like my
classmates, I have remained at a constant age, everybody else — except
my wife — has grown much older, and the youngster who spent most
of his first summer at our present house chasing a small pig under the
piano Is now a sophomore at Harvard, who favors us with visits during
all-too-short vacations. Other children have been gradually leaving us
for boarding schools and we find our winter-time family surprisingly
small once more. But whether they are home for the moment or not,
we never lose our pride in all the children, and miss no opportunity to
boast about them. This report is such an opportunity, and they are
hereby boasted about to all who may read: they are five of the best chil-
dren anybody ever saw anywhere.

Our home is on the water, and we spend most of our spare time —
and much other time which should not be spared — sailing on it. There
is a local fleet of small boats which serves to give my children an oppor-
tunity to sail circles around me whenever they catch me off guard, and
although we lost our last cruising boat during the war (to a purchaser
who had better foresight than I did) we have been very fortunate in
friends with boats (including a couple of classmates) who have gener-
ously taken us along on everything from ocean races to leisurely cruises
along the coast of Maine. My second son and I even took part in a three-
day race in Lake Ontario last summer and got our feet wet in fresh
water for the first time.

After five years, the three years spent in the Navy during the war
have all but disappeared, save as a memory. My chief trouble is to re-
member those years in computing time. The year 1940 always seems
like about seven years ago, instead of ten. Even though it seems sinful
to think of war in terms of pleasure, it must be confessed that the mem-
ory of those three years is a happy one. I had interesting work and re-
sponsibility and my family enjoyed simple living in three different com-
munities. No commuting. Just the same I am not looking forward to
another war, and prefer peace any time.

This report should properly close with some thoughts about —

Sorry, I have to catch a train.

 

[ 427 ]

$$ a

Harvard Class of 1926

ROBERT NELSON HUTCHINSON

Home and Office Address: 538 N. Wabash Ave., Chicago 11, Ill.
Bora: May 5, 1905, Chicago, IU. Parents: Octavus Nelson Hutchinson, Sarah
Adeline Johnson.

Prepared at: University High School, Chicago, Ill.

Years om College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; M.B.A., 1928.

Married: Carolan Duffield, Dec. 29, 1932, Wheaton, III.

Harvard Brother: Donald John Hutchinson, ’17 (deceased).

Occupation: Insurance broker.
Offices Held: Secretary, 1945-46, director, since 1945, Insurance Brokers’

Association of Illinois, Inc.

The two years following college I spent at the Harvard Graduate
School of Business Administration, receiving my M.B.A. in 1928. That
summer I went to work in the East Chicago Plant Auditing Depart-
ment of what is now the General American Transportation Corpora-
tion. In May, 1929, I resigned my lowly job as chief of payroll and
overhead distribution to enter into general accounting work in Chicago
with Edward N. Lee (M.B.A.,’27). By November of that fateful fall,
things were so slim that I took a salaried job with Commercial Credit
Company as travelling auditor, open accounts department, out of their
Chicago office—— mainly so I could keep up the installments on a car
I had bought the previous June. By July, 1930, I had become weary of
life on the road and resigned my second and last salaried job with a large
corporation. I became associated with the multiple-line insurance agency
of Griffin, Ingram & Pfaff, Chicago, as a salesman of all kinds of insur-
ance on a strictly commission basis. (In the meantime, the car had be-
come fully paid for! ) In December, 1932, business was so bad and my
finances so low that Carolan Duffield of Wheaton, Illinois, and I got
married so that we could see something of each other without the ex-
pensive necessity of dates.

From that day on, things have been nothing but better. I have con-
tinued as an insurance broker, establishing my own office (at my home)
in 1946. We made our home on Chicago’s “Near North Side,” and
have lived in the same apartment for the eighteen years of our married
life. Our interests and hobbies have been varied: piano duets; bridge
with friends and neighbors; amateur photography; extensive and fre-

quent automobile travel in the U.S.A. whenever we could get away;
vacationing in the mountains east of Asheville, North Carolina, in the
spring and fall; and — politics.

In the last field, we have been active in the Republican organization

[ 428 ]

the

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

of our (the famous 42nd) ward for the last six years. I have served as
Republican precinct captain through several elections and really know
what a task it is to get Republicans out to vote in a Democratic bailiwick.
Furthermore, I have sat on local candidate-selecting committees, learn-
ing how truly difficult it is to get good men or women to run for public
office. But it has been fun, providing us with more than a little insight
into what must go into making this government of ours work, if our
function to date has been only that of “the loyal opposition.”

The almost twenty-five years since Commencement have passed
quickly and pleasantly. It seems like only yesterday that I returned for
the ‘I'wentieth Reunion and the day before, for the Tenth. Both oc-
casions were memorable for me; it will truly take a Twenty-fifth to sur-
pass them. God willing, come June, 1951, Carolan and I will get into
our current car (which I’m glad to report is all ours) and head for
Cambridge — to join in the joyous festivities of the Class of 1926.

WILLIAM VINCENT HYLAND

Home Address: 23.9 Stratford St., West Roxbury, Mass.

Office Address: 1 Court St., Boston, Mass.

Born: April 1, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parenis: Robert Hyland, Hannah Cooke.

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B. (Boston Univ.),
1930.

Married: J. Marie Dierkes, Aug. 16, 1937, Boston, Mass. Children: William
Vincent, Jr., June 25, 1938; Marie, June 22, 1941; Nancy, Dec. 10,
1946.

Occupation: Lawyer.

+ WILLIAM JAMES ISBER

Born: July 14, 1903, London, England. Parents: Hymen Isber, Ethel Swig.
Prepared at; Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B., 1929.
Unmarried.

Harvard Brother: Charles James Isber, ’20.

Died: Feb. 18, 194.2, Boston, Mass.

Brother: Charles J. Isber, 24 Concord Ave., Cambridge, Mass.

William James Isber came to this country from England when a boy
and attended the Public Latin School in Boston before coming to Har-
vard. He was a member of the basketball squad, the Debating Club, and
the British-American Club as an undergraduate. He also belonged to

[ 429 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Flarvard Class of 1926

the U.S. Army Reserve Corps, After college he continued at the Ha

vard Law School, receiving his degree in 1929. He then became affli

ated with Friedman, Atherton, King & Turner, attorneys in Boston,

At the time of our Sexennial Report he was associated with his broth. r

in the practice of law, a partnership which continued until his death in
1942.

Veber was a member of the Boston Bar Association, the Federal] Bar
and the Law Society of Massachusetts. He also served as legal aide to
the Boston Community Fund. His interest in military affairs increaseg
and he became a second lieutenant in the United States Army. He en-

joyed tennis, yachting, squash, and golf. Upon the outbreak of World
War II, he planned on military service but developed an illness which
kept him bedridden for about a year and from which he never recovered,

COLUMBUS O’DONNELL ISELIN

Home Address: 87 Randolph Ave., Milton, Mass.
Office Address: Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, Mass,

Born: Sept. 25, 1904, New Rochelle, N. Y. Parents: Lewis Iselin, Marie de
Neufville.

repared at: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
ears in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; A.M., 1928; §.D.(hon.)
(Brown Univ.), 1947. |
farried: Eleanor Emmet Lapsley, Jan. 19, 1929, Bedford Village, N. Y.
Children: Eleanor Emmet, May 18, 1930; Columbus O’Donnell, Jr.,
Dec. 7, 19323 Marie de Neufville, April 19, 1936; Victoria David,
March 23, 19443; Thomas Howard, April 11, 1947.
arvard Son: Columbus O’ Donnell Iselin, Jr., 53.
cupation: Scientist; associate professor, Harvard University; senior physical
oceanographer, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution.
ices Held: Trustee, Bermuda Biological Station for Research, since 1933,
Marine Biological Laboratory, since 1941, Woods Hole Oceanographic
Institution, since 1950, St. Mark’s School, since 1950, American Mu-
seum of Natural History, since 1951.
uber of: American Academy of Arts and Sciences; New York Academy of
Science; American Philosophical Society; American Geophysical Union;
Harvard Club of New York; Tennis & Racquet Club; Somerset Club. '
cations: “A Study of the Circulation of the Western North Atlantic ;
papers in Physical Oceanography and Meteorology, Vol. 1V, No. 4, 1936; an
Vol. VII, No. 1, 1940; “Preliminary Report on Long-Period Variations
in the Transport of the Gulf Stream.”

ginning in 1931 I went to work for the Woods Hole earn
ic Institution, first as captain of the research vessel Atlantis, 1°

[ 430 ]

 

T'wenty-fifih Anniversary Report

asa member of the scientific staff, and from 1940 to 19§0, as director.
j am now attempung research again and from time to time expect to

ive a half-course at Harvard, but I hope that I have finished with ad-
ministrative duties. .

Until this year we lived on a small farm on Martha’s Vineyard Island
and I commuted each day across Vineyard Sound to Woods Hole where
| worked. This must constitute some sort of record for commuting by
small boat. This year we bought a house in Milton where we expect to
live during the winter months, at least until the children have finished
school. However, we have kept the place on the Vineyard for vacation
periods. .

I have been lucky in my work, having taken up an obscure subject
just before it began to receive recognition and support. My principal
interest has been the problem of the circulation of the ocean. Since 1940
more and more of my time has been devoted to the various military —
applications of physical oceanography. Because of these applications the
Navy is now supporting research and development at oceanographic
laboratories on a generous scale. We have plenty of fancy gadgets to play
with and these are most useful in working out some of the basic scientific
problems of the sea.

It must be admitted that I went into science because | thought it
would provide a nice, easy, restful life. In this 1 was very much mistaken.
Nevertheless, at least it has been interesting.

ERNEST ISELIN, JR.

Home Address: 169 E. 64th St., New York, N. Y.

Born: Feb, 2, 1905, New York, N. Y. Parents: Ernest Iselin, Pauline Whittier.

Prepared at: St. George’s School, Newport, R.1.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926.

Unmarried,

Occupation: Real estate; president, Adlin Corporation.

Military or Naval Record: U.S. Navy, 1942-47; public works ofhcer and gun-
nery officer, Olathe, Kans., 1942-43; administrative, communications
officer, squadron secretary, VPB 112, 1943-455 at Naval War College,
Newport, R. I., 1945; naval attaché, Belgrade, Yugoslavia, 1946-473
rank, commander, U.S.N.R.

Member of: Knickerbocker Club, New York; Travellers’ Club, Paris; Marl-
borough-Windham Clab, London.

[ 431 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

RODNEY HOISINGTON JACKSON

Home Address: 15244 Churchill St., San Lorenzo, Calif.
Office Address: California Eastern Airways, Oakland, Calif.
Bora: Aug. 23, 1905, New York, N. Y. Parents: Lawrence Stelzner Jackson
’91, Georgia Hoisington Savage. —
Prepared at: White Plains High School, White Plains, N. Y.

Years xn College? 1922-1927.

Married: Marion Virginia Englebright, Nov. 24, 1928, Yuma, Ariz, (qj.
vorced 1944); Ethel Mary Young, Sept. 10, 1950, Las Vegas, Ney.
Children: Barry Wendell, Jan. 25, 19303 Bruce Naylor, July 26, 1933;
Gail Winifred, Feb. 21, 1939. ,

cupation: Flight captain and route check pilot; non-scheduled airline flying

trans-Pacific under Air Force contract.

mber of: Quiet Birdmen.

ications: Occasional articles in aviation magazines.

-was while I was still in college, as a junior I believe, that the bug

sit me, and I’ve stayed bitten. Just as boys for centuries past have

to sea and stayed at sea to become grizzled masters of their ships,
and having flown, the air became my world.

ation has been my business for twenty-five years now, and I look

J to at least fifteen more before I am grounded, even then more

7 company policy than by any physical disability. I have grown

aviation: I remember flying behind the first Wright “Whirl-

Pan American’s first flight, the new world speed record of

30 that I saw set at the National Air Races at Mitchel Field in

vas a pilot (well experienced according to my own lights)

dbergh inaugurated a new epoch in aviation in 1927. But

‘cally than “aviation,” I have been an air pilot for all this

qually fascinated by all that goes into the act of flying, of

gress in instruments and radio, of long-distance navigation,
ctrination, of the problems of command — always with the
sersonally with my own hands, bigger and faster airplanes.
varade has finally passed me by and I can no longer say
airplanes are built, Jackson will fly them.” Younger men
6 flight decks, and mere kids in the jets, but don’t think
t like to be, or be able to if “they” let me! So I am back
the old workhorse of air transport, and with 200-0dd
’ to my credit, am still tooling them back and forth over
trans-Pacific route which I helped to pioneer ten years
good pilot goes without saying; I am still alive. J have

ores of hotter pilots, but my ambition has always been

[ 432 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

that expressed by the ancient bromide about wanting to be the oldest
ot. Looks more promising every year —TJ may get there yet!

Por many years I deliberately steered clear of the newly established
scheduled airlines: I wanted to go places, a different airplane and a dif-
ferent destination with every flight; I didn’t want to be just an aerial
bus driver! Well, Pve flown the oceans and T’ve seen the world, 1 rode
outa typhoon out of Fiji and iced up over Keflavik, and from one point
af view perhaps T’ve lived dangerously and had a “fabulous” life, but
looking back on it all, it doesn’t seem like much. Recently, Pve been far
more concerned with getting a slight grip on some of that “security,”
both social and economic, that everybody talks about, and after several
attempts with companies which failed, including one which 1 helped to
organize, I have some hope that my new connection will be permanent.
The Pacific is a nice comfortable ocean to fly, California is a wonderful
place to live (although I want to retire on Kauai or Eleuthera), 1 can
live on my earnings (despite the fact that pilots, of course, are woefully
underpaid), and I have time off between trips to pursue my hobbies of
collecting books (an aeronautical library, naturally), listening to good
music, and reading about what goes on in the world.
Although my home life has been the antithesis of “normal,” 1 have
helped bring up three children and am very, very proud of them. Barry,
now a junior at Stanford, is an NROTC midshipman, with far more
interest in and knowledge of the world about him than most 21-year-
olds and is almost frighteningly geopolitical in his thinking, pointing
towards foreign service for some large corporation or government
agency. Bruce, at 18, has been absorbed in making his football and track
letters at high school, and is hoping to follow his brother’s footsteps into
Navy training at college next year. (Asa reserve ensign on active duty
T once made a dozen operational carrier landings on the uss Saratoga,
i first year she was in commission. ) Gail is just twelve, has been caring
a and riding her own horse for the last couple of years, and is suddenly
‘coming a young lady.
. miss them all, much of the time, and wish I could see more of them,
Waich a more conventional life would have allowed. I have recently been
tT \ s e
eed and am much happier than I thought I ever could be again,
, veh my younger brother scornfully observed that what Td soon
ee : ‘ .
* would be not a wife, but a nurse! I think that is a gross exaggera-
n of the effect of age —I don’t feel a day older! Anyway, itis hard

to belj
believe that June, 1926, was twenty-five years ago.

L 433 |

Flarvard Class of 1926

HERBERT AUSTIN JACOBS

Home Address: Route 1, Middleton, Wis.
Office Address: c/o Capital Times, Madison, Wis.
Born: April 8, 1903, Milwaukee, Wis. Parents: Herbert Henry Jacobs, Mary-
belle Austin.
Prepared at: South Side High School, Milwaukee, Wis.
Jears in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.
Married: Katherine Wescott, Feb. 17, 1934, Ripon, Wis. C4Aildren: Susan,
Nov. 19, 1934; Elizabeth Jane, May 2, 1939; William Wescott, Sept.
8, 1943.
Occupation: Newspaperman and columnist.
Member of: American Newspaper Guild.
Publications: We Chose the Country, Harper’s, 1948; T'ry and Stump Me! Year-
bork, Capital Times Co., 1949.

I'll confess that the 15th Class Report had a lot to do with changing
my way of life. I read certain of the biographies which told of classmates
who had unshackled themselves from a desk job and city life. The fer-
ment, along with other factors such as the undesirability of trying to
raise children in a city, caused me to sell a very attractive Frank Lloyd
Wright house in the suburbs of Madison and move to a run-down farm,
where I acquired a herd of cows, a drove of pigs, and 500 chickens. The
impact of the countryside on me, and my efforts to reform rural life in
America, are more fully set forth in a book which Harper’s published.
For reasons not entirely clear to me, I have acquired the status of expert
on farming and rural life, and a guide for bucolic adventurers is ready
to hit the bookstands.

Instead of breaking completely with the city, however, I still have a
foot in two worlds. I continue in daily newspaper work as telegraph
news editor, plus a side-line column, and my passion for reforming
things has got me entangled as instructor in the University of Wisconsin
journalism school. Actually, my farming activities are very small, since
I have boiled my livestock down to a couple of cows and some sheep.
After more than eight years of it, 1 am more than ever convinced that
the country is the best place to live and raise children, but I am also glad
of the stimulus of a city job as a contrast. For me, the two kinds of life
have worked out well. However, I do not relish being called a gentle-
man farmer. I maintain that no one who throws as much cow manure
out of the barn as I do can be a gentleman anyway.

[ 434 ]

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

CHARLES ARNOLD JACOBSON, JR.

Home Address: 22 Shadow Lane, Larchmont, N. Y.
Office Address: Voland & Sons, Inc., New Rochelle, N. Y.
Born: Feb. 8, 1905, New York, N. Y. Parents: Charles Arnold Jacobson, Emilie

Metzger.
Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Madeleine Goldsmith, Sept. 29, 1933, New York, N. ¥. Child:
Susan Barbara, Oct. 21, 1947.

Harvard Brother: James Charles Jacobson, ’21.

Occupation: Vice-president, treasurer and half-owner of Voland & Sons, Inc.,

manufacturers of analytical balances and weights.

Military or Naval Record: World War 11: Army, Dec. 21, 1942, to June 8,
1945; armored force at Fort Knox, Ky.; transferred to O.C.S, at Camp
Lee, Va.; injured and forced out of O.C.S.; transferred to A.E.S, at Pine
Camp, N. Y.; spent rest of service in highly confidential work.

Offices Held: Chairman, New Rochelle Chapter, American Veterans Commit-

tee, 1949.
Member of: American Veterans Committee, New Rochelle Chapter.

I haven’t much information to add to the last Report. The business I
purchased in January, 1946, with my brother, James C. Jacobson, ’21,
has proved to be an interesting and rewarding one and we are still in the
process of building it. I have bought the house in Larchmont in which I
now live and hope to be here for the rest of my life. Also, since the last
Report, my first child was born, Susan Barbara, and she has become one
of my chief interests and occupations.

I am active in the local chapter of the American Veterans Committee,
the New Rochelle Council for Unity, and am a member of United
World Federalists. My interest in local affairs continues and I am con-
cerned, as before, with the struggle to maintain and improve the demo-
cratic way of life.

My recreations consist of bridge, swimming, and enjoying my home
and family. I have had to give up golf — temporarily, I hope — because
of a game arm. I still enjoy the Yale football game each year and hope

we'll be back on an equal footing before long.

ISADORE HARRY JAFFEE

Home Address: 28 Ransom Rd., Brighton, Mass.

Office Address: 483 Beacon St., Boston 15, Mass.
Born: July §, 1905, Boston, Mass, Parents: Harry Jaffee, Bessie Cohen.

Prepared at: English High School, Boston, Mass.
[ 435 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; M.D, (Boston
Univ.), 1930- .
Married: Irene Solomont, Feb. 14, 1937; Brookline, Mass. C4ildren: Brenda
Aug. 7, 1938; Ralph, June 26, 1940. .
Occupation: Physician.
Military or Naval Record: Army Medical Corps, 1942-463 overseas, Australia
New Guinea, Philippines and Japan, 1943—45- .
Member of: Massachusetts Medical Society; Amer ican Academy of Allergy,
After graduation from college, I went to medical school, then served
internships for two years at Worcester State Hospital and Boston City
Hospital. I spent a year of postgraduate study in Vienna and then came
home to start in practice in Boston.

In 1946 I started in practice again, same city but specializing in al.
lergy. At present I am on the staff of the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital
n charge of the allergy clinic and also on the staffs of the Boston City
nd Veterans Hospitals.

I would like to play more golf and am still convinced that I could get
wn into the eighties if I had the time.

THOMAS EGBERT JANSEN, JR.

Address: 40 Channing Rd., Dedham, Mass,
¢ Address: Robbins, Noyes & Jansen, 19 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

- Nov. 25, 1904, Brookline, Mass. Parents: Thomas Egbert Jansen, Caro-
line Beckford.

red at: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.

x College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B., 1929(30)-

-d: Hope Slade, May 9, 1936, Fall River, Mass. Cildren: Caroline
aury, April 27, 1938; Trintje DuBois, July 9, 1941; Thomas Borden
radford, Nov. 16, 1942; Nicholas Slade, Dec. 21, 1944.

ton: Lawyer, general practice.

Yeld: Finance Committee, Town of Dedham, 1946-49, chairman,
2 years,

of: Union Club of Boston; Longwood Cricket Club; Massachusetts
iety of the Cincinnati.

leaving college and law school, I had the usual amount of hard
ected of young lawyers and an opportunity to play 4 lot of ten-
juash racquets, This pleasant existence changed in favor of a
In 1930, when I was married. The first place we lived was an
“in the familiar yellow house in Cambridge on the river below
ouse. This became too crowded with the first arrival and W
ouse in Dedham which is a very pleasant suburban tow” wit

[ 436 ]

 

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

the usual amount of community activity in which we have taken a good
deal of interest. ‘The house which, when we bought it, seemed large be-
came small with the addition of three more to the family. We enjoyed
planning an addition of a wing to the house and finally in 1949 had it
built. .

Among our four children we have some promise of school, athletic,
and musical accomplishment. We look forward with great interest to
their development and with hope that we are not entering a period of a
military economy that will prevent the growing generation from getting
the more normal opportunity that we ourselves had.

All the time since law school | have been with the same law firm in
Boston in a very pleasant association in general practice. Our work tends
towards estate, trust, tax, and real estate.

My interest in tennis and squash racquets is still keen. I gave up play-
ing squash sometime ago, principally because of the inconvenience of
trying to play matches in town and at the same time do all the things I
want to do around home. I also admit frankly that I am too old to play
the game. I have been playing tennis winter and summer and I believe
playing about as well as ever. The game of golf is also something that
has got me recently, somewhat to my surprise. I have experienced that
golfer’s feeling of confidence and hope that the next round will be
better. Last year I actually had several rounds in the low eighties.

In closing, I want to record that I am one of those who think that
Roosevelt and his political followers have done irreparable damage to
the moral stamina of the individual by breaking down self-reliance, and
that partly through this and partly directly they have broken down the
economic health of the country. Despite the foregoing opinion, I have
hope that sound national leadership may pull the country to its senses.

CHARLES JENNEY, JR.

Home Address: Bedford Road, Lincoln, Mass.
Office Address: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.
Born: Sept. 3, 1905, Belmont, Mass. Parents: Charles Jenney, ’97, Blanche
owe,
Vibared at: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.
Cars in College: 1922~1926, Degree: A.B., 1926. | |
larried: Katrina A, Cooley, June 30, 1934, Rose Hill, Ridgeway, Ont,
Canada. Children: Elizabeth Adams, Aug. 22, 1935; Katrina Allen, Nov.
H 15,1938; Bronwen Adsit, Aug. 26, 1941.
‘ard Brother: Warren Jenney,’26.
“pation: Teacher, Belmont Hill School.

[ 437 |

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

Military or Naval Record: Lieutenant commander, U.S. Naval Reserve; office
in charge, Naval Aviation Free Gunnery Standar dization Unit, Jackson.

ville, Fla.
Offices Held: Trustee, Concord Academy, Concord, Mass.

I have spent the greater part of the past twenty-five years teachin

boy's and young men everything from Latin to aerial gunnery, In be.
tween these two extremes I have taught some French, Greek, math
?

and history, and also dive-bombing and torpedo-bombing. Durin

peacetime years this teaching has been supplemented by a good bit of

coaching, in football, hockey, tennis, and baseball.

I have spent much of my non-teaching time in travel and study, |
ised to go alone, but starting in 1934 there were two, and now there
re five. We have just returned from a summer camping trip with our

1ree daughters to Glacier Park, and now they all know what the bears
ok like!

I am generally not very much worried about the future. The most
soling thought to me about the atom bomb is that it works so quickly.
Dh yes, I do expect to be back for our Fiftieth |

WARREN JENNEY

Address: Monument Street, Concord, Mass.
4ddress: 8, D. Warren Co., 89 Broad St., Boston, Mass.
Tune 26, 1904, Belmont, Mass. Parents: Charles Jenney, ’97, Blanche
owe.
J at: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.; Browne and Nichols
1001, Cambridge, Mass.
vollege: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.
Mary Thomas, Dec. 26, 1930, Portland, Maine. CAildren: Nancy
2, Dec. 15, 1931; Mary Howe, April 18, 1935.
brother: Charles Jenney, Jr.,’26.
': Paper manufacturing; division sales manager, S. D. Warren Com-

Naval Record: Enlisted Supply Corps, U.S. Navy, 19423 assigned
ip’s Outfitting Department, Supply Department, Boston Navy
supply officer, pre-commissioning board on staff of Commander
- Force, Atlantic Fleet, 18 months; supply officer of the US
s, AF 29, a refrigerated supply ship attached to the Pacific Fleet,

arvard Club of New York; Varsity Club; Concord Country Club.

ged to write one’s autobiography twenty-five years out of
bably a very good thing, difficult as it may seem when On

[ 438 J

T wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

faces up t0 the task. If nothing else, it makes us stop, look, and listen —
and poses the question as to whether our twenty-five years of adult life
on this planet have added one whit to the betterment of our fellow-men.
We review the past, and consider the “might-have-beens.”” We recall
decisions that have turned out badly, and if we are lucky, those that have
turned out W ell. And, if we are sufficiently objective in our review of the
past, we may find the means of making the next twenty-five years more
roductive. .
As for my own decisions, my first major one after leaving college was
to quit medical school after one year of study. For this I have never had
any real regrets, because I made a business connection that has been
lasting and in which my work has been interesting, stimulating, and
rewarding. In the fall of 1927 I entered the paper mill of the S. D.
Warren Company as an apprentice, and worked in all the different de-
partments for a year and a half before entering the main offices in Bos-
ton. | remained in the Boston office until June, 1942, when I joined the
Navy as a lieutenant in the Supply Corps.
My Navy career was varied and on the whole interesting. For two
and a half years I was concerned with equipping and outfitting newly
constructed ships. In March, 1944, 1 was assigned as supply officer of
the uss Graffias AF 29, a refrigerated provision ship then being con-
verted for Navy use. I helped to put her into commission and then served
aboard her in the Pacific until August, 1945.
Upon my discharge from the Navy, I returned to the $8. D. Warren
Company, attached to the New York sales office. Two and a half valu-
able years were spent in that area before I was called back to Boston to
take over the responsibility for the sale of our book and magazine papers
in all areas except New York territory, which is under the direction of
Henry L. Cole, Class of 1924. My job is challenging and seems to me
tobe worth while, and my associates are congenial and stimulating.
Domestically, most of my major decisions have turned out well. Lam
old-fashioned enough to be still living happily with the same wife I
picked out twenty years ago. We have two daughters, Nancy, a sopho-
More at Radcliffe, and Mary Howe, a sophomore at Concord Academy.
ur most recent decision involved a place to live when we returned to
oston after an absence of seven years. In this, too, we think we chose
well in buying and restoring an old farm in Concord, and we are now
“ginning to enjoy some of the fruits of country living.
©, In reviewing the course of my past twenty-five years, I feel that
ate has dealt with me more kindly than otherwise, although I do feel

4 bit humble in trying to name my contribution to a crazy world, But

[ 439 |

Harvard Class of 1926

perhaps just being an average citizen, doing his bit in civic, business, and
church affairs, and leading a placid, domestic life, is a worthy end in
itself.

CHANDLER WINSLOW JOHNSON

Home Address: R.F.D. 3, South Brewer, Maine.
Born: Nov. 24, 1902, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Lewis Jerome Johnson, ’87,
Grace Allen Fitch.
Prepared at: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.; Deerfield Acad-
emy, Deerfield, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1924.
Married: Elizabeth Farnham Smith, Oct. 31, 1942, Concord, Mass. CAildren:
Elizabeth Winslow, Aug. 17, 1943; Donald McRuer, June 5, 1945.
Harvard Brother: Jerome Allen Johnson, 19.
Military or Naval Record: Army Medical Corps; entered private, August,
1942; served at Lovell General Hospital; separated March 27, 1943.

Mrs. Johnson kindly sent in the following information: ““We moved
to Maine in November, 1947. Chan has been ill most of the time and
has been a patient at the Veterans Hospital at Togus, Maine, since Octo-
ber, 1949, and I expect he will be there for quite a few months yet.

“He is still a Republican and is a somewhat recent convert to Uni-
tarianism. We both are members of the Unitarian Church in Bangor,
we live in Bucksport, have an Orrington phone, and get our mail from
South Brewer! Chan is tremendously keen for world government and
isa member of the United World Federalists.”

FRANCIS NEWLANDS JOHNSTON

Home Address: 4 E. Leland St., Chevy Chase 15, Md.

Office Address: Beach Erosion Board, Corps of Engineers, U.S. Army, 5201
Little Falls Rd., N.W., Washington, D. C.

Born: March 8, 1904, Brush Hill, Mass. Parents: Charles Haven Ladd John-
ston, 99, Edythe Newlands.

Prepared at: Santa Barbara School, Carpinteria, Calif.

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degrees: A.B., 1926(27); A.M. (Stanford
Univ.), 1930; Pu.D. (Catholic Univ.), 1942. |

Married: Janine Schlagdenhauffen, Oct. 25 and 26, 1935, Le Havre, Seine
Inférieure, France. CAildren: Nancy Anne, Sept. 9, 1936; Francis An-
drew, June 16, 1939; Frederick Robert, Dec. 20, 1940; Sandia Janine,
Jan. 2, 1942.

Occupation: Military Intelligence specialist; farmer; business executive and
director; paleontologist and geologist.

[ 440 ]

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Wartime Government Posts: U.S. Geological Survey, work in mapping from
trimetrogon photography, Dec. 12, 1941 to July 31, 1947.

Member of: Paleontological Society; Geological Society of Washington, D. C.;
Société Géologique de France; American Society of Photogrammetry;
American Geographical Society; Chevy Chase Club; All Saints Episcopal
Church.

Publications: “Trias at New Pass, Nevada (New Lower Karnic Ammonoids),”
Journal of Paleontology, September, 1941, pp. 447-491, Plates 58-71,
figs. I-3.

On finishing the requirements for the A.B. degree, I embarked on
geological studies, first with Harvard Summer School of Field Geology,
in the Canadian Rockies near Banff, then at Stanford University, where
I received an A.M. in 1930. After varied wanderings and aberrations,
including several years trying to develop a singing voice in Paris, I mar-
ried and settled in Chevy Chase outside of Washington, D. C., where I
have been ever since.

On completion of work for a Ph.D. degree in geology at Catholic
University, I began work for the United States Geological Survey,
more or less coincident with the arrival of our fourth and last child, a
daughter. I still work for the government with a digression into farm-
ing, of which my wife and children approve.

After the war, during which my father died in Washington, and both
my parents-in-law died in France, my wife and I took a hurried trip to
her former homeland, where war’s desolation and destruction greeted
us. The town hall or mairie where our civil marriage ceremony had
been performed lay in ruins; but the statue of Francois I, founder of Le
Havre, had been resurrected on its pedestal. The walls of the Protestant
reformed church where we took our marriage vows still stood. The city
used it as a lumber yard. ‘The house of my father-in-law, from whose

cellar my sister-in-law was excavated still alive on the night of the great
bombing, was also gone. We heard many tales of that night from her
and from the pastor and his family with whom she lives, My married
sister-in-law escaped the more immediate catastrophes of the war with
her family in the French Alps. My uncle’s house near Vernon had been
looted of metal, bath tubs and plumbing, and of electric motors. In
Paris the horse-chestnuts still bloomed but the Chambre des Deputées
had become the Assemblé National where, with my brother-in-law, I
saw Herriot preside. The man in the street looked sad and serious and
the lack of illumination of streets and public buildings cast a gloom over
the city.

In the fall my uncle, William Bernard Johnston, 97, died in Reno,

[ 441 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Nevada. That the heavens declare the glory of God is evident in his
painting. I helped carry his mortal remains on their last journey.

Our hope is in Christianity, which has not yet been tried on a world-
wide scale. We all fear Armageddon first, but Christ has shown the way
to joy, peace on earth, and the kingdom of heaven that lies within, Our
sons will go in the armies, our daughters in the auxiliary services, and
our fortunes in weapons of war and aid to those whom war has already
passed over. We will do it gladly with a hope and faith in God without
whose loving care even our enemies cannot see the light of another day.
Armageddon will be more in the nature of a civil war than of an inter-
continental invasion. Look at what happened in France, with pre-war
strikes, sabotage, fifth columns, and finally, Vichy. It can happen here,
too.

HAROLD ROBERTSON JONES

Home Address: 433 Ward Pkwy., Kansas City, Mo.

Office Address: 51st & Ward Pkwy., Kansas City, Mo.

Bora: Dec. 13, 1904, Yarmouth, N. S., Canada. Parents: Henry Augustus
Jones, Marion Murray.

Prepared at: Pembroke-Country Day School, Kansas City, Mo.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Catherine Wittig, Sept. 1, 1934, Northport Point, Mich. Children:
Stephen Bond, Feb. 4, 1938; Christine Murray, Sept. 1, 1939.

Occupation: Business manager, freshman coach, Pembroke-Country Day School.

Offices Held: President, Harvard Club (formerly) ; treasurer and one of the
founders, National Youth Movement.

Member of : Kansas City Country Club.

QUINTON OLIVER JONES

Home and Office Address: 29 Broad St., Salem, Mass,

Bora: Aug. 11, 1903, Salem, Mass. Parents: George William Jones, Mary
Wells Thayer.

Prepared at: Salem High School, Salem, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926.

Unmarried.

Harvard Brother: Malcolm Bancroft Jones, ’24, A.M., ’30, Pu.D., 736.

Occupation: Artist.

I am an artist. I have no solutions to the problems of the world. ‘The
“old boy” is still around, isn’t he? If a man does his work well, believing

in God, what more can he do?
I didn’t send in the other report. I didn’t see much use to it. I will say

[ 442 ]

~—

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

this: that in secondary schools I would wish a child to get understanding
(or comprehension of what schooling i is about, though perhaps even we
oldsters don’t know); that in high school (or preparatory) I would
wish him to get opinion (that is, an ability to judge qualities, sources,
etc.); thatin college I would wish him to get knowled ge (that is, at least
he should know just what he is about in life, the meaning of knowledge
to him, to others, to eternity); finally he will have to wait upon life,
time, events, and the temper of his soul to teach him the wisdom which
we all long for.

I wonder if we long wisely enough. And, if we don’t, is it a fault in
our teaching or our primary understanding? “Whose dwelling is the
light of setting suns.”’ I think I prefer Wordsworth to Eliot.

RICHARD JONES, III

Home Address: 106 FE. 85th St., New York 28, N. ¥.

Office Address: Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett, 120 Broadway, New York 5, N. Y.

Born: Dec. 31, 1904, Chicago, II]. Parents: Richard Jones, Jr., ’90, Anne
Elise Sinks.

Prepared at: Morristown Academy, Morristown, N. J.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B., 1926; LL.B., 1929.

Married: Margret Clements Peffer, June 29, 1929, Warren, Ohio. Children:
Richard Preston, July 25, 1942; Lee Creighton, April 13, 1944.

Occupation: Lawyer; member, firm of Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett.

Offices Held: Administrative Law Committee, Association of the Bar of the
City of New York; board of governors, Squadron A Ex-Members Associa-
tion; board of directors, Down Town Harvard Lunch Club.

Member of : American Bar Association; New York State Bar Association; Asso-
ciation of the Bar of the City of New York; Harvard Club of New York;
Down Town Association; Squadron A Ex-Members Association; Down
Town Harvard Lunch Chub; Quogue Beach Club, Quogue Field Club,
Quogue, Long Island.

Preparatory to writing something about my life during the past
twenty-five years, I looked through some of the autobiographies in the
Twentieth Anniversary Report of our Class, After reading the many
tales of what sounded like adventure in distant corners of the world, it
occurred to me that there wasn’t very much of that nature that I could
report. In fact my life, insofar as moving from place to place, or job to
job, or wife to wife is concerned, has been singularly uneventful. My
dream girl has put up with me for lo! these numerous years — not al-
ways without difficulty — but at least without legal proceedings.

After I graduated from Law School in 1929, I moved to New York

[ 443 ]

Flarvard Class of 1926

City from a midwestern town and started to practise law with Simpson,
Thacher & Bartlett at 120 Broadway. Twenty-one years later finds me
still in New York City and still practisin g law with Simpson, ‘Thacher &
Bartlett at 120 Broadway, Some years ago the firm, faced with the
problem of either throwing me out or taking me in, admitted me as a
partner. In my law practice I have spent most of the past ten or twelve
years in association with the Securities and Exchange Commission in
connection with problems of certain of our utility holding company cli-
ents under the so-called Public Utility Holding Company Act. This
work, which combines elements of litigation and corporate reorganiza-
tion, I have found to be interesting and pleasant for the most part —
barring those occasions when Washington becomes uncomfortable be-
cause of the heat generated either (a) through natura] atmospheric con-
ditions or (b) through differences of opinion between a lowly private
practitioner and a member of the staff of a government administrative
body. (Although I have been rightly accused of generally voting what
is sometimes laughingly referred to as the Republican ticket, I am not
bitter about it all and I hasten to add that I have made many good
friends among representatives of government administrative bodies. )

As it ultimately turned out, not even the war blasted me out of the
routine of the Lexington Avenue subway between 85th Street and
lower Broadway. My activities during that period were confined to
serving in the Home Guard and on a local draft board, plus similar
home front efforts.

I still have enough energy left to permit me to play at tennis — dou-
bles preferred — and to shamble around a golf course in the eighties —
usually. These activities and churning around in the surf at Quogue,
Long Island, occupy my spare time in the summer. Sometimes the spare
time is spare enough, due to the calls to duty with a baseball bat or a
crabbing net emanating from those two sterling characters, aged eight
and six, who seem to live with us.

SAMUEL BLACKWELL JONES

Home Address: 758 Rugby Rd., Bryn Mawr, Pa.

Office Address: Fire Association of Philadelphia, 401 Walnut St., Philadelphia
6, Pa.

Born: Jan. 28, 1903, Elizabeth, N. J. Parents: Samuel Thomas Jones, Agnes
Blackwell. .

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

[ 444 J

LT wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Married: Barbara Chipman, Jan. 25, 1935, Montclair, N. J. CAildren: Chris-
tine Chandler, Dec. 1 5, 1938; Samuel Blackwell, Jr. June 23, 1941.
Occupation: Vice-president in charge of Investment Portfolio, Fire, Marine,
Auto, and Casualty Insurance Company.

Wartime Government Posts: Price adjustment and contract renegotiation, Signal
Corps, Pentagon Building, 1942-45.

Offices Held: President, Financial Analysts of Philadelphia, 1950; vice-presi-
dent, National Federation of Financial Analysts.

Member of : Insurance Society of Philadelphia; Merion Cricket Club.

It took me the better part of a decade to overcome my Class Day
1926 disbelief that the female of the species could ever displace my
Holworthy Hall classmates from the top spot of my affections. In Janu-
ary, 1935, however, my earlier misjudgments became all too clear and
I was wedded to my one and only. Our family life has been a happy one,
though perhaps too normal for some of our illustrious war-hero and
world-travelled classmates. I live in the suburbs of Philadelphia, com-
mute each day on the same train, sit at the same desk, and generally
speaking, get home in time for supper each evening with my family
which now, in addition to my soulmate, includes Christine, aged twelve,
and young Sam, aged ten.

I floundered a bit during early post-graduation years, pursuing the
obsession that I’d have none of my father’s humdrum long-hour bank-
er’s institutional existence. In this case I admitted my error of judgment
more quickly. Four years of twisting wires into cables for bridges, then
building batteries for automobiles, coupled with the 1930 prick of the
business boom brought me back into the fold.

I spent five years at the Central Hanover and seven years with
Loomis Sayles in Washington —all the while plying my Harvard Yard
background with what investment matters it could absorb. The late un-
lamented war interrupted this budding trend towards professional crys-
tal-gazin g. Durin g the interlude the battle of the Pentagon and contract
and price renegotiation absolved my patriotic emotions. Now I’m here
within the shadows of Independence Hall manipulating the invested as-
sets of one of the country’s oldest fire insurance companies.

Our confidential questionnaire asks if I’m happy. I have answered
“yes,” although I’ll confess I stopped to ponder a bit. Ambitions have
been pared. Illusions of grandeur have long since been dispelled. Afflu-
ence is limited and what there is of it is bedeviled by taxes and un-

quenched appetites. I despair of politics and national and world affairs.
And yet, though doctors’ bills belie it, we-—— my family and I—are
healthy in body and, I trust, in soul.

[ 445 ]

FLarvard Class of 1926

ROBERT ANSON JORDAN, JR.

Home Address: Harris Road, Bedford Hills, N. Y.

Office Address: Downes-Smith Co., 433 Main St., Stamford, Conn.

Born: May 9, 1904; Brookline, Mass. Parents: Robert Anson Jordan, ’92,
Edith Mira Taylor.

Prepared at: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.

Married: Constance Hand, Dec. 20, 1930, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1942);
Joan Power, August, 1942, Key West, Fla.; Priscilla Baldwin, 1948,
New York, N. Y. Children: Anson, June 27, 19353 Robert, July 19,
1937-

Occupation: Mercantile business.

Military or Naval Record: Entered U.S. Navy as lieutenant (j.g.), February,
19413 various training duties until August, 1941; C.O. uss Locust an
23, until May, 1943, assigned east coast and South Pacific; S.T.C.
Miami, July—November, 1943; executive officer, until March, 1944,
C.O., lieutenant commander, February, 1945, uss Marsk DE 699, At-
lantic and Mediterranean; executive officer, Naval Training School,
Lafayette, Ind.

Offices Held: Director, Family & Children’s Center, Retail Merchant’s Coun-
cil, Chamber of Commerce, Stamford, Conn.

Member of : Harvard Club of New York; Bedford Golf & Tennis Club; Mid-
town Club and Rotary Club, Stamford.

Since the last Report in 1946, I spent about two years readjusting
from wartime to peacetime. 1 was surprised how long it required. In the
early part of 1946 I went to work for Walter Hoving who was just
commencing his new mercantile venture, i.e., acquiring a group of
retail stores, This job took me all over the United States, looking at
stores, store locations, and store properties. When the Hoving Corpora-
tion was formed, I became secretary. In 1949 I set out for myself (ona
very small scale) and acquired the Downes-Smith Company in Stam-
ford and I am now operating that store. I hope to expand it or acquire
branches, but right now it looks like another case of 1926-itis was com-
ing —a depression, a war, or something to put the lid on, I hope not. I
live here in Bedford and commute by jeep, rain or shine, to Stamford.
My wife and I love it and hope never to leave these northern Westches-
ter hills.

[ 446 ]

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

SAMUEL DAVID JOSEPH

Home Address: 458 Passaic Ave., Passaic, N. J.

Office Address: 157 Prospect St., Passaic, N. J.

Born: March 12, 1905, Passaic, N. J. Parents: Harry Joseph, Nellie Horowitz.

Prepared at: Passaic High School, Passaic, N. J.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B. cum laude, 1926; LL.B., 1929.

Married: Gertrude Riskin, Dec. 5, 1935, New York, N. Y. Child: Margery
Ellen, Dec. 7, 1942.

Occupation: Attorney.

Wartime Government Posts: Legal adviser, local draft board.

Member of : Passaic County Bar Association; New Jersey State Bar Association.

I suppose my present difficulty is a general one — of not knowing
where and how to begin. But, with previous accounts in the record, so to
speak, and with due regard to the nature of the occasion, it should not be
difficult to fill in and supplement a bit.

Tam still actively engaged here in the practice of Jaw. It has been a
growing thing, in the sense of satisfaction from within and to some
extent in recognition from without. In point of time there was first the
passing of the New Jersey Bar, then a separate examination several years
later for counsellor. (Primarily this is to permit practice in the appellate
courts and is a vestige of long ago retained by very few states including
our own.) During the last five years I received an appointment as spe-
cial master in chancery from our Chancery Court and shortly thereafter
was appointed supreme court commissioner from our Supreme Court.

Looking back again to a time following graduation from college, I
can say that my first entry into the law was not at all auspicious. My
leaning then was strongly to the arts and an emotional pull existed away
from the law which I chose only asa possibly useful instrument towards

some sort of business career, then only vague in my mind. In time, as
my knowledge of the law grew so did my interest and devotion to it as a
calling. There has been much in the gamut of feeling that has gone with
it— disappointment, exultation, frustration, and accomplishment— but
for the most part it has meant steady going and a deep satisfaction in
working with something that I feel is important and useful and that will
abide long after we have “shuffled off this mortal coil.”

Mr, Justice Jackson has said recently that much of what is taught at
law school is not put to use for twenty years. That has been partly true
in my case, for it has been only in the last five years that my experience in
the appellate courts has gained some proportion, One instance has been
an appearance and argument as amicus curiae at the request of our Su-

[ 447 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

preme Court on a novel question of the rights of an illegitimate child.
My success in appellate matters, which has had an encouraging consist-
ency about it, I attribute only to the happy accident of having been, more
often than not, on the nght side,

Our practice has undergone considerable change since 1948 as a re-
sult of a new constitution, implemented by new rules and legislation.
The press has given some idea of it, but may not have reported the extent
to which the judges are affected by it, They ascend the bench promptly
at 10:00 A.M., as they have been ordered by rule of court to do, and are
held to frequent periodic statements of what they accomplish. An ap-
pellate matter, however complicated, is decided and an opinion written
within a few weeks after it has been heard. There has been much up-
heaval and some mild chaos but it has been heartening to see so much
good done in so short a time,

More on the personal side, my lot has not been free of misfortune but,
all in all, I consider that P’ve been lucky in the measure of happiness I’ve
been able to share with my family and friends. My daughter seems to
grow and change from one day to another. Now that we have a picture
of her in front of Student Hall at Smith we feel somehow committed to
make that our first try. My odds are on her, but I admit to a lack of
impartiality.

On the subject of hobbies, at one time or another I may have referred
to my interest in gardening (with my own hands). This goes back a
long time — years before my nurseryman experience during my college
summers, I keep trying something new, either in the method or the
thing planted, and it’s been said that my rank as an amateur is high.

Just a few more fragmentary and parting thoughts. My love of music
still persists. I can confess, too, that on occasion whole sonnets of Keats
and Shakespeare still unsuspectingly run through me. And those price-
less memory passages — Kitty said they would never perish, and he was
right.

FRANK PAUL KANE

Home Address: “Vallon Tour,” St. Davids, Pa.

Office Address: Ketterlinus Lithograph Mfg. Co., 413 Arch St., Philadelphia,
Pa.

Born: Jan. 6, 1904, Villa Nova, Pa. Parents: John Kent Kane, ’96, Margaret
Oglesby Paul.

Prepared at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

Years ia College: 1922-1926, Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926.

Married: Levina Sevier Hammond, Noy, 10, 1926, Philadelphia, Pa. C4il-
dren: Pauline Astor, Dec. 3, 1927 (m7. James Renshaw King, February,

[ 448 ]

T wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

1946); John Kent, 2d, May 11, 1934; Peter Bayard, April 3, 1938.
Grandchild: David Aldrich King, Nov. 19, 1946.

Occupation: Lithographic manufacturing; sales and production.

Military or Naval Record: U.S. Naval Reserve; commissioned lieutenant,
March, 19423; served with Royal Navy, Eastern Mediterranean Fleet,
Alexandria, Egypt, for two years; on Pacific aircraft carrier, Yellow Sea
and Gulf of Pohai; commissioned lieutenant commander, March, 1944;

inactive list, January, 1946.
Offices Held: Township commissioner, 1928-32.
Member of : Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Corinthian Yacht Club of Philadel-

phia; Mark P. Mills Rod and Gun Club.

It has always been my hope that I would merit a biographer other
than myself; however, despite my struggles — quite enjoyable —
through the past years, I have not achieved the required fame or in-

famy and so must carry the burden myself.
Shortly after graduation I secured a job with the Ketterlinus Litho-

graphic Manufacturing Company of Philadelphia, where for two years
I worked in the factory, moving from department to department in or-
der, as my employer put it, “to learn the business.” At the end of that
time I learned that we design, create, and manufacture window dis-
plays, calendars, and booklets — more or less little brothers to the adver-
tising business. I also learned that customers are a necessary adjunct to
manufacturing and so became a salesman, and have continued as such,
with the exception of the war period, up to this writing.

As to the non-commercial and far more enjoyable side of my life, I
was married in November, 1926, and now have a daughter and a son-
in-law, two sons and a grandson, and I might add a mother-in-law who,
unlike tradition, is truly a wonderful and lovely lady who has become as
dear to me as my own mother. We live in the country, outside of Phila-
delphia, in what, with apologies to all hands, is called ““The Main Line,”
and spend our leisure gardening, schooling horses and children, and rid-
ing, and getting away from it all now and then with a cruise on the
Chesapeake or along the New England coast. Like many others, we find
that pleasure often interferes with business.

Our interest in community affairs has been quite normal since we
take part annually in the church, Red Cross, and Community Chest
drives with, now and again, a hospital drive thrown in. We also mix a
bit in politics, I having been elected to a four-year term as Township

Commissioner from 1928 to 1932, and my wife as committee woman

for the Republican party.
At the outbreak of war, I was commissioned lieutenant in the U.S.

[ 449 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

Naval Reserve and served for two years as liaison officer in Alexa, dri
Egypt, and on British destroyers of the Eastern Mediterranean Fleer
By the time the enemy had been subdued in that area, I had bee .
moted to lieutenant commander and was transferred to a U.S, Aircraf

Carrier, headed for the Pacific. For the duration of hostilities I seryeg m
senior watch officer, assistant navigator, and navigation officer, bein.
released from active duty early in 1946. g

Now, despite the infirmities of age, I find life still enjoyable, even
while worrying about how to get my sons through school and into Hay.

vard, where they may learn to be better biographers than I.

N pro~

WALTER MATTHEW KANE

Last Knoun Address: 420 W. 119th St., New York, N. ¥.

Born: Aug. 17, 1904, New York, N. Y. Parents: Walter Ear] Kane, Mary Lo-
retta Newbeck.

Prepared at: Evander Child’s High School.
Years in College: 1924-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Occupation: F inance.

Walter Kane has been carried as a “lost” man since 1928.

BENJAMIN KAPLAN
Home Address: 103 Lawton St., Brookline, Mass.
Office Address: 70 State St., Room 73, Boston 9, Mass.

Born: Nov. 20, 1904, Kovno, Russia. Parents: Abraham Joseph Kaplan, Anne
Rachael Minsky.

repared at: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.
years in College: 1924-1926. Degrees: S.B., 1926; LL.B. (Boston Univ.).
Married: Hannah R. Katler, March 23, 1930, New York, N. Y. Children:

Ronald Fredric, Dec. 15, 19333; Carole Deborah, Dec. 10, 1937:
{arvard Son: Ronald Fredric Kaplan, ’5 4.

‘ccupation: Lawyer. .
Yartime Government Posts: Chief enforcement attorney, Retail F ood Section;

° ee * €
Meat Unit and Litigation attorney for Massachusetts, Office of Pric
Administration.

“ember of : Moses Michael Hays Lodge, A.F. & A.M.

Although the opportunity has at some time or other presented itself,
rave never indulged myself the privilege of making a chronologi®
‘vey of my accomplishments or at least the events which occurr®
ce 1926. Four years after Hannah Katler of Passaic, New Jers)? Mo
vere married in New York City, our son Ronald Fredric was born

[ 450 ]

 

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

us. Four years later, to the day, came our daughter Carole Deborah.
Those formative years were ones which most of us remember only too

well even in retrospect. ‘Those were years during which we watched

over our fledglings, often with bated breath, magnifying their daily ac-

complishments beyond normal proportions. Nevertheless, in the spring

of 1939 We managed to play truant to our parental duties and made a

gelightful trip to Bermuda, and thereafter made annual trips to various

parts of the Province of Quebec. Early in 1940 we purchased our own
home in Brookline, Massachusetts, where our children were enrolled
in the Brookline public schools.

While it may be difficult to project our minds back to the 1930 de-

pression years, during these days of rising stock markets and business
hoom, that era and the war had a profound effect on all of us. It de-
prived us of the opportunities of a normal generation. During the 1930's
I conducted a general law practice, highlighted by the trial of several
major cases with reasonably successful results. During the late 1930’s 1
made the fortunate acquaintance of Henry Osgood Phippen, of Wen-
ham, Massachusetts, who was associated with Tucker, Anthony Com-
pany, a State Street stock-brokerage firm. That association culminated in
a mutual friendship which ended with Henry Phippen’s death in No-
vember, 1949. Through “Phip’s” efforts and recommendations I be-
came counsel for numerous executors and trustees, resulting in a con-
centration in estate and trust matters, and a lucrative law practice. I
have been ever mindful of the impact which “Phip” had on my every-
day life and career. I shall always cherish his memory.

The war years were abnormal ones for all of us. Although I was
beyond the draft age, I made several efforts to obtain a commission in
one of the armed services. Notwithstanding my limited training in mili-
tary science at Harvard, doctors, dentists, engineers, not lawyers were
on the preferred commission list. Three of my younger brothers did
their bit for the Kaplan family, two in active service in the European and
Pacific theatres of war, the third with the Army Intelligence Depart-
ment. My war years’ activities were limited to participation in civilian
defense programs and the important work of the Office of Price Ad-
Ministration. As an enforcement attorney, 1 was assigned to the prose-
Cution of violators at the retail food level, which laid the ground work
or successive advancements. In addition to proceedings against price
Violators, my job required meeting with owners and managers of large
and small retail establishments. I was frequently called upon to address

large trade groups throughout Massachusetts and conduct forums on
Price control and enforcement. Before long I was promoted to chief

[ 451 ]

|

Flarvard Class of 1926

enforcement attorney for Massachusetts, retail food section. Later J
was made chief enforcement attorney of the Meat Unit and finally liti-
gation attorney. Soon after the war ended I resumed private practice at
my State Street office in Boston.

At the beginning of this narrative I refer, almost parenthetically, to

certain trips my wife and I made during the past several years, If I did
not have the responsibility of maintaining a family, I think we would be
on the hop most of the time. When our children embark on their annual
summer encampments, we avail ourselves of the opportunity to go places
and to do things. The only restraint on my liberty is exercised by my
wife when I give full vent to my search for antiques, especially china-
ware, along the highways and byways leading to and from our destina-
tions. Tolerance is so necessary to a family’s harmony, especially where
coincidence of hobby outlets is absent. My son’s operatic interests go
beyond radio listenership. His full measure of satisfaction is not reached
unless he knows the history of each opera, the professional background
of the performers, especially the maestros. Each utterance is carefully
translated from the sprawling librettos surrounding him and he is a self-
appointed articulate critic after each performance.

It is natural for us to take personal inventories along the pathway of
life. We find that joys and sorrows are pretty well balanced, and feel
fortunate when the good things in life predominate. It is at a time like
this that certain lost associations emphasize the need for gratefulness for
normalcy in our life’s pattern. I was professionally associated with our
late classmate, Bill Isber, whose vivacity and zest for life would have
contributed so much to our twenty-fifth-year celebration. He loved his
Harvard. |

The graph curve of life is complex and uncertain, We cannot foretell
when the summit will be reached and the vicissitudes of the descent be-
gin. If what has passed is prophetic of the future, I look forward to it
with continuing confidence and faith, and I wish the same for all of us
and Harvard.

Oh yes, lest I forget my chief claim to fame. I produced a Harvard
freshman! Who could ask for anything more?

HERBERT KAPLAN

Home Address: 265 Summit Ave., Brookline 46, Mass.

Office Address: 226 Harvard Ave., Allston 34, Mass.

Born: Sept. 12, 1905, Boston, Mass. Parents: Louis Kaplan, Jennie Malasofsky.

Prepared at: English High School, Boston, Mass.; Public Latin School, Boston,
Mass,

[ 452 ]

T'wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Years in College: 1922~1926. Degree: §.B., 1926.
Married: Stella Trieger, June 1, 1930, Boston, Mass. CAildren: Claire Judith,
March 5, 1931 (77. Bernard J. Malitsky, Aug. 14,1949); Arthur Louis,

March 13, 1933.

Occupation: Petroleum products; retail, sales and service.
Member of : Kiwanis; A.F. & A.M.; A.A.O.H.MS,

KARL KARSIAN

Home Address: 1331 Olivia Ave., Ann Arbor, Mich.

Office Address: Senior High School, Ann Arbor, Mich.

Born: June 7, 1903, Van, Armenia. Parents: Thomas Karsian, Elizabeth Man-
avazian.

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; Ep.M., 1929; A.M.
(Univ. of Michigan), 1946.

Married: Adelaide Hawes, June 27, 1930, Keene, N. H. Children: Elizabeth
Anne, Nov. 20, 1931; Raymond Thomas and Robert Oscar (twins),
Dec. 2, 1933 (Robert Oscar, died Feb. 17, 1935).

Occupation: Teacher, Ann Arbor High School.

Military or Naval Record: Field director, American Red Cross, 1943-45, serv-
ing in the States and the South Pacific.

Member of : Kiwanis Club.

Publications: Articles pertaining to problems of general education and guidance.

Upon graduation from college in 1926 I secured a teaching position
in the Keene, New Hampshire, High School. My stay there was short
— two years — but extremely worth while, not only from professional
angles but especially so because there I found my wife! In 1928 I re-
signed my position and returned to Harvard for graduate work in edu-
cation and secured the degree of Ed.M. in 1929. In the fall of the same
year I secured a teaching position with the Ann Arbor public schools.

Life has been quite varied and worthwhile in this college town in spite
of depression and war. Unfortunately, I have been able to attend only
one reunion since graduation. I have followed with interest the progress
of many of the members of the Class and often wished I had had more
opportunity to see them, hence I am planning to make the Twenty-fifth
Reunion — God willing!

During the war, the services gladly turned down my “services” be-
cause I was too old and had a slight ear trouble; but the Red Cross
accepted me and shipped me to the South Pacific in short order. Upon
my return to the States in 1945, I was asked to direct the Veterans
Counselling Center for the County of Washtenaw as well as the City of

[ 453 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Ann Arbor and for three years my leave of absence from the school was
extended so that I might work with the veterans.

In recent years I have taken a somewhat active interest in local and
state politics, all on the assumption that it is better to be on the inside and
try to help than stand aloof and criticize. J am not so sure whether I
have helped or hindered but I have my hopes! In the recent spring elec-
tion I lost the Democratic aldermanic nomination to a worthy Republi-
can, so now I am in the company of political “has-beens.”

My children are doing well— one of them has already completed
two years at Wellesley on scholarship, and my son is too close to the
athletic prestige of the University of Michigan to resist the temptation to
enroll there in the fall of 1951. My wife will be having her twenty-fifth
reunion at Vassar while we are having ours at Harvard but I have a
feeling that she will be with the rest of the family in Cambridge.

HENRY KASS, JR.

Home Address: 1368 Ridgeway Ave., Rochester, N. Y.

Office Address: Union Trust Bldg., Rochester, N. Y.

Born: Aug. 18, 1903, Albany, N. Y. Parents: Henry Kass, Maria Barbara F.
Kass,

Prepared at: Albany Academy, Albany, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B. (Albany Law
School), 1929.

Married: Constance D. Leu, July 9, 1929, Syracuse, N. Y. Children: Henry
Dower, Oct. 20, 1934; Thomas Brewster, Aug. 30, 1936.

Occupation: Assistant chief inspector, Rochester Products Division, General
Motor Corporation; member of law firm, Corcoran & Buyot.

Member of : Masonic Order; Society of Quality Control Engineers; Rochester
Bar Association ; Odd Fellows; University Club; Harvard Club.

I received my admission to the New York Bar in July, 1929, and was
married the same month. Then came the depression. I moved to Roch-
ester, New York, where I became associated with the law firm of
Lewis, Bown, Johnson & Tobin. After struggling to live on the salary
paid to law clerks during 1930-32, I opened my own office. I became
the lawyer for twelve labor unions and several small employers. After
several years of labor law with all its headaches, along came World War
IT. I was called up as a reserve officer, and sold out my practice and
closed office. After spending four months waiting for the Army to de-
cide what the minimum physical requirements were, I was rejected and
sent back home. Having no business left to come back to, I was induced
by a lawyer friend, who was personnel director for my present employer,

[ 454 |

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

to go into war work for the duration, on the graveyard shift. I received
several promotions and increases in salary. In the meantime, some of my
old clients found I was back in circulation and I foolishly started in law
practice. Now I am stuck with two jobs, working in industry at night
and trying to practise law in the daytime, with Uncle Sam reaping the
rewards of my labor.

As you will see I have little or no time for outside activities or hobbies,
other than watching Sid Caesar and his friend, Coca, Saturday night,
with a little grunt and groan thereafter. | also still collect books and
have an extra fancy custom-built record player which plays my collec-
tion of records with the highest fidelity.

My spare time is spent trying to convince my two sons that I am not
an old outmoded idiot to whose opinions it is hardly worth listening.
Altogether I have found life very satisfactory although I must confess
that I have hardly fulfilled the dreams of my youth.

JOHN SCOTT KEECH

Born: Oct. 7, 1904, Baltimore, Md. Parents: Edward Parkin Keech, Jr., Caro-
line Cator Pagon.

Prepared at: Storm King School, Cornwall Heights, N. ¥.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B., 1929.

Married: Eileen MacMahon, April 28, 1934, New York, N. Y. Children: John
Scott, Jr., Oct. 25, 1936; Virginia Beecher, Feb. 1, 1940; Edward
Martin.

Died: Dec. 14, 1945, Cedarhurst, Long Island, N. Y.

Widow: Mrs, John S, Keech, The Mall, Lawrence, Long Island, N. Y.

John Scott Keech prepared for college at the Storm King School and
attended Harvard for four years with our Class. He was a member of
the Hasty Pudding-Institute of 1770. He then studied at Harvard Law
School, receiving his degree in 1929. Until 1933 he was associated with
the firm of O’Brien, Boardman, Conboy, Memhard & Early in New
York. For a little over a year he was employed in the legal division of the
Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works in Washington,
D.C. He then joined the firm of McCanliss & Early with which he was
associated at the time of his death.

In the spring of 1942 he volunteered for service in the United States
Navy. After receiving his commission in October, he went to Quonset,
Rhode Island, and from there to Lakehurst where he was appointed
personnel officer, Fleet Airships Atlantic, on the staff of Commodore
George Henry Mills. He remained at Lakehurst until he was retired

[ 455 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

from active duty in September, 1945, except for an inspection tour of
South American bases which he made in 1944. Following his Navy
service he returned to McCanliss & Early.

Keech was survived by his wife and three children.

RICHARD KEENE

Home Address: 28 Cunningham Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass.
Office Address: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., Clarendon Street,
Boston, Mass.

Born: Nov. 4, 1904, Havana, Cuba. Parents: Thomas Means Keene, Edith
Gwendoline Shankland.

Transferred from: University of Montana, Missoula, Mont.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B. In C.ENGIN., 1926.

Married: Lucy B. Bacon, March 26, 1927, New York, N. Y. CZildren: George
Thomas, Aug. 27, 1929; David Shankland, May 5, 1932; Peter Bacon,
May 4, 1936.

Harvard Brother: Philip Keene,’ 25,S.M., 40.

Occupation: Field supervisor, City Mortgage Department, John Hancock Mu-
tual Life Insurance Company.

Member of : Wellesley Country Club; Phi Delta Theta Fraternity.

I suppose my life over the past twenty-five years has been rather aver-
age in its scope and interest, but at least it has included extensive travel-
ling and I have seen America from one end to the other, with some stay
in every State of the Union. In spite of our New and Fair Deal econ-
omies, with their constant inflation and unbalanced budgets, I still
marvel at our country and realize how fortunate we are to be living in
the United States.

Upon graduating from college with a civil engineering degree, I
quite naturally turned to a construction company job and spent about
six years in that work in New York City. Then came the famous, or
infamous, depression, and after a year’s tough economic struggling, I
transferred to real estate and mortgage work by the medium of a posi-
tion with the Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company in Spring-
field. This work promptly became my real love and civil engineering has
ever since been sidetracked and forgotten. Eleven years with the Massa-
chusetts Mutual were followed by two years on my own as a real estate
broker in that booming and boastful state of Texas. Admittedly, busi-
ness there was excellent but the heat, humidity, and generally unsavory
Houston climate proved too much for our family.

So in 1947 we jumped at the opportunity to return to Boston and
New England by means of an offer from the John Hancock, an affilia-

[ 456 ]

I wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

tion which has proved most happy and satisfying. My positions with both
the Massachusetts Mutual and the John Hancock entailed considerable
travelling, enabling me to explore our country from one end to the
other.

Our three children have kept life full of variety and interest. Our
eldest son, showing a technical mind far superior to his father’s, gradu-
ated in chemical engineering from Texas A. & M. College with a Tau
Beta Pikey and high honors as exhibits of his hard work and engineering
skill. He is now taking postgraduate work at M.I.T. and expects to get
his Master’s degree in June, 1952. David, our second boy, is also show-
ing us a fine record at Bowdoin, where he is specializing in economics,
history, and literature. Our youngest is starting his first year in high
school and as yet has not any particular leaning towards a specific college
or course of study. Perhaps he will be our only one to enter Harvard!

Our family life is that of a typical suburban one, with the Wellesley
Country Club providing most of our social activities. We play consider-
able golf and our fourteen-year-old already is showing promise of trim-
ming the “old man,” at least within the next two or three years. On the
course I see a good deal of our ex-Harvard golfers, such as Eddie Stimp-
son, Ed Cole, and Bob Puffer. The boys may be pushing close to fifty
years but they still can show a most respectable score on the golf course.

With considerable prodding from my wife I manage to attend the
Episcopal church, mostly in winter when I am free from the evil in-
fluence of the golf course. Our eldest boy is getting married this month
(October, 1950) so finally it looks as if the Keenes would have a girl as
part of the family. It will be nice and we trust she likes us as much as we
doher. —

So it has been a very happy twenty-five years and we look forward to
equal progress and contentment for the next quarter-century.

ALEXANDER SIDNEY KELLER

Home Address: 366 Bloomfield Ave., West Hartford, Conn.

Born: Aug. 5, 1905, New York, N. Y. Parents: Sidney Alexander Keller, Elsie
Davidson.

Prepared at: Far Rockaway High School, Far Rockaway, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; M.B.A., 1928.

Married: Carolyn Henrietta Witmark, April 28, 1932, New York, N. Y. Céil-
dren: Marian, Feb. 14, 1936 (died May 17, 1936); Robert Alexander,
June 24, 19373 Anthony Sidney, May 28, 1939; Elizabeth Diane, Jan.

16,1942.
[ 457 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926
Harvard Brother: Paul Keller, ’33, M.B.A., 35.

Occupation: Management consultant.

Offices Held: President, Refugee Service of Hartford, 1938-46; member
executive committee, Hartford Jewish Federation, 1938-483 first vice.
president, Hartford Jewish Community Council, 1939-423; me
Budget Committee, Greater Hartford Community Chest, 1942 45

member, U.S.O. Council of Hartford, 1942-453 chairman, executiv,

- committee, National Refugee Service, 1943-463; member, War Produc.
tion Board, Advisory Committee on Burs and Rotary Files, 1943-40;
member, Machine Tool Advisory Committee, Department of Com.
merce, 1945—4.8; chairman, National Machine Tool Builders’ Associa.
tion, Committee of Foreign Relations, 1945-48; vice-president, United
Jewish Social Service Agency, Hartford, 1946-48 ; member, Committee
on U.S. Government Relations, National Machine Tool Builders Asso.
ciation, 1947-48; member, Machine Tool Operations Advisory Com.
mittee, Nationa] Production Authority, since 1950; director, vice-presj-
dent and manager, foreign sales for Pratt & Whitney, Division Niles.

Bement-Pond Company, 1944-49; senior industry officer and executive

officer, E.C.A. Mission to the Netherlands, 1949-50.
Member of: Foreign Policy Association; Harvard Club of New York; Harvard
Club of Connecticut; Harvard Business Schoo] Club of Connecticut;
Tumble Brook Country Club.

mber,

While I was in college the family business looked like a useful source
f funds for a higher education, but otherwise too unromantic for my
Jevated sights. ‘Iwo years at Business School, and my father’s ill health
ianged my point of view. Joining the Keller Mechanical Engineering
orporation had become a necessity to protect the family investment,
ad was at the same time the greatest challenge and opportunity open to
e. It had been founded by my father and his cousin thirty years earlier,
d, starting with nothing but an idea, had struggled upward to success,
d to contribute in a small but important way to the technological de-
opment of our society. It was the sort of enterprise that could never
ye been launched in anything but a capitalist economy. Living with it
sa constant and effective antidote to even the most theoretical lean-
s towards socialism which might otherwise have influenced me.
[wo years after I started with the company, my father died, and 4
-and a half later it was sold to Pratt & Whitney, Division Niles-
jent-Pond Company of Hartford. I went with the business with
Tittle idea of how long I would stick. It turned out to be eighteen
3e
t the outset I managed the Keller Machine business, but 2S its Op
ons were more closely integrated with Pratt & Whitney, my W%

[ 458 ]

 

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

-ame more specialized as to function and broadened to include the
> ° .

Mole range of the company s products. At the end I was director, vice-

W egident, and manager of foreign sales.

pr

During World War I, J had the satisfaction of a very active part in
she vital machine tool industry, and helped in the conversion of Keller
machines from their peace-time functions to an important place in arma-
ment manufacture. The Lend-Lease activities of the company were my

articular concern.

It took Hitler to arouse my social consciousness. That started with
the need to organize relief and resettlement for the Jewish refugees who
reached our community. But I quickly discovered that philanthropic
efforts can’t be isolated; and while refugee work on a local and then
national and international scale continued to be my major interest, I
soon became involved in a variety of other causes. Organizing, meetings,
fund-raising, administering various agencies occupied most of the time
Icould spare from business. My wife (Wellesley ’32) followed the same
path, and her energies and leadership generally put mine to shame. Her
major interest is Girl Scouting.

I had made several business trips to Europe before the war, and one
to Latin America towards its close. In 1945 I became chairman of the
National Machine Tool Builders’ Association Committee on Foreign
Relations. That gave me a chance to express some convictions about the
necessity of expanding international trade — including our own willing-
ness to take a lot more imports. My associates in the industry, techni-
cally progressive and politically conservative, were tolerant and con-
vinced — to a point. When I appeared before the Committee on Reci-
Procity Information in January, 1947, to present the industry’s case for
the reduction of international trade barriers, I was also charged with the
responsibility of explaining the problems which would result from the
teduction of our own tariff on machine tools.

One of the great thrills of my life was hearing Secretary Marshall’s
famous speech at the 1947 Commencement. From that day on 1 knew
that if I were asked to take any significant part in the European Recov-
ery Program I would be unable to refuse. Dr. Alan Valentine, then
cnet of the ECA Mission to the Netherlands, asked me in November,
1948, and in January, 1949, I went. A delayed soldier, my brother said.

ere were some risks, chiefly of disillusionment and frustration.

I . pier cighteen months, I returned with even more enthusiasm than
ment of me, and a rosette to wear in my button hole. For by appoint-
Officer; er Majesty, Juliana, Queen of the Netherlands, I became an
Tin the Order of Orange-Nassau in February, 1951.1 might not

[ 459 ]

Flarvard Class of 1926

have come back at all if it hadn’t been for the three Dutch-speaking
youngsters who were due for a return to their own environment and
American schooling. They, too, had a great experience while it lasted.

For anyone who has read this far I’d like to go on with an account of
the great things ECA has accomplished, but I’ll say only that all of us
taxpayers have had our money’s worth.

Other risks were the possibility that I’d stay in government involun-
tarily (which I’ve managed to avoid so far) and that my former com-
pany wouldn’t be able to mark time and hold my old job open (which
happened ). So, temporarily, I’ve joined the ranks of management con-
sultants, with one very excellent full-time client, the Hartford Special
Machinery Company. I’ve become a member of a new committee to
advise General Harrison’s National Production Authority on machine
tool operational problems. And I face a refreshingly uncertain future,
whose problems may or may not be resolved by the time this account is
printed.

HARLAN PAGE KELSEY, JR.

Home Address: 1312 W. Roma Ave., Albuquerque, N. Mex.

Office Address: Sandia Corp., Albuquerque, N. Mex.

Bora: Nov. 1, 1903, Salem, Mass. Parents: Harlan Page Kelsey, Florence Low.

Prepared at: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

Years in College: 1922-1927.

Married: Ruth Helen Driesbach, Dec. 30, 1927, Duluth, Minn. Children:
Anne, April 19, 1929; Harlan Page, 3d, Nov. 28, 1930; Peter Low,
April 9, 1934.

Harvard Brother: Seth Low Kelsey, ’27.

Occupation: Quality contro] supervisor in Sandia Corporation, under contract
to the Atomic Energy Commission.

Military or Naval Record: 1st lieutenant, Massachusetts State Guard, 1942-46.

Offices Held: President, Massachusetts Association of Nurserymen, 1933-345
secretary, New England Nurserymen’s Association, 1934-37.

Member of : American Society for Quality Control; Toastmasters International.

As a member of the Class of 26 who has not kept close contact with
Harvard or my classmates during nearly twenty-five years, I welcome
this opportunity to regain contact. But since a few words from many is
better than a lot of words from a few, I shall be brief.

My business career has been varied. After two summers in the Ranger
Service in Yellowstone Park, where I met my wife, Ruth, I returned to
Massachusetts and, except for a brief period in the mail order depart-
ment of Daniel Low & Company, Salem, Massachusetts, I was asso-

[ 460 ]

A

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

ciated with my father and brother in the nursery and landscape business
for sixteen years.

When Uncle Sam refused my services in the armed forces during
World War IT, I went to work for Sylvania Electric Products, Inc., in
the comparatively new field of quality control, This field so interested
me that I have taken many special courses and evening courses in this
subject and have pursued it as a career,

After five years with Sylvania, Ruth and I decided suddenly that a
change of scenery would be healthy and of advantage to the whole
family, so we pulled up stakes completely, sold our home in Boxford,
Massachusetts, and headed west in search of new opportunities for both
career and cultural advancement.

The move turned out happily. Our daughter Anne, after two years
at Smith College, finished her education at the University of New Mex-
ico and is now in New York hoping to advance in the theatre world. Our
elder son, Known as “Turk,” enlisted in the Navy at seventeen and is
now just finishing a forty-two weeks’ course in electronics at the Navy
School on Treasure Island, California. Our younger son, Peter, will
graduate next June from Albuquerque High School, and the world
situation at that time will determine his immediate future.

We enjoy the Southwest, still not much advanced beyond its frontier
days in many ways. It has yet to mature, but perhaps with maturity it
will lose much of its charm. As Ruth and I approach our twenty-third
wedding anniversary, we can look back on years of many ups and downs,
but years full of interesting happenings and problems solved. Financially
I would probably be classed as a failure, for I have amassed no fortune,
yet when one reaches forty and beyond I’m sure most of my classmates
will agree that life has really begun, and that, in spite of living in a world
that may soon be plunged into total war, there is a lot in life to enjoy and
for which to be thankful.

RAY GEORGE KENDEIGH

Home Address: Gnadenhutten, Ohio.

Office Address: Kendeigh’s Appliances, Gnadenhutten, Ohio.

Bora: April 19, 1903, Lorain, Ohio. Parents: George Joseph Kendeigh,
Katherine Deuschle.

Prepared at: Lorain High School, Lorain, Ohio.

Years in College: 1922-1924. Degree: Pu.G. (Western Reserve Univ.), 1922.

Married: Eliza M. Rowles, Nov. 27, 1926, Wellsburg, W. Va. Children: My-
ron George, Jan. 7, 1928 (died Aug. 28, 1942); Gene Orville, Sept.

14,1931.
[ 461 ]

FHlarvard Class of 1926
Occupation: Owner and operator of a small-town appliance store.

After selling my drug store in 1949, I built a new building for my
appliance business. In one of the apartments of this building I hope to
retire gracefully in the near future. In 1945, having found that altitude
helped my chronic sinus condition, I directed funds to private flying in-
stead of surgeons and hospitals, After several forced landings, one from
a faulty engine of a new airplane in the mountains of North Carolina, I
still enjoy it very much, taking vacations and business trips all over the
United States. Like home, the earth is never so beautiful as when away
from it.

I would not like the bureaucratic monster which I call our federal
government even if I were a member of it with a lovely big salary and
all expenses padded. Our present mess of international relations could
not be the reward of an able efficient government. I do believe in uni-
versal military training and have a dislike for any leftist actions or poli-

cies. I also believe that from all the blunderings and the traitorous ac-
tions of some few misguided unfortunates, we shall emerge a better
nation.

ROBERT MARTIN PARRY KENNARD|

Home Address: 244 Dudley Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass,

Office Address: Fiduciary Trust Co., 10 Post Office Sq., Boston, Mass.

Born: Sept. 1, 1904, Brookline, Mass, Parents: Frederic Hedge Kennard, ’88,
Sarah Harrison Eisenbrey.

Prepared at: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Henrietta Wells, June 14, 1930, Boston, Mass. CAildren: Robert
Martin Parry, Jr., July 10, 1933; Anne Harrison, April 15, 1936;
Henrietta Louise, Sept. 1, 1939; David Dudley Field, July 19, 1948.

Harvard Brothers: Frederic Hedge Kennard, Jr., 24 (deceased) ; Harrison
Eisenbrey Kennard,’25; John Harold Kennard, ’32.

Occupation: Trust officer, Fiduciary Trust Company.

Offices Held: Trustee and treasurer, New England Peabody Home for Crip-
pled Children, Newton Center, Mass.; junior warden, Trinity Church
in the City of Boston; director, American Gum Products Company, New

York City.

The twenty-five years have passed very rapidly and it seems only a
little while ago that I considered those coming back for their ““I'wenty-
fifth” to be very old men. While I am now in this classification, I cer-
tainly don’t feel it, What with the boom years of 1929, the depression of

[ 462 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

\
the 1930's, the war, and present conditions, these years have had their
ups and downs, but on the whole I am very content with them as I seem
to have acquired a family of which I am very proud, a nice home, a job
which I like, and a slightly altered waistline.

After leaving college and a short trip abroad, I went to work for
Stone & Webster on a construction job where I spent nearly two years at
good hard physical work before I came to their Boston office and soon
found myself in the securities end of the business.

At the bottom of the depression I found myself looking for a job.
Early in 1934, after about two years with a dye-stuff company which
eventually folded, I came to the Fiduciary Trust Company in Boston,
where I have been ever since, doing my best to take care of other peo-
ples’s money and their problems.

My principal hobbies are my family and my home. Although I used
to play a lot of tennis, in recent years, as an old man, | have taken up
golf which I enjoy a great deal and I hope some day to break 100!

My wartime activities were confined solely to the unspectacular job
of organizing Civil Defense in my neighborhood.

At the present time I spend a considerable amount of my free time on
my charity affiliations. I am quite content with the small circle of life in
which I travel and hope to live to see my four children receive college
educations and be comfortably settled in a peaceful world.

HENRY WILDER KEYES

Home Address: 40 Puddingstone Lane, Newton Center 59, Mass.

Office Address: Parks & Spencer, 30 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

Born: March 22, 1905, North Haverhill, N. H. Parents: Henry Wilder
Keyes, 87, Frances Parkinson Wheeler.

Prepared at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-25, 1926-27. Degrees: A.B., 1926(27) ; LL.B., 1930.

Married: Betty Louise Main, June 2, 1938, Denver, Colo. CAildren: Marga-
retta Main, April 24, 1940; Frances Parkinson, July 11, 1942; Sarah
Louise, Nov. 4, 1943.

Harvard Brothers: John Parkinson Keyes, 29; Francis Keyes, 36.

Occupation: Lawyer; associate, title and corporate practice especially for banks.

Wartime Government Posts: Neighborhood and Property Warden; Newton
ARP.

Offices Held: Secretary and treasurer, Bach Cantata Club, 1933-46; director,
1938, vice-president, 1939, Woodsville (N. H.) National Bank; direc-
tor, Woodsville Opera Building Association; president, Oak Hill District
Improvement Association, 1945-47; acting executive secretary, Boston

[ 463 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

Bar Association, 1946; vice-president, Newton Taxpayers Associatio
1948-49; treasurer and trustee, The Keyes Foundation, since 1948.
graduate council, Milton Academy, since 1949; member, City of New.

ton School Committee, 1951.

Member of: Harvard Club of Boston; Union Boat Club; Grafton Lodge A.F &
A.M., N.H.S.A.R.; Bar Associations of Massachusetts, New Hampshire
and Boston; Grafton County Farm Bureau; New Hampshire Tree
Farms; Newton Chamber of Commerce; Newton Republican City Com-

é

mittee.
udlications: “N.H. Annotations to Restatement of Law of Property (Future
Interests)”; editor, Boston Bar Bulletin, 1946; occasional contributor to
Boston Globe, Boston Bar Bulletin, B. U. Law Review, National Historica}
Magazine; assisted Frances Parkinson Keyes with source material for Joy
Street.

“he first phase of my life after graduation had begun before it, In
2 I had gone to Europe with my mother, whose articles on Musso-
he Ruhr, and the League of Nations started us roamin g for Good
4eeping and other publications. As her secretary, I took several trips
se United States, two more to Europe, and one around the world,
ch Larry Knowles accompanied us. In this same period, I wrote
Boston Globe: news from Harvard with Bill Nichols and Dick
nd feature stories based on travel experiences — including an
Singapore which almost cost me my life and thereby taught me

dly, I received my A.B. degree and shut myself up in the Law
staining from human intercourse and alcoholic beverages, and
with the customary LL.B. I had joined the staff of the Boston
Society for the summer of 1929, and in 1930 entered the
erburne, Powers & Needham in Boston, where I acquired a
1owledge of Massachusetts procedure from the collection
upon us by depression-ridden clients. Gradually I earned
-d enough money to get married in Denver to a lady who
vith me at football games. We honeymooned on a Lucken-
-and landed in New York to learn that my father had died.
resulted, paradoxically, in the adoption of a Massachusetts
he expansion of my New Hampshire practice. I became a
90n also the vice-president of the Woodsville National
approached and engulfed us all, I undertook more a?

work, particularly for National Fireworks, Inc., an our
ons manufacturer, for whom I bought, organized, an

subsidiaries than anyone now remembers. The Nav)

of my poor eyesight, an application I had made when

[ 464 ]

 

T wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

had begun to gobble territory, and my war service was as a blood
and air-raid warden —beginning in June, 1941, and ending
he time Bob Kennard and I, among others, refused some fancy
devised in Washington, the war being over and the fighters due

Hitler
donor
about t
insignia
Hey this time I was living in Newton, discovered I had three daugh-

ters and participated increasingly in neighborhood affairs. Karly in

1 46, my office lent me to the Boston Bar Association to act as its execu-

tive secretary hearing grievance complaints, watching legislation, and

editing the Bar Bulletin. In 1950 I left Sherburne, Powers & Needham

with their good wishes and a handsome cocktail shaker to join the office

of Parks & Spencer, a smaller firm specializing in conveyancing but

seeking someone with general experience. Here I do title work for the

Wollaston Federal Savings and Loan Association and generally try to

help people do things right either the first time or as soon thereafter as

can be managed — but at any rate before avoidable trouble occurs. This

ideal, of course, does not prevent me from seeking to rescue those al-

ready in difficulties arising from their own initiative, the advice of others

—or my own fault. Legal and business affairs happily have caused me

to fly frequently to New York and New Orleans and last spring to Lon-

don and Paris. Last summer I feverishly helped my mother assemble
background material for Joy Street, a novel about Boston which Yid
Barker urged her to write. Our family has kept our house in New
Hampshire, where I am the third Henry Keyes to plant pines and
promote forestry.

For many years I sang in the Bach Cantata Club, and after coming to
Newton, in the choir of the Church of the Redeemer. In this church 1
have become chairman of the Church School Committee and teach and
learn from boys and girls in the seventh grade, trying not only to help
Prepare them for the rite of confirmation, but to ready them — and my-
self — for the challenges made on Christians today. Prudent though it
certainly is to keep our powder dry, the hope of the world lies, as it al-
ways has, in man’s worship of God and increasing effort to love and care

for his ne} chbor as himself.

ANDRE CHORNAC KIBRICK

yin Address: 147 E. 27th St., New York, N. Y.
ice Address: Bronx Hospital, 169th St., Fulton Ave., Bronx, N.Y,
“t: April 25, 1906, Bucharest, Roumania. Parents: Anany Kibrick, Anna
ornac,

Prepared at: Atlantic City High School, Atlantic City, N. J.
[ 465 |

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: §.B., 1926; Pu.D. (New York Univ.)
1941. ,
Onmarried.

Occupation: Chemist.

Memter of: American Chemical Society; Harvard Society 3 Association of Bio-
logical Chemists; Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine; Ase
sociation of Clinical Chemists; Association for Advancement of Science.

New York Academy of Sciences. ,
Publications: Articles in Journal of the American Chemical Society, Journal of Biologi.
cal Chemistry, Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, Archives of Bin
chemistry, Journal of Laboratory and Clinical Medicine, Proceedings of the
Saciety for Experimental Biology and Medicine. .

It is strange that the influence of going to Harvard so long ago and at
uch an early age can be so lasting. The effect in my own case was felt
nmediately and was quite painful at the time. I paid for our good times

Harvard and subsequent mediocre grades by missing out on graduate
dy of a gentlemanly sort right after college. It took me more than ten
‘rs to find an academic crowd that would overlook the leisurely way
vhich I strolled through John Harvard’s gates. However, good old
2U. finally awarded me a Doctor’s degree in biochemistry and sent
on my way. .
uite a lot of time had elapsed and I was no longer the bright young
v post-college, a la Harvard. There was no time to be lost after
1 late start. I got going but fast, and I am happy to report that,
'y due to the good old Harvard influence, I have made some prog-
ce. However, being an old young man, I immediately retired toa
tle job in a hospital hidden away from the battle of life. We can’t
e with these young Harvard fellows now. Although a bachelor,
man is still young enough to have ideas. That Is My Life!

JOHN SPANGLER KIEFFER

7ess: 139 Market St., Annapolis, Md.
“ess: St. John’s College, Annapolis, Md.

6, 1904, Hagerstown, Md. Parents: John Brainard Kieffer, Alice
Je Bourne Hays.

Washington County High School, Hagerstown, Md.
he: 1922-1927. Degrees: A.B, cum laude, 1926(27) ; A.M., 1929-
xana Byrd White, Nov. 26, 1929, Washington, D. C.
-ducation,
President, St. John’s College, Annapolis, Md., 1947-495 mem™
rd of Visitors and Governors of St. John’s, since 1943.

[ 466 ]

e

 

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

per of : American Association of University Professors; American Philo-
om :

Pub

logical Association 5 Classical Association of the Atlantic States; Harvard

Teachers’ Association 5 Maryland Historical Society, 14 W. Hamilton

Street Club (Baltimore) ; University Club of Baltimore; Harvard Club
of Maryland; Harvard Club of Annapolis; University Club of Annap-
olis; Annapolitan Club. ;

Jications : “The Classical Revival at St. John’s” (Classical Journal, 1939);
“The Humanities in the St. John’s Program” (The Humanities and Gen-
yal Education, 1949); “Philoctetes and Arete” (Classical Philology,
1942); “Note on Plato, Laws 722cl.” (American Journal of Philology) ,
Inaugural address as president of St. John’s College (printed by St. John’s
College).

Having finished my sophomore year at the College of Hard Knocks
which we all enrolled in upon graduation from Harvard, I am glad to
report to my classmates the progress I have made. After satisfying a few
prerequisites — a year’s experience in school teaching at the Litchfield
School for Young Boys, Litchfield, Connecticut, and an A.M. taken at
Harvard in 1929-—I was ready for my freshman year, eight years as
head (and foot) of the Classics Department of St. John’s College. The
sophomore year began in 1937 when Stringfellow Barr and Scott Bu-
chanan brought the Great Books to St. John’s. Now I was concentrat-
ing in the liberal arts. It was an exciting sophomoria. What we had to do
was translate an idea into a college curriculum, to devise a program of
required work for our students, to give them skill and understanding in
language, mathematics, and the manipulation of material things, as the
nerve strands of our intellectual tradition, the Great Books. Simultane-
ously we had to re-educate ourselves to the new methods of teaching

needed to make the curriculum effective. Depression and war, while

multiplyin g practical problems, became an integral part of our field of
Concentration, The world was always with us and we couldn’t miss the
Point that tragedy, philosophy, technology, were the same in Great

ooks and in life.

or distribution, TI served two and a half years as president of St.

> * » . . * . .
Ofn’'s, thus giving the Class of ?26 the distinction of having furnished

t

ee
Vis}

Stud

two Presidents to the college, for Douglas Gordon had tackled that
nie Job in the early years of the depression. My presidency ended in
Sunderstanding with the Board. Last year 1 took a holiday, Having

f ranted a sabbatical year, I spent some part of it at Harvard as a
ing scholar, where I received the most generous assistance in my

ies from the Graduate School of Education, from Widener Library,

prod rom individual members of the faculty. hope as a result that I may

UCe a sophomore paper on “The Philosophy of Education.”

[ 467 ] -

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

» oe in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; M.D.

Years inno: eM. (Tulane Univ.),°33. 9263 M.D. cum laude,

rried: Marthe Leftovitch, July 24, 1931, Boston, Mass, Children: Angela
Paula, June 14, 19413; Deborah Louise, Feb. 23, 1947.

Z Brother: Lester Snow King,’27,M.D., 32.

Harvard Class of 1926

I begin my junior year by resuming my teaching at St. John’s. Wh
I shall reach the status of a senior and if I shall graduate is, as it is to all

sophomores, a chancy question.

To venture a few reflections on my activity for the last twenty-five

Ma

1 ucation. Education’ . aroar: : : wt 2 jee
years, the first is the great paradox of ed hing | Cation’s goal js apatite: Private practice of medicine, specializing in obstetrics and gyne-
knowledge and knowledge is certain. Yet if anything Is certain about th e cology.

process of education, it is that certainty impedes it. Whatever a teacher
knows he must keep to himself, lest he give his students conceit of know]-
edge. This does not apply to trivialities, the grammatical rules that con.
vention establishes to facilitate intercourse. If a teacher really wishes to
ye more than a grammar schoolmaster he must learn to share his sty.
ents’ ignorance so that he may share their learning rather than haye

em share his teaching.

I would generalize this point of view to include the whole process of
ng ina democracy. Nothing is more frustrating than the tendency of
tical opinion to crystallize. A pathetic quality in the political thinking
ood citizens is their faith in the expert, whom they ask to do their
sing for them. For this reason I am skeptical of any political label
decry the recent tendency to pass laws against the Communists.
: I object to is not the suppression of minority opinion and not the
¢ around of under dogs, but the freezing of opinion that will be
asequence of such Jaws.

-of the best parts of my experience for the past ten years has been
‘icipation in the adult program of St. John’s. In this program we
'd the Great Books with groups of adults and discussed them in

ner of the St. John’s seminar. Adults bring a wider knowledge
orld to bear on the questions raised in the books. In turn, the

‘ith the sources of our ideas enriches the experience of the adult.

>minars the continual reopening of old questions, the refusal to

thing as certain until all that can be said against it has been

/a pattern that could be followed in political life. If public

he governing power in a democratic society, opinion must e

> found St. John’s the best nurse for men’s opinions.

Military or N aval Record: World War I: Army Medical Corps, two and one-
half years in South Pacific ‘Theatre, chiefly as Service Command Sur-
geon; one and one-half years in the US., as chief of women’s surgery and
obstetrics at several general hospitals; received Bronze Star Medal, and
Combat Star (Guadalcanal, October, 1942).

Offices H eld: Instructor in obstetrics, University of Cincinnati Medical Col-
lege; chairman, General Adoptions Committee of Hamilton County,

Ohio.

Member of : Central Association of Obstetricians and Gynecologists; American
Medical Association; local professional societies; Harvard Club of Cin-
cinnati; Pearlcasters.
Publications: Twenty-six scientific articles, of which the most significant are:
“Viability of the Organism of Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever When
Frozen,” Journal of Infectious Diseases, 1930; “Eclampsia Without Con-
vulsions Terminating in Cerebral Apoplexy,” Journal of the American
Medical Association, 1933; “Uterine Reactions to Sex Hormones in the
Immature Guinea-Pig,” Endocrinology, 1934; “Cervical Dilation and
Deliberate Early Rupture of the Membranes,” American Journal of Ob-
stetrics, 1936; “Treatment of Cervicitis During Pregnancy, American
Journal of Odstetrics, 1940; “Early Peurperal Rising,” American Journal of
Obstetrics, 1946; “Free Feeding Pregnant Women,” American Journal of
Obstetrics, 1949.
When the statue of John Harvard was moved from Mem Hall to its
present location, Charles William Eliot, in what was almost his last pub-
lic appearance, advised us to “Marry young and have children early.”
In the past twenty-five years his words have come to mind often, partly
because I regret not having heeded them personally, and partly because
my life work is obstetrics and gynecology!
. Many of my ideas have changed strikingly since graduation, but what
role Harvard played in the change is questionable. For example, in poli-
tics my sympathies shifted from the Massachusetts Republicanism of my
College days, with its reverence for the status quo, to the Roosevelt philos-
Phys thus it was not the Harvard atmosphere which turned my face
wards the dynamic liberalism of the New Deal, but rather the think-
"8 and feeling which came ten or more years later. Although college

ave ae 5
save me a concentrated exposure to scientific methods of thinking, to the

[ 469 |

ARTHUR GUSTAVE KING

554 Evanswood P]., Cincinnati 20, Ohio. Ohio.
701 Union Central Bldg., 5 W. Fourth St., Cincinnat! 2»
1906, Berlin, Germany. Parents: Myron Louis King, ©
e Snow.

nbridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
[ 468 ]

)

Harvard Class of 1926

have had another child, bought a big house, and even planted trees, thus
reversing our earlier philosophy. My ambition has been tempered to
provide adequately for my family. On the other hand, I have continued
to carry on research and published other papers. One of these, recording
my army experiment of getting women out of bed the day after delivery
of a child, was greeted with hostility by my colleagues and was consid-
ered bizarre enough to “make” the newspapers when read before the
local obstetrical society early in 1946. Hospital crowding, however,
forced confirmation of the practice (not original with me) and realisti-
cally revealed how medical science is influenced by economics! Another
paper read in 1948 and commented on in Tyme magazine, demonstrated
the folly, danger, and dispensability of forcing pregnant women to keep
their weight gain less than an arbitrary number of pounds by rigid diet.
I advocated “‘free-feeding,” borrowing the term from the now accepted
practice in infant care, and I hope that, like my heretical subversion of
the sanctity of the amniotic sac in 1936, this thesis will eventually
achieve orthodoxy. Perhaps my persistent skepticism of glibly accepted
medical customs, coupled with a drive to do research to prove my point,
a constructive form of iconoclasm, is the result of early Harvard train-
ing.

In addition to private practice, clinic work, teaching and research,
part of my time is invested in civic activities, such as various committees.
Some are entirely professional, like one dealing with hospital records,
and others are of a broader scope. These latter include the General
Adoptions Committee of Hamilton County, which is trying to improve
the procedures for adopting babies, a Community Chest Appraisal Com-
mittee, and a Civil Defense Advisory Committee. Rare leisure hours
find me working in the garden, puttering with the electricity or simple
carpentry or rather amateur photography, or else attending the Cincin-
nati Symphony Orchestra concerts or the meetings of an “intellectual”
dinner club. |

In looking backward, it seems that many early ambitions have been
only partially fulfilled, while others have been abandoned in favor of
different, and, I hope, more mature, goals. But I have been enabled to
add to the sum of human knowledge in my special field, to contribute by
personal efforts to the welfare and happiness of the community, to pro-
vide my wife and myself with an interesting and pleasant life, and to
give security and a good development background to my children.

[ 472 ]

a

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

PAUL GRATTAN KIRK

Home Address: 180 Franklin St., Newton 58, Mass.

Office Address: Court House, Boston, Mass.

Born: Sept. 25, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parents: John Kirk, Maud Anne Johnson,

Prepared at: English High School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B., 1929.

Married: Josephine O’Connell, Sept. 19, 1934, Boston, Mass. Children:
Kathleen, Oct. 13, 1935; Josephine Paula, Nov. 12, 1936; Paul Grat-
tan, Jr., Jan. 18, 1938; Maud Anne, Dec. 10, 1940; Edward W., Feb.
4,1945.

Harvard Brother: William Johnson Kirk, M.B.A., 30.

Occupation: Justice Superior Court, Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

Military or Naval Record: Colonel, 1o01st Infantry Regiment, Jan. 16, 1941—
September, 1943; served as commissioner, Allied Control Commission
to Italy, September, 1943-September, 1944; duty at headquarters,
Sixth Army Group, September, 1944—July, 1945.

Offices Held: Commissioner of Public Safety (for Commonwealth of Massa-
chusetts), 1934-373; trustee, Edward Scholarship Fund.

FRANCIS DEANE KIRMAYER

Home Address: 33 Pearl St., Bridgewater, Mass.

Office Address: Procter & Gamble Co., 53 State St., Boston, Mass.

Born: March 31, 1904, New York, N. Y. Parents: Frank Henry Kirmayer, ’00,
Catherine Anne Deane.

Prepared at: Kirmayer School, New York, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: §.B., 1926.

Married: Francis C. Jones, Feb. 10, 1934, Lincoln, Nebr. CAildren: Barbara
Jean (adopted), Aug. 1, 1924 (7. Gardner W. Pope, ’45, June 2,
1945); Catherine Anne, July 4, 1936; Virginia Vail, July 18, 1943.
Grandchild: Chyrl W. Pope, Feb, 22, 1950.

Harvard Brother: Thomas Deane Kirmayer, ’27, D.M.D., 32.

Occupation: New England sales representative for drug products, Procter &
Gamble Company.

Military or Naval Record: Sergeant, Massachusetts State Guard,

Offices Held: Vestryman, 1941-42, warden, 1943-50, Church School super-
intendent, 1949-50, lay reader, 1950, Trinity Episcopal Church;
treasurer, Bridgewater Players, 1943-48, Bridgewater Hill Associates
(N.H.), 1950; president, Council of Churches, 1949; Parent Teachers
Association, Bridgewater Junior High School, 1950.

Member of: Photographic Society of America; Bridgewater Players; Bridge-
water Hill Associates; Cincinnati Harvard Club,

[ 473 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

If Kirmayer in 1926 could have seen himself in 1950 he woylg hay
been amazed. As I look back, I can find little to recommend mygej¢ at
that time save a desire to find something worth while for which to work

The first six years of post-college life represent a rather pitify] job o £
fumbling in that general direction. True, a few good things came of
those years: the training of the courses at the School of Business, digested

and passed on to my first employer; a research trip to the Coast, the hard

school of merchandising at Macy’s, all represent wavering Steps In a
direction which I could not yet determine.

After seven years of indecision, I finally began to find myself. Perhaps

I say this inadvisedly, rather it should be that I found someone who

helped me to motivate my life, “the driving woman” who is at once my

greatest inspiration and severest critic. On my initial trip for Procter &

Gamble, I met the woman who was destined to make me a thirty-second
of a squaw man as well as a father. Regardless of what die-hard bache-
lors may say, there is a fulfillment in the lives of men that cannot be
attained without the help of the right kind of mate. This obvious truth ]
liscovered at the ripe age of twenty-nine, at the same time I faced a
ecision one must make sooner or Iater in life. My decision to live as full
1d useful a life without worship of the mighty dollar I have not re-
-etted.

Originally employed by Neil McElroy, ’25, for the Procter & Gam-
» advertising department, I gravitated towards sales and was in on the
th of the new drug products department and have lived with it and
zrowing pains in Cincinnati and for the past ten years in New Eng-
d. Unlike my distinguished friend who lived above me in Matthews,
n not an executive of our company, but I believe I live a life whose
1ess compensates for the lack of title.

“here are a few things about which a man may be justly proud, chief
hich are his children. We have three girls, our eldest, adopted at the
f ten, has just made us grandparents. “Bobbie” served for her Dad
e Waves during the past war, releasing me for rather dubious if

what strenuous duty in the State Guard. Trina, our second, has 4
nt and active mind and has the knack of embarrassing her father
dious comparisons of her grades and his, “Ginger,” our youngest,
reflects a brilliance which must have come from the Jones side of
nily. At seven she shows promise of individuality and initiative ©
her Dad never dreamed. This trio represents our greatest Con”
sn to mankind,

2 coming to New England, I have become involved 19 the

not from choice but because I loved one who loved the theat!™

[ 474 ]

 

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

r local theatrical group has a reputation for producing near profes-

al performances of popular plays, During the war, when men were
chort and afterwards when they weren’t, I played in ten rdles and much

to my surprise received favorable comment.

The rounding out of a life can hardly be complete without the spir-
al. Kirmayer of ?26 would not have accepted this, but Kirmayer of
508 deeply convinced. Witness a long term of service as vestryman and
warden of Trinity Episcopal Church, a term as Church School super-
‘ntendent, and a license as lay reader. The last-named came about more
or less as a post mortem. In the absence of our rector, someone had to
take over. Later on by due examination my dubious position became

Ou

sion

itu

legitimate.

In 1938 I inherited a camera, From that time on I have suffered the
ups and downs of the amateur who competes with limitations of time
and space. As I look back on it there have been some compensations: I
have had two Roto spreads in the Cincinnati Enquirer and hung several
prints in P.S.A. Salons. I do all my own processing and have reluctantly
got into the portrait field, Perhaps I should have looked into this long
ago. .
A summary of the life of Kirmayer of ’50 would not be complete
without reference to what we proudly call “Sky Acres.” This was a
broken-down farmhouse attached to sixty acres of mountain top in
Bridgewater, New Hampshire. After five summers of sweat and toil, I
am willing to call it “Back Achers” but we do have a comfortable sum-
mer home with a vista that does something for a city-weary citizen. The
produce from this and our Massachusetts garden help the Kirmayers to
live beyond their income more or less successfully.

Thus Kirmayer of ’50 looks back on this 1926 counterpart with little
regret, wishing only that he might have learned his lesson earlier. Who
knows, though, perhaps part of the fun and satisfaction of life lies in

learning things the hard way in good company.

HOWARD CHARLES KISTLER

i ome Address: 22 Park St., Easthampton, Mass.
lice Address: Simonds Worden White Co., Dayton, Ohio.
ora: March 8, 1902, Tamaqua, Pa. Parents: Charles Edward Kistler, Eliza-
Pr beth Catharine Krapf.
ne ied at: ‘Tamaqua High School, Tamaqua, Pa.
im College: 1924-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.
Tled : Kathryn Elizabeth Keilman, Jan. 22, 1927, Tamaqua, Pa. Children:

[ 475 |

FHlarvard Class of 1926

Anne Louise, Nov. 29, 1931 (died Aug. 15; 1939); Linda Caroline,
March 1, 1944 (adopted) ; Philip Allen, Sept. 7, 1946 (adopted).
Occupation: Sales engineer,

Member of: AF. & A.M.

Shortly after graduation, the finest girl in the world agreed to sacri-
fice a career in music and marry me. We lost our only child, Anne, in
1939 at the age of seven.

My work brought us to Massachusetts in 1940. Four years later we
were most fortunate in adding to our family Linda, now six, and Philip,
now four. Excluding my occupation, our activities are accommodated

to the lives of these two youngsters. Linda has definitely decided that she
will someday be a nurse and mother. Philip is endowed with consider-
able basic intelligence. He should develop into a good engineer or sci-
entist.
Like most of you, I feel very strongly in my antipathy to Commu-
nism. I am heartily ashamed of the fact that Harvard University num-
bers among its faculty and student body a group who follow the line.

kK ISRAEL KLEIN

Born: May 29, 1905, Jersey City, N. J. Parents: Morris Klein, Clara Golding.

Prepared at: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; M.B.A. with
distinction, 1929.

Married: Dorothy Gilbert, July 1, 1932, New York, N. Y. CAild: Richard
Paul, Aug. 13, 1936.

Harvard Brother: Louis Klein, ’27.

Died: Jan. 26, 1942, New York, N.Y.

Brother: Louis Klein, §15 Shortridge Drive, Wynnewood, Pa.

~ An honor student at Harvard, Israel Klein was a junior Phi Beta
Kappa. He went through Harvard on scholarships, receiving Price
Greenleaf Aid in 1922-23, Henry Bromfield Rogers Scholarship in
1923-24, and the Burr Scholarship in 1924-25. At Harvard Business
School he took his degree with distinction. His first job was with the
Hamm Store in Brooklyn, New York, selling and doing merchandise
research. He continued in the mercantile field, transferring after a year
to Bloomingdale’s where he served as research assistant, assistant to the
general merchandise manager, and later buyer of basement candy,
groceries, inexpensive notions, stationery, and toys. In 1934 he went to
Kansas City, Missouri, for a promising job at the Jones Store. At the

[ 476 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

time of his death he was again in Brooklyn, this time as buyer of luggage
and radios at Abraham & Straus.

Klein was survived by his wife and son, and by his brother, Louis
Klein, Harvard ’27. In his memory his parents endowed a scholarship

at Harvard College.

LAWRENCE GRINNELL KNOWLES

Home Address: 25 Barberry Hill Rd., Providence 6, R. I.

Office Address: Grinnell Co., Inc., 260 W. Exchange St., Providence, R. I.

Born: Jan. 2, 1904, New Bedford, Mass. Parents: John Webster Knowles, ’87,
Lydia Grinnell.

Prepared at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1925.

Married: Isabel Gillmore Watts, Jan. 2, 1937, New York, N. ¥. Children:
Lawrence Grinnell, Jr., March 5, 1939; Michael Gillmore, Jan. 24,

1942.
Harvard Brothers: Grinnell Knowles, ’24; Russell Knowles, ’31.

Occupation: Fire protection engineer.

Member of : Harvard Club of Rhode Island; Agawam Hunt Club.

_ Well, twenty-five years have passed and I am still Larry Knowles —
not even sadder and wiser but a little older, a fact which I will admit
only amongst us boys.

It would take a great novelist to make my life sound exciting or even
interesting so I shall keep my efforts to a minimum. I have never set the
world on fire, which is probably just as well since it would be a breach of
business ethics when you consider the profession I am in.

But let’s go back to the beginning. I left Harvard in June, 1925, and
went on a thirteen months’ trip around the world with Gov Keyes and
his mother, Frances Parkinson Keyes, the well-known authoress of
best-sellers. In the course of this interesting and instructive experience
we met several people whose names have been linked with modern tur-
moil, or history, as it was known when we old fogies were in the process
of being educated.

This odyssey lasted until August, 1926, From then on I was faced
with the horrible problem of making a living. The Grinnell Company,
Inc., was fortunate enough to secure my valuable services and I have
been with them in various capacities ever since except for a couple of
years during the depression, in spite of the fact that they have not as yet
discovered my latent possibilities. Unfortunately, my New England up-
bringing coupled with the motto of our dear Alma Mater (look it up if

[ 477 ]

bo

Harvard Class of 1926

you have forgotten) seem to have ill equipped me for the modern busi-
ness world and I have never etched my name on the sands of industry,

Actually I have been very fortunate and happy. I have a lovely, com-
panionable wife whose desires parallel mine and two better than average
boys. Peggy and I are much more concerned with our family than we
are with social activities and the gay life and, at the risk of seeming selfish
and anti-social, I might add that I believe the country would be better
off if people took care of their own instead of leaving it up to others or
the government.

Although I look with a jaundiced eye upon my own contribution to
this world of ours so far, I realize that all is not lost. There are now two
Knowleses to take the place of one and they may have inherited some of
their mother’s lovely characteristics so that they can take up where I
leave off. Young Larry may save or blow up the world with his chem-
istry and although Mike has revealed no particular bent except light-
ning calculation and athletics (H.A.A. please note and make your offer
substantial) as yet, he has the enthusiasm to do well at whatever he sets
out to do.

I suppose that after twenty-five years one should have some great
philosophies or sage observations to set down in writing for posterity but
I hesitate to embarrass the great men of our times by beating them to the
punch, so I shall save mine to bore you aging classmates with orally
when we get together for the grand time that Joe Lund and the other
members of the committee have worked so hard to prepare for us.

JOHN ELLIOTT KNOWLTON

Home Address: Sylvania, Dominica, B. W. I.

Office Address: Caribbean Plantations Ltd., Sylvania, Dominica, B. W. I.

Born: Aug. 18, 1903, Brooklyn, N. Y. Parents: George William Knowlton, Jr.,
°96, Gwendolyn Burris.

Prepared at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Placidia White, 1928, Thomasville, Ga. (divorced 1938); Hetty
Rochford Archer, April 19, 1938, Roseau, Dominica, B. W. I. CAaldren:
Placidia Richmond, Nov. 28, 1928 (m. James H. Robb, Jr., 1949);
Gwendolyn, March 25, 19333; Hetty Archer, April 19, 1939. Grand-
child: James H. Robb, 3d, January, 1950.

Harvard Brother: Elliott Burris Knowlton, ’38.

Occupation: Orange grower; manager, Caribbean Plantations Ltd.

Military or Naval Record: R.O.T.C. commission in Field Artillery, 1926.

Wartime Government Posts: Registrar for Selective Service in Dominica.

[ 478 ]

T wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Offices Held: President and treasurer, Caribbean Plantations Ltd., since 1 930.

Member of : Dominica Club.

At graduation I had no idea what I was going to do except for a

vague leaning towards the diplomatic service for which some people
thought I was fitted. On a schooner in Labrador during the summer of
1926 I thought mightily, but with little success. I didn’t know or like
the city -—— only in college had I had any contact with it, and that was
different. Finally, somewhere off the Taungats, I decided to go to Law
School, not to become a lawyer but for the valuable experience.
_ Law School lasted one year. In the spring I became engaged, and
managed, when a day of reckoning came, to know little or nothing
about a certain property course. Marriage followed, and the brokerage
business in the Boston firm of H. C. Wainwright & Company. It was
during the mad spree of 1927-28 when so many of us uncovered a
genius for making quick money. But it seemed to me a non-productive
sort of work, too remote from the realities. I imagined naively that if I
remained in the brokerage business, by the age of forty I would be rela-
tively rich. Nevertheless, during 1928-29 I returned again to the Har-
vard Graduate School to take courses in psychology and philosophy. I
was searching for a satisfactory standard of values and there were cer-
tain things I had to find out. Then, finally, my formal education was
complete; but still I didn’t know what I was going to work at for the
rest of my life. .

From Colonel Greene, former head of the Public Works Department
in New York State, I heard of an adventurous scheme he had to grow
oranges commercially in the mountains of Dominica, B.WI. I knew
nothing about the tropics or agriculture but was fascinated with the idea.
At the time of the 1929 crash, with my father we formed a small com-
pany grandiosely called the Caribbean Plantations Ltd. (The word
Limited is important. )

Many of the problems and particularly the climate of Dominica were
very different from what I had imagined. The Island had, for instance,
a reputation for being a country in which showers of rain were frequent,
but I didn’t know what it meant to live and work outdoors under a rain-
fall of fifteen feet a year. I soon found out. And now, after twenty-one
years in the mountains of Dominica, I still find fifteen feet of rain im-
pressive.

Lawn tennis is my preferred hobby. As a result of the depression my
politics are moderately radical. As the result of more years and an en-
larged experience, a belief that those best fitted to rule should rule; and
that procreation should be a privilege not enjoyed by all.

[ 479 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

HERBERT RICHARD KOBES

Home Address: Linden Lane, RR 3, Springfield, IIL.

Office Address: University of Iinois, Division of Services for Crippled Chil-
dren, r105 S. Sixth St., Springfield, Ill.

Born: March 6, 1904, New Bedford, Mass, Parents; Richard Kobes, Lena
Lenk.

Prepared at: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; M.D., 1930;
M.P.H. (Johns Hopkins Univ.), 1941.

Married: Marguerite Rachel Harriman, June 6, 1934, Glenwood City, Wis.
(died January, 1937); Helen Horton Nichols, Dec. 18, 1937, Haver-
hill, Mass, C4zsldrem: Karen, Oct. 7, 19383; David and Peter (twins),
Oct. 21, 1940.

Occupation: Director, public health (medical care) administration, University
of I]inois, Division of Services for Crippled Children.

Wartime Government Posts: Medical officer, Civilian Defense; Air Raid War-
den, Manchester, Maine.

Offices Held: Director, Maternal and Child Health and Crippled Children,
State Bureau of Health, Maine, 1936—45, Division of Services for Crip-
pled Children, University of Illinois, since 1945; clinical associate pro-
fessor of pediatrics, University of Illinois Medical School, since 1947;
president, PTA, Manchester, Maine, Association of Maternal and Child
Health and Crippled Children’s Directors, 1947-48.

Member of: American Medical Association (fellow) ; American Public Health
Association (life member) ; American Academy of Pediatrics (fellow) ;
Central [linois Pediatric Society; American Hospital Association ; Amer-
ican Board of Pediatrics; American Board of Preventive Medicine and

Public Health.
Publications: Several articles in medical and related journals — all concerning
programs for crippled children.

The quarter-century since 1926 has been an eventful one for me.
Four years at Harvard Medical School were followed by a similar period
spent in the hospitals associated with Western Reserve University learn-
ing how to become a pediatrician. The depths of the depression found
me trying to practise in my home town, a one-industry city that had
more than its share of this dismal period. Fortunately for my own pro-
fessional career, a number of opportunities in the public health field
opened up and in 1936 I went to the State of Maine. The next ten years
were happy and productive ones in various ways. Here my family were
born and grew up to the school years, Having three children only two
years separated in ages brings many interesting experiences and piles
them up rather closely. Both professionally and in terms of growing up

[ 480 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

family-wise the Maine years stand out as the best years we can remem-
ber. We grew to appreciate that this state is a vacation land day in and
out whether one is at work or relaxing. My extra-curricular activities
of golf and gardening could be indulged in as much as I desired. I
learned, as many have, that some of the best opportunities for productive
thinking develop in the hours of repetitive manual activities of garden-
ing.

In 1945 greater professional opportunities called us to Illinois where
we continued our work for crippled children by directing one of the
nation’s greatest medical care programs in this field. In this new field
associations with many educational facilities offer some of the most in-
teresting challenges. Numerous relationships in the field at large add
interest both to the work and life itself. Recently our family got a real
break when we moved to our new home bordering on Springfield’s
Lake — a most interesting municipal project. Here on our several acres
we expect to thrive happily, having a chance to enjoy life more nearly
like that we knew in Maine.

We have had a few other interesting experiences. One we look back
to with pleasure was that of representing Harvard University at the in-
augurating of a new president of Lincoln College at Lincoln, Illinois,
several years ago. ‘Then a three years’ term as deacon in the Congrega-
tional Church in Springfield threw us into an entirely different but in-
teresting type of activity. None of us is a joiner so we have no clubs to
list. My good wife holds up the family’s end in community activities
which never seem to end.

MILTON ARNOLD KRAMER

Home Address: 25 E. 86th St., New York 28, N. Y.

Office Address: Paine, Kramer & Marx, 50 Broadway, New York 4, N.Y.

Born: May 8, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parents: Albert Louis Kramer, Mary Fran-
kel,

Prepared at: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B. cum laude, 1929.

Married: Enid Constance Saper, Aug. 31, 1934; New York, N. Y. Children:
John Robert, Aug. 17, 1937; Alison Jane, July 19, 1940.

Harvard Brother: Victor Albert Kramer, 718.

Occupation: Lawyer.

Offices Held: Member admissions committee, Association of the Bar of the
City of New York, since 1948; director, United Artists Corporation,
1945-47, Selznick Releasing Organization, Inc., 1947-48, The Cuba
Company, 1948-49, Consolidated Railroads of Cuba, 1948-49.

[ 481 ]

; Harvard Class of 1926

Member of : Harvard Club of New York; Lawyers” Club, New York; Associa-
tion of the Bar of the City of New York.
Publications: Contributions to legal periodicals.

Following graduation from law school and until 1944, I was associ-
ated with the law firm of White & Case and from that date to 1946 I
practised as counsel to that firm. On January 1, 1946, I became amem-
ber of the firm of Paine, Kramer & Marx. My professional activities,
primarily corporate, have been varied: nine trips to England and the
Continent in the last four years; acting for some fourteen years as
American counsel to two of the principal railroads in Cuba; and rather
extensive activity in the motion picture, television, and radio fields.
However, a happy family and home life really constitutes my history for
the last sixteen years.

ALFRED KRANES

Home Address: 55 Lincoln St., Belmont, Mass.

Office Address: 330 Dartmouth St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Aug. 5, 1905, New York, N. Y. Parents: Nathan Kranes, Pauline Rabino-
witz.

Prepared at: Paterson High School, Paterson, N. J.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; M.D. cum laude,
1930.

Married: Dorothy Jones, Aug. 17, 1935, Georgetown, Mass. Children: David
Alfred, Dec. 18, 1937; Richard, Aug. 10, 1940; Nancy, June 15,1947.

Occupation: Physician.

Military or Naval Record: Commissioned major, Army Medical Corps, 19415
active duty, May, 1942—January, 1946; served in North Africa and
Italy for two and one-half years with 6th General Hospital; awarded
Bronze Star; discharged as lieutenant colonel, Jan. 16, 1946.

Member of: American Medical Association; American College of Physicians;
Aesculapian Club; Harvard Club of Boston.

Publications: A few publications in professional journals.

This is an accursedly difficult task. To be forced to face squarely the
past twenty-five years and to report honestly on the progress of an un-
spectacular career when you are certain that most of your classmates
will have attained the distinction you had hoped for, is indeed a chilling
prospect. It is, I am convinced, the chief reason why the Class Report
Committee finds constant prodding so necessary. Were it not for the fact
that I dread the accusing glances of my classmates even more than a
recapitulation of hopes, fears, ambitions, and loves, I would be tempted
to supply only the barest factual outline,

[ 482 ]

I'wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

On entering Harvard Medical School in the fall of 1926, I began,
for the first time I believe, really to enjoy my academic career. The Col-
lege was too large, too diffuse, and too impersonal for me really to feel a
part of it. Unfortunately too, the fact that it was necessary to spend
much of my spare time earning the wherewithal to pay the perpetually
recurring term bills severed me further from Alma Mater. I have con-
sequently never been able to generate the warmth for the College that
was engendered by the Medical School, where a small class and a com-
mon purpose gave one a sense of belonging. To those who have visited
Italy, it is the difference between Rome and Florence.

The economic chaos of the early ’30’s meant little to me since I had
no personal belongings of any consequence. Furthermore I was shel-
tered from the buffetings of the economic storm within the walls of the
Massachusetts General Hospital, where a succession of internships and
assorted residencies kept me professionally, if not profitably, occupied
until 1935. How much this training period may have been prolonged by
an understandable reluctance to brave the gales howling outside I shall
never know; but I suspect a good deal. T’o whatever medical skills I
may have acquired during this period should be added another bounty
for which I have always been grateful —a wife.

Married during the summer of 1935, I started the practice of in-
ternal medicine in Boston as soon as the honeymoon was over. To help
feed and shelter us until the first few patients would be rash enough to
present themselves, my wife continued to work while I relaxed. Even-
tually, the impending arrival of our first-born and greater demands on
my leisure time returned her to woman’s rightful place, where I think
she has been reasonably happy, although she occasionally refers to “those
good old days.”

The encroachments on my leisure were made by a slowly increasing
practice, part-time work in the Harvard Hygiene Department, and
some teaching for the Medical School, all of which were rudely inter-
rupted in 1942 when I was called to active duty in the Army with the
6th General Hospital, a unit that had been organized at the request of
the War Department early in 1941, and composed primarily of doctors
and nurses from the Massachusetts General Hospital. Sent overseas
early in 1943, we were subsequently stationed at Casablanca, Rome,
and Bologna. As I review these years now, it is my impression that the
outstanding result of my military service was to stimulate an interest in

photography. Certainly North Africa and Italy offered endless photo-
graphic targets, and I took advantage of them in color, black and white,
movies, and stills, Medically the war years were extremely sterile. Long

[ 483 ]

— a

Flarvard Class of 1926

periods of boring inactivity, punctuated by shorter phases of intense, al-
most frantic activity was the pattern. With only a few exceptions, doc-
tors re-entered civilian life less astute medically than when they left it
for military service. This was, of course, not the fault of the Army or
Navy. It is inherent in the nature of modern warfare, waged as it is by
highly coordinated groups of specialists. The doctor was able to see or
study only one phase of an illness, injury, or emotional disturbance and
only for a limited period, rarely getting a glimpse of the entire process as
he does in civilian life. While advantageous militarily, it was profession-
ally stifling. There was no sense of real accomplishment in the job we
were doing, although the Army considered our services valuable. So
much so, apparently, that few of us escaped without a decoration of some
sort. I almost did, but as the ship was pulling away from the Leghorn
docks mine arrived. With the aid of an Italian oarsman it was eventually
hoisted over the side and properly presented. A close shave!

The return to civilian life in the fall of 1945 required less adjustment
than expected. The two boys, now eight and six, were almost complete
strangers after three and one-half years, but we soon became reac-
quainted. Within two months I was busier than when I had left; by the
third month the war years were rarely thought about, except to recall
the more amusing incidents with cronies at a dinner party.

The past five years have seen a marked increase in medical activity
and a slight increase in the family, as a result of the increased postwar
fertility. A daughter, born in 1947, now rules the roost.

GEORGE DOUGLAS KRUMBHAAR

Home Address: 334 Hammond St., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

Office Address: 203 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

Born: Jan. 28, 1904, Syracuse, N. Y. Parents: Louis Krumbhaar, ’85, Anna
Conyngham Stevens.

Prepared at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass,

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; M.D., 1932.

Married: Catherine Cole, Aug. 28, 1930, Dedham, Mass. (died Nov. 25,
1941); Ruth Cheney Reynolds, April 8, 1942, Brookline, Mass, CAz-
dren: Andrew Ramsay, July 13, 1934; George Douglas, Jr., Aug. 17;
1936; Laura Wolcott Reynolds, Feb. 20, 1932; Ruth Sears Reynolds,
April 8, 1934; Elizabeth Cheney Reynolds, Oct. 10, 1936 (stepdaugh-
ters).

Occupation: Physician; visiting obstetrician and gynecologist, Massachusetts
Memorial Hospitals; associate professor, obstetrics and gynecology, Bos-
ton University School of Medicine.

[ 484 ]

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report
Military or Naval Record: World War 11: Medical Corps Naval Reserve, lieu-

tenant commander, Jan. 31, 1944—November, 1945; commander, No-
vember, 1945—Feb. 1, 1946; at present in inactive Reserve.

Offices Held: Board of Trustees, New England Grenfell Association.

Member of: Harvard Club of Boston; ‘The Country Club, Brookline; Boston
Obstetrical Society; Massachusetts Medical Society; American Medical
Association.

Publications: ““The Relevance of Religion to the Sick,” The Journal of Pastoral
Care, Boston, Vol. 1, No. 2—Winter, 1947. “Christian Marriage”
(pamphlet published by Department of Social Service, Protestant Episco-
pal Church, 1948).

The fall of 1926 found me, after a summer in Europe with Dudley
Merrill, teaching at the Belmont Hill School in Belmont, Massachu-
setts. It was a pleasant and interesting life and one full of rich rewards
but for me it had one main drawback: one was constantly thrown with
minds intellectually less mature than one’s own so, for me at least, the
stimulus to intellectual development ceased. In the fall of 1928, after
two years of teaching, I entered the Harvard Medical School and was
graduated in June, 1932. During Medical School, in the summer of
1930, I was married to Catherine Cole of Dedham and for the next
two years we lived in Cambridge. I recommend marriage for medical
students.

My internship was in surgery at the Presbyterian Hospital in New
York under Dr. Hugh Auchincloss, a great teacher and a great gentle-
man. My wife and I lived up town near the hospital and it was towards
the end of my two years there that our first son was born.

Just as I was finishing my internship I received an offer from Dr.
Donald Macomber in Boston to assist him in his practice of obstetrics
and gynecology. This offer required another year’s hospital training in
that specialty which I took in Boston at the Lying-In Hospital and the
Free Hospital for Women. During this time our second son was born.

I started practice with Dr. Macomber in June, 1936, and continued
with him until he retired at the end of 1941. My wife and J lived in
Brookline, enjoyed our children and each other, and led a rather un-
eventful though pleasant life.

My wife died in the fall of 1941 and the next spring I married Ruth
Cheney Reynolds. She had been married previously to Dr. George Phil-
lips Reynolds, ’20, and brought me three charming daughters, two of
whom were just the ages of my two boys. All five children being within
4% years of each other gave us a compact and somewhat unique house-
hold ably presided over by my wife who, luckily, is wonderful with

children.

[ 485 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

In January, 1944, the war caught up with us and I volunteered for
the Navy, acquiring the rank of lieutenant commander. After a couple

of weeks at District Headquarters in Boston, I was assigned to the V-12

and ROTC at Holy Cross College in Worcester. The fact that I wasa

Harvard man, a Protestant, and an obstetrician fitted in well with stand-

ard Navy snafu! I had eight months there of rather desultory but occa-
sionally interesting duty, but the most important part of the move re-
volved around our buying a house in Princeton, Massachusetts, and
moving into it, lock, stock and barrel so that I could live at home and
commute to work. This move involved our running our own school for
the children which we did most successfully with the aid of the Calvert
Correspondence Courses which are hereby recommended most highly.
Most good things end too soon and this pleasant life was interrupted

by orders to the Naval Barracks at Portland, Oregon. ‘This was poor
duty as the barracks were situated between the main line of the railroad
and the city dump, but this was partially counteracted by the fact that
my family moved to Portland also. It was a wonderful experience for
the children who were old enough to appreciate the trip and whose
proclivities towards being proper Bostonians were thus nipped in the bud.

Shortly after my family arrived in Portland, I was transferred to the
APA 9, uss Neville, at that time living in honorable retirement at
buoy 32, San Diego Harbor. She was attached to the Amphibious Train-
ing Base at Coronado and life was dull. After V-J Day, however, we
made two very pleasant trips to the South Pacific doing transport duty.
The high point of these trips was taking the Marine Battalion to Truk
for the surrender of that Jap stronghold. On July 31, 1946, I was dis-
charged to inactive duty and again took up my practice in Boston which
had been held together during my absence by Dr. Macomber, who
emerged from his retirement for the two years I was away.

In February, 1949, I was appointed associate professor of obstetrics
and gynecology at Boston University School of Medicine and was made
a member of the staff of the Massachusetts Memorial Hospitals and the
Smithwick Foundation. I still practise as before, but now do some teach-
ing and hospital visiting as well —a very satisfactory combination.

After the war I bought a house on Hammond Street, Chestnut Hill,
Massachusetts, where I live with my wife and five children. The boys
are at Middlesex School in Concord, Massachusetts, the eldest girl at
McGill in Montreal and the other two girls attend the Beaver Country
Day School in Brookline.

I find obstetrics a very exciting specialty. It is more than satisfying to
he able, even in a small way, to share with a patient the thrill of her first

[ 486 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

baby — to say nothing of subsequent ones — and occasionally to guide
young married people through some of the pitfalls and bewilderments
they encounter. Assisting at the beginnings of so many new lives, with
their tremendous potentials for good or evil, cannot help but make one
interested in Christianity and its relation to morals and ethics. If I have
a hobby that is it and my only publications to date have been along these
lines, |

But the most important thing in my life is my family — my charming
wife and my five slick children — whom I hope you can meet at our
Reunion in June.

STANLEY JASSPON KUNITZ

Home Address: 18 Jones St., New York 14, N. Y.

Office Address: The New School, 66 W. 12th St., New York 11, N. ¥.

Born: July 29, 1905, Worcester, Mass. Parents: Solomon Kunitz, Yetta Helen
Jasspon.

Prepared at: Classical High School, Worcester, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926, Degrees: A.B. summa cum laude, 1926;A.M, 1927.

Married: Helen Pearce Downer, July 16, 1931, New York, N. Y. (divorced
1937)3 Eleanor Evans Danysh, Nov. 21, 1939, Richmond, Va. Child:
Gretchen Evans, Feb. 13, 1950.

Occupation: Writer, teacher, and editor.

Military or Naval Record: Entered Army Air Corps as private, Jan. 4, 19433
served in Information and Education Division, Headquarters Air Trans-
port Command, Washington, D. C.; separated as staff sergeant, Aug. 9,
1945.

Member of : Phi Beta Kappa.

Publications: Intellectual Things (poems) ; Passport to the War (poems) ; edited
American Authors 1600-1900, British Authors of the 19th Century, Living
Authors, Twentieth Century Authors, etc.

After almost twenty years of country and campus living — Con-
necticut, Bucks County, Pennsylvania, Vermont, and upstate New York
—] have moved with my wife and infant daughter to New York City
where I am teaching poetry workshop and other literature courses at
The New School. One has the advantage here of working in a free in-
tellectual atmosphere with adult and purposive students, We live in the
Village, surrounded by pushcarts and fabulously redolent Italian mar-
kets — and so far we have enjoyed ourselves immensely,

Previously I taught for several eventful and stimulating years at
Bennington College where I initiated poetry workshop and was chair-
man of the faculty committee. It gave me a quickened sense of mutabil-

[ 487 ]

Flarvard Class of 1926

ity there to learn that one of my students was the daughter of one of my
Harvard classmates. More recently at State Teachers College, Pots-
dam, New York (part of the State University of New York), I had the
opportunity of putting to a practical test my conviction that work in the
creative arts is an essential part of a really productive teacher-training
program. Out of this conviction stems my continuing interest in the
Potsdam Workshop in the Arts, a pioneer educational project conducted
at White Pine Camp, Paul Smiths, New York, where Mrs. Kunitz,
who teaches the stage arts, and I spend our summers.

I have published two books of poems and numerous articles and re-
views, besides editing a standard series of reference works in collective
literary biography. For several years before I took up teaching I was
editor of the Wilson Library Bulletin, a professional journal for librarians.

Poetry: A Magazine of Verse awarded me its Oscar Blumenthal Prize
for lyric poetry in 1941, and on my discharge from the service I re-
ceived a John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Fellowship
for creative writing. Most of that fellowship year was spent in Santa Fe.

Our daughter Gretchen arrived in the eleventh year of our marriage,
but we feel that she was worth waiting for!

WILLIAM CONKLING LADD

Mailing Address: Embassy of the United States, The Hague, The Netherlands.
Born: Oct. 29, 1903, Cleveland, Ohio. Parents: Louis Williams Ladd, Olivia
Conkling.
Prepared at: University School, Cleveland, Ohio.
Years in College: 1923~-1926. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926.
Married: Natalie Potter, Dec. 4, 1930, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1945);
Blanca Masters Mulhall, Buenos Aires, §.A. Children: Mary Sargent,
June 4, 1934; Olivia, Sept. 24, 1937; Cornelia Masters and William
Conkling, Jr. (twins), July, 1948.
Occupation: Foreign service.
Military or Naval Record: U.S. Naval Reserve, 1941; on duty in Jamaica at
outbreak of war; early in war on duty in South America, later transferred
to London; left active service after the war, as a commander.

GEORGE MORGAN LAIMBEER

Home Address: “The Causeway,” Warwick Road, Copt Heath, near Knowle,
Warwickshire, England.

Office Address: Alfred Bird & Sons, Ltd., Devonshire Works, Birmingham 12,
England.

[ 488 ]

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Born: April 2, 1905, Paris, France. Parents: William Laimbeer, ’94, Nathalie
Schenck.

Prepared at: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Doris M. Bryan, May 11, 1933, Lansing, Mich. CAildren: William,
Nov. 5, 1934; George Morgan, Jr., Nov. 25, 1936.

Occupation: Managing director, Alfred Bird & Sons, Ltd., English subsidiary
of General Foods Corporation.

Wartime Government Posts: In charge, Government Department of General
Foods Corporation; handled making of “*K” Ration, “1o0-in-1” Ration,
etc.

Member of: American Club, London, England; Priory Lawn Tennis Club,
Birmingham, England; Solihull Lawn Tennis Club, Solihull, England.

My life for the last twenty-five years has been almost entirely con-
cerned with my family and my business, I have intended many times to
find more leisure for outside activities but raising two boys, most of the
time in England, and running a food business has kept me pretty busy.
With regard to my family, I married in 1933 and have never regret-
ted it.

Before 1929, during my bachelor days, I lived in Dayton, Ohio, and
Knoxville, Tennessee, mostly with other bachelors in small flats. There
was no special excitement during these years, except a rather wild three
months during the Mississippi flood of 1927 when I was in the flood
lands of Arkansas and saw two lynchings.

In 1929 my mother died and I returned to New York. The next
four years were spent in New York and Chicago, seeing many of my old
classmates, and having rather a good time with no special responsibility.

After our wedding in 1933, we moved to Columbus, Ohio, and spent
four fine years there. Both our sons were born in Columbus, and we also
educated our niece, sending her to Ohio State University. It was a

pleasant and interesting life for a young married couple, just starting off
on their life together.

There was a great change in January, 1937, when I moved to Lon-
don, England. This was a big change for all of us and has formed the
center of our lives ever since. Prior to the war we lived in London, and
explored by car every county in England, Scotland, Ireland, and Wales.
My business took me everywhere and, with my wife, we saw just about
everything in the four countries. Besides that, we went all through
Germany, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, and France, and had planned
many more trips. The war in 1939 changed our lives around again. We
remained in England for the first ten months, and then my wife and

* [489 ]

——

Flarvard Class of 1926

sons went home on one of the refugee ships, which was quite an experi-
ence. I followed two months later, just before the serious war began.
For the next four years we were not settled, as we knew we were re-
turning to England at the end of the struggle. We lived in Manhasset,
New York, and renewed our knowledge of American suburban life.

In April, 1944, I returned to England, being one of the few civilians
to get back in the middle of the war. This was most exciting. I was in
London all through the buzz bombs, and also on D-Day. Ii made two
trips across the ocean in convoys. My family finally joined me three
weeks after the war with Germany ended, and we had the interesting
experience of settling down in London, temporarily, which was not as
difficult as one was led to believe.

Finally, in 1947, we moved to Warwickshire, and here we hope t to
live for a long time. We have three acres of English countryside, twelve
miles from Birmingham and twelve miles from Stratford-upon-Avon,
and it is a life we both enjoy. Our boys go to an English public school,
and cricket and soccer now are more interesting to me than baseball and
football. However, they will both be going to Harvard, one in 1952 and
the other in 1955. Raising two boys, educating them in England, and
keeping a home going with American comforts, has kept my nose pretty
much to the business grindstone, especially with Sir Stafford Cripps’ In-
come Tax,

My outside hobbies are not many. I spend quite a lot of time in gar-
dening; I havea rose garden and dahlias, of which I can boast to a small
degree. I still play squash and tennis, but have been beaten recently by
my son, and consider my ability at both games declining, which causes
me no worry. We attend the theatre at Stratford and see some good
Shakespearean plays, and usually visit London two or three times per
year for some theatres and good times. Besides all that, I see my friends
from America when they visit us here, and also on my trips back, about
once a year. After nine years in England, we have made many friends
and enjoy English people and English life. I take a continuous interest
in politics, both in England and America, and consider myself a little bit
of a political expert on forecasting results of elections. We also go in for
a number of animals, having three dogs, a cat, and other livestock, such
as ducks. |

With regard to business, after graduating in February, 1926, I spent
four months on a temporary job in the credit department of the New
York Trust Company. On Labor Day, 1926, I went west to join the
General Motors Corporation in the Frigidaire and Delco Light Divi-
sion. I spent ten months in the factory working on the machines, which

[ 490 ]

Twenty-fifth Anntversary Report

was an experience I have never regretted, although the hours were long.
Then I was in the service department for one and a half years. Finally,
in 1929, I got into the sales end of the business which I liked much bet-
ter, and in which I believe my natural ability lies.

In November, 1929, I left General Motors and joined the General
Foods Corporation where I have remained ever since. For the last
twenty-one years I have spent my business life with all sorts of package
foods: coffee, cereals, custard, and many others. Our job is to satisfy the
American and British housewives. ‘The food business is a good business,
and I have spent twenty-one very happy and profitable years in it and
have no desire to change. |

After about a year and a half in the New York office, I went out on
the road as a salesman, Then I went to the Chicago office, and later was
put in charge of small districts in Michigan and Ohio, selling to the chain
stores, wholesalers, and retailers, The depression came along but it was
not too bad in the food business. In January, 1937, I got my big break,
and was appointed general manager of the British Subsidiary of General
Foods Corporation with headquarters in London. I then started work-
ing with English salesmen and the British housewife, who is not very
different from the American housewife.

Prior to the war it was an importing business from Canada. Hitler
ended it in 1940, and I returned to the U.S.A. and spent four very ex~-
citing and rushing years, running the government department with half
my time in Washington and having contacts with all the Quartermas-
ters’ Headquarters. My classmates in the services might be interested to
know that we were partly responsible for the “K” Ration and other ra-

tions which they ate during the war.

I was back in England in 1944 to start up again. We finally took over
an old established English custard business in 1947. Here I am now at
Birmingham, England, battling with English controls, fighting to get
raw materials, and running two factories in Birmingham and one in
Dublin, Ireland.

It is a lot of fun and to many people who told me I was crazy to leave
the U.S.A. I always reply, “Come over and see me and you will find it
O.K.” |

GERARD KIRSOPP LAKE

Home Address: Valley Road, Box 73, New Canaan, Conn.

Office Address: Pepperell Manufacturing Co., 40 Worth St., New York, N. Y.

Born: Dec. 27, 1904, Leiden, Holland. Parents: Kirsopp Lake, ’94 (hon.),
Helen Courthope Forman.

[ 491 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

Prepared at: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.; Puby;, Let
School, Boston, Mass. atin

Years en College: 1922-1925.

Married: Eleanor Van Someren Hard, Oct. 8, 1931, Washington, D. C. CA;
dren: Anne Courthouse Kirsopp, Jan. 19, 19363 William Anthony K i.
sopp, April 2, 1939; Lydia Van Someren Kirsopp, June 20, 1942, it

Occupation: Director of research, Pepperell Manufacturing Company,

Military or Naval Record: Assistant to Chief of Ordnance Stations Section of
the Bureau of Ordnance in charge of Administration of Ordnance Shore
Establishment, May 8, 1941, to July 3, 1945; special mission to Rio de

Janeiro, Brazil, July 7, 1945, to November, 1945.

Wartime Government Posts: Member, advisory committee, American Society foy
Testing Materials, D-13; member, Fiber & Fabrics Committee of Ouar-
termaster Corps Advisory Committee of National Research Councj.
member board of governors of American Association of Textile Technol.
ogists.

Member of : Harvard Club of New Canaan; Harvard Club of New York; Ark
wright Club of New York; Sharon Country Club.

I left college in the spring of 1925. For the next couple of years I
worked in various cotton mills in New Bedford, Fall River, and Con-
necticut, and finally reached the distinction of being a loom fixer witha
stand of looms of my own. I moved to New York and for the next two
years earned my living as a grey goods broker. Late in 1929, I was lucky
enough to meet Russell H. Leonard, president of Pepperell Manufac-
turing Company and joined Pepperell to start up their new fine goods
mill. We got that going and in 1932 I took over the company’s grey
goods department. In 1935 I was put in charge of the company’s pro-
duction department. That lasted until early 1941 when I left the com-
pany to go on active duty asa reserve officer in the Navy.

In 1946 I came back to the Pepperell Company as the assistant to
Brackett Parsons, then in charge of research, and two years later, was
made director of research, the job I now hold.

In addition to the research and development end of my work and to
the production work that I did before the war, I have always had a
certain amount of extra-curricular activity in handling odd jobs for the
company In connection with the government. I spent a good deal 0
time in Washington during the hectic days of the N.R.A.; and agai?
while trying to untangle the knotty processing taxes problems that came
up when the old A.A.A. was called unconstitutional. I also worke
closely with other government agencies which were then engaged m
trying to relieve distress in the country during the depression in connec
tion with textiles and clothing. As a part of my research job, J hav

[ 492 J

 

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

worked closely with the Quartermaster Corps and the Navy in the de-
yelopment of new fabrics. With the beginning of the Korean crisis the
company put me in charge of their relations with the government in
connection with mobilization, the new National Production Authority
and possible future pricing problems, in addition to my continuing job
esearch.
of in 1931 I married Eleanor Hard of Washington who was then on
the editorial staff of Fortune, She left Fortune a couple of years after we
were married and since then has been on various magazines and has
done a certain amount of free-lance writing. She is now on the staff of
Reader's Digest. As a result, life at home has been stimulating, to say the
least. With politics and economics from my wife’s side of the family,
business, industrial research and politics from my side, and a strong cur-
rent of journalism running through all of it, there is seldom a dull mo-
ment. The more practical side of life consists of the never-ending prob-
lem of restoring and expanding our eighteenth-century Connecticut
soap-box with its surrounding land in Sharon, Connecticut, and the
equally never-ending problem of bringing up three children — each one
of whom seems to be able to think up new forms of trouble but each one
of whom we, in our pride of authorship, believe to be quite attractive.
I think I can sum up the conclusion that I have come to after twenty-
five years most readily by quoting a cable that I sent to my wife from
Rio de Janeiro late in 194.5. The war was over. I was still in the service.
Thad been offered one of those jobs that are so common in South Amer-
ica, The salary was small but the possibility of making a million dollars,
simply by following the customs of the country, was large. My wife and
Thad discussed what I should do over the telephone and she had left the
matter to me for a final decision. I sent her a cable saying that I was
turning down the job and coming home because. I had learned three
things about myself. In the first place, I was an American. In the second
place, I was a New Englander. And in the third place, I was a Puritan,
As a matter of fact, this isn’t very strange. ‘he few cousins that I have
live within a few miles of Plymouth in the south of England. My father
Moved from that part of the world to Holland where he lived for ten
years and where I was born. We then moved from Holland to within
only a few miles of Plymouth, Massachusetts. If in my own family life
we have followed the path of the Pilgrim Fathers almost exactly and
failed to catch the Mayflower by only a matter of three hundred years,
tis not surprising that I should finish up by having a point of view not so
at from that of their descendants. Durin g the course of the last twenty-
ve years I have seen something of Europe, something of North Africa,

[ 493 ]

- Harvard Class of 1926

a good deal of England, and a good deal of South America. I have also
seen a good deal of the United States. I shall be very happy to continue
the rest of my life in New England.

CHESTER TEVIS LANE

Home Address: Broadway, Upper Nyack, N. Y.

Office Address: Beer, Richards, Lane & Haller, 70 Pine St., New York 5,N. Y.

Bora: June 7, 1905, London, England. Parests: Elmer Bloomfield Lane, Julia
Anthony Tevis.

Prepared at; Westminster School, London, England.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. magna cum laude, 1926; LL.B. cum
laude, 1930.

Married: Persis McClennen, Sept. 12, 1927, East Harwich, Mass, Children:
David, Sept. 15, 1935; Julia Ann, April 4,19373 Dinah, May 21,1945;
Chester Tevis, Jr., Jan. 21, 1947.

Occupation: Lawyer.

Wartime Government Posts: Special assistant to Attorney General, 1942-45 ; as-
sociate chief, Special War Policies Unit, Department of Justice, 1942-
43; Office of Solicitor General, 1943-45; Deputy Foreign Liquidation
Commissioner, 1946-47; Lend-Lease Administrator, 1946-47; chair-
man, War Department Civilian Legal Personnel Committee, 1942-46.

Offices Held: Council member, Harvard Law School Association, 1938-41;
lecturer, New York University Law School, 1941-42, since 1949.

Member of : Harvard Club of New York; Association of the Bar of the City of
New York; American Bar Association; Chatham (Mass.) Yacht Club;
Upper Nyack Tennis Club (treasurer) ; commander, Order of Orange-
Nassau (Netherlands).

Publications: Miscellaneous articles in legal periodicals.

On graduation I was divided — almost literally — between law and
teaching. First I taught — Classics at Harvard (1926-28) and Rad-
cliffe (1927-28). After one year I thought I could add the study of
law, and did so, at the Harvard Law School. After another I found the
two efforts too heavy, and dropped the teaching. The year 1930 duly
projected me, a naked LL.B., into the world of lawyers.

Having acquired through my Ames Competition work in law school
a desire to make myself into an advocate in the appellate courts, I rather
illogically entered one of the large, gilt-edged New York corporate law
firms, of the type which, in those days at least, looked down on litigation
and tried to hide its litigators, if any, in the attic. For five years as a
junior in what was then the largest private law office in the world, I did
embroidery work on corporate financial transactions of one sort or an-
other — mostly corporate reorganizations, since those were the depres-

[ 494 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

sion years. Representing a corporate trustee, I had my fill of trying to
push the corporate trustee into situations where nobody else wanted it,
and then trying to get it (and its lawyers) paid for work which nobody
else had wanted to have done.

Still, the work was interesting and the training good, and I might
have been there yet if the telephone had not rung one day in 1935 with
a totally unexpected invitation from the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission to join its legal staff. I hastily studied up on the Commission’s
work, talked to friends in and out of the government, was interviewed
by a Commissioner who objected (though not fatally) to my Harvard
training, and decided to take a chance. I became a bureaucrat, and re-
mained one for twelve years.

Bureaucracy can be very dull for its inhabitants, but I had luck. In

1938 I became the SEC’s General Counsel, and among other things got
into the appellate court work which I had almost given up hope of doing.
With the war I moved to the Department of Justice to help blue-print
and administer wartime internal security controls. At the same time I set
up and directed the War Department’s system of choosing and examin-
ing civilian lawyers. Late in 1943, after applying just too late for an
Army commission, I returned to appellate work, and over a couple of
years argued about twenty cases for the United States in the Supreme
Court. Then back into administrative work; as Deputy Foreign Liqui-
dation Commissioner I helped in the disposal of the masses of Army and
Navy surpluses left overseas at the end of the war, and as Lend-Lease
Administrator at the same time I had to liquidate the whole Lend-Lease
program and staff. When by March, 1947, all the chief settlements had
been made except with the Russians and Chinese (these seemed hardly
worth waiting for), and the staff had been cut from 1500 to seven, I
figured it was time for “private” life again.

The last three and a half years have been less eventful. I am back in
New York, in a small postwar law firm in partnership with Wally Beer
and two of our (non-Harvard College) law school contemporaries. I
often think regretfully of the intensity and challenge of government
work, but there are compensations. In view of the emphasis put on the
Alger Hiss case in the Class Questionnaire, I should perhaps note that
one of the compensations has been that since last February (just after
the second trial) I have been Alger Hiss’ attorney. If ever there was a
challenge to find and show the truth in the face of every kind of ob-
stacle, this case provides it; but I believe in my heart that in the end we
shall succeed.

So much for professional activity — which has probably been given

[ 495 ]

Larvard Class of 1926

more space than it deserves. On the personal side, we live a rambling,
informal sort of life, in a rambling, informal sort of house, bigger than
we can handle, and too far away from New York to be convenient, but
with plenty of space around. One disadvantage of moving back from
Washington was the impossibility of finding a country place within
twenty minutes of the office; but we chose the country place anyhow.
At least we have plenty of room for guests if they choose to brave the
thirty-mile trip; and the children and dogs (four of each at the mo-
ment) can learn what earth and sky and trees look like. Our hours are
odd; a daddy who gets home at eight o’clock or later must still have a
chance to talk and read for a while even with three- and five-year-olds,
so dinner is not likely to be before ten. But our friends get used to it, and
are encouraged to fortify themselves if necessary with a pre-dinner
snack.
Music literally fills the house: WOXR, a grown-ups’ record player,
a children’s record player, visiting violins, ’cellos, clarinets, or duet-
playing pianists who are willing to let Daddy play the piano with them,
and music lessons for Julie and even five-year-old Dinah, who is begin-
ning to compose her own little tunes. (David has tried the cornet, not
too successfully.) It is a bit early for Chester Tevis, Junior, “T” for
short, but I expect he will start soon. Although he may be more word-
minded than music-minded, he never hears a new word without want-
ing to make it his own, and has already proudly mastered “antidis-
establishmentarianism.”
I have tried to think of some way of describing our general attitudes.
I don’t think it can be done in strictly political terms; although we are
officially listed as Democrats, I am not sure whether we are Liberals,
New Dealers, Fair Dealers, or what have you, and I, at least, once
voted for a Republican. But I have looked back at the Dissertatio Latina
I gave at our graduation, particularly at the last paragraph, which by
custom deals with the aspirations of the graduating class (or at least of
the orating class member). Since I don’t suppose it ever saw print be-
fore, I am daring to quote it here, as something I am glad to have said to
our Class back in 1926 and of which I would not now change a word:
Postremo tandem vos comites meos et aequales praecipue salvare et
cogitare iubeo. Namque nonnullos per annos cursum eundem prose-
cuti sumus Minervam eandem plerumque coluimus permulta de
Platone de Shakespeare de Taussig quaesita fortasse accepimus. Quid
nunc auferimus? Quo sic parati gladio doctrinae quasi destricto prae-
cipites currimus? Spes nostris magna est; quid autem ad tot hominibus
aerumnas sublevandas ad dictatores quosdam superbos subvertendos

[ 496 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

ad pacem inter gentes firmandam denique ad societatem vitae sane
meliorem in posteros referendam efficere valemus? Labor nobis maxi-
mus o amici et difficillimus; si tamen non ossa solum doctrinae sed
etiam sanguinem ipsum accepimus si fides nostras proprias haud minus
quam alienas experiri volumus si superbiam atque intolerantiam ut
pestem excidimus si mentem rationemque semper prudentem et
cautam retinemus nec tamen nimis res novas timenus tum potest fieri
ut ipsi digni nomine excelso aestimenur Harvardiano.

JOHN STEVENSON LANIER

Home Address: Eliot, Maine.

Office Address: Xavier Inn, Eliot, Maine.

Born: Sept. 24, 1903, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Sidney Lanier, Elizabeth
Masson.

Prepared at: Asheville School, Asheville, N.C, ,

Years in College: 1922-1924, 1925-1928. Degree: S.B., 1928.

Married: Caroline Scattergood, 1933, Germantown, Pa. Children: Roger Day,
April 19, 19443; Alice Masson, Sept. 25,1946.

Harvard Brother: David Sidney Masson Lanier, ’28.

Occupation: Summer inn proprietor and general factotum.

Offices Held: Overseer in Grange, 1935.

Member of : John F. Hill Grange.

After leaving college, I went into children’s summer camp work,
coupled with the operation of a small park. To increase my knowledge
of pomology, animal husbandry, garden and field crops, and bits of other
farm activities, I attended the short winter agricultural course at Cor-
nell for two winters, as well as spending part of another winter at Co-
lumbia.

In 1933 my wife and I were married in Germantown, her home,
and returned to Eliot to take up the work of farm and camp. In 1936
we interrupted this routine long enough to spend the summer in Eu-
Tope, visiting a number of countries from England to Russia. The
larger part of the trip was spent in inspecting the Consumer Coopera-
tives in many of the countries, which we found very interesting.

About this time an active interest in crafts began to be felt more gen-
erally throughout the countryside which coincided with some efforts we
had been making towards enhancing a wide interest in crafts in general,
and rendering a woodworking hobby of more benefit in particular. So
we renovated a small barn and started a shop as an outlet for articles of
various sorts produced in the neighborhood, also serving lunches and

[ 497 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

tea. With the arrival of the past war, we dropped the camp as such and
concentrated on the crafts and summer guests with or without childre,
Since the end of the war we’ve been working towards a summer craft
center in an area in which some crafts are carried on the year ’roynq
where one may follow his bent undisturbed as part of a summer vaca.
tion. This includes, of course, the craft of doing nothing in particular,
In 1946 we adopted an eleven-day-old boy, our son Roger, and tw,
years later adopted our daughter, Alice, then aged about two weeks
Between “then” and “now” has been pretty busy, on a small scale, This
place seems to require that one be a bit of a carpenter, a plumber, an
electrician, a ditch-digger, a farmer, an automobile mechanic, a summer
resort manager, and a blacksmith, to mention some activities. Eventy-
ally I may be able to consider myself a success — the perfect handyman,

BRENDAN DEMPSEY LEAHEY

Home Address: 751 Andover St., Lowell, Mass.
Office Address: g Central St., Lowell, Mass.
Born: April 25, 1905, Lowell, Mass. Parents: George Aloysius Leahey, M.D.,
92, Alice Dempsey.
Prepared at: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; M.D., 1930.
Married: Mary Josephine O’Donnell, April 18, 1938, Lowell, Mass. CAildren:
George Brent, Aug. 20, 1939; Grant, June 10, 19423 Alice Dempsey,
Oct. 29, 1947.

Occupation: Eye surgeon.

Offices Held: Director, Lowell Codperative Bank, Lowell Division of the
Blind; trustee, Washington Savings Institution; advisory ophthalmolo-
gist, Massachusetts Division of the Blind.

Member of: National Council; Eye Bank for Sight Restoration, Inc., New
York; executive board, Boston Eye Bank; American Academy of Oph-
thalmology and Otolaryngology; American College of Surgeons; New
England Ophthalmological Society; Pan American Ophthalmological
Society ; Lowell Medical Club; Massachusetts Medical Club; American

Medical Association; Vesper Country Club; Long Meadow Golf Club
(former president) ; Lowell Harvard Club; Yorick Club.
Publications: Miscellaneous medical articles mainly on transplantation of the
cornea, also many scientific papers before various medical societies h
cluding New England Ophthalmological Society, Pan American Oph-

thalmological Society, American Academy, American College of Sur
goons,

Following four years of distinctly enjoyable easy living in Gore, —
dolph, and Holworthy Halls, I was further spoiled by a summer 17

[ 498 ]

  

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

e [ renewed acquaintance with a considerable percer
roP Class at 4 few of the better known watering (?) resorts. Ins

ol that fall many of us found for the first time what really w
ft The country club atmosphere disappeared and we were
ne alize that after all a university was primarily a place to learn

e wher

iM llowing eight years of Harvard infl uence, an internship
Luke’s Hospital in Chicago allowed me to bring some of our Camt
culture to that frontier area, Later I returned to a residency

Massachusetts Eye & Ear Infirmary and gradually narrowed m
down to 2 small area between the lower lid and the eyebrow. I fe
my German A and Anthropology I; but, fortunately, in their pl
picked up a few facts about “cross eyes,” nuclear cataracts, infected
sacs, and similar romantic subjects, Asa child I always liked to play:
knives, so it was natura] that with a smattering of medical knowled,
ultimately turned into a surgeon. Asa matter of fact, some of my ope
tions have actually been successful.

After many years of looking the field over from Maine to Venezue

I finally discovered that the most beautiful girl in the world lived in 1
own home town of Lowell. Using a little finesse to shake off the rest
the home-town competition, I managed to get her wrapped up, signe
sealed, and (after a couple of years) delivered. One boy is an At st
dent; the second one is a “‘Hail fellow, well met” type, usually raisin
Cain of one type or another; and the third child is a pretty three-year
old lass who runs the household. My genial wife, Mary Jo, puts up wit.
all of us, and we all hope to live happily ever after.

In regard to medical work, my practice has become primarily a sur-
gical one. My home and office are in Lowell, and I am ophthalmic
surgeon at St. John’s Lowell General, and St. Joseph’s Hospitals of
Lowell, and the Massachusetts State Hospital in Tewksbury. In Boston

serve as associate surgeon at the Massachusetts Eye & Ear Infirmary
and Massachusetts General Hospital, and as instructor in ophthalmology
at the Harvard Medical School. For many years I have been doing spe-
Cal Work in the field of corneal transplantation.

RICHARD JAMES LEARSON, JR.

H

Ofin 1 ee 22 Woods Lane, Scarsdale, N. Y.
orn. adress: 1740 Broadway, New York 19, N. ¥.

“July 13, 1906, Boston, Mass. Parewts: Richard James Learson, Kathe-

Tine Elizabeth Goode.
[ 499 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926. .
Married: Harriet McKenzie Grever, June 22, 19355 Cincinnati, Ohio, C4y
dren: Katharine Elizabeth, Sept. 28, 1938; Harriet Ann, April It 941;
Margaret Mary, Aug. 15, 1942; Richard, May 16, 1945. }
Harvard Brothers: Thomas Vincent Learson, ’35; John Berchmans Learson
A.A., 739. ,

Occupation: Actuary.

+ DAVID HENRY LEAVITT

Born: July 4, 1904, Omaha, Nebr. Parents: Heywood Gibbons Leavitt, °g 2,
Alvina Weller. .
Prepared at: Omaha Central High School, Omaha, Nebr.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; A.M., 1928.
Married: Edna Field, February, 1927, Brookline, Mass. Child: David, Sept.
18, 1928.
Died: Oct. 17, 1929, Cambridge, Mass.

As an undergraduate at Harvard, David Henry Leavitt early made
geology his special interest. He subsequently obtained an A.M. degree
from the Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, where he spe-
cialized in vertebrate paleontology under Professor P. E. Raymond.

His mind was admirably suited for scientific work, combining as it did
tremendous interest in the task at hand with patience and the aptitude

for painstaking detail.
He was survived by his wife, who died shortly after his death, and

their small son.

KENT LEAVITT

Home and Office Address: Millbrook, N. Y. .
Born: Aug. 27, 1903, White Plains, N. Y. Parents: Charles Wellford Leavitt
Clara Gordon White.
Prepared at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
Years tn College: 1922-1926. Degree: 8.B., 1926. 1 yon:
Married: Mary Boocock, Oct. 1 3, 1928, Prouts Neck, Maine. Childrev:
Charles Wellford, July 9, 1929 (2. Dorothy Davidson, Dec. 22, 1949);
Adele, Sept. 20, 1930.

Occupatimm: Farmer, dairyman, conservationist, and trustee.

Offices Held: President, National Association of Soil Conservation
1947-59; president, 1947, director, since 1946, New York Stat
ciation of Soil Conservation Districts.

Publications: Various Magazine articles.

[ 500 J

Districts,
e Asso"

  

Twenty-Jifth Anniversary Report

two years at banking and five years in the const
had posts at Montreal and Mexico City, we mov
prook, New York, where we bought a farm and built a home.

entire time has been taken up with the development of th
nerd, the milk business, which I sold this year, and the chees
The activity on the land led me to an Intense interest in soil cos
and proper Jand use. During the last seven years I have helk
and develop the Dutchess County Soil Conservation District,
York State Association of Soil Conservation Districts, of whi
frst president, and the National Association of Soil Conservat
tricts. As president of the National Association, I travelled to ev
‘athe Union, most of them several times, to work with landowr
operators who were officials or directors of their local districts
associations. The pleasure of working with this group which cor
some 10,000 farmers, ranchers, and planters was to me the hig.
ofa rather varied life.

After

wheré I

JOSEPH MAURICE LEBOWICH

Home Address: 98 Fifth Ave., Saratoga Springs, N. Y.
Office Address: Saratoga County Laboratory, 215 Church St., Saratoga Spr

N.Y.
Born: Jan. 12, 1905, Boston, Mass. Parents: Abraham Lebowich, Ida

Pearlman,

Prepared at: English High School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B., 1926; M.D. (Boston Unit
1930; Dipi. (American Board of Pathology), 1943.

Married: Gertrude Schwartz, Dec. 16, 1934, Elyria, Ohio. Children: Richa
M., May 18, 1936; Samuel James, May 4, 1941; Judith Ann, July 2
1943.

Occupation : Pathologist.

Wartime Government Posts: Chief medical examiner, Selective Service System
local board No. 32, 1940-44; member, Area Selective Service Board o1

_ Review, 1944-45.
Offices A eld: Treasurer, Saratoga County Medical Society; director, Tubercu-
losis and Public Health Association.
ember of : Rotary Club of Saratoga Springs; College of American Pathologists
(founding fellow) ; American Society of Clinical Pathologists (fellow) ;
Merican Public Health Association; American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science; New York State Association of Public Health
why ctPoratoriess New York State Society of Pathologists.
vont: “Deficiency Osteoporosis,” 1935 5 “Hodgkin’s Disease Involving
the Bladder,” 1937; “A Simple Direct Reading Photoelectric Colorim-

[ sor ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

eter,” 1937; “Diagnostic Significance of Fosinophilia in Periarte
Nodosa,” 1939.

Titis

Following my graduation from medical school IN 1930, and after the
completion of my intern and residency training in Chicago and Cleve.
\and, L spent over a year as an assistant to Professor J. Erdhein in the

pathological laboratory at the Jubilaumspital, Vienna. I came ty Sara.

toza Springsin April, 1934, as director of the Saratoga County Labora.
tory and have been here since. In 1945 I was appointed pathologist ¢,
the Mary McClellan Hospital, Cambridge, New York, and Consultant
pathologist to the U.S. Veterans’ Hospital, Saratoga Springs, in 1947,
In addition, 1 serve as coroner’s physician for Saratoga County. The
responsibility for three laboratories, as well as my other Professional ace
tivities, makes strict demands on my time and does not give me enough
leisure, not so much for relaxation, but for study in my own field.
Ax present 1 am in the throes of building and equipping a new labora-
tory, a rather elaborate affair. I suppose someday when doctors begin to
complain of the overemphasis of the laboratory in the practice of medi-
cine they will single me out asa bad example.
My elder boy, who is fourteen, is to enter preparatory school this
coming September with the intention (I hope) of going to Harvard.
Besides myself there are only two other alumni of Harvard College in
Saratoga Springs. The New York state colleges are heavily represented
and promising youngsters all too frequently succumb to sheer numbers.
‘There are some advantages, however, to this relative isolation, because
one acquires a large amount of objectivity. After seeing the products of
various other institutions of higher learning, I become more proud of

Harvard, of what she stands for, and realize more and more that her
position in American education is unique.

ROLAND STEBBINS LEE

Home Address: 47'Tar\eton R4., Newton Center, Mass, -
Office vt adress: Kinney Manufacturing Co., 3541 Washington St., Boston
ans.
Born: Feb. 15, 1904, Philadelphia, Pa. Parests: John Clarence Lee, 78, Hel-
ena L. Cruammett, hool
Prepared at: Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.; Gloucester High Schoo”
Gloucester, Mass,
Years in College: 1922—1 926. Degree:
; - Degree: S.B., 1926. G.
Married: Mary ©. Clough, June 1s, 1935, Waban, Mass. Children: Stephen

{ 502 J

  

Twenty-fifth Anniversary .

Haynes, Jan. 17, 1926 (stepson); Christop

Martha Ayres and Richard Bennett (twa

4 Brother: Cuthbert Lee, ’12.

eat: Vice-president in charge of sales, Kinne

ny-

Mabe if Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Ch
Federation of Sales Executives; New England :
Hydraulic Institute.

19415

After twenty years in New York, we moved to N
fall when I was made vice-president in charge of sz
Manufacturing Company, who make industrial vac
large petroleum pumps in Boston. The factory is onl.
from our house which is certainly a big improvement
commuting. I have been fortunate in having more thar.
and variety starting just after graduation when for two,
and travelled in Australia, New Guinea, the Philippine
After all these years we still have friends from those days
their trips to this country. Even now my work frequently
over the United States and I almost always fly. |
There is no question that the outstanding thing I have to.

reat good fortune in having a wife and children who have
great good | LvIng
house with joy, Perhaps it is because we have such a commu.
terests or perhaps it is because we have all been well through .
Thave always earned my living as a sales manager or salesman
cipally for three employers but on a wide variety of products a
ices. Probably my most interesting assignment was screening th
dreds of new inventions, both during and after the war, tha.
brought to the United States Rubber Company. It was my job to
lish the company in businesses other than the rubber industry. Thr
It all tis clear to me that the Truman administration is capable a
flating everything faster than I can wheedle raises from my bosses.

At the time of the birth of our twins, the boy got most of the nour;
ment to the detriment of his sister. In fact my greatest thrill was t
nrvival of the girl twin who weighed only 232 pounds when she w
neni Tt may be old stuff to you doctors in our Class but it was a mirach
th me that she hatched out after six weeks in an incubator and grew tc

* robust little blonde she is today.

side from the normal Comm unity Chest, local Republican groups

Committees, one of m y chief hobbies for several years was spending

Vening a week helping several hundred hard-to-place men find jobs.
Rother hobby T’ve en joyed is trying my hand at a certain amount of

[ 503 ]

and
Ine

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

saw and hatchet carpentry, and I helped build my summer home, Each
summer I mow from ten to twenty acres of hay on slopes that make th

tractor rear and list like a sloop in a high wind. Incidentally, My sey en.
and ten-year-old sons drive the tractor with an abandon that some day
may land them in a ditch, instead of in Harvard. y

CHESTER CLARKE LEES

Home Address: High Street, Hinsdale, N. H.

Office Address: Center School, Winchester, N. H.

Born: June 27, 1905, Fall River, Mass. Parents: Samuel Lees, Elizabeth Cart.
ledge.

Prepared at: B.M.C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; A.M. (Brown

Univ.), 1937.
Married: Gladys Arline Lannigan, June 27, 1929, Fall River, Mass. Children:
Carolyn Elizabeth, Sept. 7, 19313 Barbara Edith, July 23, 1935.
Occupation: Superintendent of schools.
Offices Held: Director, Bristol County (Mass.) ‘Teachers Association, 1935-
41; president, Cheshire County (N. H.) Teachers Association, 1946-

7.
Member of: American Association of Schoo] Administrators; New Hampshire
Superintendents’ Association; New England Superintendents’ Associa-
tion; Kiwanis Club of Winchester, N. H.; Harvard Club of New Hamp-

shire.

From the time of my graduation from Harvard in 1926 until 1930
I attempted to find a place for myself in the business world. My experi-
ences included finding the cost of such diametrically opposite products as
the chocolates of W. F. Schrafft & Sons and the gears and machines of
Brown & Sharpe. My final choice of vocation was influenced greatly by
my life partner whom I married in 1929. She was a school teacher and
the fall of 1930 found me teaching mathematics and physical science in
Case High School in Swansea, Massachusetts.

Both Carolyn and Barbara were born while we lived in Swan
we have many pleasant memories and recollections of our eleven ye!
there. There were humorous incidents aplenty. Many of these wer m
connection with a house which Gladys and I bought. It wasn’t much 0
a house but to Gladys and me it was a palace. How our hearts
however, when we discovered that in the spring of the year
flowed into the cellar until it was flooded several feet deep. Bailing ne
no effect and our discouragement was profound until suddenly my $ .
entific training at Harvard began to pay dividends, Our house W4® s!

[ 504 ]

sea and

water

sank,

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

ted on the side of a hill and I discovered that by joining two lengths of

hose [ could siphon the water from the cellar, The water ran out a
jttle faster than it came in. At least the siphon prevented the house from
goating off and it was much easier on the back and arms than bailing.

While teaching in Swansea I attended the Graduate School of Edu-
cation at Brown University and I received the degree of A.M. in Edu-
cation in 1937: It was through the placement office at Brown that I
received a notice of a vacancy in the headmastership of the high school
-, Hinsdale, New Hampshire. I was fortunate to be elected to the posi-
ton and so on August I, 1941, we moved to Hinsdale where we still

ide.
ee 1947 I was elected superintendent of schools of New Hampshire
Supervisory Union #25, of which Hinsdale is one of the towns, the
other three being Winchester, Swanzey, and Richmond. Gladys is my
first-grade teacher in Hinsdale and so for five hours a day, five days a
week, for some thirty-seven weeks a year I can call myself her boss.
About the rest of the time during the year, I have my doubts.

Carolyn has just completed her freshman year at the University of
New Hampshire. Barbara enters her junior year in high school in the
fall. Middle age is settling very slowly on Gladys and me, for our many
contacts with youth tend to keep us young.

GEORGE ROSS LEIGHTON

Home Address: 354 E. 51st St., New York 22, N.Y.

Office Address: 33.5 Senate Office Bldg., Washington, D. C.

Born: March 9, 1902, Methol, N. Y. Parents: George Leighton, Theodora
Ross,

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. .

Married: Josephine Gund, May 29, 1931; Lyons, N. Y. Child: John Frederic
Gunby, March 10, 1932.

. Occupation: Writer.

Publications: Five Cities; The Wind That Swept Mexico; articles for various mag-
azines,

JOHN LEONARD

Home Address: 7202 Radnor Rd., Bethesda, Md. ;
om: Oct. 12, 1903, Munich, Germany. Parents: Frederick Moore Leonard,

p "79, Mathilde Irvin. .
ve ared at: William Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.
“ars im College: 1922-1 926, Degrees: A.B., 19263 LL.B., 1931.

[ 505 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

Morried: Laura Kittner, June 25, 1932, New York, N.Y. (divorced 1938),
Katherine Lillian Boykin, April ro, 1942, Washington, D. C. Chay
Lucy Phelps, Feb. 22,1943. ;

Occupation: Government lawyer. .
Wartime Government Posts: Associate attorney, Public Lands Division, p epart.

ment of Justice.

Offices Held: Chairman, Carroll County (Md.) Chapter, American Red Cros.
1936-373 vice-president, English Village—Bradley Woods Citizens? As.
sociation, 1948-49; vice-president, 1947, president, 1948, Montgom-

ery Homeworkshop Club, Montgomery County, Md.
Wember of: English Village—Bradley Woods Citizens’ Association, Bethesda
Md.; Montgomery Homeworkshop Club, Montgomery County, Md, ,

After I had a reasonably successful career at Harvard Law School,
th as a student and as manager of the Chancery Club, my life, colored
it has been by the fact of having been dumped out into the world at

depths of the depression, has been hardly what I would call satisfy-

I hasten to except from this broad statement the marital bliss that
been mine since my second marriage and the birth of my thoroughly
factory daughter, Lucy. I am wonderfully happy with both!
ever, during all these years, have I felt financially secure. Hardly
icive to retrospective peace of mind were my five years of near
tion as a country lawyer in Westminster, Maryland, nor the suc-
g five years in the M. E. Church Real Estate Office in Falls
h, Virginia (not a part of the Methodist Episcopal Church as was
d in the Quindecennial Class Report). A little better remunera-
nda lot better spiritually, were the two years I spent asa research
y in the Lands Division of the Department of Justice. Here I
k in the truly academic atmosphere, completely my own boss,
x my days in Washington’s finest Law Library and working

kind of people I had assumed in school would be my lifelong
ons. Unfortunately, my feeling of insecurity got the best of me

d I left this most satisfying of pursuits to tie into the war effort
sing agent for a large machine plant, owned by a childhood

Jim Ballantine, in Absecon, New Jersey, near Atlantic City.
re by rosy promises of wonderful postwar products, none °
‘ materialized, I found, after two years of slowly losing finan-
1, that there was nothing for it but to return to the Washing"
There I became counsel to the Surplus Property Office of the
t of the Interior, selling the surplus in the territories 47
sions, Here I was thrust into the top level management ©

st tive
€ government agency. This job was decently remunela

[ 506 J

and cé

 

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

rtainly educational, but, like all temporary government agencies,
ght hectic months, in February, 1947, this one faded away, leav-
‘ng me from that day to this with no law job and only makeshifts to keep
the wolf from the door.
Despite the generally accepted idea that the Harvard Law School
runs the U.S. government, it has been my experience at least that having
one there doesn’t help a bit. Perhaps Iam not the starry-eyed type who
seems $0 prevalent, according to the Republicans, in both the New Deal
and the Fair Deal. Anyway, on this gray day at the end of November,
[’d jump at almost any chance to get back into harness,
After an exciting but unremunerative interlude as U.S. vice-president

of an international engineering company hopefully trying to start a little
Marshall Plan, industrially speaking, I have turned to my mechanical
hobbies to carry on during this period of austerity. As Katherine and I
have been signally successful in remodelling and redecorating two of the
three houses we have owned, selling each at far above inflationary prices,
[have, for the past year and a half been selling my services in construc-
tion and maintenance work.

As to my philosophical and religious beliefs, apart from my present
gloomy outlook, they closely coincide, compounded as they are of the
tenets of Abou Ben Adem and of what it takes to be a gentleman and a
good sport. This is the same philosophy I had in school, and adversity
has not caused me to change it. Belief in any formalistic dogma is not
for me, though officially I am a member of the Episcopal Church.

Since I am only human, had the tide of my fortunes been at the flood,

this squib would have been more cheerful.

after €3

PAUL AARON LEVI

Home Address: 109 Eastbourne Rd., Newton Center, Mass.

Office Address: American Theatres Corp., 646 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Oct. 5, 1904, Schenectady, N. Y. Parents: Aaron Levi, Mabel Mock.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. Hi. |

Years im College: 1922—1 926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Edith Freedman, Feb. 14, 1939, Brookline, Mass. Children: Paul
Aaron, Jr., Sept. 4, 1940; Carol Jane, Aug. 30, 1943.

Occupation Advertising and publicity director, American Theatres Corpora-
tion,

M mie a : Boston Publicity Club; Boston Press Club; Variety Club of New

“ngland,

[ 507 |

Harvard Class of 1926

GEORGE ELIOT LEVINREW

Home Address: 455 W. 23rd St., New York 11, N.Y.

Ofice Address: Bureau of Child Guidance, Board of Education, 362 Scher-
merhorn St., Brooklyn 17, N.Y,

Born: June 12, 1905, Newark, N. J. Parents: William Levine, Mathilda Klei-
man,

Prepared at: South Side High School, Newark, N. J.

Years sa College: 1922-1927. Degree: S.B., 1926 (27).

Married: Rose R. Kappel, 1931, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1942); Janet A.
Tuck, Oct. 15, 1942, New York, N. Y.

Occupation: School social worker in the Bureau of Child Guidance of the New
York City Board of Education.

Offices Held: Recording Secretary, 1944-45, chairman, 1945-47, New York
District Branch, American Association of Psychiatric Social Workers;
treasurer, American Association of Psychiatric Social Workers, 1947—
si.

Member of: American Association of Psychiatric Social Workers; American As-
sociation of Social Workers; American Orthopsychiatric Association;
American Group Therapy Association.

Publications; “The Case Work Approach to Recreation,” American Journal of
Orthopsychiatry, Vol. XII, No. 2, April, 1942; “A Psychiatric Social
Work Program for Children with Epilepsy,” in Neevs-Letter, American
Association of Psychiatric Social Workers, Vol. XV, No. 4, spring issue,
1946; “Special School Services for Children with Epilepsy,” in Journal
of Exceptional Children, Vol. 15, No. 4, January, 1949.

With but a few changes I could repeat my “Class life’? as I wrote it
for the Twentieth Report. My address is still the same. My work is the
same with a good deal of growing satisfaction in my success in helping
most children who have epilepsy to attend school in New York City as
normal pupils. I still daydream about past hiking trips in the Sierras, and
my next trip whenever that will be. Contract bridge is a relatively new
hobby.

I am still greatly concerned about our future as a nation and the
failure of the followers of F. D. R. to carry on with the New Deal. The
true liberal has no place to turn. Our two major parties are not parties
of progress, Leaders, such as Henry Wallace, whom I would follow,
have no party in which they can work. All one can do in a world rapidly
approaching annihilation is to live on one’s job and in one’s personal life
as democratically as possible. Whatever hope there is for the future is in
the building of democracy.

I have some capacity to relax and not grow morbid or pessimistic
through my “realistic” appraisal of our age of chaos.

[ 508 J

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Our Twenty-fifth Anniversary gives me a feeling of nostalgia for
the past and hope that future generations of Harvard men will somehow
make up for our failure to make a better world.

JACOB LEVY -

Home Address: 89 Jordan Rd., Brookline, Mass.

Office Address: 92 State St., Boston g, Mass,

Bora: July 18, 1906, Boston, Mass. Parents: Joseph Levy, Lena Hirsh.

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B., 19313 Litt.D.
(Calvin Coolidge Coll.), 1943.

Married: Ida R. Berezin, Dec. 26, 1937, Brookline, Mass. Children: Eleanor
Ruth, March 2, 1940; Carol Jean, April 9, 1943; E. David, Feb. 13,

1947+
Occupation: Lawyer; professor of law.
Member of : Everett C. Benton Lodge, A.F. & A.M.

I find myself torn between the example of the politician who “recom-
mends himself very highly” and the promise of fewer embarrassments
through adherence to fact. I lean towards the latter course if only by
way of rebellion against autobiographical fiction.

During the last quarter-century my life has been a constant succession
of dynamic experiences — one as ordinary as the other. Promptly after
graduating from Harvard Law School I opened my own office in Bos-
ton for the general practice of law. I have been so engaged since then.
Then followed marriage, children, and a new home, all in leisurely
succession.

I have always been convinced of the basic truth in the ancient con-
fession: “I have learned much from my masters, more from my fellow-
students, and most from my pupils.” Accordingly, I have held in high
regard the singularly advantageous position of the teacher who, by the
demands of his work and the challenge of his students, is stimulated to
consistent effort towards self-improvement. I therefore accepted, in
1938, a teaching position in Portia Law School in Boston as an interest
supplementary to my practice of law. Five years later the school saw fit
to crown my efforts with the award of a Litt.D.

In 1947 Suffolk University Law School in Boston, already making
remarkable progress under new leadership, beckoned. I accepted the
post of assistant professor of law. ‘The “assistant” has since been deleted.
While the reactions of my students have been mixed, mine has been one
of pleasant anticipation of each lecture (Wills, Property I, and for the
time being, Constitutional Law).

[ 509 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

Totwithstanding the fascination of the law and the stimulation of
teaching, my chief pleasures in life have centered around my new home
and the big and little people who share it with me. Each evening I am
regaled with the day’s achievements at school, verbatim quotations of
junior’s latest witticisms, and demonstrations of a psychoanalytica]
mother’s patience. Gardening has replaced golf; poor attendance at
Masonic and Brotherhood meetings has become poorer; but the disting.

tion between labor and refreshment has faded into insignificance, with
the advantage on the side of refreshment.

MARION ISAAC LEVY

Home Address: 3164 Ludlow Rd,, Cleveland 20, Ohio.
Office Address: Viking Air Conditioning Corp., 5610
land 2, Ohio.
Born: Aug. 3, 1905, Galveston, Texas. Parents: Max Levy, Stella Dreeben,
Prepared at: Central High School; Rice Institute, Houston, Texas.
Years in College: 1924-1926. Degrees: S.B., 1926; S.M. (Univ. of Hlinois),
1928.

Married: Charlotte Salzer, Sept. 10, 1929, Cincinnati, Ohio. Children: Mar-
gery, Aug. 17, 1930 (7, Alfred Margolis, Sept. 20, 1949) ; Elizabeth,
April 16, 1935; Jill, June 11, 1944.

ecupation: Founder, president, Viking Air Conditioning Corporation, manu-
facturers of humidifiers, fans, blowers.

) ffices Held: Member board of trustees, and chairman, publicity and merchan-
dising committee, National Warm Air Heating and Air Conditioning
Association; past president, Furnace Blower Manufacturers Association.

Lember of : Sigma Xi; ZBT; City Club; Hawthorne Valley Country Club;
American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers.

blications: “Flow of Brine in Pipes,” University of Illinois Engineering Experi-
ment Station Bulletin, No. 182.

Walworth Ave., Cleve-

Even without an R in the month of June, 1926, the world was an
‘ster worth opening, and with the self-assurance that accompanies 2
arvard degree, I immediately got a job with the biggest title and lowest
y of anybody in the Class; that was, “Chief Engineer for the Office
the Supervising Architect of the Houston Board of Education acting
der School Bond Issue No. 2.” It took just one year to drain out the
ads in “Bond Issue No. 2.” By that time I had decided that life would
simpler if I knew just a little bit more than the salesmen, whose ¢4t4"
ues were the beginning and end of all knowledge so far as they Wer*
cerned. So, spurning many fine offers (sic), I spent a year in resi-
ce at the University of Illinois Graduate School of Engineeriné

[ 510 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Engineering Experiment Station Bulletin on “The Flow of Brine in
Pi as,” and a very learned treatise — which later turned out to be in-
} °
sc urate — on “The Phenomenon of Variable Water Flow in Perfo-
. . ” .
rated U nderdrain Filter-bed Laterals.” For those, I received a Master’s

oe ways a stickler for titles, in my next activity I was branded “‘direc-
tor of research” for Bishop and Babcock Manufacturing Company in
Cleveland. This was 1929. In the ensuing years the titles became more
ponderous, the duties greater, the salary less, until by 1933 it had be-
come Zero. It was bad enough to have no job — no titles— but what
was worse, L had to make my living by selling — a lowly calling, as any
engineer will assure you. Naturally it was only a temporary expedient,
resorted to only because the three of us found it easier than breaking
ourselves of the habit of eating. A salesman could get a job when an
engineer could not and before you knew it I had a job and a title again,
together with a meager income and the world’s meanest boss. While I
slaved for Simon Legree IT, I dreamt of developing equipment for win-
ter air conditioning and finally, one day when I'd had too much of the
boss’s abuse and too little of his money, I celebrated my thirtieth birthday
by selecting a nice long company name, Viking Air Conditioning Cor-
poration, and establishing a business of my own.

Learning to do business under depression conditions had its advan-
tages. You learned how to stretch a “shoestring,” operate on “deficit
financing,” and appreciate a signed order blank more than a current
best seller or an old masterpiece. It didn’t take long to learn that “air
conditioning,” as such, was for the big boys and that for a starter we
could best make our way by supplying parts to the large manufacturers
— blowers, humidifiers, and fans, which are used in other manufactur-
ers furnaces and air conditioners. And so the company grew for the next
Several years; the mortgage got smaller; the family got larger.

ut, alas, a spark from a spotwelder dropped into a puddle of lacquer

that had spilled on the floor, and our plant went up in smoke six months
efor e the Japs dropped their bombs on Pearl Harbor. When the smoke
lee away, we found that the banks had a bigger interest in what was
af rot the ashes than we did. Then the war came along and all thoughts
serambennin g the fan and blower business were forgotten, while we
reflec ed around to get priority bearing orders for everything from
ove ; brackets for pontoons to buzz bomb wing ribs, Thanks to that
er y-lovely carry-back clause in the income tax law, the fire losses
© recovered and we were on our merry way again. An Army-Navy

[ sir ]

where 1 bestowed upon posterity a thesis on “Schoolhouse Ventilating,”

Harvard Class of 1926

“E” Award was bestowed on the company’s tenth anniversary and my
fortieth birthday. Life had begun!
For the past five years business and pleasure have been mixed in the
proper proportions by travelling the country from end to end in search
of business and enjoyment. In the past twelve months I have been from
Portland, Oregon, to Portland, Maine, from Halifax to Tia Juana, and
from San Francisco to Miami, with side trips to Cape Cod and Galves-
ton. Hobbies, such as greenhouse gardening, antique gun and gimmick
collecting, basement workshop, and photography have had to be sand-
wiched between trips. But the mostest fun of all — and I can do it any-
where —1s to daydream of twenty-five years ago: a green “collegiate”
kid from ‘Texas seeing his first snow; the “Splendid” when it was the
“Splendid”; losing a rudder rope while coxing a class crew race; red
wine in tea cups at Possilippo’s and Stella d'Italia; and Wellesley (I
finally married her).

DAVID LEWIS

Home Address; Crow Hill Road, Mt. Kisco, N. Y.

Born: Oct. 4, 1904, New York, N. Y. Parents: Samuel Lewis, Miriam Guss.

Prepared at: Tome School, Port Deposit, Md.

Years in College: 1922-1926, Degrees: §.B., 1926; LL.B., 1930 (31).

Married: Olive McLain, Jan. 29, 1938, Elkton, Md. Children: Gwendolyn
McLain, July 20, 1943; Randolph Goodwin, Jan. 10, 1947.

Harvard Brother: Stanley Howard Lewis, ’35.

Occupation: General manager, metals working industry.

Wartime Government Posts: Member, Chemical Industry Advisory Committee
to Bureau of the Budget; industry panel member, National War Labor
Board, New York City and northern New Jersey.

Member of : Harvard Club of New York.

Since you have a lot of other reports to read, and I do not have much
to say anyhow, my report will be brief. I have spent two years with the
Guaranty Trust Company of New York as a tax and accounting admin-
istrator, ten years as a corporation lawyer, four years as assistant to the
president of J. IT. Baker Chemical Company, three years as general
manager of three divisions of Noma Electric Corporation (with respon-
sibility for organizing and operating one company, operating and liqui-
dating another company, and reorganizing and operating a third com-
pany ), and one year as general sales manager of the Lycoming-Spencer
division of Avco Manufacturing Corporation. During the 1940 presi-
dential campaign I was attached to Wendell Willkie’s personal staff.

In 1926 I figured I would be a confirmed bachelor and easily make
a million. Instead I am very fortunate to have a fine wife and two splen-

[ 512 ]

T wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

did children, and making that million looks less feasible every day. I
collect antiques and wade through my large library on the subject, to
the extent that it is nearly a disease, not to mention the financial drain.
Whenever the Lewises can stay put in one place long enough to acquire
a home, that will be a great day for us.

WILLIAM HENRY LEWIS, JR.

Home Address: 42 Alden Rd., Dedham, Mass.

Office Address: 294 Washington St., Room 748, Boston, Mass.

Born: Dec. 30, 1902, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: William Henry Lewis, ’9s5,
Elizabeth Baker. .

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years ia College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B. (Boston Univ.),
1930.

Married: Edna Cooper, April 4, 1928, New York, N. Y. Child: William Rich-
ard, Aug. 21, 1935.

Occupation: Attorney-at-law.

Wartime Government Posts: Civilian member of Public Relations Council, First

_ Service Command, under General Sherman L. Miles, World War II.

Offices Held: Assistant U.S. Attorney, Southern District of New York, and
District of Massachusetts.

Member of : Professional and Business Men’s Club.

Since graduation I have spent a little time travelling in Europe par-
ticularly France, Switzerland, and Germany. I used to enjoy small boat
sailing, but pressure of earning a living and looking after my family no
longer permits me to do so. I have dabbled in politics during the presi-
dential campaigns, particularly when Governor Thomas E. Dewey
was a candidate, as I had served under him when he was acting U.S.
Attorney in New York. The longer I live, the Jess certain I am of any-
thing, and I certainly have no religious convictions except that I believe
that some faith is helpful to one’s well being. I used to be quite conserva-
tive in my political views. I believe that today we cannot turn back the
clock and return entirely to the era before Franklin D. Roosevelt,
whether we like it or not. Society will have to do more for the average
man. It is apparent that if the trend to a bigger self-sustaining bureau-
cracy continues, some form of dictatorship of our own brand and not
one imposed upon us by Russia, is inevitable.

While I do not want to pontificate, it does seem that the great diffi-
culty in the United States is the fact that the citizen has no control over
ninety percent of his government, namely, the executive departments.
Perhaps the answer to the problem of control by the citizen is a constitu-

[ 513 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

tional amendment which would introduce the parliamentary syste

this country so that at any time, if there were a vote of no confidence to

Congress, the administration could be thrown out of power, The me

administration embraces not only the party with a working Majority .

both branches of Congress, but the President and heads of executiy, 7m

partments. In other words, our problem has little to do with ideo] eles

that is, democracy as against Communism. If we had the parliamentary

system today, the administration could be called to account fo, its

foreign and military policies. At present, we have no real Opposition

party. Even if we did, we lack the mechanism to make that Opposition

effective except in a presidential year, which means that the citizen has

no effective control over the government except at four-year interval,

and a lot can and does happen in four years’ time.
I have not much in the way of hobbies any more. My main interest
is my son who seems to be making fairly good progress, |

With respect to Harvard, I think too much emphasis is being placed

on purely formal] education and intellectual pursuits. I wish that we

-ould return to the days when more emphasis was placed upon football

ind athletics. It does not seem to me, judging by the past fifteen years,

hat we are turning out well-rounded individuals. Unfortunately, too

aany of our graduates have attempted to impress their social views upon

e government and society without any real experience either in the
yvernment itself or meeting a payroll.

IRVING LIBMAN

me Address: 15 Whitfield Terr., New Rochelle, N. Y.

ce Address: J. A. Riley & Co., Inc., 260 Fourth Ave., New York, N. ¥Y.

z: July 21, 1903, New York, N. Y. Parents: Joseph Libman, Lillian Mar-
golies.

ared at: Boys’ High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

s in College: 1921-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926. Wye

‘ied: Lucille M. Markowitz, Jan. 9, 1944, New York, N. Y¥. Children:

Lawrence Charles, Feb, 10, 1945; Karen Ann, Jan. 9, 1947- ,

vation: Textile converting; vice-president in charge of rayon operatio’

J. A. Riley & Company, Inc. :

Held: President, Westchester Region, Zionist Organization of Americ

ROBERT WILLIAM LISHMAN

| ddress: 4853 Rockwood Pkwy., N.W,, Washington 16,D.C-
'ddress: Knox, Matthews & Lishman, 821 15th St., N.W, Washingt"
D.C.

[ 514 ]

 

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

porn: Dec. 13, 1903, Boston, Mass. Parents: William Hugh Lishman, Marian

ng.

pr pared we Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass. ;

Years i College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. magna cum laude, 1926; LL.B.,
1929.

Married: Elinor Francis Hogue, Sept. 7, 1935, Philadelphia, Pa. Children:
Ellen Montgomery, Jan. 3, 19415; Robert William, Jr., May 2, 19453
John Murray, Oct. 20, 1950.

Occupation: Lawyer ; member of firm of Knox, Matthews & Lishman.

Military or Naval Record: Plattsburg, 1940.

Wartime Government Posts: Counsel, Defense Plant Corporation.

Offices Held: Assistant Corporation Counsel to the City of New York, 1934—

2.

Member of: Phi Beta Kappa; Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of
Washington; University Club, Washington; Touchdown Club; Cock’n
Bull; English Speaking Union; Association of the Bar of the City of
New York; New York State Bar Association; District of Columbia Bar
Association; Federal and American Bar Associations,

Frankly, I don’t know why you or anyone else should be interested,
but heeding the exhortations of our tireless Class whips, I now reminisce
as follows: In September, 1929, I began the practice of law with a small,
conservative, intellectual and good firm in New York City. With Eliot
E. Long, a gifted, thoughtful classmate whose sad and untimely end cut
off years of great promise, I shared quarters in Greenwich Village. Pros-
perity had then lost all vestige of stability, and we found ourselves in a
milieu where money didn’t count because there wasn’t any. The intel-
lectual level was on a fairly elevated plane variegated by visits to Roger
Wallace’s establishment on Horatio Street. For about ten days in the
cold winter of 1929 Roger’s menage overlooked a dead horse in the
roadway, upon whose distended sides neighborhood urchins frolicked.

In those days before La Guardia, sanitation in the village was almost as
Unpractised as in the days of Panurge. :

After some years of foreclosing mortgages and working in the debris
left by frenzied finance, I stepped into a pra bono publico role as assistant
Corporation counsel to the City of New York, where active participation,
even as a “semi-colon boy,” in the functioning of democracy in action
was always stimulating. Corporation Counsel Bill Chanler, a forthright,
able public servant, carried on the tradition of Windels and infused an
‘tprit de corps for public service among those working in the city’s legal
“ineyard that probably will never be equalled. Litigation involving con-
*racts for the construction of subways, test cases establishing the non-
lability of the city for property damage caused by vibration from subway

[ 515 ]

Flarvard Class of 1926

operation, public utility regulation, franchise grants, and aviation were
then the principal grist in my mill.

During this period I became blessed with a wife whose gentleness
and goodness needs a better witness than I am to vouch for. We have
dude-ranched in Wyoming, bicycled in Bermuda, walked over Exmoor,
and motor-toured in England, following scrupulously the itinerary of
Mr. Pickwick, revisited Yarrow in Wordworth’s footsteps, and absorbed
the beauty and inspiration of England’s old cathedrals — Durham, Lin-
coln, York, Ely, Litchfield, Winchester, Rochester, and Canterbury.

In the summer of 1940 I had a spell of military service at Plattsburg.
Thereafter, attempts at getting a commission in active military service
having failed, I became one of counsel to Defense Plant Corporation in
Washington. My chief job there was handling plant facility expansions
in the field of chemicals, aircraft, mining, lumbering, and a little work
on the Manhattan project thrown in for good measure. As a result of
tending to the conversion of distilleries to war alcohol production I feel
duty-bound to advise that advertising in the field of spiritus frumentt is
merely surface glitter to distract attention from congenerics inside the.
bottle.

Now I am again in private practice. The esoteric stuff of my public
service years is replaced by matters sometimes exciting, sometimes com-
monplace, involving clients’ relations with Washington’s hierarchy of
departments, bureaus, agencies, and instrumentalities,

Two boys and a girl—the youngest now is three weeks old, the
eldest ten — give plenty of zip and happiness to the domestic fireside.

Occasionally we return to Cambridge and in the Yard nostalgia sets
in. We see President Lowell going up the steps of University Hall two
at a time; Professor Palmer quietly and alone walking to old Appleton
Chapel; Kittredge striding towards Harvard Hall with green bag under
arm and a cigar embowered in whitest beard; diminutive, pipe-smoking
Lowes laboring towards Sever with the wealth of Xanadu in his large,
well-worn portfolio.

May we wind up by saying that we still continue to reap the harvest
of four fruitful years in the College? Spirits of President Emeritus Eliot,
Dean Briggs, Greenough, Kitty, Lowes, Merriman, and a host of
others both living and dead, who helped make the Harvard of our time,
still evoke deepest feeling and conviction as to the meaning and implica-
tions of “Veritas.”

[ 516 J

T wenty-fifth Anntversary Report

EDWARD MASON LITTELL

Address: 14.9 Park Ave., Yonkers 3, N. Y.
Bora: March 14, 1904, Hankow, China. Parents: Samuel Harrington Littell,

Charlotte Moeller Mason.
Prepared at: Kent School, Kent, Conn.
Years in College: 1922-1926, 1927-1928. Degree: A.B., 1926 (28).
Occupation: Ministry.
The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Littell
did not return a questionnaire.

* ELIOT STUART ENNEKING LONG

Born: Nov. 2, 1905, Longmeadow, Mass. Parents: Percy Waldron Long, 8
Florence Enneking.

Prepared at: Nolen’s, Cambridge, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.

Died; Oct. 22, 1933, Princeton, N. J. |

In 1921, when just fifteen years of age, Eliot Stuart Enneking Long
qualified for entrance to Harvard. However, he decided to wait a year
during which he took a course in radio engineering. Thus he entered
Harvard with our Class. As an undergraduate he was a member of the
freshman lacrosse team and of the Theatregoers Club, and was presi-
dent of the latter in his senior year. His field of concentration was eco-
nomics, especially money and banking. This interest developed into a
career. His first job was with Hayden, Stone & Company. However,
early in 1927 he left for Europe to pursue a secondary but strong inter-
est in fine arts. He travelled in France, Venice, and Rome and in the fall
entered the University of Munich where he spent a year studying fine
arts.

In the summer of 1928 he returned to the United States and became
associated with the foreign exchange branch of the Central Hanover
National Bank of New York, where he received a series of promotions.
In 1933 he again travelled to Europe, seeing Austria, Italy, France,
Greece, and England and making an intensive tour of cathedral and
chateau regions. His death resulted from an automobile accident shortly
after his return to the United States and reaffiliation with the Central

Hanover Bank.

[ 517 ]

“7 pyrene pigteeme

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

OLIVER LELAND LORING

Home Address: 2 Thomas St., Portland, Maine.
Office Address: 143 State St., Portland, Maine.

Born: Jan. 5, 1904, N ewtonville, Mass. Parents: Richard Tuttle Loring, ‘92

Mary Amory Leland.
Prepared at: Newton Classical High School, Newton, Mass,
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; B.D. (Episcopal Theo
School), 1930; D.D. (Bowdoin Coll.), 1945. |
Married: Elizabeth Brewster, Feb. 11, 1935, Cambridge, Mass. Children:
Elizabeth, April 29, 19363 Oliver Leland, Jr., Oct. 27, 1938; Stephen
Hathaway, July 9, 1946.
Harvard Brothers: Richard Tuttle Loring,
Gould Loring, ’31.
Occupation: Episcopal Bishop of Maine.
Member of : Harvard Clubs of Portland, Boston, and New York.

Jr, °24 (deceased); John Caleb

This year marks my tenth anniversary as the Bishop of Maine and
the twentieth of ordination as a priest of the Episcopal Church. Having
served as curate, vicar, rector, and now a diocesan, I know that titles
mean less than the total impression life gives me of the splendor of God

and His readiness to enter human lives for good. I believe our “civiliza-
ion” meets the same crisis of decision that faces each individual. The
»pportunity to choose continues.

I count as my first blessing the chance to do a day’s work in the
Church. My second is equal to this, in the joyful privilege of trying to
ve up to my wife and three children. In the last ten years we have be-
sme “Mainiacs” with all that implies in the enjoyment of every season
f the year in the State of Maine. Travel has brought welcome meetings
ith classmates. Our Twentieth Reunion opened my eyes to the genuine

iendships we have formed and my thankfulness for them.

ALFRED WALKER LOTT
ume Address: 3918 Brandt St., Houston, Texas.
ice Address: Pan American Production Co., Esperson Bldg., Houston, Tex

a: Dec. 7, 1902, Niagara Falls, N. Y, Parents: Frank George Lott, Marga
ret Mary Perugia.

pared at: Emanuel School, England.

rsin College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B., 1926; A.M., 1933-

ried: Helen Collins Welch, May 22, 1939, Tulsa, Okla. Child: Peter Gor
don, Oct. 6, 1945.

pation: Administrative assistant to the vice-president, Pan American PI"
duction Company.

[ 518 ]

T wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

. ican Association of Petroleu ists: ‘
Men oe ecg; Harvard Club of Houston. m Geologists; Houston Geologi-
After 4 childhood in England, where during World War I, I drilled
th the school O.T.C., which was known as “England’s Last Hope,”
I left the city of London in the summer of 1920 and spent the following
two years in the Mexican oil fields, entering Harvard College asa fresh-
man in 1922. During the next four years I struggled along from exami-
nation to examination in French and German while trying to concen-

trate in the geological sciences. At graduation in 1926 the urbanities of

city life again seemed so appealing that I devoted the succeeding two
years to tasting the banking business with the firm of Kidder, Peabody &
Company.

In 1928 I returned to the oil business, and have been with it
ever since. My earlier experience in Mexico had left a slight yearning
for the sultry tropics, so back to Latin America — this time to Venezuela.

Three years in Venezuela and we were in the depths of the great depres-
sion which hit Venezuela as well as Wall Street. From 1931 until the
middle of 1934 I was again in Cambridge as a graduate student, a
proctor in Claverly Hall, and an Austin Teaching Fellow in geological
sciences. That was when I really learned something about learning, and
also how it feels to be looking into the intelligent faces of Harvard fresh-
men with that expression which the late President Lowell described as
signifying the attitude — “here we are, now teach usif you can.”

Since 1934 I have been in the Middle West and Southwest, and for
the past eleven years in Texas. Of course, I must not forget to record
the noteworthy event, for me, when I ceased to be a bachelor in 1939.
The second noteworthy event, for me that is, was when I became a
parent in 1945. Of course I realize that it was not something unique. I
Venture to say that most of my classmates have experienced it too. ‘The
Statistical survey will help to tell how well! Doubtless, Harvard has
expected more from me than this, but Harvard will have to hope for
better things to come.

' Socially and politically, I lean towards conservatism, and I do not
ave any religious convictions. I prefer to think of the latter subject in
terms of moral values. My wife has a somewhat different viewpoint,

and that is the one privilege I allow her! We identity ourselves with the
Episcopalians,

EDWIN BAILEY LOUGH

one Address: 2260 Pelham Ave., Los Angeles 64, Calif.
ice Address: D, Van Nostrand Co., Inc., 250 Fourth Ave., New York, N. ¥.

[ 519 ]

Flarvard Class of 1926

Born: Jan. 9, 1905, New York, N. ¥, Parents: James Edwin Lough, ’94, Dora
Albonetta Bailey.

Prepared at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

Years sn College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Adine Travis, July 2, 1949, Beverly Hills, Calif. CAild: Carol Mil-
ler, June 28, 1950.

Occupation: College textbook publishing.

At the funeral of a stranger who had died in a small, snow-bound
New England town, the minister offered the usual prayer and then
said: “We do not know this man’s name or anything about him, but
perhaps there is someone present who would care to say a few words in
his behalf.”

No one spoke up, but finally one man arose, “Since none of us has
anything to say about the departed,” he said, “‘I shall be glad to say a
few words about southern California.”

That expresses my feelings since I followed Horace Greeley’ s excel-
lent advice many years ago. Here in sunny southern California one can
really enjoy living and even working. The climate is superb, with sum-
mer weather the year around (well, almost). Mountain drives, ocean
views, and the desert for scenery. The movies don’t shoot as many
scenes in the middle of Hollywood Boulevard now as they used to; and
some of the orange groves and vineyards have been torn up to make
room for airplane factories, a steel mill, and new housing developments
for the booming population (California is now the second state). But
San Juan Capistrano Mission and Catalina still doze in the sunshine, and
where else are football (the Rose Bowl), baseball, tennis, and golf
played in January (without benefit of hurricanes) ?

In back of my house, here in the City of the Angels, are orange, fig,
and avocado trees, and banana plants whose welfare, with much igno-
rance, I carefully tend. In front are palm and oleander trees. And inside
the house are the perfect wife and surely the world’s cutest baby. At the
tender age of five months, Carol seems to enjoy the wrestling matches
on TV fully as much as her parents do. For me, it all adds up well,
mighty well.

When a new arrival knocked at the Pearly Gates, St. Peter peered
out and asked, “Where do youcome from?” “I’m from southern Cali-
fornia,” replied the newcomer. “Come in,” said St. Peter, “but I’m
afraid that you won’t like it here.”

[ 520 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

ALFRED OSCAR LUDWIG

Home Address: 86 Juniper Rd., Belmont, Mass.

Office Address: 101 Bay State Rd. » Boston, Mass,

Born: May 30, 1906, New York, N. ¥. Parents: Berthold Alfred Ludwig,
Martha Pobuda.

Prepared at: Bordentown Military Institute, Bordentown, N. J.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B. cum laude, 1926; M.D. magna cum
laude, 1930.

Married: Virginia Hayden, April 18, 1931, Boston, Mass. Children: Peter
Coe, March 20, 19343 Robert Fell, March 24, 1936; Constance, Sept.
18, 1947.

Occupation: Physician (private practice) ; assistant psychiatrist, Massachusetts
General Hospital.

Military or Naval Record: Entered Medical Corps, U.S. Army as captain, May
15, 1942; served as psychiatric consultant to surgeon, Headquarters 7th
Army and Headquarters Army Ground Forces; promoted major; re-
leased to inactive duty March 26, 1946; awarded Legion of Merit and
Army Commendation Ribbon.

Member of : American Medica] Association; American Psychiatric Association ;
American Psychoanalytic Association; American Psychosomatic Society ;
Group for the Advancement of Psychiatry § Society for Applied Anthro-
pology; Harvard Club of Boston.

Publications: Numerous articles appearing in Aznals of Internal Medicine, New
England Journal of Medicine, War Medicine, Bulletin of the Menninger Clinic,
American Journal of the Medical Sciences, Massachusetts Society for Mental
Hygiene Bulletin, Military Surgery, and Physical Therapy Review, such as
“The Neuromuscular System in R.A., EEG & Histologic Observations,”
“The Emotional Factors in Tuberculosis,” and “The Practical Impor-
tance of Modern Concepts of Psychosomatic Relations.”

With the decision to enter the field of medicine, a large portion of the
years since graduation were devoted to the discipline of modern medical
education. Parenthetically, the nine postgraduate years of training after
college required for any special area in medicine, which are almost com-
pletely unremunerative, have something to do with the costs of medical
care,

Having become convinced that neither a complete understanding
nor satisfactory treatment of human disease was possible without con-
sideration of the influence of mind and emotion as well as physiologic
factors, psychiatric and psychoanalytic training were superimposed upon
basic training in internal medicine. The years since have been spent in
investigation of the psychiatric aspects of problems of chronic physical

[ 521 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

illness, with the view to clarifying the rdle played by such fac
causation and treatment, as well as in private practice,

During the war, by courtesy of the United States Army, I Was sub
jected to a “Cook’s tour,” covering Florida, in the form of an overslon ”
stay in a reconverted swamp known as Camp Blanding, and subse
quently, North Africa, Italy, Southern France, Germany, and Bagive.

The Navy obligingly rammed our transport on the way over, and prow
vided a pleasant though unscheduled three-week stop-over in Bermuda
There are, however, better ways to get there. .
The war produced extensive opportunity to deal with all phases of
human behaviour, normal and aberrant, in the Army, at all levels, base
combat zone, and in the peculiar confines of several larger Army head.
quarters. The sum of these experiences left me with unbounded respect
for the qualities of the average American, and with the conviction that
our particular political system would survive. ‘There was also the sad
recognition that the highest peak of human codperation and efficiency
s achieved only under the stress of common and impelling danger, such
sin war. One of the urgent problems of the age is to devise means for
ich codperation at other times —it has not yet been solved.

Single life became unattractive during the early years of internship.
ice then my wife has shared the burden of the irregular hours of a
ctor. Certainly this often necessitates far more absence from home
n is desirable for the best relationship between a father and children.
- two sons have survived to the extent that the elder has already sur-
ed me in height (with the advantage that my clothes no longer fit
) and in many other areas where I am foolish enough to attempt to
pete, and the younger bids fair to repeat the process soon. All of us,
ever, are completely under the spell of my daughter, a position
ing to both sides, in all of her three years. There is no doubt that she
further extend and improve this position as she grows older and

experienced,

bbies have been limited to music, in the form of desultory but
ng attention to the piano, and, paradoxically perhaps, to skiing:
der indulgence in this sport professionally a mild form of man's,

gratifying, but pursued with a curious obstinacy in the face O
ing age, and requiring long years of precipitate contacts wit

and the ground, with resulting creaks and dents. But to da
ffered no major mechanical defects or permanent disability.
ning that profici in thi for me, is only now

g proticiency in this sport, at least for me, 18 7
ra less hazardous degree, at a time when the equipme”

g to be in need of a trade-in,

[ 522 ]

Ors In

 

T wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

In eneral, I maintain an optimistic view about the human animal,
4 hold that in the end, if we are patient, and continue to exist, intelli-
ence will become dominant over irrationality and uncontrolled emo-

Fon, althou gh it may take a few dozen more centuries,
’ .

JOSEPH WHEELOCK LUND

ome Address: 25 W. Cedar St., Boston 8, Mass.
office Address: R. M. Bradley & Co., Inc., 250 Boylston St., Boston 16, Mass.
Born: Aug. 31,1905) Boston, Mass. Parents: Fred Bates Lund, 88, M.D.,’91,
Zoe Merriam Griffing.
Prepared at: Country Day School, Newton, Mass. ; Phillips Academy, Andover,

ass.

sears in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Margaret Beall Covode, Sept. 18, 1926, Duxbury, Mass. Children:
John Covode, June 28, 1927 (m. July 1, 1950); Lydia French, Nov.
25, 1929 (mm. Robert B. Almy, Jr., ’50, Aug. 29, 1949); Elizabeth,
May 11, 1937. . -

Harvard Son: John Covode Lund, ’so.

Harvard Brothers: Charles Carroll Lund, 716, M.D., ’20; Fred Bates Lund,
Jr.,’18, LL.B.,’?213 Edward Griffing Lund, ’23, Ep.M., 32.

Occupation: Vice-president, trustee, general manager, R. M. Bradley & Com-
pany, Inc., real estate. . ,

Military or Naval Record: Coast Guard, voluntary, part-time, 1943-45.

Offices Held: Chairman, Duxbury School Committee, 1940-43, Republican
Town Committee, 1946—49; trustee, Suffolk Savings Bank for Seamen
and Others, Boston Museum of Science, 1945-50; president, Boston
Real Estate Board, 1948-49; regional vice-president, 1945-46, direc-
tor and member executive committee, 1948-50, National Association of
Real Estate Boards.

Member of : Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York; St. Botolph Club; Dux-
bury Yacht Club; Greater Boston Community Fund, 1942-50; National
Association of Real Estate Boards.

Publications: A few articles in real estate publications.

_ At the end of twenty-four years it is difficult to reconstruct all the
influences which have made up a happy life. Business has been a major
Source of interest throughout, growing in volume and in variety of
undertakings, I have been most fortunate in doing something which
ems constructive for the community and combines with that a con-
tnually changing pattern of problems and ideas. It was also a lucky
Teak which gives me the opportunity to broaden the vision with con-
siderable travelling,

Y family, which grew apace in the early years, is now dwindling

[ 523 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

through the marriage of the two elder offspring. Perhaps, after a rea-
sonable interval, the trend may reverse itself through anew generation
to come, With a permanent base of operations in Duxbury, where the
climate apparently benefits all the Lunds, other domiciles temporarily
in and around Boston have merely been convenient stopping places.

A growing interest in the political life of the community and the
nation has led me into many strange and sometimes amusing experi-
ences, Whether we agree with present leadership or not, I believe we
must all pay more attention to self-government than we have in the
past. I have no sympathy for the “let George do it” school of politics, or
for that other college of “‘what’s the use?”. And yet, I find most of my
friends and classmates studying our political future at those hopeless
institutions of ignorance.

Harvard has a strong significance in my general attitude. I sincerely
regret that my son didn’t choose to follow through (helped by the dean).
In spite of all the individual criticisms levelled at the “Old School,” Pm
convinced that its overall worth is tremendous and growing. I haven’t
seen a football game for two years.

Seeing many classmates often is always a great source of enjoyment
to me. The progress, up and down, of individuals may be an unworthy
interest, but it is one of mine. Having observed the T'wenty-fifth Re-
union of the Class of ’25 last spring, I can assure you that the spirit of
past years can prove to be of great current significance.

Let us hope that the unpleasant implications of the world situation
will be resolved without catastrophe. The next job for all of us should
be to strengthen the top leadership so that we won’t give up our heritage
because we just don’t care enough.

DANIEL JOSEPH LYONS

Home Address: 207 Renfrew Ave., Trenton, N. J.

Office Address: Guardian Life Insurance Co., 50 Union Sq., New York, N. Y¥.

Bora: Jan. 6, 1905, Randolph, Mass, Parents: ‘Timothy F. Lyons, Elizabeth
Genevieve Lyons.

Prepared at: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926.

Married: J. Irene Mulledy, 1933, Brookline, Mass. Children: Jean Marie,
Feb. 28, 1934; Daniel Joseph, Jr.. March 12, 1937; Paul Owen, Oct.
24,1939; Elizabeth Irene, Nov. 23, 1942.

Occupation: Second vice-president, Guardian Life Insurance Company.

Member of : Harvard Club of New Jersey; Harvard Club of New York; Tren-
[ 524 ]

T wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

ton Country Club; Casualty Actuarial Society; Society of Actuaries;
New York Actuaries Club; Hiltonia Association (president).

After graduation from Harvard in 1926, I entered the life insurance
business with the Travelers Insurance Company in Hartford, Connecti-
cut. In 1930, after four years’ study, I became a qualified actuary. Since
then I have changed jobs a number of times but always in the same field,
life insurance. The business has given mea great deal of satisfaction and
I recommend it whole-heartedly. It is an important segment of the
American economy and, by and large, is extremely well managed. May
it continue so! .

I have been blessed with four fine children, an understanding wife,
and good health. For all of these I am grateful. Less important, but per-
haps worth noting, is the fact that at no time during the past twenty-four
years has the wolf hovered at the door. In this insecure world one can
hardly expect more than I have enjoyed.

Now as to my views on social problems. In many respects my genera-~
tion has failed badly and we must all share the responsibility. ‘The mad
rush towards the welfare state, the naive (or expedient) attitude of our
statesmen towards international problems, the failure to understand
domestic difficulties, the ill-considered experiments in primary and sec-
ondary education, and the lowering of moral standards — all these and
more indicate our impotency. In spite of this there is hope for the future
if we will abandon the policy of expediency and place our faith in disci-
pline, hard work, and self-reliance.

Best wishes to all my classmates for the next twenty-five years.

NATHANIEL PHILIP LYONS

Home Address: 118 Glen Ave., Newton Center, Mass.

Office Address: Saco-Moc Shoe Corp., 210 Lincoln St., Boston, Mass. ; ; 14
Spring St., Portland, Maine.

Born: Feb. 19, 1906, New York, N. Y. Parents: Harry Isaac Lyons, Annie Sid-

_ man,

Prepared at: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass,

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

' Married: Jane Barnet, Sept. 25, 1929, Boston, Mass. Children: Ruth Jean,
Feb, 26, 1931; Patricia, March 28, 1935; John Douglas, Dec. 20, 1937.

Occupation: Shoe manufacturer; president and treasurer, Saco-Moc Shoe Cor-
poration.

Offices Held: Past president and honorary life director, The 210 Associates,
national philanthropical association of shoe, leather, and allied trades;

[ 525 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

director, chairman customers adjustment bureau, and pane]
arbitration board, New England Shoe and Leather Association
Associated Jewish Philanthropies of Boston ; director, Jewish Vocatio ]
Service, Family and Children’s Welfare Association; member National
Industry Advisory Board, U.J.A.; chairman, 1926 Reunion Cla
Spread, 1926 Reunion University Tours. ss
Meméer of: Belmont Country Club.

Immediately after graduation I entered the family business as pur-
chasing agent. I spent a little over three years in internal operations and
then my father sold out his interests and I was out of a position, T de.

cided to enter the merchandising end and spent the next three years as q
ravelling salesman for various shoe concerns. In April, 1933, one
nonth after Roosevelt closed the banks, I borrowed a modest amount
yd embarked on a manufacturing caregr on my own hook. The last
yenteen years have been spent in building this business into a well
own institution. With our manufacturing operations concentrated jn
ine and my residence in Newton, and with the necessity of frequent
;on a national scale, I have been kept very busy. Frequent calls for
and service to industry problems and many philanthropical institu-
add to my schedule. For relaxation I play golf whenever possible
ght months a year and have reduced my handicap to a very re-

ble figure. In the winter months, with an entire family of ski

jasts, we make frequent excursions to the Eastern Slope ski areas,

mem ber,
i trustee,

GREGORY JEROME McADAMS

tress: 17 Summit St., Lowell, Mass,

dress: Maurice F. Horan Co., 85 Essex St., Boston, Mass.

y 26, 1902, Lowell, Mass. Parents: James Philip McAdams, ’91;
y Statia Rinn.

t: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
rt, N. H.

lege? 1923-1927. |

len E. McEvoy, June 27, 1931, Lowell, Mass, CAildren: James
July 22, 1933; Ellen Mary, June 9, 1936; Patricia, Oct. 4,
Gregory J., April 10, 1947.

thers: James Philip McAdams, ’21; Garrett Edward McAdams,
ceased),

‘reasurer and executive salesman, Maurice F, Horan Companys
turing and decorating,

ng Meadow Golf Club; Harvard Club of Lowell.

t college, the task of making a living and suppor ting 2
[ 526 ]

 

T wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

has taken up most of my time and energy. Ithas been a struggle,
h two future Harvard men coming along in the persons of my

> SONS, maybe the effort is worth it, since they'll represent the third
aeration of Harvard men.
“During the first few years after college, being a much more “eager
peaver” than now, I continued in athletics, football and track, for vari-
ous clubs, and I’m glad I’m not doing it now when I see the heft and
prawn of the present-day individuals. With the arrival of my children,
more serious concentration on business was required, so my sportsmind-
edness lessened, but not to the exclusion of a not too good game of golf,
However, my wife and I have managed a number of very interesting
trips, confined mostly to the East and Northeast, always arriving when
the salmon had stopped biting.

My work is interesting and ever present, even taking me to some of
the spots of the University, where my decorating efforts may possibly
make for a more pleasant atmosphere for the present-day student.

family
put wit

HERSCHEL HOBART MacCUBBIN

Home Address: 909 Goldsborough Rd., Chevy Chase, Md.

Office Address: 1710 G St., N.W., Washington, D. C.

Bora: June 2, 1898, Owings Mills, Baltimore Co., Md. Parents: Joseph
Walker MacCubbin, Alice Beauregarde Fitch.

Prepared at: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926, 1930-1931. |

Married: Elizabeth Leib Langenbeck, June 11, 1932, Washington, D. C.
Children: Elizabeth Lydstone, Dec. 1, 19333 Charles Carroll, Aug. 11,
1938; Mary Thornhill, Feb. 22, 1941. |

Occupation : Placement manager, employer; management relations.

M ilitary or Naval Record; World War 1: US. Marine Corps Reserve, private to

sergeant; service aboard ship, West Indies, May, 1917, to January, 1919;

Commandant McDonogh School, 1919-20; commissioned in U.S. Army

Officers Reserve Corps, 1922. World War Il: commissioned ist lieuten-

ant, U.S. Marine Corps Reserve, March, 1942; present rank, major;

twenty-six years to credit for retirement in November, 1950.

Wart

Offic

wme Government Posts: Guard Battalion Provost Marshal, Washington,
D. C.; officer in charge, Marine Corps Districts, Springfield, Mass.,
Richmond, Va., and Washington, D.C.; Selective Service Liaison Ofhcer.
es H eld: Secretary, American Legation, Port au Prince, Haiti, 1928; ad-
Ministrative assistant, P.W.A., 1932-343 personnel manager, Mosaic
Tile Company, Zanesville, Ohio, 19347353 English teacher, 1939-41;

Publi ¢ relations and publications adviser, 1946-48, Landon School; ex-
“cutive secretary, Landon School Alumni Association, 1948-49; elected

[ 527 |

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

Landon alumnus, 1949 (at present there are only ¢
president of Landon School Cum Laude Society; executiv e wo) 5 Bret
Landon School Building Fund Campaign, 19493 originator ang naa ;
of The Brickbat, Landon alumni newspaper. itor

Menber of: University Club of Washington, D. C.; Harvard Club of Wa
ton, D. C.; National Press Club, Washington, D. C.; Colonial 0, der
the Crown; Plantagenet Society; Society of Descendants of the Ry of

Order of the Knights of the Garter; American Geographic Society (fet
low) ; Maryland Historica] Society ; Landon chapter Cum Laude Society

My way of life has permitted the accumulation of neither moss nor
he other green commodity. And I still can’t relax. World War I caught
2e earning my living with only one year of high school and a business
urse for a foundation. I didn’t like school. Never was a scholar. Just a
ull Moth.” And though I’ve never liked regimentation, I have found

greatest interest in the most regimented society in the world —the
ited States Marine Corps. This paradox characterizes my life, I can-
agree with myself. And I still get into things over my head, but
n’t drowned yet.

1 example: after World War I, I was made commandant of Mc-
zh School (I was then a buck sergeant in the Marine Corps with
ar of Hermon School), After I took the job, further teaching
— history, geography, mechanical drawing — were assigned me.
1¢ job. How, I don’t know, but they signed me up for another
McDonogh — their endowment was running low at the time.
e McDonogh episode, I decided there might be some latent and
ered capabilities in my carcass. Mount Hermon was chosen to
hem, if any. Those good people crammed me with three years
‘er high school is supposed to do to one and on their recom-
_ Harvard decided to take me on. Feeling sure I needed Har-
than the venerable institution needed me, I gratefully dissi-
ctivities on clubs and extra-curricular activities to the detri-
jolastic pursuits. As a result, there is no Harvard diploma
fy Souvenirs.” However, memories of Harvard days are
lost cherished possessions.
“years, in June, 1926, I decided to give Harvard a break.
) harm to my Alma Mater, neither was I a prodigal son.

o e a

- banana lands in Central America. In short, 1 becam®
oy complete with “furnished” bungalow among parr’
other tropical luxuries, Six months later malaria 4°
‘t me back to the States. orale
27, found me again in the teaching field at River

, New York City. I couldn’t make over my philosop "
[ 528 ]

Shing.

. of life to con

 

T wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

form to Headmaster Frank Hackett’s, so I pulled out in
yne, 1927> having already accepted a position in the English Depart-
J tat Gilman School, Baltimore, Maryland.
moi fter a year at Gilman the “Wanderbug” again stung me. When my
former U.S.M.C. commanding officer, at this time Ambassador to
Haiti, asked me to come to Haiti as his secretary, T sailed for Port au
Prince. A year later malaria again chased me from a tropical paradise.
still restless, I returned to Harvard in September, 1930, to try to
fnish what I had started there. ‘This was not to be, for my health be-
came poor and I left Harvard in December, 1930, never to return. |
went on 2 European-African tour during the early months of 1931 and
to South America in 1931 and 1932. After this I established residence
‘n Washington, D. C., to await further service with the State Depart-
@

ment.
While awaiting this assignment, I met the only woman who could

change my mind on some subjects, and after a short courtship we were
married in June, 1932. I tried hard to remain a bachelor but none of
my past experiences helped me. I lost, and won a wonderful woman
who has given me three delightful children as varied in their personali-
ties as my life has been changeful. Together we developed a model farm
near Sumner Wood’s place. |
Following my usual pattern, we were married during the lean years.
I decided to deprive the State Department of my service and signed up
with an insurance company. (All I sold was a policy to myself.) L can
give away easier than I can sell. -
There followed a position with the P.W.A. (not W.P.A.) and the
position as personnel manager of the Mosaic Tile Company, Zanesville,
Ohio. Finding it necessary to return to D. C., I organized a sales office
for the Tile Company in D.C. The job completed, duty became dull,
and I returned to teaching. I accepted a position at Landon School for
Boys, Bethesda, Maryland, in the English Department. T became head
of the department, and no boys failed their English College Entrances,
ARVARD TAKE NOTE. Of course, they are bright boys at Landon. The
Contact with youngsters was necessary to keep me on my toes. | also
Organized several clubs of which the Press Club is still the most influen-
tal in the school,
World War II came and I was commissioned in the Marine Corps
“serve — ret lieutenant. I am now a major. My duties in World War
Were stateside; guard duty in Washington, D. C.; Provost Marshal’s
attalion; officer in charge of recruiting at Springfield, Massachusetts,
“Amond, Virginia, and Washington, D.C.

[ 529 |

Harvard Class of 1926

After World War II, I was invited to return to Landon to take over
the Middle School. I didn’t want to teach again; boys were too young,
and I, too old. I did return in an administrative capacity as director of
the Building Fund Drive, publications adviser, public relations repre-
sentative, rifle team coach, and organizer and executive secretary of
Landon Alumni Association. The grateful alumni elected the apprecia-
tive me an honorary alumnus — only two such birds extant.

The Landon chores completed, I decided to go into the employment
field, and there, between active duty training in the Marine Corps Pub-
lic Information Section, and as liaison officer with the Selective Service
System, you will find me now. (At this writing I am on two months’
active duty training at the Naval Amphibious Base, Little Creek, Nor-
folk, Virginia. )

If you want a job now look me up. If an emergency arises, and you
still want a job, look me up in Selective Service.

This is a hell of a story, and I know many of my “Backbone of the
Nation Type” classmates will look on it with disfavor. However, it’s my
story and it sticks to me like the many “Deals” with which the Demo-
crats have stuck the nation. I’ve not grown obese, mentally or physically.
I have not lost all my hair. And I can still pass the Navy physical.

I hope to attend the Twenty-fifth.

JAMES CARROLL McDONALD

Home Address: 30 Pinckney St., Boston 14, Mass.

Born: Dec. 2, 1903, New York, N. Y. Parents: Edward Peter McDonald, Edith
Trimble,

Prepared at: St. Francis Xavier High School.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B,, 1926; A.M., 1929.

Occupation: Education.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. McDon-
ald did not return a questionnaire.

i PUTNAM McDOWELL

Born: July 25, 1903, Brookline, Mass. Parents: Corwin McDowell, Margaret
Putnam.

Prepared at: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1923. OO

Married: Barbara Ballou, April, 1923, Newark, N. J. (divorced); Jeanne
Eastburne, December, 1937, Boston, Mass. C4ildren: Putnam Ballou,

[ 530 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Feb. 27, 1924; Robert Henry, Feb. 9, 1928; Linda Jeanne, Jan. 6,
1943; fourth child.

Died: May 27, 1950, Chatham, Mass.

Widew: Mrs. Putnam McDowell, 1281 Great Plain Ave., Needham 92, Mass.

Putnam McDowell attended Harvard for one year with our Class
and was a member of the freshman hockey squad. After leaving college
he married and in 1924 started work in the shipping department of the
Franklin Process Company in Greenville, South Carolina. In 1925 he
became an insurance agent for the Eastern Casualty Company in Bos-
ton. The following year he was made agency director and by 1927 was
vice-president. In 1930 he became vice-president and director for the
Federal Life and Casualty Company in Boston. At the time of our
Decennial Report he was research vice-president of that company and
president of the McDowell Company, Inc. He continued in the insur-
ance field and in 1939 became agency supervisor and manager of the
group department of the Continental Casualty Insurance Company. In
1942 he joined the company with which he was affiliated at the time of
his death, Craftman’s Insurance Company, as vice-president and super-
intendent of agents. During the war he served in the Massachusetts
State Guard.

McDowell died j ina sailing accident at Chatham, Massachusetts, He
was survived by his wife and four children.

FRANK BRECKENRIDGE McDUFFEE

Address: 605 Charmouth Drive, Syracuse 4, N.Y.

Born: July 20, 1904, Windham, Conn. Parents: Charles Brown McDuffee,
Minnie Adele Breckenridge.

Prepared at: Saugus High School, Saugus, Mass.

Years in College: 1921-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926 (27); A.M. (Columbia
Univ.), 1940.

Married: Jeannette Potter, July 6 6, 1940, Providence, R. I.

Occupation: Ministry.

The information printed above Is from the Secretary’s files. McDuf-
fee did not return a questionnaire,

[ 531 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

ROBERT PARKER MacFADDEN

Home Address: 770 Park Ave., New York 21, N. Y.

Office Address: § 5 Wall St., New York 5,N. Y.

Born: Sept. 12, 1905, Orleans, Mass, Parenis: Robert Andrew MacFadden,
Edith Hamilton.

Prepared at: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Emily Clift Searles, Oct. 11, 1935, New York, N. Y. Children: Dinah
Coffin, March 21, 1939; Cary Clift, Feb. 5, 19413; Abby Clift, Dec. 29,
1944-

Harvard Brother: Hamilton MacFadden, ’21.

Occupation: Vice-president, National City Bank of New York.

Wartime Government Posts: Civilian Intercept Officer, Army Air Corps, New
York, N. ¥.

Offices Held: Treasurer, Harvard Class of 1926, Harvard Club of New York,
1946~49, All Hallows Foundation; director, 1947~—50, vice-president,
1949-50, Harvard Alumni Association; trustee and member executive

committee, Citizens’ Budget Commission; trustee Nightingale-Bamford
School; president Board of Governors, U.S, Volunteer Life Saving
Corps.

Member of : Harvard Club of New York; India House.

Selecting one’s occupation in life seems an insurmountable hurdle to
most young men. I was no exception, but was fortunate in finding a
satisfactory field on the second try. With a strong belief in the future of
the foreign field of American business, I joined the United Fruit Com-
pany in June, 1926. After eighteen months on the banana plantations
in Honduras, and being reluctant to spend another ten years there, I de-
cided to make a change. Convinced that the United States, and New
York in particular, offered greater opportunities, I gave up any idea of
the foreign field and joined the National City Bank of New York in
January, 1928.

In October, 1945, after a number of years in our domestic branch
organization, I came to the head office, where I am associated with the
division responsible for the bank’s relations with the transportation in-
dustries, the Dominion of Canada, and, since January of this year, our
own West Coast, including Hawaii and Alaska. My duties involve fre-
quent trips to Canada which have proved both interesting and stimulat-
ing, and last June I made my first trip into our own Northwest. I look
forward keenly to the opportunity to know this continent and its people
more intimately.

One’s career seldom sounds exciting in the telling. Suffice it to say

[ 532 ]

J

Twenty- fifth Annversary Report

that I enjoy mine. The day-to-day opportunity to work closely with
people is both stimulating and pleasant. I have, incidentally, ample evi-
dence to refute those who still think all banks are impersonal and their
officials stuffed shirts!

In 1935 I married Emily Searles of San Francisco and we have three
daughters in the process of growing up and being educated. We like
living in New York City and last year purchased a codperative apart-
ment which will be our permant home for some time. We travel as much
as possible during vacations, and so far have managed Bermuda, Nova
Scotia, and the British Isles, While in London in 1948, we were pre-
sented to Queen Elizabeth.

While my interest in politics is keen, I took active part only in the
1940 campaign. I follow education closely and presently sit on the board
of the children’s school. Through active membership in the Citizens’
Budget Commission I am familiar with our city government in some
detail. Presently I am trying to assist in forming a more permanent or-
ganization of the Winant Volunteers who each summer send a group of
school and college boys to do social service work in England.

I like to consider myself a liberal conservative. I believe most deeply
in the freedom and dignity of the individual and am strongly opposed to
any group or groups who would destroy this basic philosophy. I abhor
the trend towards Big Government, high taxes, regimentation, and
phoney economics. I feel that we can remain strong without help from
socialism or any form of statism. The immediate future is, I realize, a
supreme challenge, but if we accept it with vigor and courage, we can
without fear face the years which lie ahead, confident of the outcome.

WALTER CLIFFORD McFERRAN

Born: May 27, 1905, Louisville, Ky. Parewts: James Calvin McFerran, Cora
Keith Tinsley.

Prepared at: Louisville Male High School, Louisville, Ky.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926.

Died: July 26, 1930, Louisville, Ky.

Walter Clifford McFerran was an honor student and recipient of
several scholarships. He was a member of the 150-pound crew squad in
his sophomore year. He hoped to embark on a diplomatic career and re-
ceived his first recognition when he was selected as the American student
representative of the League of Nations School of Diplomacy at Geneva,
Switzerland. After graduation he accepted a position with the United
Fruit Company in its foreign service which afforded further preparation

[ 533 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Flarvard Class of 1926

for a diplomatic career. He served first at Puerto Barrios in Guate
and after two years was transferred to El Salvador in San Salvado
Central America. In 1930, after several months’ illness, he returned
to Louisville where he died on July 26.

DONALD CHARLES McGILVRAY

Home Address: 127 Academy St., Poughkeepsie, N. Y.
Office Address: Schuerman & Frost, Engineers, Poughkeepsie, N. Y.
Born: Dec. 24, 1903, Somerville, Mass. Parests: Donald James McGilvray
Mary Josephine Conlin. ,
Prepared at: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: §.B. 1n C. ENcIN., 1926.

Married: Florence L. Lloyd, Nov. 22, 1929, Poughkeepsie, N. Y. Children:
Donald Charles, Jr., Sept. 3, 19313 Bruce Lloyd, March 14, 1934;
Mary Lou, June 20, 1942.

Occupation: Consulting engineer.

Offices Held: Past president and secretary, Dutchess County Chapter, New
York State Society of Professional Engineers.

Lember of: Harvard Engineering Society; Chadwick Chess Club; New York
State Society of Professional Engineers.

Nearly twenty-five years after graduation finds this person still sweat-
2 it out to get the annual C— and pass on to another year of coping
th life’s problems, After boom, depression, war, and inflation, what
w experience may we expect in our life span?

Leaving Harvard, I accepted a position in Poughkeepsie with a utility
apany. Here, also, I was fated to meet my better half, who had at-
ded Sargent during the years I was figuring moments of inertias at
engineering school. Subsequent positions in construction and eng?
‘ing took me to many places — St. Louis, Rochester, Philadelphia,
Wilmington, but my home has been here for many years past.

iy elder son, Junior, now at Cornell, was picked by the mother of
ate President Roosevelt as the most beautiful baby at the Dutchess
ity Fair in 1932. As yet he has not shown any marked political
1g8, except a flair for spending money. Son Bruce is a junior In
school and is a very successful newspaper boy in the community:
nsistently beats his father at golf and has all the indifference }>

expect of a Harvard man, So it may come to pass, We hope. “e
ter, now eight, has definite plans for Vassar and the chances a
dly in her favor. |
hobbies are playing golf, at which I am not too adept, and

it which Iam told I ama little better than average. My wife an

[ 534 ]

laying
playing

mala ,

 

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

have enjoyed a very happy life together, raising our children to be
ood Americans, participating in community life, and treasuring the
Fond memories of the passing years.
Here in a locality infested with Cornell, Syracuse, R.P.1., and Co-
lumbia alumni, I rarely have the pleasure of meeting one of my own. I
haven't heard from or talked to a classmate in years.

since “H Day” in 1926, I have worked for over a dozen employers,
mostly in engineering and construction. The longest was for four years
for the tunnel under the Hudson River at Chelsea, New York, 600 feet
below the surface. A technical report of this interesting project that 1
submitted to the board of directors resulted in my being the recipient of
favorable criticism and a substantial bonus.

Now I find myself possessing that intangible qualification we budding
engineers could never quite figure out on our slide rules, namely ex-
perience. T have been for some time a professional engineer and land
surveyer licensed by New York State. Working in a small but fast grow-
ing section offers a widely diversified range of engineering. During the
interim this questionnaire has been in process on my desk I have received .
an excellent offer from a construction company here, and it may well
be that, by the time this is in print, I shall be with a new employer, and
so it goes.

In closing let me quote my eight-year-old daughter’s sanguine re-
mark, ‘‘Daddy you don’t know everything just because you went to
Harvard.” Candidly we know less and less as we learn more and more,

JOSEPH CARLTON McGLONE ‘

Home Address: Harvard Club, 27 W. 44th St., New York 18, N.Y.

Office Address: McGlone Management Co., 170 Broadway, New York, N.Y.
Born: Sept. 12, 1 897, Natick, Mass. Parents: Francis McGlone, Mary Sullivan,
Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926.

Occupation: Business management.

_The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files, McGlone
id not return a questionnaire.

ROY CONRAD McGUINESS

H ome Address: 3517 Prospect Ave., N.W., Washington, D.C,
Bice meres: 1240 Shoreham Bldg., Washington, D. C,
om: Feb. 19, 1904, Saundersville, Mass, Parents: Benjamin Franci ‘
ess, Sarah Conley. | *McGuin-

[535 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

Prepared at: Grafton High School, Grafton, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926 (27)-

Married: Eleanor M. Marshall, April 28, 1928, Washington, D. C, Child.

Eleanor Marie, March 18, 1936.
Occupation: Life insurance.

Member of : Harvard Club of Washington.

EDWARD FORSTER McKEEN

Home Address: Winterport, Maine.
Office Address: C. H. Sprague & Son Co., 10 Post Office Sq., Boston, Mass,
Bora: Jan. 7, 1905, Allston, Mass. Parents: Sylvester Forshay McKeen, M.D.,
798, Teresa Louisa Forster.
Prepared at: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.
Years 1x College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.
Married: Alice Osborne Curwen, Sept. 12, 1940, Newcastle, Maine.
Harvard Brother: Reginald Forster McKeen, ’26, M.B.A., ’28.
Occupation: Sales representative, industrial fuels.
Member of: Atlantic Union Committee; United World Federalists; Society for
. the Preservation of New England Antiquities; Harvard Club of Bangor;
Masons; Penobscot Valley Country Club.

As I was a very immature young man of twenty-one on graduation,

and without the slightest idea of what to do, my parents first sent me to
Europe to make the Grand Tour with my brother, and then in despera-
tion, to the Business School. Except for the lectures of Arthur Stone
Dewing, I disliked this intensely, got fired at midyears, and so for the
first time found myself out on my own. Since then I have worked at a
number of jobs, liking each one better than the last, with the exception
of a week of trying to sell cigarettes and tobacco to little down-at-heel
tores scattered all over South Boston.

As I look back, one of my pleasantest occupations was teaching at
Ailton Academy. The feelings of satisfaction connected with the pro-
=ssion of school-teaching, and the life that goes with it, are hard to beat.
.fter six years, however, I gave it up for somethin g more strenuous, Jess
holarly, and where human contacts are more varied. Coal mining !"
Jest Virginia seemed to be a good solution, and that led, after 4 year
id a half, to my association with the company that has employ ed me
er since, successively as dock hand, machinist, dock superintendent,
gineer, and sales representative.

I married ten years ago, and soon discovered what every convet ted
shelor has to discover for himself, that the only trouble with mar nag
hat it doesn’t begin soon enough. My wife and J are both atavis¢ to

[ 536 ]

 

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

whe point Where one of our chief interests is in the things that earlier
Americans lived with. We don t carry this so far as to do our cooking
over an open fire, but we do like to live with old things, and collect them
i avery mild way — particularly Connecticut shelf clocks.

My company has moved us around a good many times, and living
., various places has shown us how nearly ideal life in a small New Eng-
jand town can be.

REGINALD FORSTER McKEEN

Home Address: 15 Water St., Newton Center 59, Mass.

Office Address: A & S Power Equipment Inc., 31 St. James St., Boston 16,
Mass.

Born: Jan. 13, 1902, Allston, Mass. Parents: Sylvester Forshay McKeen,
M.D., ’98, Teresa Louisa Forster.

Prepared at: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degrees: S.B., 1926 (28); M.B.A., 1929.

Married: Martha Hopkins Baker, Dec. 20, 1930, West Newton, Mass, CAil-
dren: Reginald Forster, Jr., May 12, 19373 Susan Baker, July 9, 1942.

Harvard Brother: Edward Forster McKeen, ’26.

Occupation: Manufacturers’ representative; sales engineer.

Military or Naval Record: Second lieutenant, 388th F.A. Reserve, 1926-36.

Offices Held: Director, A & S Power Equipment Inc. :

Member of: Delta Upsilon Fraternity; Boston Yacht Club; Corporate Fidu-
ciaries Association ; Chequesset Yacht Club; Newton Chess Club; Boston
Business Schoo] Club.

After graduating from the Business School at midyear 1929, I went
to work as an investment statistician for the Second National Bank of
Boston. Here, with gradual but very small increases, I stayed too long:
seventeen years. When my boss went to war, I became head of the re-
search department. At the end of the war, the veterans had to be taken
back, and some who did come back had new ideas about general policy,
the end result of which was that I was forced out — given a year’s pay
and fired. Then for two years — those two when it was hard to get a
Car — I was in the automobile business. This was rough and tough and
quite different from banking, but was lots of fun. Then the honeymoon
Was over (you could hardly give a truck away) and I was looking for
a Job again. I am now a sales engineer (a fancy name for a peddler) for
the New England representative of several manufacturers of electric
Power transmission equipment. I like this very much, with its travelling
“mong New England utility companies.

y chief accomplishment so far seems to have been in the choice of

[ 537 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

a wife, who not only has put up with me these past twenty years, byt has
given me two most satisfactory children. This nice family has done
much towards saving my pride for not being able to record a long list

of offices held, publications, etc.

I try to manage a week or more of cruising the Maine Coast ne
every summer. And although in the summer I live alone and don?t
it, on most weekends I get to the Cape, where I can be with m
and work on the small camp we have on Wellfleet Beach,

Hobbies include, besides sailing, trying to keep up my old house —]
never shall get caught up — repairing what the children break, readin

chess, clocks, photography, and even occasional country dancing, I am
an enthusiastic though inexpert cook.

GEORGE HENRY McKENNA

FHlome Address: 8550 Forest Pkwy., Woodhaven 21,N. Y.

Office Address: New York ‘Telephone Co., 101 Willoughby St., Brooklyn 1,
N.Y.

Bora: Feb. 22, 1904, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Charles McKenna, Mary C,
Grady.

Prepared at: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.

Married: Geraldine Ward, Nov. 14, 1942, Cypress Hills, N. Y. CAildren:
George Ward, April 11, 1945; Gerald Ward, June 6, 1947.
Occupation: ‘Telephone commercial supervisor; supervisor of collection meth-

ods and of New York Telephone Company’s collection attorney and his
force.

My family is my chief interest. My children, aged five and three years
(as this is written in September, 1950), take any spare time I have. I had
a severe coronary thrombosis in January, 1947. This kept me in bed for
bout six months. I find that I have very little energy left for anything
ut my job.

This latter condition possibly accounts for my being a confirmed
essimist. It is my sincere conviction that since the “creat unwashed” or
1¢ “masses” have found that they can control the nation by voting 4s
ey are told, the country is on a fast joy ride to bankruptcy. This con-
tion will be known as the Welfare State or perhaps, more honestly,
2 Handout State,

I’m thankful my children are at a fascinating age. Since I can’t get
yund much myself they are literally in my case a life saver. My only

ective, which I’m sure I'll reach, is to be around until the boys 4
their own.

[ 538 J

arly
like
y family

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

DOUGLAS ARNOLD MacKINNON

me Address: 120 Westville Ave., Caldwell, N. J.
Office Address: 119 W. 57th St., New York 19, N.Y.

pors: Jan. 24, 1903, Arlington, Mass. Parents: William Henry MacKinnon,
Laura May Dickie.

Prepared at: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass,
Years in College: 1922-1 926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Unmarried. .
Harvard Brother: Kenneth Mead MacKinnon, ’18.

Occupation: Education through radio, TV, films, recordings, and lecturing.

Military or Naval Record: World War I: Boy Scout, helping to make bandages
and selling war bonds, World War II: Founder of AFMR (Armed Forces
Master Records, Inc.) ; Army Airways Communications; two years in
South Pacific; offered commission and transfer to Program Director of
Jungle Network; in charge of distribution of Armed Forces Radio Serv-
ice transcriptions of U.S. radio programs, circulating these to our troops
and to Australian radio stations in our troop areas in Australia and New
Guinea; helped OWI in its morale broadcasts to the Philippines; spent
some time in New Guinea.

Offices Held: Lecturer on music, 1927-32; instructor of French and German,
Storm King School, 1932-34; radio representative, Columbia Concerts
Corporation (now Columbia Artists Bureau), 1935; WOQXR, program
director, 1935-413; member, music counsel, NBC, 1942; program di-
rector and member of board of directors, WGVA, Geneva, N.Y, 1945-
48; production of educational films, 1949-50; member of advisory
council, Music Research Foundation, 1950—51; founder and president,
Armed Forces Master Records, Inc. (currently dormant), 1942-51.

Member of: World Alliance for International Friendship; Committee on In-
ternational Music Relations; National Association for Music Therapy;
member at various times of International Society for Contemporary Mu-
sic, Museum of Modern Art, Dr. Koussevitzky’s short-lived (1945-46)
American-Soviet Music Society, League of Composers, Metropolitan
Opera Guild.

Publications: WOQXR Program Booklet (a monthly), 1936-41.

Talk about no more wildernesses to conquer! No more frontiers to
br eak through! In this portentous and promising year of 1950-51, two
aring ventures affect me profoundly. Of these, I helped to determine
the smaller; but the other, which may determine the future of us all,
s Sweeping me along, a small cog ina large articulation.

orld affairs are taking me to Europe where, as this anniversary
ook comes to you, I shall most likely be up to my ears in radio propa-

8andizing into Russia and its satellite countries. I have little to say of

[ 539 ]

me Renee

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

which were beginning to experiment with music therapy. By late 1
our funds were exhausted, and I thought of dissolving the Corporatio
but the faming handwriting on the wall, threatening though not uit:

legible, deterred me. The wall resolved into an iron curtain whose he e
message has burned into millions of eyes. If It means business, those of
us who know the tremendous power of music on morale will be in there

pitching. The war taught medicos and psychiatrists that more ne
were caused by boredom than by fear, horror, or shell-shock.

Late in the war I visited one of our veterans’ mental] hospitals and

was overwhelmed by the marvels accomplished on the disturbed and
deranged minds of our young fighters in a state of shock or deep apathy
xr, at the opposite extreme, of men who constantly exploded into fits
f violence. The colonel in charge of therapy admitted that he had not
- first been receptive to the use of music on the patients, but that he had
‘owed a trial. It took little time for the results to make of the colone]
t only a convert but almost a fanatic. Men in violent outbursts were
ssed up in strait-jackets, hustled into the hydro-therapy room, and
iged into a tub of running water from which escape was prevented by
eet of canvas lashed up to the patient’s neck. That used to be their
ine treatment. Then came the addition of gentle, soothing music.
It: the same men came out of these tortured spasms in half the time.
1e case-histories of the use of music are often amazing and fre-
ly poignant. One evening a harpist played to a ward of sick soldiers.
ext day the officer in charge telephoned her and said, “Last night
e first night in six weeks that we haven’t had a call for sedatives
t ward.” In many instances men who had been driven by war-
> a complete escape from reality could not be reached by the un-
word. Music became a weapon to penetrate their personal iron
. One such case was a soldier who, through the use of music, had

back to the edge of reality. He refused to see his fiancée, but
<ed what music they had enjoyed together, he indicated The

-rince, especially one piece whose title he had forgotten. The
started playing Deep in My Heart, Dear. The soldier broke
ipletely, and from then on he was as putty in their hands.

-an be poison to some people. The military learned a thing
such matters, Some men cannot abide classical music and f°
_And in one of our Army hospitals in Australia loud pe
t up. Over this system music was played or, rather, blasted“
rs, the selections being made by an insensitive young ne
1e vapid mentality too frequently found in the wrong Pin
zz at ear-splitting volume nearly drove to madness cap

[ 548 ]

UFroses

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

ho, after having lost both legs and an arm, had been flown to this hos-
cal. After such vivid results of uncontrolled broadcasting, each bed was

P nipped with head-phones, a seemingly small but actually very impor-

rant Move in general mental health, which proves something about the
galubrious effects of freedom of choice,

After the war I made a couple of false starts in attempting to reshape
my life. But I knew deep down that I must work towards the use of
music in maintaining the equilibrium of people in the workaday world,
ia bringing back to normal more of those minds which had been driven
‘nto the shadows, and in the international good-will to which an ex-
change of the music of various nations contributes so greatly. To the
full-scale picture of individual and international peace of mind music
has made and will continue to make a contribution of major import.

+ LYMAN VINCENT McMASTER

Born: Aug. 3, 1903, Lynn, Mass. Parents: Thomas Adrian McMaster, Carolyn
Ethel Vincent.

Prepared at: Nolen’s, Cambridge, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1925.

Married: Grace Campbell, Feb. 14, 1928, Philadelphia, Pa.

Died: Feb. 6, 1935, White Plains, N. Y.

Lyman Vincent McMaster attended Harvard for three years with
our Class. While an undergraduate he was a member of the freshman
track team and the track squad. He also belonged to the Styx Club. He
intended to enter publishing and was first employed as a reporter on the
Lynn Item, He subsequently became interested in the business side of pub-
lishing. In 1 930 he moved to New York and joined the advertising staff
of the Saturday Review of Literature. He was survived by his wife.

LUTHER KNIGHT MACNAIR

Address: y 77 Hancock St., Cambridge 39, Mass. |

Bora: Feb, 2, 1905, Mansfield, Mass. Parents: William Mackintosh Macnair,

p Amy Victoria Wickett.

ype at: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

“an i calege: 1922~1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; A.M., 1927;

~D.NL., 1943.

Married: M. Louise Hawkings, Dec. 1, 1928, Cambridge, Mass. Child: Rich-
ard Nelson, Oct. 19, 1929.

[ 549 |

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926
Occupation: Vice-princi pal, Normal School.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files Maen:
. ; . . h
did not return a questionnaire. alr

WILLIAM BERNARD MACOMBER

Home Address: 14841 Cedar Rd., Cleveland 24, Ohio.
Office Address: Central Minit-Man System, 1280 Union Commerce Bld
Cleveland 14, Ohio. 8+
Born: Jan. 15,1905, Baltimore, Md. Parents: Lowell Perrin M acomber, Elm,
Schwarz.
Prepared at: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Mary Sampson, June 30, 1927, Youngstown, Ohio (divorced 1 939);
Mary Stanton, May 31, 1941. Children: William Bernard, Jr., Sept.
1930; Lowell Peter, May 1, 19333 Patrick, March 4, 1943; Mary, Feb,

9, 1947-
Occupation: General manager, four Minit-Man Car Washes.
Military or Naval Record: Enlisted April, 1942; commissioned first lieutenant;
overseas June—December, 1943; placed on inactive status as a major,

December, 1945.

If anyone has had such a dull life that he can possibly compress it —
t least all of the things you tell me that the Class wants to know about
1¢ — into something that anyone in the Class, still in his right mind,
‘ould undertake to read, I'll eat my — well, anyway, something —
irts are too darn expensive. Briefly (I know something is expected),
graduated, how I don’t know; in the summer of 1926 I went ona
orth Cape cruise and on that cruise met my future wife. Upon return-
x home I got all snarled up in woolens, yarn, spindles, etc., and when
inally emerged from my woolen (mill) cocoon, found myself not
'y married but convinced that I would not be a good manufacturer of
olen cloth. After brief sojourns in the investment field, both in Boston
| Washington, D. C. (ugh!), I wandered — in a direct line —'
veland where, like a dope, I remained in the investment busines
ring the course of my wanderings, in Washington, to be specific, MY
-born, a son, came into the world. He’s really quite a guy; many
probably won’t agree as he will graduate from Princeton in 4 con
sars if the Army leaves him alone. To continue, in Cleveland, a
ting out the dictates of my conscience and the call of being 2 wie
> security salesman, my second was born, again a son; I also ee
— the rest of the Class can also as he is still in school and hasA

[ 550 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

jecided on @ college as yet. I finally saw the error of my ways (?) and
int 938 joined a bank, a job for which T appeared to be eminently well
ited a the dictates of my conscience had long since been quelled to a
distant murmur, heard only on special occasions. .

Things went along, as they usually do, from then on until the war.
During that time I was divorced and a year and a half later, married
again. I enlisted (the honest thing to say is that I was commissioned as
a first lieutenant) in March of 1942, and immediately received that
worst of all assignments, Washington. It was during my brief sojourn
there that my third son was born; you can all like him since the little
guy is only eight and isn’t even thinking about college. I shall make the
rest of my war experience brief. I was finally fortunate enough to get
out of Washington, go overseas (the Aleutians, to be exact), come back
and help run some fighter pilot training bases, and emerge from the
Air Corps as a major without, Heaven help me, a discharge, but just on
an inactive status which I guess most of us are on anyway. (The above
is a dandy sentence but I didn’t major in English.)

[returned to the bank and didn’t stay as long as I should have; I had
what appeared to be a good opportunity to save a business from the fire;

I did, but not particularly to my advantage. During the time I was play-

ing fireman, my fourth child was born, a daughter, and I have been a
sitting duck for her. She knows it, which doesn’t help me any, At the
present moment I am about to stop playing fireman for another com-
pany and get into something which does not require any fire or life-sav-
ing efforts.

My travels during this long, long period have included Iceland, Nor-
way, Sweden, Holland, Denmark, Finland, England, Scotland, Ire-
land, France, Germany, all of the West Indies, some northern South
American countries, Panama, and Cuba, and last, but certainly not
least, all but two of the states in the United States. My political convic-
tons are violently Republican. |

HENRY ELLICOTT MAGILL

Home Address: Twenty Mile House Ranch, Cromberg, Plumas Co., Calif.
Office Address: McCullough Strain & Co., 661 E. Colorado St., Pasadena 1,
Calif.
orm: May 13, 1901, Chicago, Ill. Parents: Matthew Ellicott Magill, Grace
Frances Rebanks.

ye pared at: Pasadena High School, Pasadena, Calif.
°4rs th College: 1922-1927. |

[ 551 ]

Flarvard Class of 1926

Occupation: Tax consultant, auditor, public accountant.

Ofices Held: Vice-president, Pasadena Property Owners’ Committee, 1949-
50; chairman, Men’s Civic Club, 1

50.
Member of: Los Angeles Athletic Club; San Gabriel Valley Philatelic Society,
Pasadena, Calif.

After leaving college, I took an extended trip through Europe. In
1930 I was sent across the Pacific to buy Chinese antiquities for a cor-
poration. By the mid-thirties I went into an accounting firm in Los
Angeles, in 1940 became affiliated with the McCullough Strain & Com-
pany firm of accountants, in 1941 was given a partnership, and for the
past five years have been the senior partner. During the last war my
duties took me all over the State of California as a travelling auditor for
one of the chiefs of the Oil Production Board. In 1946 there was an
opportunity to purchase an old ranch in the Feather River section of the
High Sierras, some sixty miles north of Lake Tahoe. The old Twenty
Mile House Ranch here at Cromberg was once a stage stop for the Con-
cord coaches in the early gold mining days and the place goes back nearly
one hundred years. I spend most of my time at the ranch, except during
the rush season at tax time, and a week spent at the office every month
or six weeks, commuting §73 miles each way from Cromberg to Pasa-
dena.

My hobbies are fishing and hunting, stamp collecting, and working
in my wood-working shop in the old General Store of the ranch. Theo-
logically speaking I am an Episcopalian. In politics I am a Republican
and I must admit somewhat of a crank on the subject. May we all live
long enough to get the government back into the hands of the people,
and out of the hands of muddling incompetents. The power to tax is the
power to destroy, and that taxing power has brought Socialism upon
the American people through the medium of taxation. As I grow older,
I find that the training provided at Harvard helps to form opinions and
determines decisions that come up in a work-a-day life, and the general
subjects that an undergraduate is exposed to have given me a mental
book shelf of various subjects to which I return with increasing interest.
Many people feel that a college education is not too practical, all of
which may be true; but in order to read a large metropolitan daily news-
paper intelligently one must be equipped with a vast smattering of
knowledge, which is best obtained by such a curriculum as Harvard Col-
lege provides,

Tt would be a person with a miserly mustard seed for a soul, who
would not admit that Harvard had given him an abundant richness
which glows brighter as time goes on. Let us all hope that Harvard will

[ 552 J

Twenty- fifth Anmversary Report

hold to the same traditional standards and never allow the ams, asms,
and spasms to creep in, those which are besetting other civilized coun-
tries, and are even knocking at our own very doors.

"** EDWARD LINCOLN MAGOUN

Born: June 21, 1905, West Medford, Mass. Parents: Walter Russell Magoun,
90, Grace Edmunds Hippisly.

Prepared at: Medford High School, Medford, Mass,

Years in College: 1922-1924.

Married: Irene D. Maynard, Feb. 7, 1927.

Died: Feb. 24, 1930, Arlington, Mass.

Edward Lincoln Magoun attended Harvard for two years with our
Class and then withdrew from college to become associated with the
Boston Stock Exchange. At the time of his death he was employed at
Edward F. Kakas Sons, furriers in Boston. He was survived by his wife.

JOHN JAMES MAHER

Home and Office Address: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

Born: June 7, 1901, Bridgeport, Conn. Parents: William Francis Maher, Bea-
trice Ormond.

Prepared at: 'The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: §.B., 1926.

Unmarried,

Occupation: Schoolmaster, administrator, coach.

Military or Naval Record; Naval Aviation; instructor, head of Seamanship De-
partment, Battalion Commander, Officer’s Training School, Quonset,
R. L., 1942—433 instructor training officer, Naval Air Technical Train-
ing, Willington, Tenn., 1944; superintendent, Naval Air Technical
Training, with rank of commander, 1945-46.

Offices Held: Trustee, Arnold College; president, Interscholastic Sailing Asso-
ciation, Eastern Preparatory School Association.

Member of: Connecticut Preparatory Schoo] History Association; National
Geographic Society; Wallingford Golf Club; Yale Golf Club; North
Carolina Golf Club; Milford Yacht Club.

Publications: Instructor Manual, Naval Air T echnical Training; Instructor Manual
(Revised) ; Choate Alumni Bulletin.

A sign on a rugged Maine country road reads, “Choose your rut
carefully, you'll be in it for the next six miles.” Going from Choate to
Harvard, Harvard to Choate, Choate to the Navy, and back to Choate
where I’m still rutting, I begin to realize that I have spent most of my
life here. And I still like it far and above the tempting offers to leave

[ 553 ]

Flarvard Class of 1926

and to follow other pursuits that have been proffered over the years, In
contrast to the implied, if not actual, formula for worldly and material
success lurking behind a majority of the questions in the “‘anonymous”
questionnaire which I filled out some time ago for the Class statistical
records, my own criterion is quite different. Wasn’t it Winston Church-
ill who said that the blessed ones of this world are those who get paid
for doing what they would be doing anyway for the fun of it?

If doing what you planned to do twenty-five years ago and working
at it enthusiastically and without awareness of its being work is a meas-
ure of success and happiness, then I’ve had both beyond a question of
doubt. Financially and in terms of present and future security (so long
as our present economy lasts), my years have been well paid. And more
important still for worth-whileness, an average of more than four
months of free time every year to travel, play, study, read, grow, and
re-create have been an even greater recompense.

Five trips to Europe (twice mainly for golf in England, Scotland,
and on the Continent), four summers in the western open spaces from
the back of a horse, some in the mountains or at home on Long Island
Sound (sailing a Luders), others through the forty-eight states and
Canada by automobile in a combination of public relations work and
pleasurable visiting, and winter and spring cruises in the Caribbean or
trips to the south for golf and fishing have made time on my hands seem
more worth while than a round-the-calendar struggle for a higher in-
come bracket (a bachelor, for his single blessedness, pays through the
nose),

I’m aware that so far this piece reads like a play boy’s parasitic exist-
ence, but actually it is not, because on the job the work is incessant,
absorbing, worth while, and often around the clock. The commonly
praised rewards of life in a boys’ school are in fact great, but they are
subject to all degrees of shock, pain, astonishment, joy, and amusement
which close involvement with the young usually entails. Over the years
Ihave gradually narrowed down the coaching (I now do only the Var-
sity football), tapered off on the actual teaching, and increased the ad-
ministrative and executive phases.

Among the more pleasantly solid and satisfying features are the fact
that I am now dealing with sons of former Choate and Harvard class-
mates and an ever-increasing number of sons of my former students.
And in addition I am in the unique position of having raised my present
boss from early childhood (my roommates will recall how he used to
get in their hair, which we all had then, when he and his brothers came
to spend their spring holidays with me at Cambridge),

[ 554 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Harvard people of New England are not so well acquainted with
Choate as they might be if they lived in western Connecticut, New York,
or points west — being, I believe ‘““down-East”’-minded in education —
but it isa great school and an extremely fine community in which to live
and work and build.

In this Yale Blue Valley I see few Harvard men beyond the even
dozen of our faculty of seventy and fewer classmates. Largely from
accidental geographical location and environment rather than from de-
liberate choice, my: friends, intimates, and family, while largely Big
Three and Ivy League, nonetheless have effected in me an unwitting
deviation from closer Harvard contacts and associations. And yet over
the years, I have always been happy and proud to be a Harvard man —
especially of the Class of 26. Had I the choice to make again, I'd follow
the pattern exactly, except for the immature stress and importance of
undergraduate extra-curricular activities leading to class offices and the
like, and even that kind of misguided aim had its educational values be-
cause I have never since had a like ambition. The simple life of building
or remodelling houses (I’ve done two since the war), sailing, golf,
squash, riding, working, and just plain living with happy, friendly, and
interesting people, is lots more fun. It must be good (if unconsciousness
is the test of anything beyond a sound sleep), for in most phases of life
I am completely unaware (practically fat, dumb, and happy) of the

passage of a quarter-century.

A couple of days ago when I was walking from my mail box with
Ben Thorndike’s “Goad” notice in my hand (resolving to take that
Thief of Time by the forelock), one of my numerous godsons stopped
me with “J. J., what comes after seventy-five?”

“Well, I said, last time I counted that high I think it was seventy-six.”

“That’s the spirit, old boy,” and he was off. And not a bad idea at
that, because I registered that the next time anyone would be likely to
goad me into trying to remember what I had done for a quarter of a
century, it will be ?76. And I just hope I am not merely spirit at the
Fiftieth. Meantime, I’m for “Fun in’51.”

JOHN CAMPBELL MAISH

Home Address: 2929 Feltz Ave., Cincinnati 11, Ohio.

Office Address: 209 City Hall, Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

Bora: Aug. 16, 1904, Cincinnati, Ohio. Parents: Albert Frederick Maish,
Viola Anderson.

Prepared at: University School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

[555 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degree: $.B., 1926.

Married: Elizabeth Bookman, March 25, 1930, Cincinnati, Ohio, Child:
Judith, Feb. 19, 1940.

Occupation: Executive secretary, Traffic Safety Council of Metropolitan Cin-
cinnati.

Breaking into the middle of the usual four-year undergraduate course
at Harvard, as I did, does not allow many chances to cultivate the or-
dinary student life. There are far too many requirements to be made
up — far too much ground to cover in so little time. I recall having to
read all of Shakespeare, the Bible, Homer, etc., in a few months to meet
my divisionals, I also recall the unadulterated joy of Kirsopp Lake’s
Bible course in which that great teacher allowed his students time to
reflect without burdening them with trivialities. I contributed some
verse to the Lampoon.

My tribulations during the depression were saddening but not any
worse than those of countless others. I failed in getting off to two starts
and then was an early pioneer in radio script-writing, working for
WLW in Cincinnati and doing school work for the Columbia Broad-
casting System for three years.

Since 1935 I have served the cause of safety — particularly in traffic.
The work has been interesting although discouraging at times. Traffic,
you must understand, is a subject in which everyone feels he is an expert
and perhaps he is, at that.

My home life has been happy and varied. I like to read and play the
piano and find that as the years go by I like less and less to join organiza-
tions in a formal manner. At present I attend an Episcopal Church, al-
though at heart I am a Unitarian.

I do not feel that either political party has a monopoly on what it takes
to govern wisely. Io me there are far too many cross-currents to say,
“This is right and this is wrong in politics.” I find that I enjoy people
more than causes and I continually feel that in political life it is the man
and not the issue that really counts.

HAROLD JOSEPH MALLINSON

Address: 1360 Plimpton Ave., New York 52, N. Y.

Born: April 21, 1906, Amsterdam, N. Y. Parents: Morris Jacob Mallinson,
Anne Eisenberg.

Prepared at: Stuyvesant High School, New York, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B. cum laude, 1926,

Occupation: Mercantile business,

[ 556 ]

b

T wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Mallin-
son did not return a questionnaire.

RALPH FREDERICK MANHEIM

Address: Wellfleet, Mass.
Born: April 4, 1907, New York, N. Y. Parents: Louis Manheim, Julia Ronse.

Years in College: 1922-1923, 1924-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926 (27).
Married: Sylvia Sapira, June 10, 1939.
Occupation: Letters.
The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Manheim
did not return a questionnaire.

WILLIAM KEYSER MANLY

Home Address: §5 E. 86th St., New York 28, N. Y.

Office Address: Berens Organization, 101 Park Ave., New York 17, N.Y.

Born: July 12, 1903, Baltimore, Md. Parents: William Maurice Manly,
Mathilda Lawrence Keyser.

Prepared at: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.

Married: Georgianna Wells Hawkins, Nov. 24, 1926, Boston, Mass, Children:
Georgianna Wells, July 6, 1928 (7. Walter Mann, Jr., June 6, 1947);
William Keyser, Jr., March 14, 1932.

Occupation: Public relations counsel.

My first job after I left Harvard was with the Bethlehem Steel Com-
pany in their Sparrows Point, Maryland, plant. I graduated in January,
1926, and went to work in February.

‘There was something about my courses in economics, history, Eng-
lish, and Egyptology that did not seem to fit into the job of “stake man”
in a surveyor’s party in a marsh on the Chesapeake Bay in mid-February.
The plain fact was I did not know a transit from an ingot and the man-
agement felt that the only way this deficiency might be repaired was by
taking a brief two-year course in civil engineering and metallurgy at
Lehigh.

As this did not seem eminently practical, since I planned to be married
shortly, I resigned to take a post in that almost extinct profession of the
bond salesman. The piping times of 1926-29 were most ideally suited
to this calling and in almost no time [ had risen to be a partner. A slight
disillusionment took place late in ’29 and this increased as 1930-3 1-32-

33 rolled around.
[ 557 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

However, I decided that if I had had more experience, I would have
known that the roof was about to fall in and that what I really needed
was a business of my own. As the treatment I had received at the hands
of the market had left a rather large hole in the capital account, I found
a job as manager of a branch office for a New York Stock Exchange
house. This particular venture was perhaps the most pleasant I have ever
had in business. The men in the firm I worked for, while made up
largely of Elis, were most pleasant and able people, and from 1933
through 1937 everything went well. However, 1938-39-40-41 were
trying times and by April, 1942, the volume had dropped to a few
paltry shares a day and as the saying goes: “Things were hard all over,”

I applied for a commission in the Air Corps but was told that brokers
were not really needed. It was decided to close the branch offices and I
was offered a job as sales manager of a company making milk into wool.
As this seemed a relatively easy feat after some of my endeavors in the
securities business in the ’30’s, I hastened to accept.

I now believe that the old feud between the cattleman and sheep-
herders of the West may have been responsible but we never could get
the stuff to do more than give what one might call an outward sem-
blance of similarity to wool. I guess the cows just didn’t like looking like
danged old sheep.

After a few brief months, I drifted back to the financial business (due
no doubt to those economic courses of Professor Taussig) and went into
financial writing with the largest statistical firm in the country. Again
this was fun and the people were good to work with, although writing,
except for those with a real talent, is an ill-paid profession.

During this period I also put in a stint of labor in a large East Coast
shipyard at night, and in fact became the CIO steward for the time-
keepers. While I certainly do not hold with unions as a way of life or
with union bosses as even a part thereof, the condition of the white-collar
classes in that shipyard was deplorable. Non-union men were usually
underpaid, overworked, and occasionally pushed off the dock, when
they objected to some of the ways the members shirked the job and tried
to beat the clock. As some general once said “If you can’t beat ’em, jine
*em” and jinin’ them made quite a difference financially, at least.

As it is only a short step from a financial writer to a public relations
expert, I took this step in 1948 and have been employed actively if not
gainfully ever since.

To say that the twenty-five years haven’t been fun would be wrong.
I feel that there are very few things that I haven’t enjoyed. I regret not

having been in the armed forces during World War II, and I am sure

[ 558 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

that no matter whether the job was “special service” at some obscure
airfield in Alabama or destroyer duty off Okinawa it must have been a
gratifying experience. My family seem to have survived all of it and my
daughter who is married to an Eli is living in Paris, He is a Harvard
postgraduate and has a profound regard for Harvard learning, and my
son who graduates this year from St. Paul’s has put down Harvard as
his first choice.

_ KENNETH DUDLEY MANN

Home Address: 1060 Devon Rd., Pittsburgh 13, Pa.

Office Address: Firth Sterling Steel & Carbide Corp., McKeesport, Pa.

Born: Sept. 8, 1903, Boston, Mass. Parents: Roland William Mann, Mary
Young.

Prepared at: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degree: A.B., 1926 (28).

Married: Kathleen Clarke, March 26, 1932, Youngstown, Ohio. Cildren:
Margot, April 16, 1933; Kenneth Dudley, Jr., May 22, 1935..

Occupation: Chairman, board of directors, Firth Sterling Steel & Carbide Cor-
poration, manufacturers of tool steels and sintered carbides.

Military or Naval Record: Lieutenant colonel, AUS, May, 1942, to July, 19445
colonel, July, 1944, to January, 1946; awarded bronze star, one arrow-
head, European Theatre of Operations and one bronze star, China-
Burma-India Theatre.

Member of : Harvard Clubs of New York and Boston; Union Club of Cleve-
land; Duquesne Club of Pittsburgh; Metropolitan Club of Washington.

Ben’s request for a “class life” may help prolong one. I picked up a
little virus pneumonia three weeks ago and in spite of raging fevers and
sundry vapors, I was told to keep to the house, but stay on my feet. ‘This
treatment has resulted in a nearly lethal case of “cabin fever” which
may be alleviated by this simple process of retrospection.

Having secured my A.B. degree six months after the Class graduated,
I returned to the steel business to which the stern college authorities had
relegated me shortly after having become a sophomore. A year or more
later they recognized the error of their ways, however, and invited me
to return. By staying on the Dean’s List, I avoided all contacts with
administrative authorities and my degree was quietly mailed to me some
months after my departure from the sacred precincts. Any slight bitter-
ness towards the ancient regime has diminished over the years, first
through the realization that injustice experienced as a youngster can
help to insulate one against the bad breaks which will be inevitably en-
countered later, but more directly through my profound admiration for

[ 559 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926
HENRY FRANCIS MARKS

Address: 23 Central Ave., Lynn, Mass.

Born: Oct. 19, 1903> Lynn, Mass. Parents: Dennis F rancis Marks, Ellen Jose

Propdiad at Bowne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.
Years a College: 1923-1927. Degree: A.B., 1926 (27).
Occupation: Lawyer.
The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Marks
did not return a questionnaire.

WARREN HILLIARD MARPLE

‘ome Address: 4133 N.E. 20th Ave., Portland, Oregon.
fice Address: Bonneville Power Administration, Portland, Oregon.
ya: May 17, 1905, Seattle, Wash. Parents: Lucius Elliott Marple, ’91,
Martha Thayer Folsom.
pared at: Franklin High School, Seattle, Wash.
rs in College: 1924-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; M.B.A., (North-
western Univ.), 1928; A.M. (Harvard Univ.), 1934.
ried: Lorna Johnson, Aug. 26, 1931, Boothbay Harbor, Maine. Cuild:
Elizabeth Tranter, Aug. 27, 1939.
ard Brother: Elliott Marple, ’29.
ation: Assistant program coérdinator.
me Government Posts: Report on postwar German power industry for For-
ign Economic Administration, 1945 ; assistant to administrator, Defense
ower Administration, 1950-51. |
7 of: Portland Art Association; Portland Junior Symphony Association;
‘ity Club of Portland; Patrons of Husbandry (Grange).

‘oesn’t seem possible that twenty-five years have gone by. My
has been interesting if not spectacular. Whatever excitement has
cking in my own work has been provided by the activities of my
le and attractive wife. vy:
ng chanced into the power business with the Seattle subsidiary
> & Webster, I have stayed in this industry pretty consistent:
was at the bottom — in a subterranean storage vault arranging
loads of corporate records which had been inherited from pre "
ompanies, I then went to Northwestern University for 8" acu
in public utilities, followed by several interesting months vit
Massachusetts Public Utility Commission and the good citizen
gathering material for a book we never wrote. Instea I ‘ .
by the Federal Trade Commission’s investigation of what

[ 562 ]

T wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

- .o companies did to earn their fees. A year of this was enough, so
holding e University of Buffalo offered me a post on its very able faculty,
when sn turned to academic life, and thinking it likely that I would
I 36" ate teaching with other professional work, I later returned to
araevard for some solid graduate training. This was interrupted just
short of Ph.D. to work in Iilinois for the Horner administration which
was setting the utilities in order after the Insull era. We got the city cus-
tomers pretty well taken care of and then took the leadership in electri-

ing the rural areas, doing a job with the utilities and R.E.A. and or-
ganized farmers which is said to have been one of the best in the country.
This task was pretty well accomplished when the boss was made Bonne-
yille Power Administrator, and to my everlasting joy took me along
with him to the Pacific northwest. ‘There time has passed quickly as we
have built the regional federal power system and geared it successively
to regional development, war production, postwar expansion, and again
to national defense. Just now I am doing a short stint in Washington
helping to set up the defense power program. .

In Buffalo I met the young lady who was to become my wife. She
has shared in these various professional sorties and has now found an
outlet for her own talents in Oregon politics. It has been fascinating to
see her demonstrate how a citizen can participate in the democratic
processes of state and local government, something I never learned
from my textbooks. Thus far she has managed to avoid being made a
candidate for office. Inasmuch as federal employees can’t engage in
party politics, she makes the family contribution to good government.

We have but one child, to her regret and ours. The small family re-
pairs on weekends and summers to our modest but delightful country
place on the edge of the Mt. Hood forest where we do much of our
Visiting with friends and relatives from near and far. Our patch of
timber is fun to manage and we have enough ground to contemplate
farming if time should ever be available. We both have become Ore-
gonians by choice. Although it is abundantly clear that we shall never

get rich, we hope to keep our roots deep in this congenial community.

EDWARD WALKER MARSHALL

H
ome Address: 10 Crescent St., Weston, Mass.

ie Address: Goldman, Sachs & Co., 75 Federal St., Boston, Mass.; Marshall
Ouse, York Harbor, Maine. |

Pril 13, 190 5, Portland, Maine. Parents: Frank Dennett Marshall, 93,
elen May Walker.

Bory: A

[ 563 |

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
Sears en College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 19263; M.B.A., 1928.

Married: Frances E, Varney, Sept. 12, 1931, Newton Center, Mass, Child,
en:

Anne Varney, May 20, 19333 Jean Dennett, Sept. 21, 1935,
Occupation: Investment banking; hotel operation.
Wartime Government Posts: War Production Board ; acting director,
Order Clearance Staff, Office of Civilian Requirements, an
sistant to the vice-chairman.

Member of: Weston Golf Club; York Country Club; York Harbor Rea
Room; Agamenticus Yacht Club; Society of Colonial Wars; Boston §
curity Analysts Society; Down Town Club; Boston Skating Club. Lon.
Table Syndicate. 9 ONE

Appeals and
d Special as.

ding

Since I graduated from college and from the Business School, my
il seems to have involved a great deal of moving but has ended up in
original locale: from the staff of the Business School, to Boston with
ue & Webster and night teaching at Northeastern University for
years. Thence to Johnson & Johnson in New Jersey, back to Bos-
nd again to New York as executive secretary of National Bond and
- Corporation, only to return to Boston in 1937 to devote full time
ston Fund, Inc., an open-end investment trust of which I was one
originators in 1932. Like so many others during the war period, I
d into the Washington scene, via the War Production Board,
up as special assistant to the vice-chairman. Postwar, I joined
in, Sachs & Company, investment bankers in New York, but
oved back to Boston (with them), which seems to be the hub
vhich I have rotated. |
z the past two years, a spoke of the hub has pointed into Maine
ny more active interest in the hotel business as president of
shall House and The Emerson at York Harbor. In fact, am
dent of the state of Maine and have been asked to act as chair-
-Tercentenary Committee for the Town of York which will
3 300th anniversary in the summer of 1952.
grinations have given us wider interests, as well as headaches,
‘result, I feel, has opened up a broader outlook for me an
nd given us experiences in many communities which we
ve missed.

EVERETT WELLS MARTIN

.F.D., Dogwood Road, Orange, Conn. n
iberty Mutual Insurance Co., 65 Whitney Ave, New Haven

[ 564 ]

T wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Dec. 9) 19025 Clinton, Mass. Parents: Charles Ferrin Martin, Mabel
Alice Woodward.
prepared at; Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years itt College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.
arried: Flermine Emily Seuss, Aug. 9, 1927, Leominster, Mass. Children:
Everett Wells, Jr., June 28,1928; John Woodward, May 28,1934.

Occupation: Insurance safety engineer, director of educational projects, Home
Office Loss Prevention, Liberty Mutual Insurance Company.

Offices Held: President, Connecticut Safety Society, 1946; editor, Connecticut
Journal of Industrial Safety, 1946-50; director of Civil Defense, Orange,
1950; guest lecturer, Yale, Columbia, Holy Cross, etc.; chairman, Divi-
sion of Industrial Safety, New Haven Junior College; secretary, Sub-
committee on Education, President’s Conference on Industrial Safety.

Member of: American Society of Safety Engineers; Connecticut Safety So-
ciety; Harvard Club of New Haven; Graduates Club, New Haven}
Masons; Orange Congregational Church.

Publications: Many articles including the following: “Concerning the Educa-
tion of Safety Men,” ““The Occupational Disease of Safety Engineers,”
“Diminishing Returns — a New Hypothesis in Accident Prevention,”
“A Code of Ethics for Safety Engineers,” ‘More Safety — Less Engi-
neering,” “Safety Goes to College.”

Born:

Most of the time since graduation from college has been spent in New
Haven, Connecticut, a place where there is a college named Yale. What-
ever education I have secured on a graduate level has been received at
the long table at the Graduates Club where Harvard men are often in
the majority, and many have degrees from both institutions of learning.
My business history has been uneventful. I have been with Liberty
Mutual Insurance Company since 1927 and all that time has been de-
Voted to the prevention of industrial accidents and occupational disease.
As director of educational projects I have done a great deal of lecturing
at various colleges,
Last week many of us helped to elect John Lodge, °25, to be gov-
ernor of the state. It was a real satisfaction for I have never fallen for
the “New Deal” bunk. At the present time we live in Orange, Con-
necticut, a small town outside of New Haven, We built a house there in
1947 and have about an acre of land to stretch in. Both my wife and 1
are active in the community and enjoy the country very much, Our
elder boy is in the Navy. He graduated from Loomis School in Windsor
and the University of Connecticut. At the time of enlistment he was
Working for the Hartford Fire Insurance Company. Our younger boy
Sattending high school at the present time.
n politics I am still a Republican and fully expect that our party will

[ 565 |

Ves ween me

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

have to clean up the mess which the Democrats have create
years. In religion I am still a Congregationalist and en j

So, my fellow-members of 1926, you can see that there

nothing very exciting and certainly nothing dramatic about thie been
lar biography. However, there may be a few men and women some,
where in these United States who are still alive and kicking became;
my work. It is to be hoped. of

JAMES MARTIN

édress: Bishop Road, Brentwood, Long Island, N. Y.

wm: June 7, 1903, Newark, N. J. Parents: Wisner Martin, Grace Moore.
epartd at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

rs i College: 1922-1925.

rritd: Helen Marzette Gardner, Sept. 29, 1928, Andover, Mass. Children

Robert Wisner, May 5, 1932; James Parmenter, 2d, March 21,1 937.

pation: Account sales executive.

he information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. James
in did not return a questionnaire.

THOMAS FRANCIS MARTIN

17 Leslie St., Dorchester, Mass.

pt. 15, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Thomas Francis Martin,
ry Whalen.

"ollege: 1922-1927. Degree: A.B., 1926 (27).
Eleanor Henderson, June 23, 1929, Boston, Mass. Céildren:
nas Francis, Jr., April 20, 1930; Patricia Ann, April §, 1933-

: Government service.

‘ormation printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Thomas
‘not return a questionnaire,

WILLIAMS SWIFT MARTIN

: Hessian’s Rest, Wilton, Conn.
*C. Tennant Sons & Co, of New York, New York 17; N. ¥. m
1904, Jefferson Barracks, Mo. Parents: Williams Swift Martin,
nglish Stone.

Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

1922-1926, Degree: §.B.1n M. Enain., 1926- Can-
1erite Gertrude Prewer, June 18, 1932, Toronto, Ont.,

[ 566 ]

services of our country church. é

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

ada. Children: Williams Swift, Jr., May 14,
1939; Ann Elizabeth, Oct. 13,1940.
Occupation: Export-import mining engineer,

Wartime Government Posts: Senior engineer, Metals Reserve Co. (R.F.C.).

Offices Held: Chairman, Cub Pack 117, Arlington, Va., 1946.

Member of A.LM.E.; C.1.M.M.; Associate L.M.M. (London) ; Wilton Rid-
ing Club; Mining Club; Harvard Club of New York.

1935; Mary Vincent, Jan. 3,

Salud, Amigos!

THEODORE BENEDICT MASSELL

Address: 6333 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 48, Calif.

Born: May 26, 1907; Dorchester, Mass, Parents: James Hirsch Massell, Regina
Goldie Chaloff.

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. magna cum laude, 1926; M-D.,
19313; A.M., 1934.

Married: Helen C, Weinberg, Dec. 5, 1930.

Occupation: Medicine. .

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Massell
did not return a questionnaire.

RICHARD RADCLIFFE MASSEY

Home Address: 44 Elm St., Wellesley Hills, Mass.

Office Address: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., 200 Berkeley St.,
Boston, Mass.

Born: July 4, 1902, Goshen, N. J. Parents: William Andrew Massey, Roxanna
Griffing Corson.

Prepared at: Middle Township High School, Leonardo, N. J.; Cape May
Court House, N, J.

Years in College: 1923-1926. Degree: S.B. cum laude, 1926.

Married: Martha Irwin, June 8, 1937, Lawrence, Kans, Children: Richard

Radcliffe, Jr., Aug. 24, 19393 Edmund Linton Davison, Feb. 21, 1943;

Albert Irwin, March 28, 1947. ..

Occupation: Life insurance; vice-president, John Hancock Mutual Life Insur-
ance Company; general agency department.

Member of : Harvard Club of Boston.

Trying to write of twenty-five years in twenty-five lines is a more
difficult assignment than any I have tackled in along time,

This is particularly true when those twenty-five years have been filled
with what might be termed the usual events of living; countless in

[ 567 |

Harvard Class of 1926

number like feathers in a pillow but no particular ones susceptible to a
build up.

Each of the years has been completely filled with experiences of the
utmost interest to me and probably of little general interest to others.
They have brought great happiness to me and I look forward to the
future with undiminished interest.

~~ oe

DUDLEY MERRILL

Home Address: 3 Meadow Way, Cambridge 38, Mass.

Office Address: 51 Brattle St., Cambridge, Mass.

Born: Feb. 3, 1904, Bangor, Maine. Parents: Edwin Godfrey Merrill, ’95,
Adelaide Isabelle Katte.

Prepared at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; M.D. cum laude,
1930.

Married: Katherine Park, June 5, 1933, Englewood, N. J. Children: Ger-
trude Park, Oct. 18, 1934; Dudley, Jan. 7, 1936; Adele Katte, Dec. 3,
1938; Katherine Park, July 29, 1940; Charles Park, Aug. 19, 1945.

Harvard Brother: Edwin Katte Merrill, 24.

Occupation: Physician.

Offices Held: Assistant visiting physician, Boston City Hospital, 1941-50,
Pondville Hospital, Wrentham, Mass., 1933—503 visiting physician, Mt,
Auburn Hospital, Cambridge, 1938—50; consultant in medicine, Massa-
chusetts Memorial Hospitals, Boston, 1936—50.

Member of: American Medical Association; New England Medical Associa-
tion; American Heart Association; Cambridge Boat Club.

Publications: Eight or ten papers in medical journals.

I can’t seem to find anything very unique, outstanding, or of much
probable interest to others in the twenty-five years of my life since grad-
uation. It contained the usual prolonged educational grind of a doctor
planning to practise a specialty (internal medicine) : four years at Har-
vard Medical School, twenty-five months’ internship at Presbyterian
Hospital in New York, and two years as assistant resident at Thorndike
Memorial Laboratory at Boston City Hospital.

Irrational and emotional as our important decisions in life almost al-
ways are, I have never regretted the choice of the medical profession as
a career or of Kay Park as a wife. They have both yielded an enormous
amount of joy, interest, and lasting satisfaction.

In spite of the obvious drawbacks to a family doctor’s career, I won-
der how many occupations offer as wide a range of human interests,
problems, and contacts as medicine. Office routine is never dull or

[ 568 ]

T wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

boring for very long. Hardly a day goes by that one doesn’t go from the
sublime to the ridiculous, the obvious to the totally obscure. The same
might be said for family life with a wife and five children. I like them
both.

Travels and hobbies seem to have narrowed down very quickly to
trips between Cambridge and the coast of Maine, small boat sailing on
salt water, and very amateurish forestry operations on some granite
ledges in Maine and in a swamp in North Acton, Massachusetts. With-
out appearing boastful, I think I may state that in the past seventeen
years I have never bought a stick of firewood but have never missed a
chance to have an open fire even if it necessitated opening all the win-
dows, the front door, and rolling up the shirt sleeves.

Social, political, and religious convictions seem to have undergone a
gradual broadening of horizons so that such inflammatory topics as
upper versus lower classes, Republicans versus Democrats, Catholics
versus Protestants, Harvard versus Yale, and the. United States versus
the world no longer stir up any ardent championship. To those with
strong partisan leanings the above is obviously only a declaration of

senility.
GORDON DELBERT MESSINGER

Home Address: 51 Upland Rd., Cambridge, Mass.

Office Address: Simplex Wire & Cable Co., Cambridge, Mass.

Born: Dec. 15, 1904,-Allston, Mass. Parents: William Delbert Messinger,
Geneva Adeline Taft.

Prepared at: High School of Commerce, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: §.B., 1926.

Married: Bernice P. Dickinson, Nov. 24, 1937 (died March 1, 1944); Vir-
ginia S. Woodward, 1947, Boston, Mass,

Occupation: Estimator, Simplex Wire & Cable Company.

EDWARD JOHN METZDORF

Home Address: 1349 Hood Ave., Chicago, Ill.

Office Address: 231 8. La Salle St., Chicago 4, Ill.

Born: Oct. 17, 1903, Chicago, Ill. Parests: William Philip Metzdorf, Mary
Schmitz.

Prepared at: Loyola Academy, Chicago, Il.

Years in College: 1923-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; J.D. (Northwestern
Univ.), 1929.

Unmarried.

Occupation: Lawyer.

[ 569 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

Ofues Held: President, 1941-42, director, 1942-47, Northwestern Univ
sity Law School Alumni Association. er-
Meméer of: University Club of Chicago; The Law Club; Phi Alpha Delta.
Order of the Coif. ’

For the first seven years after I was through law school I worked fo

two law firms. There were many pleasant aspects of workin gfora firm,
the principal one being, as I discovered when I left, that the salary check
-ame regularly every week. But I had a compelling urge to be my own
oss, At the end of 1935 I took the plunge and I have been in the self.
nployed category ever since.
Of course, I found out that being one’s own boss is an illusion, In-
'd of having one boss you have many, You merely diversify the risk.
is there any more security; but you get used to insecurity. And in an
where practically everybody 1s working for some large corporation
> government, the Jegal profession is one of the few vocations that
fer an opportunity to prospect on your own. One needs very little
and just a few good clients. By good clients I mean clients who
1] and at least as promptly as they pay the family doctor.

winter an artist came to see me about drawing his will. He said
ed a very simple will. Everyone thinks he wants a simple will. It
d that this man wished to dispose of everything he owned
irty-six beneficiaries, by creating three trust funds. Provision
9 be made for disposal of his mortal remains by burial at sea,
onors. After the will was drawn and executed, I inquired as
he wished me to bill him or whether he preferred to take care
r then, as he indicated he would be leaving the city immedi-
d me that he wanted me to take my fee out of what was left
ditions of the will had been faithfully carried out. I was
emplating the vagaries of the practice of law after he left,
fell upon the costumer where my coat was hanging but
‘na chair nearby was a shriveled-looking affair that my
wearing. I made a dash for the hall but he was nowhere

on the ancient headpiece he left, but among its other
was too small. Snow was falling outside. So there wa
“go out and buy another hat to protect a head no longer

rorous growth, This type of individual does not make

t of my time is spent with lawyers in and out of the
Lawyers tend to gravitate together. We can’t aff on
‘he people who can afford to hire us. And we ca?
with those who can’t afford to hire us. We wor

[ 570 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

hard, we live well, and we die poor. But we have our fun in our own

pibulous way- . ae
It may be that my own social activities have been more confined to

the legal profession than other lawyers because 1 was brushed aside in the

mating process and do not have my social activities arranged for me.

The vaunted liberty of a bachelor, I might observe, is not without its
enalties. He is regarded by his friends’ wives as useful in rounding out

a dinner table when there is a stray female relative or friend to be enter-

tained. And he is utilized in this respect with a ruthless disregard of his

time, desires, or convenience. Apart from this utilitarian function, he is
yiewed by wives with cold curiosity and some hostility, especially if his

home appointments are comfortable and his meals are good. But like
everything else, the life of a bachelor has its compensations. One gets a
little more time for reading. Mine is mostly spent on books about philos-
ophy and the great religions. And perhaps a bachelor has fewer restric-
tions on the character of his vacations. Except for the limitations imposed
by his work, which can be dealt with much more effectively than the
claims of a spouse, he is free to answer the call of the woods at will.
There is nothing so pleasant as casting for bass in the late afternoon
when the sun is streaming through the trees and the shoreline is covered
with shadows and a light ripple runs over the water. If only L had a wife

torow aboat.. .

JOHN FREDERICK MICKELSON

Home Address: North Farms, Wallingford, Conn.
Office Address: International Silver Co., 48 State St., Meriden, Conn.
Born: Nov. 11, 1904, Ashland, Oregon. Parents: August Mickelson, Lillie

May Jeffery,
Prepared at: Lincoln High School, Portland, Oregon.
~ Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Mrs. Emily Louise (Schmidt) Odell, Sept. 2, 1939, Hastings-on-
Hudson, N. Y, Stepchildren: Carol Ann Odell, Nov. 12, 1922 (m. Johan
Klomp, Sept. 4, 1944); Robert Odell, Aug. 29, 1924 (m. Bernice Raf-
ford, June 21, 1947) ; Edgar Odell, Jan. 11, 1928.

Harvard Brother: Milton Everett Mickelson, 33, Ep.M.,’36.

Occupation: Chief accountant, International Silver Company, manufacturers of

_ Sterling and plated flatware.

ember of: American Institute of Accountants; National Association of Cost
Accountants; Shuttle Meadow Country Club; Home Club of Meriden;
Harvard Club of Connecticut; Harvard Business School Club of Con-
necticut,

[571 |

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

I have experienced perhaps an average business life. I worke
public accounting firm for a number of years, then transferred to

ally down near zero.

In 1939 I acquired a ready-made family by marrying a charmin

sidow with three children and, although the intervening years have
-en pretty tough financially and, at times, dom estically, the children are
w grown and we are free from direct parental cares — free, that is
-ept for a little matter of two grandchildren who, it seems to us, want
pend more time with “Gram” and “Papa” than with “Mom” and

rd. 9?

e enjoy life in a relatively small Connecticut town, and try to forget
-atom bombs, Communism, railroad strikes, taxes, and all the hard
es of today’s hectic existence, and we are hopeful that a normal
ul life in the years ahead is possible.

JOHN HOMER MILLER

Office Address: Box 336, Highland Station, Springfield, Mass,
” 23, 1904, Broad Top, Pa. Parents: Jacob Robert Miller, Minnie F,

in,

: Altoona High School, Altoona, Pa,

lege: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; $.T.B. (Boston Univ.),
D.D. (Florida Southern Coll.), 1937; LL.D, (American Inter-
1 Coll.), 1940.

neces I, Van Avery, Oct. 23, 1926, Boston, Mass. Children: Mary
Aug. 8, 1927 (7. Aug. 20,1949); John Homer, Jr., May 21;

ers: Fred Miller, M.B.A., ’23; Paul Edward Miller, M.B.A,

nan Miller, ’25, Ep.M., ’28.

uister, Hope Congregational Church,

utat Posts: Springfield Rationing Board.

rustee, since 1946, acting president, 1948-50, American
al College; director, Cummings Memorial, Massachusetts
‘enthood,

7 Club; Reality Club; Kiwanis; Harvard Club; Boston Unt
; Springheld Ministers Association; Council of Churches;
isory Board, Radio Church Associates,

Leck at Yourself, 19433 Why We Act That Way, 19463 7

t Yourself, 19530; On Marriage, 1947; Your Marriage to the
Ny Baptiom, 1949. Bh BINT OO

[ 572 ]

dina
: Private
industrial accounting. I have found out that no matter how many in

creases in salary come along through the years, there are always More

and more ways to spend them and, as a result, the bank account is usu

Twenty-fifth Anntversary Report

Most of my professional life has been spent in Springfield, Massachu-

ig, where I have been minister of Hope Congregational Church. 1
h d the privilege of building the new Hope Church in the 1930’s, and to
watch Hope Church become one of the five largest Congregational
Churches in America. . | |

From 1948 to 1950 I was also acting president of American Inter-

national College. In 1885 it became a school for French Protestants
from Canada, and then became a college whose entire student body was

from foreign countries. In 1925 it became a Community College with

an enrollment of about twenty-five hundred undergraduate, graduate,
night school, and summer school students. ‘The two-fold responsibility

of the church and college was a most thrilling experience. During my
acting presidency the college built a new $350,000 library and acquired
the Reed estate of nearly forty acres, within five minutes’ walk of the
college campus, on which has been developed athletic fields. “Thomas
(Chip) Gannon and Nick Rodis of Harvard football fame came to the
college, and this fall they have developed a team that is outstanding
among small colleges, defeating Wesleyan and the University of Con-
necticut, coached by Art Valpey, their former teacher at Harvard.

I have had the opportunity to do considerable writing — three full-
length books which have been published in this country as well as in
England, and which have enjoyed a number of printings.

The family has done considerable travelling on this continent and in
every country in Europe, including Russia before the Communists let
down the Iron Curtain.

My deepest satisfaction is my family. Mary, immediately after gradu-
ation from Mount Holyoke, married a Yale man, who is now studying
for his doctorate in history. But being a Yale man is his only fault. Jack,
ner completing one year at Rollins, joined the Naval Station in San

1€20.

My social, political, and religious philosophy centers in the individual.
1e is more important than a government, state, or institution. A quota-
tion of mine which is rather widely quoted is in keeping with my central
philosophy. “Some people, unless they change themselves, would be
misfits in any social system.”

NELSON JULIUS MILLER

A ome Address: 315 Central Park, W., New York, N.Y.
fice Address: Namm’s, Inc., Brooklyn, N.Y.

virm Sept 24, 1906, New York, N. Y. Parents: Abraham Miller, Miriam
onen,

L573 |

Harvard Class of 1926

Prepared at: DeWitt Clinton High School, New York, N. Y.
Years tn College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B. cum laude, 1926.

Married: Blanche Lesser, Sept. 21, 1928, New York, N. ¥. Children: Marilyn
Sue, Jan. 16,1932; Nina Frances, April 19, 1934.

Occupation: President and general manager, Namm’s, Inc.

Wartime Government Posts: O.P.A., industry advisory committee for drugs; sur-
plus property board, committee on technical pricing.

Offices Held: Vice-president, Abraham & Straus, Inc., 1946~-48; director, Re-
tail Dry Goods Association, New York, since 1949; director, Arkwright
Purchasing Corporation, since 1949; director, Namm’s, Inc., since 1948.

Member of ; Nationa] Retail Dry Goods Association.

Publications: Articles in business publications.

Upon graduation I joined the Women’s Wear Daily as a reporter in an
effort to get into writing and publishing. After a year and a half I re-
signed to spend my savings on a trip to Europe. I-wo months later I en-
tered Harvard Law School but left when Abraham & Straus offered a
job and a future. From that time (December, 1927) to December,
1948, I helped build Abraham & Straus from a twenty-five-million-
dollar department store to a sixty-eight-million-dollar competitor. On
December 1, 1948, I joined Namm’sas president and general manager.

After the early years, my wife reéntered the practice of law and is
still at it. My girls are ready for college and soon for marriage. My
hobby is travel but opportunities for it are scarce.

My political views are liberal and independent and my religious con-
victions have become more profound even if less formal. I am happy to
see my long-standing interest and support of the Zionist movement cul-
minate during my lifetime in the creation of Israel.

WASHINGTON TYLER MILLER

Home Address: Exeter Apts., Madison & Eighth Sts., Seattle, Wash.

Office Address: Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Beane, 1411 Fourth Ave.,
Seattle, Wash. |

Born: Oct. 24, 1904, Cleveland, Ohio. Parents: Otto Miller, Elizabeth Clark
Tyler.

Prepared at: Salisbury School, Salisbury, Conn.

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degree: LL.B. (Western Reserve Univ.), 1943.

Married: Gertrude 8. Vander Poel, Sept. 8, 1944, New York, N. Y. (divorced
1950).

H ren Bho: Otto Miller, Jr.,’25.

Occupation: Investment banking.

Military or Naval Record: Civil Air Patrol, based at Atlantic City, N. J., as pilot
on anti-submarine patrol; received Air Medal.

[ 574 ]

TT wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Member of : Harvard Club of New York; Rockaway Hunting Club; Phi Delta
Phi.

Like many others, the depression caught up with me when I was
working for Hayden, Miller & Company, an investment house in Cleve-
land. During 1933-34 I was a cowpuncher at Bones Brothers Ranch,
Birney, Montana. As things began to pick up, I went out to Seattle
where I became associated with Van Sickler & Barkland in the invest-
ment counsel business. By 1938 I had acquired through work and will
enough money to go to Los Angeles to learn flying and got my license
early in 1939. Back in Cleveland for family reasons, I went to law
school, graduating in February, 1943, and becoming a member of the
Ohio Bar. During this period I also taught aerial navigation to the Civil
Air Patrol. On graduation I volunteered for Coastal Patrol duty and
was assigned to Atlantic City where I flew my own plane and finally

received the Air Medal for having over 200 hours in a combat zone.
With the end of the Civil Air Patrol late in 1943, I became associated
with Commonwealth Aircraft, Inc., in their research and development
department. My job was to keep the gliders coming off the line and to
develop a small amphibian for postwar use. When the company’s con-
tract was cancelled, I resigned and returned to my old business of in-
vestment banking with G. H. Walker & Company in New York City.
Upon my divorce in 1950, I felt that life was more promising in the
far West, so I picked up my threads in Seattle and returned here where
I have become associated with Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Beane.
I still think the Northwest offers more advantages in living and business
than any place I know. So I look forward to many years of pleasant liv-
ing — fishing, shooting, etc. Of course, I hope to make frequent trips
back east to keep in touch with friends and classmates.

ABRAM MINIS, JR.

Home Address: §3 E. §3rd St., Savannah, Ga.

Office Address; Minis & Co., Inc., 1002 Savannah Bank & Trust Bldg., Savan-
nah, Ga.

Born: Nov. 6, 1903, Savannah, Ga. Parents: Abram Minis, 782, Mabel A.
Henry.

Prepared at: Pennsylvania Military College, Chester, Pa.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B., 1926; M.B.A., 1928.

Married: Florence Powell, Nov. 22, 1941, Griffin, Ga. Cdildren: Robert
Powell, Jan. 4, 1943; Marguerite Anne, April 20, 1945; Henry
Holmes, Aug. 10, 1946.

[ 575 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Harvard Brother: Henry Philip Minis, ’30.

Occupation: Investment counsel; president, Minis & Company, Inc.

Wartime Government Posts: Chairman (Volunteer), Savannah Homes Registra-
tion Office, 1940—44.

Offices Held: Board of governors, Cotillion Club, 1935-38, Sons of Revolution
(Georgia), 1937-46; trustee, Union Society (America’s oldest orphan-
age), 1936-39, 1946-49, Telfair Academy of Arts and Sciences, 1937-
40, 1943-46; president, Community Forum, 1940-41, Oglethorpe
Fund, since 1946; director, Atlantic Industries, Inc., since 1946, Rotary
Club, 1948-50, Georgia Taxpayers Union, since 1949.

Member of: Harvard Club of New York; Oglethorpe Club; Savannah Yacht
Club; Savannah Golf Club; Century Club; Sons of the Revolution
(Georgia) ; Foundation for the Study of Cycles.

As each year goes by, I look back on my Harvard associations as some
of the most valuable and permanent connections of a lifetime. ‘Today
I know more classmates better than I did at graduation, and I feel more
indebted to Harvard with each passing year.

After graduating from the College, and the Business School, and a
brief apprenticeship with the First National Bank of Boston, I came
back to Savannah where my family have lived almost 200 years. In
1931 I opened an investment counsel office in Savannah and spent ten
years struggling to put a hazardous business on a firm foundation. Those
years were hard. Since then our growth has been more rapid, the diffi-
culties have certainly lessened, while the pleasure has increased. Now, in
addition to counselling, we buy and sell industrial plants, work on cor-
porate reorganizations, and do various special jobs in finance.

During the earlier years, my fishing and hunting were woefully neg-
lected. Recently, I have added a new shotgun to my collection, and last
summer in New Jersey acquired a small off-shore fishing boat that looks
better to me every day. With this equipment I am going to catch up on
some of the outdoor things that have been too long neglected. Part of
the program, of course, includes teaching two young sons and a daugh-
ter how to enjoy the out-of-doors.

The boys are material for the Harvard classes of 1963 and 1966.
There are several things I’ll tell them that no one ever told me. First,
moderation in all things; but also all things, in moderation. Second, no
one learns anything when he is talking, or as Poor Richard says, ‘“Great
talkers should be cropped for they have no need of ears.”” Third, the
fastest, least expensive, and least painful way to learn is through the
experience of others. And, finally, as family and friends are our most
valued possessions, behave with everyone so that he will look forward to
another meeting.

[ 576 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

For the first twenty-five years, I have worked hard and now look on
each year as an improvement over the one before it. From here on, Iam
going to catch up on my fishing. If you are ever in Savannah, let me
know and perhaps we can take an afternoon off together.

JUNE RICHARD MIYAKAWA

Home Address: 1522 X St., Sacramento, Calif.

Office Address: 1404 F ourth St., Sacramento, Calif.

Born: June 29, 1902, Okayama City, Japan. Parents: Tsunesaburo Miyakawa,
Haruno Kawata.

Prepared at: Sacramento High School, Sacramento, Calif.

Years in College: 1923-1927. Degree: §.B., 1926 (27). |

Married: Hideko Agnes Shigeno, Oct. 24, 1929, Sacramento, Calif. Children:
Carolyn Reiko, May 25, 1933; Edward Takeshi, Aug. 29, 1934; Mari-
lyn Eiko, Aug. 15, 1945.

Harvard Brother: Kay Miyakawa, 29.

Occupation: Manager of realty and insurance business,

My life after Harvard days, I believe, has been very similar to the
lives of millions of other Americans — namely that of trying to make a
living and bringing up a family. Our three children are proof enough
that I am doing satisfactorily in bringing up a family but I’m afraid our
bank account couldn’t say the same about my ability as a bread-winner.

Back around 1940 I had a nice little business in California and was
patting myself on the back, thinking I would be assured of a roof over
my head and three meals a day, when early one Sunday morning in
December, 1941, some of my countrymen with great big ideas began
dropping bombs on Pear] Harbor. Asa result of those big ideas we were
chased out of California and put in camps. Also with a big “bang” went

my business and my dream of three meals and a roof. We wound up in
Colorado where I spent seven fruitless years trying to get back into my
old business. The going was as rough as the Colorado winters. I finally
grunted “uncle” and went back to my old home in Sacramento, Cali-
fornia, I am now engaged in the insurance and realty business. The next
ten years will tell whether I'll land in the poorhouse or be assured of
meals and a roof.

I like to travel and play golf whenever I can. My hair is quite grey
and very thin, Overweight is the least of my worries,

[ 577 ]

eM ‘
PPT PRP eu ER nae YEARNS mR Hm

Harvard Class of 1926

WILLIAM DAVID MOGEY

Home Address: Long Hill Road, Passaic Twp., N. J.

Office Address: William D. Mogey & Co., Box 1014, Plainfield, N. }.

Born: Feb, 10, 1905, Bayonne, N. J. Parents: William Mogey, Anne Jane
Whitten.

Prepared at: Plainfield High School, Plainfield, N. J.

Years in College: 1922-1924.

Married: Theodate S. Fitz-Randolph, Sept. 29, 1931, Plainfield, N. J. CAil-
dren: Robert Fitz-Randolph, Sept. 27, 19333 Sandra Lou, Oct. 22,
1939; Carol Lee, Dec. 18, 1945.

Occupation: Optical instrument manufacturer.

Offices Held: Vice-president, 1927-39, president, 1939-46, William D.
Mogey & Sons, Inc.; president, William D. Mogey & Company, since
1946.

Member of : Kiwanis Club.

My life during the past twenty-five years has been neither exciting
nor dull. I went into the family business of optical instrument manufac-
turing, and did the usual chasing around until I was married in 1931.
Next came the depression and raising a family, but looking back we did
fairly well. When the war came along in the early forties, our plant
expanded to a large organization with the usual headaches. We con-
tracted to normal size after the war and have been specializing in astro-
nomical and optical instruments. With new wartime restrictions, I don’t
know what I shall be doing in June, 1951, but am quite sure that I shall
be breaking my back and paying a tax for doing it. I shall probably be
glad to do it.

My hobby has been my work. My relaxation has been ocean cruises
to the West Indies and South America. I have no definite political or
religious convictions. Thirty years ago it was a great comfort to my
parents to be Republicans and Methodists but I. am sure they would be
worried today. So am I.

HANS BARSO MOLHOLM

Home Address: 4475 W. Pine Blvd., St, Louis 8, Mo.

Office Address: 4500 W, Pine Blvd., St. Louis 8, Mo,

Born: Oct. 5, 1898, Lakewood, Colo, Parents: Eli Christian Molholm, Anna
Peterson.

Prepared at: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; M.D., 1931.

Married: Margaret Robertson, June 2, 1930, Hingham, Mass. (divorced

[ 578 ]

T wenty-fifth Anniversary Report
1948); Alice Burns, Feb. 6, 1949, Oak Park, Ill. CAildren: John Thegn,
April 21, 19343 Thomas Bond, July 11, 1935.
Occupation: Psychiatrist. .
Military or Naval Record: Private first class; Signal Corps; Co. G, 12th Depot
Battalion; Camp Alfred Vail, New Jersey; Nov. 9, 1918—Jan. 18, 1919.
Offices Held: Assistant professor, clinical psychiatry, Washington University
School of Medicine, St. Louis, Mo., since 1943.
Member of : Various medical, psychiatric, and scientific societies.
Publications: Several scientific papers on medical, psychologic, and psychiatric
subjects.

For the past three years I have been engaged in the private practice of
psychiatry. This work is very stimulating and challenging. This is so
because I cannot keep from wondering how my patients have become so
concerned about themselves and so filled with what our culture still
refers to as their “silly” ideas and fears. My wondering about the dy-
namics of how people become neurotic has led me into various fields of
knowledge and study, and so I am enjoying myself, and my life is full.

My life is, in fact, almost too full because, about eight years ago, I had
the good fortune, perhaps I should say bad fortune, to find a relation
between visual sensitivity to red, as measured by a flicker photometer,
and the rate at which sugar is removed from the blood stream. Since
then I have been giving all my spare time to the analysis of my experi-

mental data and to the study of sugar metabolism. During the course of
this analysis and study I have come to question some of the current ideas
regarding the metabolism of sugar. It is, of course, permissible to have
and to raise questions about such “scientific” matters. Heaven help me,
however, if in the course of my psychiatric work I should come to have
some questions about our fairly old ideas regarding the nature of man,
and then have the temerity to start raising questions about such a matter.

PATRICK HENRY MORGAN

Address: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

Born: March 27, 1904, New York, N. Y. Parents: James Hewitt Morgan,
Martha Leavitt.

Prepared at: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926.

Married: Maud Cabot, Feb. 7, 1931, New York, N. Y. Children: Alexis, July
6, 1936; Victoria, Feb. 10, 1941.

Occupation: Education,

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Morgan
did not return a questionnaire.

[ 579 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

WILLIAM LOUIS LOMBARD MORIARTY

Home Address: 47 Longfellow Rd., Watertown, Mass.

Ojfice Address: 47§ Commonwealth Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

Born: May 9, 1905, Boston, Mass. Parents: Patrick William Moriarty, D.M.D.,
’89, Julia Mary Lombard.

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

Years ms College: 1922-1923. Degree: D.M.D., 1929.

Married; Catherine O’Meara, April 8, 1944, Providence, R. I.

Occupation: Dentist, general practice.

Military or Naval Record: Army Dental Corps, chief of dental service in hospi-
tals in Iceland, England, and United States, February, 1941, to March,
1946.

No troubles and no complaints. The war led to a change in my way
of life, inasmuch as I decided that if the Army could take five years out
of my life in one piece, I could use more of it for myself every year, in-
stead of waiting for old age and retirement. The coming of the atomic
age helped to emphasize the fact that both might be even more theo-
retical.

Today it still seems like a good idea. I see fewer patients and take
more time off. I spend a lot of time on the Cape fishing, and fortunately
my wife likes it and goes along. Perhaps it is because she catches more
and bigger stripers than I do. My biggest fish got away, of course, but.
only after a two-hour tug of war.

Oddly enough, having learned to relax and take things easy, I find
that I accomplish much more than I used to, Perhaps this will not last,
but in the meantime we find life very pleasant.

ERNEST KENICHI MORIWAKE

H ome Address: 75 Shinmeicho, Suginami-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

Born: Feb. 13, 1901, Waimea, Kauai, Hawaii. Parents: Mangoro Moriwake,
Sue Yamamoto.

Prepared at: McKinley High School, Honolulu, Hawaii.

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; A.M., 1927.

Married: Tsuneko Tanaka, Sept. 18, 1933, Chicago, Ill. CAildren: Arnold,
Sept. 19, 19353; Conrad Koji, Aug. 30, 1940.

Occupation: Manager, Foreign Department, Nippon Soda Company, Ltd.,

manufacturers of heavy and fine chemicals,

Questionnaire received too late for inclusion of biography.

[ 580 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

GEORGE MONROE MORLEY, JR.

Home Address: 2 Grace Ct., Brooklyn 2, N.Y.
Office Address: Corn Exchange Bank Trust Co., 13 William St., New York 5,
N.Y.

Born: May 5, 1903, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: George Monroe Morley, Ruth
Tobey Shiverick.

Prepared at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926.

Married: Martha Hummel, May 23, 1936, New York, N. Y. CAéld: Gale
Deborah, July 23, 1946 (adopted).

Occupation: Mortgage specialist and miscellaneous duties with trust depart-
ment, Corn Exchange Bank Trust Company.

Offices Held: Vice-president, Grace Church Men’s Club (Brooklyn Heights).

Member of : Corinthians; Fire Bell Club of New York; Brooklyn Heights Asso-
ciation; New England Society (Brooklyn) ; Civilian Defense Division
of New York Fire Department (auxiliary dispatcher) ; Harvard Club of
New York (formerly).

Although for the past twenty years I have been working for a large
New York bank, I must admit that this has not been a particularly satis-
fying career. After acquiring a decade and a half of mortgage experi-
ence and having been lulled into a sense of security in that I believed I |
was soon to head this branch of the work, the top management decided
to liquidate the investments in mortgages and real estate and abolish the
department. So, my immediate business future seems now very much
obscure and I can find slight comfort in witnessing the procession of top
management relatives and graduate school zealots outdistancing me as
they creep up into the higher brackets. The job has, however, afforded
me a modestly secure base from which I am able to pursue my various
hobbies and in this respect the years seem to march along at a pretty
brisk cadence, even though J have attained no spectacular achievements.

During the war years I had no military service, but during college
years was a member of the Massachusetts National Guard Air Service.
During World War II, I was not successful in negotiating the desired
commission, so was active in the New York Fire Department communi-
cations (civil defense) and the Coast Guard Auxiliary.

My home life has been especially brightened by our charming five-
year-old daughter, adopted when but eight days old. If advance specifi-
cations could have been drawn of the child to be desired, our acquisition
has certainly more than fulfilled the rigid requirements. I am still in-
tensely concerned with the activities of the New York Fire Department
and the whereabouts of and personnel comprising the best Dixieland

[ 58: ]

Harvard Class of 1926

jazz bands. Creative contributions in connection with the former involve
further research with electronic fire alarm devices and miscellaneous
short wave radio equipment. Outlet for my saxaphone inspirations is
provided by monthly “jam” sessions at a midtown hotel, where con-
temporary alumni of Yale, Princeton, Williams, Amherst, and other
universities assemble with 200 brave listeners to give vent to respective
interpretations of Muskrat Ramble, The Sheik of Araby, and Nobody's
Sweetheart. |

At Dennis on Cape Cod, I have acquired a couple of acres overlook-
ing the Bay, where I have plans to construct a year-round retreat which
can absorb some of our summer vacations and also provide a refuge for
subsequent retirement. This is part of a larger one-hundred-acre tract
which has been subdivided into what I consider attractive summer house
lots. The land belongs to members of my family, but the sale of lots is
under my immediate direction, so if any classmates are interested in the
north shore of Cape Cod, I should be delighted to display my wares.
Sailing and cruising activities are by no means a memory and each sum-
mer I manage to get away for a few weekend trips around Long Island
Sound. In 1949 it was a two weeks’ run on a sixty-foot sloop from
Marblehead up the Maine coast to Roque Island and back to Portland.

My dominating ambitions at the moment are to educate my little girl
aad get my Cape Cod house under way.

JOHN DAVIS WILLIAMS MORRILL

Home Address: Whale Rock Ranch, R.F.D. 1, Ojai, Calif.

Office Address: Dean Witter & Co., 435 E. Main St., Ventura, Calif.

Born: Nov. 26, 1903, Brookline, Mass. Parents: Joseph Morrill, ’96, Olive
Williams Morison.

Prepared at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Dorothy DeLacey Rosher, Oct. 24, 1943, Santa Monica, Calif.

Harvard Brother: Joseph Morrill, Jr.,’28.

Occupation: Investments; registered representative, Dean Witter & Company,
Ventura County.

Military or Naval Record: Lieutenant colonel, Air Transport Command; over-
seas duty in North Africa, 1942—46.

Member of: Agamenticus Yacht Club, York Harbor, Maine; Ojai Harvard
Club; Ojai Rotary Club.

It is hard to realize that our Twenty-fifth Reunion is already upon us,
and I suppose we all are wondering where the intervening years have
fled. I am going to be brief about mine, because 1 am not much of a

[ 582 ]}

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

writer, and do not have one of those fascinating careers to write about.
However, I have enjoyed them and at least they have kept me fairly
young and healthy, physically and mentally.

Until 1942 I was in the investment business with the old and now
extinct firm of Burr, Gannett & Company in Boston, and there were a
lot of rough years in between the good ones. Asa bachelor I did not have
too many worries and, looking back, they were very pleasant despite the
advent of the New Deal and all the new theories, very few of which
have ever seemed to work. There were skiing trips all winter, golf, ten-
nis, and cruising all summer and the years passed with great rapidity.

In 1940 I began trying to join the Naval Reserve as the sea had al-
ways been my first love. But the Navy at that time turned up its nose at
anyone wearing glasses, so I finally became a first lieutenant in the
Army Air Corps, early in 1942. After several months at Lowry Field
in Denver, Colorado, I was transferred to Santa Monica, California, for
duty with the training of Air Corps mechanics in the various aircraft
factories in Los Angeles, During that period I met and married my wife
who used to be known as Joan Marsh, of screen and radio fame.

We were then transferred to Headquarters of the Air Transport
Command in Washington, D. C. Life was busy and exciting there and
we were constantly running into old friends who were either passing
through or stationed there. Because I was about the only one who could
speak French in ATC, I had the pleasant job of taking the visiting for-
eign brass on personally conducted tours of the United States in our
private airplane. One of these was the commanding general of the
Iranian Air Force (probably about twenty-five planes), and later on
when I visited him in Teheran, he turned out the town for me.

I was then transferred to our North African HQS at Casablanca,
and while there managed to cover a large part of Europe and the East
that I never had seen on previous travels. Having two- and four-engine
aircraft at our disposal was a luxury J never expect again, but we cer-
tainly covered a lot of ground while “we had it so good.” The closest I
ever came to the shooting war was in London the last few days the buzz
bombs came over. I returned to Washington in November, 1945, and
was separated from the service in January, 1946. I am still a lieutenant
colonel in the Reserve wondering how soon we old men will be called
back. |

Looking for new fields outside the investment business, we then spent
some time in the East looking over the employment situation, and fi-
nally took an automobile trip to the coast as opportunities looked brighter
out there. We ended up in Los Angeles and soon I was back in the in-

[ 583 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

vestment business again. Los Angeles was booming and it was

impossible to find a place to live, so we spent two months in 2
until by a stroke of luck we finally found a house. ©

In 1948 my wife entered into a partnership with a paper wh olesale

in a retail venture. She opened a shop, the first of its kind in existen, t

called Joan Marsh-Paper Unlimited. In it she had everything made of

paper used in the home, and with her artistic ability and wide acquaint-

almogt
Mote]

ance it quickly became a success, and it took more and more of my time

until I had to give up the investment business entirely. But to make a
long story short, we did not see eye to eye with our partner and decided
to terminate the partnership in March, 1950.

Then back to the investment business with Dean Witter & Company
in Los Angeles. During these four years we had often gone up to the
Ojai Valley to visit Charlie Raymond, 27, and his wife and had fallen
in love with it. Last summer, through Charlie, the opportunity came to
move to Ojai, which we jumped at, and I transferred to our Ventura
office.

So here we are living in the lovely Ojai Valley. Ojai is a real small
town, fifteen miles inland from Ventura, thirty-five miles from Santa
Barbara, and eighty from Los Angeles. It consists mainly of orange
ranches and is surrounded by beautiful mountains. We have no smog,
traffic, or parking problems and driving to and from the office is a pleas-
ure. There is a lovely country club, the climate is wonderful and the
inhabitants are fine friendly people. We lead a simple healthy life and are
very happy in our new surroundings. Our leisure hours are spent in
gardening, carpentry, and all the things to be done around a country
place. At present I am learning the stonemason’s trade. We have good
seasonal duck and quail shooting, and lots of weekend tennis and swim-
ming. Our local Harvard Club consists of Red Steele, ’20, Charlie Ray-
mond, ’27, and myself. Needless to say, football is not mentioned, The
local Yale, Princeton, and Stanford grads call our end of the valley Har-
vard Hill.

We get back East once in a while and are looking forward to next
June and seeing old friends again, though with the world situation what
it is at this moment, we shall be lucky if we are there. Lo

I am so disgusted with the New Deal, its policies, its leadership, |
shortsightedness, etc., etc., that I shall close by saying “God help the
coming generation.”

[ 584 ]

 

T wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

GEORGE PATRICK MORRIS, JR.

ome Address: 811 Broadway, South Boston, Mass.

2 Address: Bethlehem Steel Corp., Quincy, Mass. |
of" Nov. 8, 1905; South Boston, Mass. Parents: George Patrick Morris, 83,
Bom «athleen Josephine O’Keefe. }

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

years in College: 1922-1 926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Anne F. Golden, June 24, 1933, Dorchester, Mass. Children: George
Patrick, May 14, 1934 (died April 4, 1939) 3 Ann Marie, Feb. 2, 1 936;
Dorothy Eleanor, July 6, 19375 Geoffrey, June 21, 1939; Pauline, June
22, 1941; Robert Emmett, April 7, 19433 Joanne, Aug. 27, 19453

Elizabeth, July 18, 1947.
Occupation: Shipbuilding; supervisor, wage administration, Bethlehem Steel

Corporation.

After several years as assistant to the general superintendent of
Schrafft’s, and then with S. F. Whitman’s helping to create a market
among “the men who never forget,” I left the chocolate, the Saturday
Evening Post ads, and the merchandising clichés for the more austere
work of building naval and merchant ships.

Since 1940 I have travelled the same route in the same old car to the
Bethlehem Yard in Quincy, where, although lacking the background of
the Clyde, I have managed to stay on as supervisor of wage administra-
tion and incentive. Any sense of progress has been derived not from any
great material gain, but from seeing a substantial part of a great Navy
delivered on schedule, and in recent years from turning out a tanker
fleet reputed second to none. Situated as I am between management and
labor, or better as the last outpost of management, I am perhaps a little
amazed that I still have not acquired any job neuroses or gastric abnor-
malities, although I think this paradox might be attributed to having
seen some of my heretical economic beliefs work out for both stock-
holder and labor, leaving me in the clear.

It is with a sense of humility and gratitude that I realize that I have
been entrusted with the upbringing of seven children, all able of mind
and body. I find that after seventeen years I have even greater admira-
Hon for the lady who embarked on this adventure with me, for it has

cen through her example and solicitude that our full house is a happy

one. The appurtenances of my calling, standardized patterns of be-
faite and motion economy, I have neglected to introduce into the
out iv circle, with the result that often a lack of traditional loyalty crops
when the children pass up a Harvard—Dartmouth game to watch

[ 585 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

Notre Dame-Michigan State in the living room. We are leavin th
iversity’s Mr. Buck : 8 that
problem up to the University's Mr. DUCK.

Harvard and the nocturnal skirmishes with Copey in Hollis seem a
long way off, and as my routine keeps me out of Boston during the day
contacts with classmates are rare. So it is with great expectation that |
look forward to having our wives and children meet in surroundings

which have had a profound bearing on our approach to life.

RALPH ELLIS MORRISON

Home Address: 77 Atwood Ave., Newtonville, Mass.

Office Address: Bay State Home Construction Co., 20 Braintree St., Allston
Mass.

Born: June 23, 1906, Boston, Mass. Parents: Morris Louis Morrison, Etta
Levin.

-repared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

zars in College: 1922-1927. Degree: A.B., 1926 (27). |

farritd: Elsa §. Jaffin, Oct. 15, 1936, Jersey City, N. J. Children: Anne Jaf-

fin, July 10, 1940; Peter Jay, July 7, 1943.
arcard Brothers: Robert Martin Morrison, ’24, LL.B., ’27; Sidney Law-
rence Morrison, 733.

-upation: Home construction and repairs, sales,

‘itary or Naval Record: Second lieutenant, 388th F.A. Reserve, 1 927-37.

[he past ten years have been a period of change and movement for
After six years as manager and assistant treasurer of the Massachu-
Plate Glass Insurance Company, I joined the staff of the Encyclo-
ia Britannica. This work led me, during the following three years,

- Boston to Providence to Hartford and back again to Boston. Each

- involved a promotion but it also necessitated buying and selling

different homes — fortunately on a rising real estate market. Dur-

e past two years I have been in the construction business in Boston

<pect to stay put for a while. |
rerwise, the ten years have been good to me. Only serious calamity
adly smashed right ankle during the winter of 747. Most interest-
cation — taking care of my three hundred and seventeen chil-
only two of them legally mine) as chairman of the Religious
Committee of Temple Shalom of Newton.
looking forward with anticipation to the Twenty-fifth Reunion
expect to compare with relish my wife (almost perfect)» my

(quite normal), my hair (practically gone), my teeth (still my

y waistline (badly sagged), and my joie de vivre (undimm¢e
care) with those of my more or less fortunate classmates.

[ 586 ]

T wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

RICHARD CHARLES MORRISON

Home and Office Address: Great Road, East Acton, Mass.

Born: Oct. 6, 19025 Great Barrington, Mass. Parents: Richard Lawrence Mor-
rison, Mary O’Leary. .

Prepared at: St. John’s College, Annapolis, Md.

Years in College: 1922-1927; 1929-1931. Degrees: $.B., 1926 (31); A-M.,

2.

Married: Marie Elizabeth Roche, Jan. 1, 1928, Cambridge, Mass. Children:
Richard James, June 24, 1929 (died July 1, 1929) 5 Peter Roche, Aug.
97, 1934 (died Sept. 22, 1938) 3 Jane Marie, Oct. 6, 1936 (died Jan. 1,
1951); Toni, Jan. 1, 19393 Susan Elizabeth, Jan. 17, 1940.

Occupation: Dealer in Old Master paintings.

Wartime Government Posts: Director of Passive Defense.
Publications: Various articles in American and European art journals.

Since graduation I have floundered about on the fringe of instability,
fruitlessly striving for comparative material well-being, longing for op-
portunity to pursue some intellectually honest activity, worrying about

the increasing obesity of my body, and neglecting the fatty degeneration
of my soul. |

The complex pressures of society have been too much for me, and my
wife, Marie, has been the one stabilizing influence that has kept me sufh-
ciently dependable to provide food and shelter for my family, [live in a
rather handsome, draughty farmhouse in Acton, Massachusetts, on
Route 2, with Marie and my daughters, Toni and Susan, and an airedale
named “Zug Zug.” The house is poor in furniture and so-called modern
appliances, and rich in paintings. ee

Realizing that at best I’d be but a mediocre teacher, I abandoned my
project to obtain a Ph.D. I had completed all requirements successfully
except for an examination on the field of my thesis, which though scarce-
ly more than a formality, I did not take. I left a small teaching job at
Harvard to become assistant director of the federal-sponsored Art Proj-
ect, and left that to organize and modernize a program in military, na-_
val, and aerial camouflage. Since the war I have been trafficking in Old

aster Paintings, buying and selling, and I have many rather nice
things of Italian, Spanish, Dutch, and German schools of painting with
which, foolishly, I am reluctant to part. My strongest field is colonial

merican art, and I own some good Copleys, a Feke, etc. My family is
always pressed for money, our clothes are old and worn, but I think I
must be very successful because my credit seems unlimited and I can
‘ast of debts far greater in scope than I ever dreamed of being able to
amass twenty-five years ago.

[ 587 |

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

This rat race of life has kept me from developing any hobby othe
than that by which I earn a living in my own peculiar fashion, 4 yn,
leg acquired in the Aleutians serves as an excuse for my having given y

skiing, tennis, and walking; the rise in subway fares is sufficient excuse
for me to ride in taxicabs.

Contacts with classmates have been too few but always pleasant I
have not seen Salter, Reynolds, Feist and others who were close to me
since our days in college. I used to meet de Bruyn Kops and Schwah and
Taussig occasionally but in recent years I have seen only Jack Tragar d

and Paul Kirk. My lone essay at “reunion” at the Cambridge Boat
“Jub after the Yale game ended rather fruitlessly since I met no one
-hom I knew.

I still like to play poker and am probably the only surviving American
10 consistently loses at it, and also I now get tired after midnight, |
‘tinue to go to race tracks infrequently and am a sucker there, too,
er three years ago I parted company with John Barleycorn when |
dentally awoke sober one morning and I am constantly surprised to
myself still in that state.

y closest “pal” was my daughter, Jane, and we went out together
ever circumstances permitted. Although she had not been well, we
ved and prayed for her recovery. She became critically ill two days

Christmas, however, and died this last New Year’s Day. The
e of our happiness from the Tenth to this Twenty-fifth Reunion
tained in the short sweet life of this little girl.
e learned little from my experience with life except that the
ost of us pursue are not worth the effort of pursuit. We live only
n-existent hopeful future or the unburied hopeless past. Now I
er by recognizing the unreality of both. I have no ambition for

my family other than to strive, albeit belatedly, for “good-
long to no clubs or organizations other than my church. J am

anda Third Order Carmelite. Yours, for goodness sake.

JOHN MORSE

£17 Hawes St., Brookline, Mass.
¢/0 United States Trust Co,, 30 Court St., Boston, Mass.
» 1904, Boston, Mass, Parents: Jacob R. Morse, Rebecca Rat-

ookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

1922~1926, Degree: A.B., 1926, eon
Mildred Strauss, Feb. 2, 1929, Brookline, Mass. Céildre™-
May 30, 1937; Timothy, March 1, 1946.

[ 588 ]

Twenty-fifth Anntversary Report

other Alan Richard Morse,’19, M.B.A.,’21.
Vice-president and treasurer, United States Trust Company.
Naval Record: U.S. Navy, active duty, August, 1942, to November,

Harvard Br
Occupation:
Military or
1945+
Having fulfilled the requirements for graduation at midyears, Tt at-
ded Oxford University. Some travel in Europe followed and 1 un-
dertook the study of law. Buta desire for marriage necessitated choosing

business career.
‘ Entering banking, lL married soon thereafter and the dark days of

1929 came a few months later. The succeeding years of depression
witnessed great upheavals in the economic sphere and particularly in the

king business.
aefore the children came, we travelled whenever we had the fare.

During the war years when my naval duties kept me away from home
for the most part, I could not share the job of moulding future citizens.
Now our boys require much attention and we are enjoying the years
when they need us, realizing that this period will last too short a time.

Some may find it unpleasant to look backward over the last twenty-
five years, but in spite of all of the horrors of war and panics, they have
been happy years for us. |

NOEL MORSS

Home Address: 568 South St., Needham 92, Mass.
Office Address: 24 Milk St., Boston 9, Mass.

Born: Dec. 25, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parents: Everett Morss, Ethel Reed.

Prepared at: Groton School, Groton, Mass. |

Years in College: 1922-1925. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; LL.B., 1929.

Married: Marion Hayward (Clancey), Dec. 17, 1937, Boston, Mass. Child:

Christopher, March 14, 1940.

Harvard Brother: Everett Morss,’23.

Occupation: Lawyer ; corporation treasurer,

Wartime Government Posts: Attorney and negotiator with the Renegotiation
Board, Boston Ordnance District, June, 1944—April, 1946.

Offices Held: Director, Simplex Wire & Cable Company, since 1929; member
board, Franklin Foundation, since 1933; treasurer, Quaker Shipyard &
Machine Company, since 19393 treasurer, etc., various real estate cor-
porations at different dates since 1939; trustee, American School of Pre-
historic Research, since 1946 (now secretary) ; member, Visiting Com-
mittee, Department of Anthropology, Peabody Museum, Harvard, 1950.

ember of: American and Boston Bar Associations; American Anthropological
Association (fellow); Museum of Northern Arizona (corresponding
member) ; Explorers Club; Harvard Travellers Club; St. Botolph Club;

[ 589 |

Tempe
iat taleeetai etch cd ot Te

EO dn I EE Ae ec

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

Dedham Country and Polo Club; Norfolk and Millwood Hunt Chat
8;

Sippican Club. : . .
Publicaties: Archaeological papers: ‘ Archaeological Exploration oy the M;
dle Chinlee,” 19273 “Archaeological Notes on the Kaibito and Rainb
Plateaus,” 1931; “The Ancient Culture of the Fremont River ~
n

Utah,” 1931.

My first six years after Law School were spent with Herrick, Smith
Donald & Farley in Boston. In recent years my time has been spent
mostly on the financial affairs of various small corporations in which I
have been interested and I have only incidentally done lega] work
Since my marriage, I have lived in Needham surrounded by dogs, cows
tepchildren, latterly step-grandchildren, and one child of my own,
Jever the athletic type, my limited requirements for exercise are satis.
-d by alittle woodchopping in winter, a little swimming and boating in
nmer, and a little riding and drag-hunting in the spring and fall, In
-Law School summers I did some archaeological field work for the
body Museum and have always retained an armchair interest ip

field.

FREDERICK STRONG MOSELEY, JR.

4ddress: Far Hills, N. J.
{/dress: 20 Exchange P]., New York, N. Y.
"ov. 23, 1903, Boston, Mass, Parents: Frederick Strong Moseley, Helen
ore Carpenter.
"at: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
vollege: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926(27).
Jane Hamilton Brady, June 23, 1927, Hamilton Farm, Gladstone,
» Children: Frederick Strong, 34, May 4, 1928; James Brady, May
931; Ailsa, Aug. 23, 1935.
a: Frederick Strong Moseley, 3d, ’52.
Stockbroker; partner; member New York Stock Exchange.
Naval Record: Enlisted, Feb, 2, 1942, appointed lieutenant (s.g-)s
»R.; Army & Navy Munitions Board, Resources Division, March
2; sub-chaser training center, Miami, Fla., Dec. 22) 19425 ©P”
C $79 March 6, 1943; returned sub-chaser training centel
Nov. 4, 1943; captain, uss Richard Bull (pe 402), Jan 1
elieved of active duty as commander, Feb. 25, 19463 parr
following engagements: Morotai, battle Leyte Gulf, Linguay™
i, and Okinawa; awarded Bronze Star.
oard of Managers, New Je rscy State Hospital, Greyston® Park,
34 Board of Education, Bedminster Township, N. J» 1947"
of Governors, 1947, vice-president, 1950, New York Bon
1; Board of Governors, New York Association for the Blinc

[ 590 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

19473 chairman Men’s Committee, New York Association for the Blind,

smben Of Harvard Club of New York; Racquet and Tennis Club; Brook
M Club; Essex Fox Hounds; Somerset Hills Country Club.

As I remember back, it was just as difficult fifteen years ago to put on
paper an account that should reflect yourself and your point of view ,
So much has happened in one way or another since our Decennial that
it would take more than a brief account to record each and every event.

The war years with their many problems and emotions were natur-
ally of foremost interest. Until shortly before it happened the possibility
of being a member of the armed forces wasn’t even considered. Unfor-
tunately it affected our entire family, as it did so many others, for a pe-
riod of over four years but out of it came much that was good, through
having shared in a great and unpleasant effort.

Since then the problem has been to get back in the “groove” which
never appeared so attractive as when you were out of it. However, with
a devoted family, one of whom is now at Harvard and another about to
go, and with a congenial job and many an outside interest, 1 consider
myself extremely fortunate; but above all 1 am very grateful.

PHILIP EDWARD MOSELY

Home Address: 29 Claremont Ave., New York 27,N.¥

Office Address: Columbia University, 431 W. 117th St., New York 27, N.Y.

Born: Sept. 21, 1905, Westfield, Mass. Parenés: Arthur Chauncey Mosely,
Eliza Harvey Rust.

Prepared at: Westfield High School, Westfield, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. summa cut laude, 1926; A.M.,
1930; Pu.D., 1933.

Married: Tatiana Bek, Dec. 20, 1930, Moscow, U.S.5.R. (divorced 1937)3

Ruth Bissell, April 2, 1939, New York, N.Y. Children: Patricia, Dec. 4,

1940; Ann Bissell, Feb. 1, 1944; Lucinda Rust, May 7, 1947 (died

Nov. 1, 1947). | |

“ pation: Professor of International Relations, Columbia University.

artime Government Posts: Chief, Division of Territorial Studies, Department
of State; adviser to Secretary of State, Moscow Conference, 19433 politi-
cal adviser, U.S. delegation to European Advisory Commission, 1944-
453 U.S, delegation to Potsdam Conference, 19453 US. delegation to
Council of Foreign Ministers, 1945-46; U.S. representative, Allied

Of: Commission for Invest! gation of Yugoslav-Ltalian Boundary, 1946.

ces Held: Fellowship secretary, Social Science Research Council, 1940-415

rescarch secretary, Council on Foreign Relations, 1940-41, 1942-445
secretary, 1937—46, chairman, 1946-50, Committee on Slavic Studies;

[ 591 |

Occu

RR YER epmnanrn sw ntaienne nee enRglR tm Ne Mt! om Sey MENTION EY

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

i ‘-ector (part-time), Rockefeller Foundation, sj

see al Serve ate thaca, N. ¥., 1938-40. rence 1947; Presj.

Member of: Council on Foreign Relations 5 American Historica] Associat?
American Political Science Association; Cosmos Club, Wasgaition;
D. C.; Century Association, New York. Ington,

Publications: Russtant Diplomacy and the Opening of the Eastern Question in

and 183.95 19343 translated and edited, V. M. Chernov, 7%. Cre 1838
sian Revolution, 1936; editor, “The Soviet Union Since World W., 1
May, 1949, Annals of the American Academy of Political and Soc; i, a
ence; numerous articles, Ci-

CLARENCE HUGO MOWEN

w Address: 708 Dorian Rd., Westfield, N. J.

2 Address: Latin American Dept., Singer Sewing Machine Co., 149 Broad.
way, New York 6, N. Y.

July 18, 1905, Plainfield, N. J. Parents: George Emerson Mowen, Ey,
fay Harp.

J at: Plainfield High School, Plainfield, N. J.

College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B, cum laude, 1926; Ev.M. (Rutgers

iv.), 1936.

Catherine Mason Jeffrey, Oct. 17, 1931, Torrington, Conn. Ciil-
- Eleanor Alice, June §, 19373 Carol Elizabeth, Nov. 11, 1940.

: Assistant in charge of translations, legal files, and other matters,
American Dept., Singer Sewing Machine Company.

326 to 1931, I taught in several private schools, with a very
erlude of tutoring in Puerto Rico during 1927-28. In 1929,
at Kingsley School (now defunct) in Essex Fells, New Jer-
zreeably surprised to find classmate Larry Daggett, also a
there. Still more memorable in 1929 was meeting a new
—now my wife —at Summer School, Rutgers Univer-

married and I began to teach in public high schools, first
town Township, New Jersey, while Catherine contin
ne high school at Freehold, New Jersey, where we live
dren came we managed to do alittle travelling — dur-
"1934 in France, Germany, and Belgium, and during
36 in the United States on a motor trip to the con
ations, Other summers we spent principally at Oe
1s) or at Torrington, Connecticut, wher e veh
ceased, was until his last few years, princlP am ‘a7,
1 Torrington, we occasionally saw Tom Wa"

[ 592 J

T wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

During the war years I continued teaching in New Jersey high
schools, switching to Westfield in 1942 and to North Plainfield in 1945.
Like many other teachers, | worked in war plants during summer vaca-
tions — including a memorable ten weeks as the “extra man” on a
swing shift in a chemical plant, becoming intimate with SO, and fuming
sulphuric acid in large quantities.
The summer of 1947 we spent at West Gouldsboro, Maine, with our
children, and journeyed as far north and east as St. John’s, New Bruns-
wick. In 1948 I quit teaching for good and sold investment fund shares
until early 1949, when 1 undertook my present work, which is very
much to my liking.
Hobbies? I guess my principal hobby is maintaining and slowly im-
proving our house and grounds. Another is the slow and rather spas-
modic accumulation of what may some day grow into a decent library
of recorded music. I have never found time for fraternal organizations
or politics, and in civic affairs have not been too active, beyond occa-
sional fund-raising campaigns, and such other little things as none but
the irresponsible seem to escape. I was for a time Congregational Church
deacon in Plainfield, New Jersey, though to tell the truth I never did
feel quite pious enough for the job.
Probably many classmates have become, as | have, more conservative
in' matters of politics and economics, while no less liberal in matters of
racial and social distinctions. Concerning religion, the choice here 1s to
say too much or too little, and I should prefer to say too little. For my-
self, I have a high resistance to dogmas. But a word in favor of the re-
ligious man: Whatever his particular beliefs, he at least recognizes what
is to me a fundamental absurdity on the part of anyone who claims to
reject all religion — the fundamental absurdity of saying “1 will believe

only what I can see.”

GEORGE BEERE MOYNAHAN

Home Address: 146 LeRoy Ave., Darien, Conn.
Office s ddress: Union Carbide & Carbon Corp., 30 E. 42nd St., New York 17,
LY,

Born: Feb, 11, 1900, Dorchester, Mass. Parents: Frederick Henry Seymour
Moynahan, Mary Higgins. |

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.; Nolen’s, Cambridge, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: AB., 1926.

Married: Dorothy Montgomery, Sept. 19, 1931, New York, N.Y. Child:
Elizabeth McKean, Aug. 16, 1937.

arvard Brother : James Henry Seymour Moynahan,’23.

[ 593 |

TURF peer Sete TRE gO RS:
AINE AN Menino h wemmembecmes
° ownage

Harvard Class of 1926

Occupation: Assistant manager, General Publicity Department, Union Carbide
& Carbon Corporation, manufacturers of chemicals, plastics, gases, alloys,
and carbon products.

Member of : Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Engineering Society ; 3 Noro-
ton Yacht Club; Society for the Preservation and Encouragement of
Barber Shop Quartet Singing in America, Inc.; Norwalk Power Squad-

ron.

I had hoped that at this point it would read: “This information is
from the Secretary’s files. Moynahan failed to return a questionnaire” ;
but I just didn’t have the nerve.

Twenty-five long years, and what do they reflect? Maturity — just
existence — or stuffy reaction? In business, life has been highly satisfy-
ing. It took me about four years to clear my skirts of orchestra activities,
find out that I was not too good a cotton mill operator, and finally settle
on my present work where every day brings more and more interesting
problems to tackle in advertising and public relations. In the last few
years I have been called upon more and more to help out in public rela-
tions programs at Oak Ridge, Tennessee, where our company operates
two plants and the Oak Ridge National Laboratory for the Atomic En-
ergy Commission. The work that is going on there impresses me more
than anything else that I have experienced in my entire life. We shall
also operate the new uranium separation plant now under construction
near Paducah, Kentucky. It has been a great satisfaction to have been
associated with the people who are carrying on this remarkable new
achievement.

Regardless of whether or not a better world will emerge from the
intense and far-sighted research and production programs that have
been carried on there, we shall all be able to work more intelligently to-
wards a better world if we comprehend the magnitude of the achieve-
ment in this science over the past eight years. ‘The wartime miracles
accomplished there raise hopes for future possibilities of inestimable
benefit to all of us.

Home life has been as satisfying as my business life. Married in the
early thirties, we spent a year or two in Westchester County, then on to
Chicago for about half of the quarter-century since graduation. Living
in the Middle West has a broadening effect and I don’t mean entirely in
the waistline. The open spaces and the open friendliness are a wonderful
experience. But don’t think it wasn’t refreshing to get back to Connecti-
cut four years ago. The dogwoods in the spring, Long Island Sound at
the door in the summer, even trudging through the drifts in the winter
seems more like real living to us.

[ 594 ]

T wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Our only chick, Betsey, arrived while we were in Chicago. We used
to worry about how she would get along in school, but these days we
have trouble keeping track of her full schedule: sailing, swimming, ten-
nis, skating, as well as the studies and evening jaunts to parties and danc-
ing school. Maybe a growing girl is old hat to some who started earlier
than we did, but we are getting a big kick out of watching and helping
her develop and enjoy herself.

As for hobbies, I’m still fond of music — all kinds. In recent months,
my saxophone and clarinet (to say nothing of my bagpipe) have become
a bit dry from lack of use. I’ve been going in for vocalizing in a fairly
big way, having become an avid enthusiast for barber shop quartet sing-
ing. Dorothy has countered by becoming active in a musical group that
specializes in two-piano playing so we are able to attend performances
given by each other and to listen to recordings of each other’s work. Oh,
yes, we are television holdouts; the wrestlers move too fast for my aging
eyesight.

Outdoor fun has been mostly on the water. We have just a wonderful
place here for sailing and swimming. Last summer we sailed practically
every weekend in the B Natural and hope to get in plenty of cruises again
in the coming season, She’s about big enough to take the full efforts of
my two-gal crew when the wind puffs up a bit off Green’s Ledge Light.

Where do we go from here? Nowhere, I hope, except probably a bit
of European travel — God and pocketbook willing — when Betsey is
a few years older. We are quite content to sit here in the pleasant Con-
necticut countryside and grow old — gracefully, we hope.

PHILIP CARR MURFITT

Home Address: 3 Lanthorn Lane, Beverly, Mass. |

Office Address: 146 Summer St., Boston 10, Mass.

Born: June 26, 1904, Mattapan, Mass. Parents: Samuel Clement Murfitt,
Laura Silcock.

Prepared at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Meryle Richardson Cutter, Jan. 23, 1936, Cambridge, Mass. (di-
vorced 1942); Barbara Faden, Dec. 31, 1947, Boston, Mass. Children:
Diana, Feb. 18, 1938; Caroline, March 19, 1941.

Occupation: Wool business — importing broker.

Military or Naval Record: U.S. Coast Guard Reserve (temporary), 1943-45.

Judging from my earlier “progress reports,” I seem to have spent a
good deal of the last twenty-five years in some garden or other. Not so!

[ 595 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

Those were just the nightmare moments. Actually, I have been able t,
escape to sail or cruise considerably — though not as much as I shoulg

T have always been fond of water of any kind, but particularly salt, and

L have now arrived at a little backwater — Dead Horse Cove, no less |

— of the east coast to rusticate. At almost any time, when my Most
amiable wife doesn’t chide me into “that garden,” I can, like fellow.
alumnus Remington 87, put to sea in the dory. ,

I have tried — it was all too easy I’m afraid —to make business just
zn adjunct to living, which is as it should be. And I have attempted to
djust myself to a changing world as I have found it. I am coming to the
onclusion that, just possibly, I’ve hit a happy medium. And I am proud
announce the birth of a son, Samuel Dudley, on May 16, 1951, the
’ before this page was printed.

CHARLES JOHN VINCENT MURPHY

e Address: Brevoort Lane, Rye, N. Y.
Address: Time, Inc., 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20,N. Y.

Oct. 11, 1904, Newton, Mass. Parents: James Philip Murphy, Margaret

Tolland.

d at: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

College: 1922-1923, 1924-1925.

: Jane Brevoort Walden, Sept. 5, 1928, Rye, N. Y. Children: Anne
voort, July 7, 1930; Reginald P. W, April 28, 1936; Edythe Wal-
, Nov. 29, 1938; Charles Holland, June 18, 1940.

¢: Staff writer, Life magazine.

: Harvard Club of New York.

-: Fortune, Life, and various other magazines.

the war I had no active duty, but as a journalist I spent some
Great Britain and France, travelled a great deal over the
1 spent some time in China directly after the Japanese sur-

ybody else, I suspect, I have found life replete with frustra-
‘ving seen what I have seen of this planet, I am inclined to

Pangloss: everything happens for the best in this best of all
Se |

JOSEPH PETER MURPHY

529 W. Madison St., West Allis 14, Wis. ;
Electrical Dept, Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Co. Mi
Vis.

25, St. Louis, Mo, Parents: Peter Thomas Murphy, Josephine

[ 596 J

 

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

spared at: Deep Creek High School.
sans College: 1922-1925. .
¢ : Helen J. McManus, Nov. 27, 1947, Detroit, Mich.

. A ]
vupation: Order correspondent, electrical department, Allis-Chalmers Man-

yfacturing Company. |
a or Naval Record: U.S. Naval Reserve since 19333 active duty with
milen? ministrative duties with Local Defense Forces, 5th N.D., November,
1940, to March, 19453 training for pr Base assignment at Lido Beach,
Long Island, until granted terminal leave, September, 1945; released to
inactive duty, January, I 946.
In 1927 I started work in the public utility field with Virginia Elec-
tric & Power Company at Norfolk, Virginia, working at various jobs in
power production and sales until interrupted by call to active duty late
in 1940. After release to inactive duty, I joined the Allis-Chalmers or-
ganization handling order correspondence on large motor and genera-
tor applications. I expect to continue in this line, unless current mobiliza-
tion of Reservists interferes. |
I have no particular hobbies except auto trips during vacations and
occasional weekends. I am Roman Catholic by birth and continued con-

viction. Independent politically.

+ SIDNEY MYERS

Born: May 11, 1905, Boston, Mass, Parents: Adolphus Myers, Ada Endilar.
Prepared at: English High School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1923-1926. Degree: 8.B., 1926.

Died: Sept. 23, 1927, Weymouth, Mass.

As an undergraduate Sidney Myers was a member of Sigma Omega
Psi and of the Philosophy Club. He completed work for the S.B. degree
in three years. Intending to make a career in business, he entered the
Harvard Business School. His death occurred as a result of injuries
received in an automobile accident. | |

EDWARD REED NASH

a ome Address: 318 Commonwealth Ave, Boston, Mass.
° fice Address: Clark & White, Inc., 859 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.
orm: May 23, 1 903, Brookline, Mass. Parents: Edward Reed Nash, Allie De
amater,
Vepared at: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.
Cars tn College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Nmarried,

Harvard Brother: Bradley DeLamater N ashy? 23.
[597 |

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

Occe patton - Autom obile salesinan.

Ahititary 0 Naval Record: Went on active duty April 10, 1942, as lient
U.S.N.R.; uss Matogany, Argentia, Newfoundland, Decem}h, €nant,

June, 19435 training in United Siates, J uly—October, I 943° P 942~

Are2, November, 1943—August, 19453 two invasions as beachm

Marshall Islands and Pelelieu. aster,
eaber of: The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.

hortly after graduation I had four months abroad, England th
inent, and Egypt. Then back to work for the brokerage firm
on, Stone & Company in their Boston office for a period of fifte,
These years I can describe by our four Class Reunions, "
29 ~The golden age is here. We had a fifty-piece band (I know
I hired them, Stetson Shoe band ).
Not as bright as we thought we were. We had an accordion
player (I hired him too, Phil Claff), also two big bill
goats. ’
The New Deal getting underway with its restrictions,
stock market regulations, etc. Roosevelt about to walk jn
or his second term against Landon.

ome of us already in uniform and the war was on.

, Stone & Company in April, 1942, for active duty in
service in the Atlantic aboard a small ship based at
undland, and as beachmaster for two years in the |
‘r capacity I took part in two D-Day landings in the
d Pelelteu Island invasions, I was detached in Janv-
nant commander. |
period of “looking around,” I have been selling
and M ercurys) for Clark & White, Inc., Boston.
ng business but extremely erratic as to monetary
1erchandise, | -
ctive duty in the Navy (sometimes I awake ®
what have you done?”), Stalin will undoubt-
ions when he hears the news, My request has
0 e 5
‘obably have to wait some time for a billet 2
nmanders such as I am are a dime a “a
: J
n to hurdle, I try to keep up exercise "

. ond
y when there is snow, and an occas

five
ms rather dull but the last twe"') cif
e with the usual tears and cheers:

598 |

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

cerely regret that my marital'status has not changed but there is still hope
(Iam not a believer in living alone and liking it,” freedom, etc.; its a
punch of hooey). My health is dandy, for which 1 am very thankiul,
and Lam looking forward to our Fiftieth in 1976, as well as this June.

KENNETH FELTON NASH

Home Address: 909 Mason Ave., Joliet, Ml.
Office Address: Joliet Chemical, Inc., P.O. Box 1225, Joliet, Wl.
Born: Aug. 10, 1904, Westfield, Mass. Parents: Frederick Alired Nash, Harriet
Elizabeth Frolich. .
Prepared at: Central Eligh School, Westfield, Mass; Springfheld High School,
Springfield, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: 8.B., 1926.

Occupation: Chemical engineering.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files, Nash did
not return a questionnaire.

WARREN FRANCIS NASH

Home Address: 114 Warwick Rd., Melrose, Mass.
Office Address: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.
Born: Dec. 16, 1904, Fitchburg, Mass. Parents: George Lyman Nash, Nellie
Genevieve Wheeler.
Prepared at: Fitchburg High School, Fitchburg, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; A.M., 1936.
Unmarried.
Occupation: Head of Modern Language Department, Melrose High School,
Member of : N.E.A.; Modern Language Association; Masons, Melrose Teach-
ers’ Club; Anti-Vivisection Society of New England,

I fear that the past twenty-five years seem, in retrospect, unusually
unglamorous and lacking in excitement, probably for two very good

reasons: I’m still a bachelor (my friends have long since taken to using

the word “confirmed” in connection with that term), and L belong to
that much abused and much pitied profession of teaching, in which,
compared to most fields of action, nothing seems to happen. And yer h
have been very contented with the job 1 picked. L don t think Td want
to change to any other career I can call to mind — atleast thats the way
I fee] during the long summer vacations!

With the exception of one year that L took off to golback to Harvard
for my A.M, the past twenty-five years have been spent in trying to

ram a knowledge of French and Spanish into adolescent heads, many

1 599 |

Harvard Class of 1926

unwilling, a few, very few, eager ones. I’ve taught in several private
schools in New England and New Jersey, and finally, ten years ago
now, I came here to Melrose, where I seem to have settled and where
I’m rapidly becoming a “fixture.”

Travelling summers, trying to keep a house and garden in some sem-
blance of order, playing bridge occasionally, attending meetings far
more often than I care to, enjoying most of the new plays and the Bos-
ton Symphony concerts, following the opera broadcasts (one of my pet
hobbies), and other small-town amusements fill the routine of my days,
and the years speed along.

Of late Pve become very much interested in the study of Russian,
which I started just for fun several years ago. Its devilish intricacy in-
trigues me just enough to make me want to master it. At present ’m
hard at work with a very fine teacher, a D.P. refugee, whose experi-
ences during the past years make me ashamed of my frequent “gripes.”
And who knows? As affairs look now maybe I can get a job as inter-

preter in the near future!

ARTHUR LINCOLN NATHANSON

Home Address: 184 Park Ave., Merrick, N. Y.

Office Address: Munn, Liddy & Glaccum, 24 W. 4oth St., New York, N. ¥.

Born: Feb. 12, 1906, Brooklyn, N. Y. Parents: David A. Nathanson, Beatrice
Panoff.

Prepared at: Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B., 1929.

Married: Henrietta Weiss, Oct. 4, 1934, New York, N. Y. CAildren: Robert,
Dec. 10, 1940; John Charles, May 19, 1946.

Occupation: Attorney, specializing in trademarks and patents.

Offices Held: Member, local school board.

PIERSON NEIMAN

Address: 927 8, Hobart Blvd., Los Angeles 6, Calif.

Born: Jan. 20, 1905, McKeesport, Pa. Parents: Max Samuel Neiman, Rae
Bennett. .

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926 (27),

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Neiman
did not return a questionnaire.

[ 600 J

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

MORRIS NEWBURGER

Home Address: 912 Fifth Ave., New York, N, Y.

Office Address: Newburger Loeb & Co., 15 Broad St., New York, N. Y.

Born: Feb. 26, 1906, Philadelphia, Pa. Parents: Alfred Henry Newburger,
Rosella Seasongood.

Prepared at: Columbia Grammar School, New York, N. Y.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922—1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: May Untermeyer, April 11, 1935, New York, N. Y. Children: Mi-
chael, Sept. 17, 19473; Maury, Jan. 10,1949.

Occupation: Stockbroker; partner in Newburger Loeb & Company.

Military or Naval Record: Commissioned in Army Air Forces, July 24, 19423
separated with rank of major, Jan. 10, 1946.

Member of : Harmonie Club of New York, Lawyers Club.

My hobbies are tennis, fishing, photography, going to see the New
York Giants lose baseball games — ditto their professional football
cousins.

JOHN LOUIS NEWELL

Home Address: 35 Walnut Pl., Brookline 46, Mass,

Office Address: 1101 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.

Born: Aug. 22, 1904, Brookline, Mass. Parents: John Louis Newell, Katharine
Morrison Hall.

Prepared at: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; M.D., 1930.

Married: Anne Haxall Dudley, June 10, 1933, Middleburg, Va. Children:
John Louis, Jr., Feb. 3, 1936; Franklin Spilman, 2d, Sept. 29, 19373
Anne Dudley, 2d, Sept. 20, 1939.

Harvard Brother: Henry Hall Newell, ’29.

Occupation: Physician; instructor in obstetrics, Harvard Medical School; ob-
stetrician, Boston Lying-In Hospital.

Military or Naval Record: Major, Reserve, U.S. Medical Corps; member of
105th General Hospital (Harvard Unit) ; invalided home after fifteen
month in Southwest Pacific Area and Australia.

Member of : Harvard Club of Boston; The Country Club, Brookline; Harvard
Traveller’s Club; Moisie Salmon Club; Obstetrical Society of Boston.

In retrospect, the twenty-five years since our graduation, with the
exception of the war years, have found me living the life of a father and
a practising obstetrician.

My medical education was the traditional one for Boston obstetri-
cians. The Harvard Medical School, internships at the Massachusetts
General Hospital and Free Hospital for Women, followed by a resi-

[ 601 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

dency at the Boston Lying-In Hospital where I found my real interest
in life and where I continue to learn, teach, and do the bulk of my work.
In recent years I have become interested in some aspects of medical
economics. The cost of educating students at Harvard Medical School
has more than doubled during the past fifteen years. The average stu-
dent cannot pay even one-third of the cost of his education. Federal aid
of some degree is inevitable as this condition is not peculiar to Harvard
and is true of all non-tax-supported schools. However, too much fed-
eral aid will inevitably restrict and hamper teaching. To alleviate this
situation partially the Harvard Medical School Class of 1930 is attempt-
ing to raise $100,000 by yearly contributions from its members for an
unrestricted gift to the school in 1955. We hope to establish a precedent
for the following classes,
My vacations in June (salmon) and September (trout) are spent in
Canada. I am an enthusiastic golfer and recently have taken up curling.

HARDING CARRUTH NEWMAN

Home Address: 3 Sudbury Rd., Concord, Mass.

Office Address: c/o Long & Nash, 15 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Aug. 20, 1903, Boston, Mass. Parents: Albert Harding Newman, ’95,
Jeanie S. Smith.

Prepared at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.

Married: Elise Conway White, Oct. 31, 1942, Concord, Mass. CAildren: Al-
bert Harding, Sept. 25,1944; Lee Conway, Jan. 23, 1947.

Occupation: Member, Boston Stock Exchange; odd-lot dealer and broker.

Military or Naval Record: Member, Aviation Cadet Examining Board, Fort
Devens, Ayer, Mass.; president, Aviation Examining Board; recruiting
officer, 1942~45.

Offices Held: Treasurer, Concord Antiquarian Society.

Since graduation my life has been ‘more or less routine. After a year
at the Business School I joined the investment and banking department
of Stone & Webster, Inc., working in various capacities until 1931.
Then thinking the depression was over, I bought a seat on the Boston
Stock Exchange where I am still trying to make a hard living the easy
way.

In 1942 I was called to active duty. Being unable to pass the physical
examination for overseas service, I was made a member of the Aviation
Cadet Board and Recruiting Officer for Fort Devens. During this pe-
riod I sent over 20,000 cadets to their basic training. Later, when our
Air Corps quota was filled, I was transferred to Camp Edwards to

[ 602 J

Twenty-fifth Annrversary Report

assist in transporting our own and enemy wounded to regional hospitals.

My wife and I met in St. Louis in April, 1942, were married the
following Halloween and have been consequently blessed with two little
devils — Albert and Lee.

Since the war we have lived in Concord, which lately has acquired
more filling stations than Emerson or Thoreau would have tolerated.
Nevertheless I am happy except that occasionally I have time to think.
Sometimes it’s about the boys, and those boys I knew who were so keen
to join the Air Corps; and I wonder — must the right to live be won
by force? Or is force all that matters?

LEON BETTONEY NEWMAN

Home Address: 613 Salem End Rd., Framingham, Mass.

Office Address: 30 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Oct. 27, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parents: Leon Newman, Ellen Bettoney.

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B., 1929.

Married: Hazel Wilhelmina Walker, May 5, 1933, Wakefield, Mass. Children:
Lawrence Walker, July 1, 1935; Richard Bettoney, Oct. 3, 1938; John
Christopher, Jan. 23, 1943.

Harvard Brother: Elliot Voss Newman, ’35, M.D., 739.

Occupation: Lawyer.

Member of : Harvard Club of Boston; Bar Associations.

In the nature of things, but more especially because of the nature of
the times in the last twenty-five years, many graduates of this vintage
must find, as I certainly do, that much of what life has been in that pe-
riod began within that period after graduation from college. ‘This may
be more pointedly true in my case because Law School looms larger in
my view as an educational experience. Probably I tend to minimize
unjustly the contributions of college because Law School was so en-
grossing as to tend to drown out earlier experiences and because its
fruits and effects are so current. These years have been devoted to the
practice of the law and to marriage and family, all of which have few
plainly traceable roots in the activities of college years. It will be interest-
ing to re-examine this thought at a later time. College years were for me
rather footless so far as their primary objective was concerned, for which
no doubt I was to blame, though they were richly and permanently
worth while in the making of friendships and in what might be called
vegetative growth. From my present point of view our college courses
seem to have been stuffy. Is it possible that Professor Taussig could have

[ 603 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

RICHARD NEWMAN

Home Address: Bayberry Road, Hamden, Conn.
Of1we Address: New Haven Hospital, New Haven, Conn.
Bern: Jan. 27, 1905, Waco, Texas. Parents: Isaac Abraham Goldstein, Jeannie
Pessels.
Prepared at: Waco High School, Waco, Texas.
Years is College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B., 1926; M.D. (Johns Hopkins
Univ.), 1930.
Married: Daisy Neumann, March 22, 1928, New York, N. Y. C4ildren: Ellen,
Dec. 3, 1929; John Nicholas, March 10, 1935.
Occupation: Physician.
Miitary or Naval Record: Lieutenant commander, Medical Corps, U.S. Naval
Reserve, World War II.
Ofwes Held: Associate clinical professor of psychiatry, Yale School of Medicine.

Since leaving Harvard I have been rather busy learning my profes-
sion, marrying, and growing up with my family, and finding a place in
time, and my community. The process and experience are far too near
at hand to describe briefly or with clarity. Maybe by the Fiftieth Re-
union. . . .

The daily round is practising and teaching psychiatry, with home and
family at the end.

+ HOWARD WILLIAM NEWTON

Born: Aug. 1, 1903, Spokane, Wash. Parents: Jasper Newton, Anna Ryan.

Prepared at: Gonzaga University, Spokane, Wash.

Years tn College: 1922-1925.

Married: Grace Fletcher Appleton, Nov. 19, 1937. CAildren: Howard Wil-
liam, Jr., and Mrs, Robert Elmendorf (by previous marriage) ; Nina A.

Died: Jan. 8, 1951, Old Greenwich, Conn.

Widow: Mrs. Howard W. Newton, 3 Cove Road, Lucas Point, Old Green-
wich, Conn.

Howard William Newton’s two and a half years in our Class at Har-
vard was a mid-area of his college work; he started at Gonzaga Univer-
sity and finished at Notre Dame. Freshman year he was on the Red Book
staff,

Writing turned out to be his deepest interest and writing to and for
people — advertising copywriting —carried him on into a fine appre-
ciation of living, human relationships. This was reflected both in the
appeal of his advertising messages as well as in his hobbies and his service
in vocational guidance and placement. His contributions were distinctive

[ 606 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

in many ways: in the impact of many of his advertising campaigns that
won him awards and acclaim in his profession; in the shy humor of some
of his well-remembered quotations like, “An account executive is a man
who tries to read the client’s mind instead of using his own’’; and in the
inspiration that he gave young advertising people through his interest
and counsel in the copy clinics at the New York Advertising Club.

He was affiliated during his career with a number of leading advertis-
ing agencies including J. M. Mathes, Inc., McCann-Erickson, Young
& Rubicam, Lennen & Mitchell, and lately with Dancer, Fitzgerald, &
Sample as vice-president. In May of 1950 he had launched his own
advertising executive placement agency in New York City.

Howard Newton’s writings live on as a tribute to his quiet, friendly
personality. For the last several years he contributed periodically to Red
Book Magazine and conducted a monthly column, “Things You’ll Soon
Forget” in Advertising A gency (formerly Advertising and Selling). In the
February, 1951, issue of Advertising A gency, Walter Weir presented a
glowing tribute to Howard’s many business achievements and lovable
virtues. But perhaps the best sidelight of all is from the pen of an anony-
mous contributor who on the letters page of the same issue says: “The
writer of “Things You’ll Soon Forget’ is a man you'll never forget — if
you ever had the great privilege of knowing him.”

JOSEPH EMERSON NEWTON

Home and Office Address: 830 W. Tharpe St., Tallahassee, Fla.

Born: May 26, 1903, Dixon, Il. Parents: Joseph Fort Newton, Jeannette May
Deatherage.

Transferred from: Columbia University, New York, N. Y.

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; A.M., 1927.

Married: Dorothea Francis Johnson, Sept. 21, 1931, Montreal, P. Q., Can-
ada (divorced) ; Alice Marie Barnes, Aug. 24, 1941. Children: Virginia
Harrington, June 20, 1937; Elizabeth Jane, July 2, 1944; Esther Joy,
Sept. 30, 1948; Jane, Aug. 21, 1950.

Occupation: Writer.

Wartime Government Posts: American Foreign Service (diplomatic and con- -
sular).

Offices Held: American Foreign Service Officer, 1931-44.

Member of : Sons of the Revolution, Pennsylvania Branch.

Publications: Short stories in magazines; novel coming out soon.

I am happily married at last and I have four daughters, I have had a
varied life, and also at last I am doing what I want to do. It took all this
time to get around to it.

[ 607 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

As to the varied life, I have been a sailor in the Merchant Marine, a
teacher in universities, and for about fifteen years I was in our diplomatic
and consular service, and in that, and by other means, I went about
everywhere in this world.

Right now I am writing stories for a living, and supplementing that
by other means, I am living in Florida. I am poorer than I was some
years ago, but I am happier, and that is what counts. My hobbies are
hunting and fishing, and the four daughters.

Looking back on it, and there are times when you can’t help doing so,
I think I have had more war than anybody else of my generation. Or at
least I feel like it. My life started with a war — the Russo-Japanese —
and has been surrounded by wars. I was in England as a youngster dur-
ing the first World War, and I was out in the Far East when the second
was building up. All told I have had seventeen years closely associated
with wars, and I think that is the rhythm and tragedy of my times, and
it overshadows whatever personal matters I may have achieved.

ELMER BRADFORD NICHOLS

Home Address: Route 1, Box 278, Lincoln St., Poulsbo, Wash.

Office Address: General Delivery, Neah Bay, Wash.

Born: Jan. 26, 1904, Somerville, Mass. Parents: Ralph Gaylord Nichols, Su-

sannah Jean Elliott.

Prepared at; Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

Years tn College: 1922~1926. Degree: 8.B., 1926.

Married: Beatrice Alice Miles, Oct. 27, 1927, Somerville, Mass. (divorced
1939); Barbara Mabel (West) Powell, June 23, 1939, Boston, Mass.
Children: Victor West Powell (stepson), Nov. 19, 1920 (7. Patricia Ann
Springer, Aug. 19, 1944); Theodore West Powell (stepson), Nov. 75
1923; Richard Miles, Oct. 20, 1928. Grandchild: Victor West Powell,
Jr., Sept. 26, 1949.

Occupation: Music educator and instructor of junior business, Neah Bay Public
Schools, Cape Flattery District 401.

Offices Held: Production codrdinator, Submarine Signal Company, Sonar Di-
vision, Boston, Mass., 1941-45; (twice cited by War Labor Board for
production ideas) ; music educator, Public Schools, Kitsap County, Wash.,
1947-50; director, Silverdale Men’s Chorus, Silverdale, Wash., 1949-
50.

Member of: A.F. & A.M.; F.O.E.; M.E.N.C.; W.E.A.; N.E.A.; Seattle
Life Underwriters Association; Seattle Chapter, M.1.T, Alumni Associa-
tion; Lutheran Choral Society (tenor soloist), Kitsap County, Wash.;
elected to [ternational Who's Who in Music, 1950.

Publications: “Workshop” in The School M usician, since November, 1949.

[ 608 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

I have devoted my time to high school and college teaching, and to
leading, playing, and singing music.

I took special courses at the Harvard Graduate School of Business
Administration during 1926-28, and taught in both the Engineering
School and the School of Business Administration of Northeastern Uni-
versity, Boston, during 1927-28. I was engaged in home construction
with my father from 1924 to 1927. During the depression I applied the
use of the completion test in interpreting various psychic phenomena, As
a result of psychic researches, I concluded that the depression was but a
manifestation of the discipline of trouble upon a world which had dis-
regarded the gentle admonitions of the discipline of love, as taught by
Christ. During the summer of 1928 I directed the upbuilding of the
health of underprivileged boys from Boston homes, while steward of
Boston Boys’ Club Camp. During 1939 I was investigator of the re-
tailing of fresh fish and fisheries products in Greater Boston for the
United States Bureau of Fisheries, Washington, D.C.

During the summer of 1939, I again built up the health of boys at
Camp Arcadia, North Belgrade, Maine, where I was steward. From
the fall of 1939 until the spring of 1940, I was employed as steward at
the International Club of Harvard University. During 1940 I con-
ducted extensive research of county government structure in Worcester
and Hampden counties, Commonwealth of Massachusetts. My findings
are deposited in the county libraries of those two counties for public pe-
rusal, I assisted Dr. A. T. Davison in his lectures on choral music, given
under the sponsorship of the Lowell Institute of Boston in 1940, as tenor
soloist. That year I also taught in the Boston public school system as a
substitute teacher and from 1937 to 1939, I taught music at the Welt-
man Conservatory of Music, Malden, Massachusetts. During 1941 I
constructed mine-sweepers at Quincy, Massachusetts, inspected incom-
ing electronic material for Raytheon Manufacturing Company, Wal-
tham, Massachusetts, and inspected highways for the City of Everett. In
1945 I achieved high honors in mechanical inspection methods course,
Northeastern University, Boston, and was considered eligible for audi-
tion for the position of trumpet player, Boston Symphony Orchestra.
From 1936 to 1941, I was leading tenor and from 1939 to 1941, audi-
tioned voices for the Cecilia Society, Boston. In 1938 I assisted the Bos-
ton Symphony Orchestra in dedicating the concert shed at Tanglewood,
and was chosen by Dr. A. T. Davison to sing at the occasion of Har-
vard’s granting an honorary degree to the Crown Prince of Sweden.
From 1940 to 1946, I was tenor at All Saints Episcopal Church, and at

Temple Ohabei Shalom, Brookline, Massachusetts.

[ 609 ]

Flarvard Class of 1926

Next to research on behalf of U.S. defense, I have found the provid -
ing of insurance service to inhabitants of the great Northwest the most
rewarding and fascinating of any human endeavor in which I have en-
gaged. I do much travelling daily, enjoy Puget Sound hospitality, pro-
fessional association, church activities, and climate. The field for insur-
ance selling is boundless.

Public school education and administration in Washington and Ore-
gon need much improvement and refining as this area shakes off the
shackles of the pioneers. The informal atmosphere which pervades com-
munity living here makes for truly happy living.

Both my stepsons served in the U.S. Navy with distinction. As civil-
ians they, too, are salesmen, selling complete lines of electrical installa-
tions, house furnaces, insulation of homes, and roofing and siding ma-
terials. Victor West Powell was chief radioman and sound engineer
aboard the submarine Sea Cat, when peace was signed. He received pres-
idential citations and a citation from Admiral Nimitz for his work as
radioman on the submarine Siverndes. He assisted his skipper in going
into Tokyo Bay and landing the meteorologist who paved the way for
Doolittle’s first raid on Japan.

Theodore West Powell was sent aboard a fake Japanese hospital ship
from the U.S. Destroyer Charette, and assisted in capturing her as a
prize. His ship was under command of Admiral Halsey, and he partici-
pated in many major engagements. He was shot down by a Japanese
suicide-flyer while manning his battle station, asa Navy gunner.

My wife is state soloist of the Grand Lodge of Rebekahs of the State
of Washington. She is also soloist for several Eastern Star Chapters in
Bremerton, Washington, and has taught music in the public schools of
both Oregon and Washington.

Believing that family solidarity is the greatest pillar of strength in our
American way of life, my stepsons make their home with us, and need-
less to say, the advent of our grandson has brought great joy and happi-
ness to our home here on America’s western frontier.

I have taken several education courses at the University of Washing-
ton, Seattle, which have been credited towards a Ph.D. degree in educa-
tion. My most recent honor was election to International Who's Who in
Music for recognition of work as a music educator in the Pacific North-
west, in the spring of 1950.

Isold a record volume of life insurance in Kitsap County in 1949 and
a record volume of fire insurance in the same county in 1950.

[ 610 J

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

LEWIS LOWTHER NICHOLS

Home Address: Palisades, Rockland County, N. Y.

Born: Sept. 1, 1903, Lock Haven, Pa. Parents: Lewis Nichols, Fannie Low-
ther.

Prepared at: Kent School, Kent, Conn. -

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Helen Robbins Malone, May 12, 1934, Palisades, N. ¥. Children:
Lewis Robbins, April 7, 1936; Mary Louise, April 16, 1938; Margaret
Bradford, Feb. 27, 1941; Alanson Lowther, Oct. 23,1950.

Occupation: Newspaperman. |

Member of : Harvard Club of New York.

For the greater length of time between the spring of 1926 and the
present, I was a member of the news staff of the New York Times,
mainly in its drama department. For the last several years I have been
doing free-lance work of one sort or another, and thinking up those
artful little dodges that are needed to keep not a step ahead of, but
merely even with, a turbulent family.

WILLIAM ICHABOD NICHOLS

Home Address: 399 Park Ave., New York 21,N. Y.

Office Address: This Week Magazine, 420 Lexington Ave., New York 17, N.Y.

Bora: June 27, 1905, Brooklyn, N. Y. Parents: William Ichabod Nichols,
Minerva Parker.

Prepared at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. magua cum laude, 1926.

Married: Mary Graveley Cutler, June 18, 1932, Westport, Conn.; Marie
Thérése Brollova, Sept. 6, 1942, Pawling, N. Y. C4id: William Ichabod,
Jr., March 17, 1936.

Harvard Brother: John Doane Nichols, 20.

Occupation: Editor, This Week Magazine.

Offices Held: Director, United Newspapers Magazine Corporation; consult-
ant, TVA, OPM, WPB, and State Department.

Member of : Century, Coffee House, Dutch Treat Clubs, New York; National
Press and 1925 F Street Clubs, Washington, D. C.

Publications: Words to Live By, Simon & Schuster, 1948.

As recorded in earlier editions of this archive, I have done a lot of
bouncing around from one thing to another, including relatively brief
spells as: Rhodes Scholar at Balliol College, Oxford; freshman dean at
Harvard; advertising manager for a power company; director of the
Harvard University Information Office (during President Lowell’s

[ 611 |

Harvard Class of 1926

last year); secretary to the mayor of Cambridge; director of electrical
development of the Tennessee Valley Authority; editor of Sunset Maga-
zine in San Francisco; managing editor of This Week Magazine.

In 1943 I became editor of This Week. Since then, and so far, things
seem to have settled down, for which I am not sorry. As to This Week, it
is a somewhat subterranean publication which creeps into people’s homes
each Sunday under the wing of the twenty-eight Sunday newspapers
that distribute it. But it also has a certain influence and importance, and
over the years I have come to take satisfaction in that, plus the fact that
the magazine has grown remarkably in recent years. With present
lengthening war shadows, all this may soon be ephemeral or unimpor-
tant, which is why I mention it now before it is too late.

My marriage in 1942 has brought more happiness than | thought
possible in any one lifetime, and for this I am very grateful. Our life has
been centered in New York — varied since 1945 by several trips to Eu-
rope with a good bit of time spent in Poland, Czechoslovakia, Yugo-
slavia, and other places which are now out of bounds. We spent last sum-
mer in Woodstock, Vermont, and just this week bought a house in near-
by Reading. Perhaps this accounts for my present mellow mood which
will certainly be shattered come winter, when the pipes begin to pop.

RALPH EDWARD NORTHROP

Home Address: Palisades, Rockland County, N. Y.

Office Address: Chemical Bank & Trust Co., 30 Broad St., New York, N. Y.

Born: Aug. 8, 1904, Albany, N. Y. Parents: Edward Northrop, Isabel Cochrane
Taylor.

Prepared at: Albany High School, Albany, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Ethel E, Gilligan, Nov. 28, 1928, New York, N.Y.

Occupation: Assistant to investment trust officer, Personal ‘Trust Department,
Chemical Bank & Trust Company.

Member of : New York Society of Investment Analysts.

The chronicle of my life during the past twenty-five years is a rather
prosaic one. I have no thrilling exploits to detail and, as far as I can
recall, no interesting scandal — not even an unpremeditated roll in the
hay — to report. I have held only three different jobs, all conventional,
and have had but one wife, also conventional. In short, I am mot a man
of distinction.

The story begins shortly before graduation, when I realized that I
was about to be thrown upon the world with no visible means of sup-

{ 612 ]

L'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

port. After some hectic negotiations, in which I was by far the more
interested party, I managed to get a job with the group division of a life
insurance company in New York. During the next three years I tray-
elled around the country, trying to convince employees of industrial
corporations that they ought to buy the insurance I wanted to sell. Al-
though my efforts met with some success, the fifty-dollar weekly ante
that my employers were putting up at the time didn’t build up the for-
tune I was working on fast enough, so I began looking around for
something better.

My next job, chosen with what turned out to be something less than
prophetic vision, was in Wall Street. The storm signals were already up,
but to my untutored eye, the future looked quite promising when I
started upon my new career on October 1, 1929. It wasn’t long, how-
ever, before even I realized that my calculations had gone a bit awry.
Nevertheless, the decision had been made and I had to make the best of
it, so I spent the next fourteen and a half years selling — or trying to sell
—securities to people who didn’t particularly want to buy them, but
who didn’t know what else to do with their nioney.

Since April, 1944, I have been with my present employer, Chemical
Bank & Trust Company, first as public utilities analyst in the Invest-
ment Analysis Department and then, beginning last June, as assistant
to the investment trust officer in the Personal Trust Department, where
I am working on investment matters in connection with the various ac-
counts under our administration. ‘There are some persons who like to
make their own investment mistakes, while others prefer to let experi-
enced investment counsel make them for them and they are willing to
pay for the privilege. It is from among the latter group that we draw
many of our valued clients.

Early in my postgraduate days I came to the conclusion that single
blessedness presents a lot of problems connected with the culinary and
other household arts that may be solved more satisfactorily by the ac-
quisition of a wife than by dependence upon the corner restaurant and
the local laundry. Anyway, I was in love with the girl, and after a sus-
tained though often discouraging campaign, I finally convinced her in
one of her unguarded moments that I was the best prospect immediately
available. So we were married; she to live with her regrets over what
might have been and I to gloat over my good fortune. In spite of her
early disillusionment, my wife quickly put away her disappointment, and
has spent the past twenty-two years trying to bring my post-marital
performance more into line with my pre-marital promises.

After several years as cliff-dwellers in New York City, we moved to

[ 613 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

the country and for the past twelve years have made our home in a tiny
village in the Hudson River Valley that nestles under one of the north-
ernmost ledges of the Palisades, “Here where the world is quiet,” we
have found sanctuary from many of the tensions of modern urban liy-
ing. As we observe the unhurried ways of nature, some of our cares are
lightened; for the deep woods and open fields, the unimpeded sunlight
by day and the star-filled heavens at night bring their own recompense
to hearts that are often heavy.

As I grow older, I confess that my bewildered confusion over the sad
plight of the world grows with me. With the possibilities for a fuller,
freer life for all men everywhere within our grasp, mankind neverthe-
less seems bent on universal destruction. To this tragic dilemma, I do
not have any satisfactory answers, but I continue to hope that in “the
race between education and disaster,” education will win. Even as I
write these words, I am aware that many of my Harvard classmates are
making not inconsiderable contributions towards that end.

GARDNER ATHERTON NORTON

Home Address: 114 Fletcher Rd., Belmont 78, Mass.

Office Address: Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 77 Massachusetts Ave.,
Cambridge, Mass.

Born: June 14, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Arthur Edwin Norton, Ma-
bel Gardner White.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laud, 1926; A.M., 1928;
S.D., 1934.

Married: Marian Brown Porter, July 11, 1940, Boothbay Harbor, Maine.
Children: Eliot F. Porter, Jr., Jan. 21, 1931 (stepson) ; Charles A. Por-
ter, Dec. 26, 1933 (stepson); Arthur Easton, Feb. 4, 1942; Caroline
Meredith, May 9, 1943; Barbara Christina, July 13, 1945.

Occupation: Research engineer, Division of Industrial Coéperation, Massachu-
setts Institute of Technology; research engineer, Neutron and Gamma
Ray Shielding Project, sponsored by Office of Naval Research at M.I1.T.

Military or Naval Record: Called to active duty, November, 1940, lieutenant
(j-g.) E-V(S), as Degaussing (magnetic mine defense) Officer, 1st Naval
District, duty Boston to Newfoundland; additional duty as liaison officer
to Canadian Naval Research Group at Halifax, Nova Scotia; Degaussing
Officer, Staff, Service Squadron, 3rd Fleet, South Pacific Area, 19433
Electronics & Acoustics Branch, Research Division, Bureau of Ships,
Washington, D. C.,1944~-45 ; retired as commander, S(E) United States
Naval Reserve, July, 1946.

Offices Held : Vice-president, Junior Executive Club, Boston Chamber of Com-

merce, 1939.

[ 614 J

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Member of : Harvard Club of Boston; Institute of Radio Engineers; Harvard
Engineering Society; Boston Yacht Club; Royal Nova Scotia Yacht
Squadron.

After graduation, as a camp follower of science, I was variously and
some time associated with Bausch & Lomb, then at Harvard as instruc-
tor in physics for two years, also assistant to the Cancer Commission at
the Huntington Memorial Hospital, and later with Raytheon Manu-
facturing Company as vacuum tube engineer. The depression made
many of us sag off to leeward or take a different tack, and I came back
to the Graduate School of Engineering, for an S.D. in ultrasonics and
electrical communication engineering under that grand old teacher, -
Professor George W. Pierce.

Before the degree, I had started with Arthur D. Little, Inc., of
Cambridge, engineers, as an industrial physicist and worked for their
industrial clients for the next five years in a variety of investigations,
patent litigation (those experts!) and technical publications. In 1938
circumstances not yet beyond my control induced me to go with the
Dewey & Almy Chemical Company of Cambridge, as process develop-
ment man (sales engineer) for their large customer, the Continental
Can Company, and I had just seen my second (and last) Canners’
Convention at Chicago, when, almost overnight, early in 1940, my

inactive Naval Reserve commission blossomed in the form of orders to
report for duty at. Norfolk, Washington, and then Boston, among the
first to become associated with Degaussing, or magnetic mine defense.

We set up schools, built magnetic ranges from Newport to Newfound-
land, and installed magnetic belts on naval and commercial vessels in
the 1st Naval District. I had some extra duty at Halifax with the Ca-
nadian Naval Research group, who with a small group were handling
those enormous convoys out of Bedford Basin. Early 1943 found me
doing the same job for the South Pacific, 3rd Fleet Area, from Suva to
New Zealand, New Caledonia to the Solomons. The main difference
was that the war was not too successful at that time and coral beds are
hard to lay cables on. In 1944 I returned to the States and got into anti-

submarine warfare, developing acoustic decoys and other gadgets for
the Research Division, Bureau of Ships, working out of naval centers on
both coasts. Retirement in 1946 as commander, specialist (engineer),
U.S.N.R., ended all that, though I’m connected with a Naval Reserve
Unit still for fun.

For one year I was instructor in the electrical engineering depart-

ment at M.I.T., in the sonar course of the joint M.I.T.-U.S.N, radar
[ 615 ]

Flarvard Class of 1926

school. ‘This was disestablished in 1949 and I joined up as a staff mem-
ber of the division of industrial codperation at M.I.T., where I have
been for the past two years. Our group is called the Neutron and Gam-
ma Ray Shielding Project — not atomic bombs — but one of the many
offices of Naval Research sponsored groups working in the nuclear re-
search field. We use such machines as the cyclotron and the high voltage
Rockefeller (5 Mev) generator to furnish high speed neutrons, and
study their effect on shielding materials, and unclassified nuclear effects.
Now that we are on the verge of an intensified effort, it remains to be
seen whether we shall get classified. If we had been I could not have
written anything; and perhaps that would have been better, after all.
Just before the war, I married Mrs. Marian Brown Porter who had
two boys. Eliot had been at Harvard half a year before he enlisted in the
Army, and Charles A. hopes to go next year. We have three little ones,
Arthur Easton, nine, Caroline, seven, and Barbara, five. Arthur seems
to like to draw boats and go with me and may have the same fatal addic-
tion I have for the salt water. During the past three years I have tried to
own and run a one-man navy (plus a rowboat) consisting of a power
boat called Ranger — the way to see the coast of Maine. Bill Duncklee
would understand anyhow. The old family cottage at Isle of Springs,
Boothbay Harbor, still beckons each summer, and with occasional
slants in the snow wintertimes (looking for Ath Noyes), life is still un-
predictable. Ship models and amateur music (seems a little unseemly
but then) take up what is left of spare time, if there can be said to be any
such thing at our age.
When Reunion comes, having served with Charley Platt on the pre-
Reunion events, and having lost money, at least we can sit back, do
nothing, and “reune.”

WILLIAM ELLIOT NORTON

Home Address: 126 Church St., Watertown, Mass.

Office Address: Boston Post, 259 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

Born: May 17, 1903, Boston, Mass. Parents: William Laurence Norton, Mary
Elizabeth Fitzgerald.

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Florence E. Stelmach, Sept. 9, 1934, Boston, Mass. Children: Eliza-
beth Noel, April 9, 1936; Jane Florence, Feb. 9, 1938; David Andrew,
Oct. 2, 1939.

Harvard Brother: Arthur Laurence Norton, ’27,

Occupation: Drama editor, Boston Post,

[ 616 |

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Offices Held: President, Boston Press Club, 1950-51.

Member of : Boston Press Club; American National Theatre and Academy.

Publications: Articles in Theatre Arts, Theatre Annual, Stage Pictorial, Burns
Mantle’s Best Plays of the Year (Boston editor), New York Sunday Times,
New York Herald Tribune,

In September, 1926, I joined the staff of the Boston Post as a reporter.
Eight years later I became the drama editor and critic and this position
I still hold. My job is part reportorial, part editorial, and part critical, As
critic I have reviewed more than twelve hundred plays, which some
professionals consider par for the course. For the last ten years I have
also taught various aspects of journalism and the drama to various and
variously attentive students of various institutions of learning. At present
I am a member of three college faculties, Boston University (Division
of Radio, Speech and Theatre), with the rank of lecturer in drama;
Emerson College, lecturer in English; and Boston College (the In-
town College of Arts and Sciences) as lecturer in drama.

I have three children, including a son, eleven, who will, I hope, go to
Harvard, though I may be unable to persuade him that this is reasonable
unless the football team improves greatly. In 1947 I was awarded a
citation of merit by Boston College for “distinguished criticism in the
field of journalism.” ‘This award was specifically labelled the first an-
nual citation of merit, but although three years have passed, there has
been no second annual citation. ‘There are moments when I wonder if
perhaps the lecture I gave after receiving the award was responsible for
ending then and there what should have been a nice yearly event.

GEORGE EDWARD NOVACK

Home Address: 19 W. Tenth St., New York 11, N.Y.

Bora: Aug. 5, 1905, Boston, Mass. Parents: Israel Novack, Ada Marcus.
Prepared at: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1927.

Married: Evelyn Andreas, 1942, Detroit, Mich,

Occupation: Publicity, publishing, advertising.

Harvard knows two irreconcilable traditions. ‘The predominant one
through the centuries has been devoted to guarding aristocratic and
plutocratic privileges through Tory lickspittles of the British Crown,
Massachusetts apologists for the southern slave power, and in our own
day people like A. Lawrence Lowell who so “impartially” helped Sacco
and Vanzetti to their martyrdom. I have always detested that tradition

and recoiled from it.

[ 617 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

The opposing tradition traces its lineage through such rebels as Sam
Adams, Wendell Phillips, John Reed, and my friend, the late Professor
F. O. Matthiessen. They fought against social injustice and without
compromise for the rights of man. Insofar as Harvard has affected my
life, it is the nobler minority tradition fostered by such men that has
inspired and guided me.

ATHERTON NOYES

Home Address: 23, Fernwood P}., Mountain Lakes, N. J.

Office Address: Aircraft Radio Corp., Boonton, N. J.

Born: Sept. 27, 1904, Colorado Springs, Colo. Parents: Atherton Noyes, Mar-
garet Davenport Fette.

Prepared at: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; A.M., 1928; S.M., 1929;
S.D., 1934.

Married: Barbara Thorne Wilson, Oct. 10, 1931, Hinsdale, Ill. Children:
Atherton, 3d (Peter), April 23, 1933; Robert Wilson, Dec. 27, 1934;
Deborah, May 11, 1939; Gretchen, Sept. 24, 1946.

Harvard Brother: Eliot Fette Noyes, ’32, M. Arcu., 738.

Occupation: Senior engineer, Aircraft Radio Corporation; development and
manufacturing of airborne radio and radar.

Offices Held: Member, 1942-48, president, 1945-47, Mountain Lakes Board
of Education; consistory member, Mountain Lakes Community Church,

since 1948.
Member of : Institute of Radio Engineering; Park Lakes Tennis Club.

Report to the T'wenty-fifth Reunion Committee, as predicted in June,
1926:

After graduation and a brief European vacation with classmates Ed
Babbitt and Ted Greene, I entered graduate school, where for three
years I devoted myself to the study of physics and engineering. A good
position then presented itself with a first-class research organization.
While associated with this group, I was fortunate enough to discover a
number of fundamental physical principles, and showed such good
judgment in commercializing them that I was soon on easy street finan-
cially. I did not, however, permit wealth to dull my interest in new
ideas, and continued to pursue a scientific career with ever-increasing
success in my own research laboratories, aided by numerous first-class
assistants.

Modesty forbids an enumeration of my achievements of the past
twenty-five years — suffice it to say that those to whom they are of in-
terest are already well aware of them.

{ 618 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Shortly after completion of my graduate work, I married an excep-
tionally beautiful and talented girl and we set about raising the large
family for which both of us yearned. Fortunately, there were no finan-
cial problems involved in this, so I am happy to report that our eight
children are now attending the best schools and soon expect to follow
the footsteps of their parents in their respective alma maters.

In closing this brief sumary of twenty-five happy and rewarding
years, may I point out that they have been the logical outcome of the
undergraduate period at Harvard.

November, 1950:

Since the Report Committee is so persistent in requesting this report
immediately, I fear I shall have to include with it certain reservations
and corrections.

The crystal ball was fairly clear for the first few years, but showed a
certain lack of accuracy with regard to the later period. I engaged in
graduate study for three years at Harvard, spent two years with the
Boonton Research Corporation, married an exceptionally beautiful and
talented girl, Barbara, and raised a large family of four. Financially,
however, the wolf has never been far from the door, and the scientific
achievements, I’m afraid, have been run of the mill. But it has all been
a lot of fun.

From 1931 to 1937 I was again at Harvard, studying and teaching,
and since 1937 I have been in Mountain Lakes, New Jersey, with a
very interesting job at Aircraft Radio Corporation.

The family has increased happily through the years, making up in
quality what it has fallen short of original plans in quantity. We have
two boys, Peter and Bob, and two girls, Deborah and Gretchen. Three
of these four I hope will be with me next June; Gretchen, at four, is
somewhat resentful of the Committee’s assumption that 1926 men are
too old to have any children under ten, but she will be rooting for us
from the home front.

For relaxation I still play as much tennis and do as much skiing as
circumstances will permit. For the past few summers we have deserted
our original love — Cape Cod—and settled ourselves at Christmas
Cove, Maine, where last year we acquired a modest cottage of our own.
We enjoy seeing classmates A. G. Smith and Bill Beggs there every
summer. We are becoming more and more sold on Maine each year,
and hope that many of you will drop in to let us show you what we mean.

[ 619 ]

Flarvard Class of 1926

RALPH NYE

Home Address: 2546 Jefferson Ave., Ogden, Utah.

Office Address: Fred N. Nye Co., 2422 Washington Blvd., Ogden, Utah.

Born: July 24, 1904, Ogden, Utah. Parents: Fred Morgan Nye Margaret
Eliza Buckmiller.

Prepared at: Ogden High School, Ogden, Utah.

Years tn College: 1924-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.

Occupation: General manager, men’s and women’s clothing specialty store.

Military or Naval Record: Lieutenant commander, U.S.N.R., Bureau of Aero-
nautics, Dec. 23, 1942, to Jan. 23, 1946.

Offices Held: President, Ogden Rotary Club, 1941-42; vice-chairman, Utah
State Republican Finance Committee, 1948; director, Scottish Rite Free-
masonry.

EDWARD HILL OBER

Home Address: 7 Endicott St., Beverly, Mass.

Office Address: Edwin L. Pride & Co., 40 Central St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Sept. 20, 1904, Beverly, Mass. Parents: Charles Edward Ober, Eliza-
beth Webster Hill,

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926.

Married: Evelyn M., Nason, June 2, 1929, Haverhill, Mass. Children: Richard
Nason, May 3, 19303; Nancy, May 23, 1933; Hugh Hill, Aug. 4, 1934.

Harvard Son: Richard Nason Ober, ’52.

Occupation: Accounting and auditing; partner in firm of Edwin L, Pride &
Company.

Wartime Government Posts: Aircraft Warning Service Observer and Auxiliary
Police.

Member of : Tedesco Country Club; Boston Yacht Club.

After leaving college, I spent two years with Stone & Webster in the
public utility management field. I then transferred into the investment
end of the business where I remained until 1942. I left to enter partner-
ship in the accounting firm of Edwin L. Pride & Company where I have
been active in tax work ever since.

My travels have been relatively limited although I did manage to
work in a trip to Europe shortly after I was married, Since then family
considerations and war have kept me on this side of the Atlantic.

Until four years ago my favorite relaxations were golf and fishing,
but the purchase of a farm in New Hampshire changed all that. Now my
spare time is spent up there in Bradford where we raise vegetables,
poultry, and goats and, in general, have a grand time entertaining our

friends,

[ 620 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

In the fall the bird hunting is really wonderful and in December the
woods are full of deer. I must admit, though, that my friends have bet-
ter luck than I, but I have become an excellent chef in the process.

I remember very clearly at graduation how silly those members of
the Class of 1901 were, trying to be young again. Well, here we are and
in all probability we shall be just as silly if not more so. I’m in favor of it!

HARRY OLINS

Home Address: 333 Clark Rd., Brookline, Mass.
Office Address: 31 State St., Boston, Mass.
Bora: Nov. 16, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parents: Abraham Olitzky, Anna Cohen.
Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; LL.B., 1929.
Married: Janice R. Porosky, Dec. 3, 1933, Brookline, Mass. Children: Andrew
M., Oct. 4, 19373 RobertsA., Sept. 25, 1942; Nancy J., Aug. 19, 1949.
Occupation; Lawyer.
Wartime Goveramnent Posts; Counsel to Price Adjustment Board, Quartermas-
ter Corps, in connection with renegotiation of war contracts.
Offices Held: Member, Administrative Committee and head of Law Depart-
‘ ment, Northeastern University School of Business; trustee, Associated
Jewish Philanthropies of Boston, Temple Ohabei Shalom; chairman,
district division Combined Jewish Appeal; member, executive board,
Law Society of Massachusetts; Brookline Town Meeting member.
Member of : Brotherhood Temple Ohabei Shalom; Law Society of Massachu-
setts; Business Men’s Council, Associated Jewish Philanthropies.
Publications: “Mortgages on after-acquired property,” Lazo Society of Massachu-_
_ setts Journal,

As an undergraduate, it seemed to me that when the Twenty-fifth
Reunion classes were holding their activities they were really “on
the way out.”” Whether it is a question of perspective or just because I
would rather have it that way, I hardly feel that way now. As I look
around, it seems that most of us are still fairly young and active.

T have enjoyed a fairly busy practice in the legal field, which, together
with teaching, my activities in philanthropic and communal work, and
trying to keep up with my two sons and a daughter, have kept me pretty
much on the jump.

I have spent my summers on the Cape, puttering around in my gar-

den.

[ 621 |

Harvard Class of 1926

J. ROBERT OPPENHEIMER

Home Address: 97 Olden Lane, Princeton, N. J.

Office Address: Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, N. J.

Born: April 22, 1904, New York, N. Y. Parents: Julius Oppenheimer, Ella
Freedman.

Prepared at: Ethical Culture High School, New York, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1925. Degrees: A.B. summa cum laude, 1926 (25);
Dr.Puit. (Gottingen Univ.), 1927; $.D. (hon.) (Harvard Univ.),
1947; LL.D. (Univ. of California), 1948.

Married: Katherine Puening Harrison, November, 1940, Nevada. Cildren:
Peter, May 12, 1941; Katherine, Dec. 7, 1944.

Occupation: Director, Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, N. J.3 chair-
man, General Advisory Committee to U.S. Atomic Energy Commission.

Wartime Government Posts: Director, Los Alamos Laboratory, 1943-45.

Member of: American Physical Society (fellow) ; American Academy of Arts
and Sciences; American Philosophical Society; Christ’s College, Cam-
bridge (honorary fellow) ; National Academy of Sciences; Royal Danish -
Academy of Sciences and Letters; Japan Academy, Tokyo.

MORRIS ORRINGER

Home Address: 5649 Marlborough Rd., Pittsburgh 17, Pa.
Office Address: Weiner’s Store, 425 E. Ohio St., Pittsburgh, Pa.
Born: Dec. 29, 1903, Pittsburgh, Pa. Parents: Oscar Orringer, Rose Spann.
Prepared at: Peabody High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Years it College: 1922-1926. Degree: 8.B., 1926.
‘Married: Estelle Weiner, Feb. 19, 1942, Pittsburgh, Pa. Children: Eugene
Paul, Nov. 10, 1943; Mildred Freyda, Aug. 21, 1946.
Occupation: Retail men’s and boys’ wear; partner, Weiner’s Store.
Member of: Davage Lodge, F. & A.M. (honorary member); Islam Grotto;
Zionist Organization of America; Men’s Club of Tree of Life Congrega-
tion.

The old adage, “A rolling stone gathers no moss,” has certainly held
true in my case ever since leaving Harvard in 1926. In fact, I have been
so busy rolling around in the business world that I haven’t found time to
look for the moss! .

I started the ball rolling by choosing department store work to start
off my career, and within six months became an assistant buyer. After a
year of this I felt the need for a change and chose steel! Foundry work
in itself isn’t the most interesting or cleanest work in the world, but it
does have its points of interest. As an expediter, I devised my own sys-
tem whereby it was a comparatively simple matter to follow through

[ 622 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

the numerous castings which enabled me to speed up the finishing work
necessary on them until they were ready for shipment.

From foundry work I turned to steel and in 1933 became associated
with the Jones & Laughlin Steel Corporation, the nation’s third largest
independent steel producer. For the next ten years my activities cen-
tered around the welded tube, tin plate, and especially the seamless tube
departments. Production, inspection, and metallurgical work kept me
extremely busy and eventually I became so involved in such an intricate
maze of figures that I was happy to make a change.

In 1943 I was appointed a surveyor of tests for the American Bureau
of Shipping and was stationed for the most part in the metallurgical
laboratory of the giant Carnegie Illinois Steel Corporation doing my
small part to speed up the construction of ships.

And the folly of it all! Since 1945 I am back in the retail field again,
and with the long hours I have been putting in three nights a week,

_ there isn’t very much time left for me to spend at home with my wife
’ and children. But it looks like the old urge is coming on again, quzen sabe,
and could be the “old ball” will start rolling again one of these days.

ANTONIO MARIA ORTIZ Y ORTIZ

Address: P.O. Box 3365, Santurce 29, Puerto Rico,

Born: April 6, 1906, Maunabo, Puerto Rico. Parents: Vicente Ortiz Lopez
Ortiz, Paula Ortiz Bodriguez,

Prepared at: Humacao High School, Humacao, Puerto Rico.

Years in College: 1922-1925. Degrees: S.B. cum laude, 1926 (25); M.D., 1929.

Occupation: Medicine.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Ortiz did
not return a questionnaire.

STANLEY ve JONGH OSBORNE

Home Address: Manor Road, Glen Arm, Md.

Office Address: Mathieson Chemical Corp., Baltimore, Md.

Born: March 27, 1905, San Jose, Costa Rica. Pareats: Edmund Arthur Os-
borne, Lilly de Jongh.

Prepared at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926.

Married: Elizabeth Ide, Oct. 28, 1929, St. Johnsbury, Vt. Childrens: Mary
Ide, Feb. 23, 19313 Richard de Jongh, March 19, 1934; Cynthia
Adams, Sept. 20; 1937.

Harvard Brother: Leslie Becker Osborne, 29.

[ 623 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Occupation: Vice-president and treasurer, Mathieson Chemical Corporation ;

treasurer, Mathieson Hydrocarbon Chemical Corporation.

Wartime Government Posts: Assistant to Rubber Director, Washington, D. C.,
1942-44; member, Special Missions to Haiti (1942) and South Amer-
ica (1943).

Offices Held: Board of governors, 1950, treasurer, 1948-50, Boys’ Athletic
League, New York; board of directors, Norfolk County Trust Company,
1940-44; Brookline, Mass., Traffic Committee; International Airport
Transport Association, 1948-50.

Member of: Cohasset (Mass.) Yacht Club; Cohasset Golf Club; Maryland
Club (Baltimore) ; Harvard Club of New York.

With the exception of two years following graduation, which were
spent at Harvard, teaching history, attending the Business School, and
running the publicity department of the H.A.A., my life has been spent
in the world of business and devoted to the interesting and sometimes
baffling job of being a minor aide in raising two daughters and a son.

My business enterprises seem to have “covered the waterfront”’: se-
curities in 1929, fish, 1929-34, rubber-at-war, 1942-44, air transport,
1944-50, and now chemicals, a varied collection, but they have never
been dull as all have involved a lot of travel over many parts of the
world.

The Harvard Athletic Association kept me roaming for a time, and
led to participation in the 1928 Olympics in Amsterdam, a pleasant pre-
lude to what I expected would be a routine banking job with the Old
Colony Corporation in Boston and a quiet married life.

But I had not counted on the vagaries of the Bull Market of 1929!
The Atlantic Coast Fisheries Company needed financing, the Old Col-
ony helped underwrite the stock, and I ended up in the fish industry in
New York. -

For the next fourteen years, in the varied jobs as treasurer or vice-
president, I roamed the fisheries of this continent, in Alaska, northern
Canada, Newfoundland, and practically every state in this country. It
seemed quite fitting, and purely coincidental, that the best fishing was in
Florida during the winter, so that we spent several pleasant winters
there,

We moved out of New York and to Cohasset in 1938, where for the
next twelve years the children grew up mostly in and on the water. My
own sailing career died aborning while bailing out bilge water below
decks in a rolling North Atlantic breeze.

World War II, as it did to most of us, changed our pattern of life. A
telephone call from Washington had me off on a mission to the Carib-
bean, and then to the “Battle of Washington” as assistant to the Rubber

[ 624 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Director, where it was my good fortune to spend almost a year and a
half (one dollar and forty-six cents’ worth, to be exact) working with
William Jeffers and Bradley Dewey.

From, that came Air Transportation, and in the next six years, as
vice-president of Eastern Air Lines, I saw aviation go from romance
and travel-for-the-rich to mass transportation. 1 visited most of this
country, Europe, Latin America, and the Caribbean; flew upward of a
million miles in all kinds of modern and ancient aircraft; and commuted
to my office in New York from Cohasset. My membership on the traffic
committee of the International Air Transport Association took me to
various foreign countries, strained my languages, and gave us the oppor-
tunity of mingling with aviation people from all over the world. The
fact that wives were encouraged to come to these meetings made them
pleasurable, semi-annual trips for both of us.

But, I was away from home far too much and got to know the Har-
vard Club of New York far too well.

Thus in 1950, I made what I fully expect and hope will be my last
business move, when I joined Mathieson Chemical Corporation in Bal-
timore, and entered a field that becomes more fascinating every day,
even though its terminology might as well be Greek to me. Surrounded
as I am by expert chemists and engineers, I am holding down the only
job in the company available to an ignorant man.

We live in the country, outside of Baltimore, in a house built in the
eighteenth century, with too much lawn to be cut, but I am revelling in
the chance of coming home every night (although even with Mathie-
son, we have been to Europe twice in the past year) and really having
a family around me regularly.

My son is at Milton, headed for the Class of ’56, while the girls are
at home, learning to become Southerners under the expert tutelage of
their unreconstructed Vermont mother. Mary, the elder, finished
school at Miss Hall’s and is about to go to work, while Cynthia is at
Garrison Forest School.

Politically, I finally hit the jackpot. After voting for the losers al-
most continuously since 1936, I came south only to find myself in a
Republican state.

The past twenty-five years have been, for all of us, exciting years;
to some of us probably most satisfying ones; but what of the future, and
particularly the one facing our teen-age children?

I cannot refrain from noting the staggering lack of leadership in our
country today, and the apparent willingness of those in command of
our destiny to default the battles and work of nearly two centuries to

[ 625 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

the easy and popular appeals of state socialism, inflation, corruption,
and rapid exhaustion of our natural resources and productive capacity.

Public office has become a means to a permanent job, at public ex-

pense, rather than an opportunity to serve. Unfortunately, we, who
consider ourselves educated, are largely to blame. We have spent too
much of our time complaining, while allowing associations or paid or-
ganizations to represent us, feeling that we have done our full duty by
chipping in a few dollars every so often.

Maybe we cannot be elected to office very often, maybe we would
not be very effective if we were, but it does behoove us to work more
closely with, and give active working support to, those men, regardless
of party, who have the courage to fight the trend towards appeasement
on the international scene and to pressure groups in domestic life. The
Age of Appeasement has run far too long.

Labor, management, and capital can work in harmony, and we can
develop a realistic foreign policy, if a strong balance can be reached
and government is entrusted a little more to professionals and a little
less to rank amateurs.

The philosophy that the almighty dollar can do everything has not
proved very sound. No more can we spend ourselves into a sound do-
mestic economy than we can buy respect, confidence, or help in the
foreign field.

It is essential that we, who want to maintain any semblance of a free
economy, look up occasionally from our daily tasks and lend a hand in
this effort. There are more of US in this country than there are those
who, wittingly or unwittingly, are dragging the country down in their
scramble for power, money, and control. The latter are vocal and con-
stantly on the scene; we must be, or the very daily work that makes us
forget will come to nothing. .

If we don’t want it for ourselves, we should not prevent our chil-
dren from having the same opportunities that we have had.

After twenty-five years, I still feel that going to Harvard was one
of the greatest opportunities of my life, and I fervently hope that Har-
vard will maintain its position of academic leadership as long as educa-
tion, as we know it, exists. (Parenthetically, a slight leadership on the
gridiron might please a very few of us! )

[ 626 J

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

ALEXANDER MACKAY-SMITH PADDOCK

Home Address: c/o Mrs. Rex Seeber, 130 Edgemont Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.

Boru: July 3, 1901, Pittsburgh, Pa. Parents: Rev. Ernest Moorhead Paddock,
Margaret Bateman.

Prepared at: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

Years in College: 1923-1925.

The Secretary has been informed that Alexander Paddock has been
ill since the fall of 1925.

SAMUEL REUBEN PALMBAUM

Home Address: 43 Athelwold St., Dorchester 24, Mass.

Office Address: U.S. Post Office, Boston, Mass.

Born: Aug. §, 1905, Boston, Mass. Parents: Joseph Palmbaum, Sarah Shavlan-
sky.

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

- Years in College: 1922-1924.

Married: Rae Levinsky, Feb. 6, 1927, Providence, R. 1. Children: Harry Mil-

ton, July 30, 1928; Paul Jack, June 1, 1933.

Harvard Son: Paul Jack Palmbaum, ’54.

Occupation: Clerk, U.S. Post Office.

HENRY PARISH, II

Home Address: 24 E. 82nd St., New York 28, N.Y.

Office Address: Carl M. Loeb, Rhoades & Co., 42 Wall St., New York 5, N. Y.

Born: Oct. 8, 1903, New York, N. Y. Parents: Edward Codman Parish, Maria
Brinckerhoff Perkins.

Prepared at: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Dorothy May Kinnicutt, Feb. 14, 1930, New York, N. Y. Children:
Henry, 3d, March 30, 1931; May Appleton, Feb. 13, 1934; Dorothy
Bayard, Aug. 28, 1936.

Harvard Brother: Edward Codman Parish, Jr., 36.

Occupation: Investment banker; partner, Carl M. Loeb, Rhoades & Company.

Military or Naval Record: U.S. Navy; lieutenant commander, stationed at
Jacksonville, Fla., 1942-4353 Carrier uss Sas Jacinto, Pacific, 1944 to
April, 1945.

Offices Held: Director, U.S. Asphalt Corporation, Oklahoma City, Okla. ; vice-
president, trustee, Society for Relief of Destitute Blind; member of Cor-
poration, Presbyterian Hospital, Medical Center, New York City,

Member of : Racquet & Tennis Club; Lunch Club; Harvard Club of New York.

[ 627 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

ROBERT MORGAN PARKER

Home Address: 60 Agawam Park Rd., Rumford 16, R. I.

Office Address: Providence Wallpaper House, Inc., 44.5 Westminster St., Provi-
dence 3, R. I.

Born: Nov. 28, 1904, Newton, Mass. Parents: William Huntington Parker,
Isabel Morgan Cady.

Prepared at: Polytechnic Preparatory Country Day School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Margaret Louise Snedeker, July 24, 1937, Glen Cove, Long Island,
N. Y. Children: Robert Morgan, Jr., June 8, 1938; Edwin Huntington,
Feb. 24, 19413 Carol Louise, Oct. 6, 1945.

Occupation: President and treasurer of Providence Wallpaper House, Inc.; re-
tailers and wholesalers of fine wallpapers since 1884.

Offices Held: Member board of directors, Retail Trade Board, Providence
Chamber of Commerce, since 1945; chairman, Scholarship Committee,
1938-44, vice-president, 1944, president, 1945 and 1946, Harvard
Club of Rhode Island; secretary, Rumford Improvement Association,
since 1948; member Board of Governors, East Side Tennis Club, 1948-
49, Incorporated Proprietors of Nonquitt (Mass.), 1948—49; chairman,
Tennis Committee, Nonquitt, 1947-49.

Member of : Harvard Club of Rhode Island; Rotary Club of Providence; Uni-
versity Club, Providence; Rhode Island Chapter of Sons of American
Revolution; East Providence Division of Greater Providence Y.M.C.A.;
Rumford Improvement Association; Incorporated Proprietors of Non-
quitt, Mass.; Men’s Club, St. Michael and All Angels Episcopal Church,
Rumford; associate member, Home Builders Association of Rhode Is-

land.

Shortly after I graduated from Harvard in 1926, I took a job with
the Travelers Insurance Company in the main office at Hartford, Con-
necticut. I was with the Travelers in the liability underwriting depart-
ment until April, 1928. During most of this time I lived with a group
of young college graduates who were also working for the Travelers,
among whom was a classmate, Paul E. Berglund.

In April, 1928, I came to Providence, Rhode Island, to learn the
wallpaper business in the family company owned by my mother. I was
vice-president, secretary, and manager of the Providence Wallpaper
House, Incorporated (wholesalers and retailers of wallpaper) for a
number of years, until my mother’s death in 1942. Then I became
president, treasurer, and principal owner of the business. We had a
tough time during the war (1942-45) because of scarcity of male
help and shortages of goods, which meant a lot of extra work for the
remaining employees and myself. But at least there were plenty of

{ 628 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

customers with the wherewithal to buy what was available, in spite of
wartime restrictions on new home building. This was better than the
depression years of 1931-34, when there was plenty of wallpaper at
low cost, but not enough customers with cash to buy it.

Since 1946 business has been booming and I can’t kick at all. We
have a good organization of ten people, which is like a “happy fam-
ily,” all working together quite satisfactorily. We are extremely busy
at this writing, with the usual fall rush, plus the extra work of selecting
our line for the next two years.

I really like the wallpaper business in most of its aspects. It is espe-
cially interesting to try to guess what patterns and colorings will be
desired by the buying public for the coming season or two. (Past ex-
perience helps us quite a bit.) I must say that I do like the buying side
of this business. As for the selling end, that has certain satisfactions,
too, but it can be tiring at times and often calls for a lot of patience.

Life for me really began in 1937, when I got married and settled
down to family life. Before that time I had played a lot of tennis at the
East Side Tennis Club in Providence and a little golf here and there.
After 1937 golf took a back seat, but this fall I am beginning to play a
little of it again. I am getting too old for strenuous tennis, although I
am very fond of the game and probably shall continue to play some
doubles as long as I can get around the court. (After all, the King of
Sweden played tennis well into his 70’s and I am only 45 now.) I also
want to play tennis with my boys as they are growing up and are taking
a liking to it. I am thinking of joining a golf club here in Rumford
before many months.

Now, back to the family. I am happily married, with three active
youngsters who make a lot of noise and can be awful pests, but I love
"em. My wife and I bought a cozy six-room house in Rumford (on a
shoestring) in 1939, in which we were very happy for ten years. But
we outgrew it as our family grew bigger and in 1949 we bought a
slightly roomier one, also in Rumford, where we can spread out a little
more.

We haven’t travelled much in recent years, except to New York and
around New England. (While the children were small we couldn’t

leave them for long or take them with us very far.) We have been to
Atlantic City to a couple of wallpaper wholesalers’ conventions and I
went to Chicago to one last June. We travel back and forth to our
summer cottage in Nonquitt, Massachusetts, on spring and fall week-
ends and spend our summer there swimming, playing tennis, garden-
ing, and drinking beer and old-fashioneds. I ran the Nonquitt tennis

[ 629 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1926

tournaments for three summers and refereed some matches there

Labor Day weekends. “‘Hod” Soule was there for one or two summer

Harding Newman has been there for several summers recently, J oe

Larry Knowles once in awhile in both Providence and Nonquitt, Fred

Taft was formerly in Providence and Bob Schacht has been here fo

many years and I have seen both of them occasionally. Otherwise I
rarely see any of my classmates except at reunions which I have trie d
to attend faithfully.

Politically, I have always been a dyed-in-the-wool Republican, byt
have not taken part in politics, except to vote regularly and to Squawk
privately at the way the Democrats are running my town, city, state,
and the nation.

I attend St. Michael and All Angels Episcopal Church in Rumford,
taught Sunday school there last year, and I take part in its activities,

I enjoy the bowling league of the Providence Rotary Club and came
home with a very useful Coro electric percolator last spring for being
on the winning team.

One of the most satisfying experiences I have had in connection
with Harvard was scholarship work I formerly did for the Harvard
Club of Rhode Island.

My wife, two boys, and I are looking forward to our Twenty-fifth
Reunion next June, but we shall have to leave our little five-year-old
daughter at home then. Too bad she isn’t old enough to go!

EDMUND HURLBURT PARRY, JR.

Address: 1179 National Press Bldg., Washington, D. C.

Born: Aug. 3, 1904, Washington, D. C. Parents: Edmund Hurlburt Parry,
Mary Watts.

Prepared at: Central High School, Washington, D. C. ;

Years in College: 1922—1926. Degrees: A.B., 19263 LL.B. (Washington Univ.).

Married: Ellen Mather Buell, Nov. 12, 1934, Washington, D. C.

Occupation: Lawyer.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Party
did not return a questionnaire.

ARTHUR JACKSON PATEK, JR.

Home Address: 16131 Cleviden Rd., Cleveland 12, Ohio. ,
Office Address: Mount Sinai Hospital, 1800 E. 1osth St., Cleveland, On’. as
Born: May 6, 1904, Milwaukee, Wis. Parents: Arthur Jackson Patek, Be

Loeb.
[ 630 J

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H,

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; M.D., 1 930.

Married: Mary Marean, Feb. 16, 1932, Belmont, Mass. Children: Susan, Sept.
6, 19333 David, July 20, 1936.

Occupation: Chief of medicine, Mount Sinai Hospital; professor of medicine,
Western Reserve University School of Medicine.

Wartime Government Posts: Medical research under O.S.R.D.

Offices Held: Assistant, 1932-34, instructor, 1934-36, Harvard Medical
School; associate, 1936—41, assistant professor, 1941—46, assistant clini-
cal professor, 1946-49, Columbia University College of Physicians and
Surgeons; professor of medicine, 1950, Western Reserve University
School of Medicine.

Member of: American Medical Association; American Society for Clinical In-
vestigation; Harvey Society; Society for Experimental Biology and
Medicine; New York Academy of Medicine; Harvard Club of New
York.

Publications: Kapnos, 1926; scientific articles pertaining chiefly to nutrition
and to diseases of the blood and liver.

When I was an undergraduate I had hopes of becoming a writer, a
serious writer, and I did not care to prostitute this fine art in the com-
mercial literary world. However, my teachers were unimpressed by
my literary competence and so I sought other outlets. Undoubtedly my
father’s example was a determining influence in the decision to study
medicine. He loved being a doctor.

The first two years at medical school were dismal, and I recollect
them only as a nightmare of anxiety and fatigue. In the last two years
we finally met patients and studied the many problems of disease. To
the layman, I suppose, this may seem like a macabre romance. To the
doctor the study of medicine is a never-ending fascination. .

After medical school I interned in Cleveland at the University
Hospital. One’s internship is a kind of honeymoon. At long last (par-
don me, Edward) one achieves the goal of four long preparatory years.
It is an adventure never to be forgotten. Each patient and problem
remains a vivid experience forever. |

After internship I returned to Boston to work at the Thorndike
Memorial Laboratory of the City Hospital, where I studied for four
More years under the stimulating guidance of Dr. George Minot and
his associates. There we made studies on various types of anemia and
on the hemorrhagic disease, hemophilia, Although further understand-
ing was gained regarding the nature and treatment of these conditions,
4 generous number of unsolved problems was left behind. From 1936
fo 1949 a similar type of work was carried on at Welfare Island, New

[ 631 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

ork City, in a research unit of Columbia University. Here my chief
Arbeit was concerned with cirrhosis of the liver, a condition which is
associated commonly with alcoholism. These studies indicated that the
hazards of drink are much reduced if one eats well. From a sociological
point of view I dare say this was an immoral conclusion. Finally, in the
past year I have moved to Cleveland to join the faculty of Western Re-
serve University Medical School and to help organize a teaching and
research program at Mount Sinai Hospital, which has become an
affiliated unit of the medical school. It is an excellent school in an ex-
pansive, eager stage of development.

The account thus far sounds as though all had been smooth and easy.
Actually there were periods of keen disappointment, worry, and frus-
tration, intermingled with those of academic advancement. ‘This is the
lot of the man who chooses an academic career. It is a precarious life.

If you will pardon the omission, I shall not describe the intimate
details of my family life. We have no particular talents, no unusual hob-
bies, no strong convictions about politics, art, or religion. It is all very
simple — three meals a day, vacations in New Hampshire, a few very
choice friends, gardening, tennis, concerts, and stuff. In short we are
the people about whom statistics are compiled. For the sake of the rec-
ord I wish to add that I still love my wife very much and I dote upon

my children.

JOHN ROBERT PATTEE

Home Address: 51 Stone Ave., Ossining, N. Y.

Office Address: Cambridge Instrument Co., Ossining, N. Y.

Born: Oct. 13, 1904, Rozieres, France. Parents: Elmer Ellsworth Pattee, Elsie
Stewart Dodge.

Prepared at: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

Years in College: 1922-1925.

Married: Marian Garwood, October, 1935 (divorced 1940); Wilhelmine
Kreis, June 8, 1940, Deep River, Conn. Children: Alison Janet, Oct. 23;
1936; Christine, Oct. 2, 1941; Martha Louise, Jan. 29, 1943; Stephen
John, Sept. 5, 1946.

Occupation: Electric instrument manufacturing; development engineer; lab-
oratory work, developing special signal equipment and electro-medical
instruments.

Member of: American Institute of Electrical Engineers; Ossining Choral
Guild; Ossining Square Dancers.

My life has been hectic since I left Harvard at the end of my junior
year, The only continuous threads in it have been security, with change

[ 632 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

of situation (resulting partly from insufficient concern with security in
my youth), and research and development in electric, electronic, and
mechanical engineering, to which I became addicted in childhood.

I have lived in many places since 1925: Paris, France, one year;
New York City (9 places), 1926-37; Connecticut (East Lyme, Essex,
Lyme, 2 places in Waterbury), 1937-46; Madison, New Jersey,
1946-49, and now Ossining, where I hope to stay until my children
grow up, or longer. My father, who had been living in France for
thirty years, died there in an accident during junior-year final examina-
tions. This blow, on top of chronic financial trouble and fatigue caused
me to quit Harvard Engineering School and go to Paris to enter busi-
ness (artists’ materials). After one unsatisfactory year, I came back
and started my engineering career.

Soon — much too soon —JI launched out as a free-lance develop-
ment engineer. This was a great mistake. I was without money, ex-
perience, or equipment. All I had was enormous self-confidence, and
the offer of a project to build some special amplifiers. I thought I
could make them in two or three weeks. Four years later I was still
working on them. I made very little money and the depression caught
me way off balance. It was very hard.

In 1935 success came momentarily. I sold the design of an electro-
cardiograph I had been developing for eight years. ‘That summer I
made a tour of Europe, with a car. It was grand. In Paris I wound up
our family affairs which remained there. Then I married a girl I had
met on the boat and came home.

Instead of joining the concern which bought the cardiograph (which
I should have done), I continued free-lancing. But I am too much an
inventor to be a good salesman. In two years the money was gone.
Meanwhile I had acquired an old Connecticut farm and a baby.

There was more bad luck and more mistakes. The 1938 hurricane
made a mess of our place and we sold it at a loss. Shortly after, my wife
left the baby and me. She could not stand domestic life — wanted only
a job. So, in the summer of 1939 I was right back where I had been
years before, plus an infant. No money and no work. I decided that I
lacked some of the necessary qualifications for a free-lance engineer.
All my enterprises were technically successful but unprofitable. I had
to become a permanent employee, like most engineers, (I had been
employed as an engineer only two years in all, up until then.) In the
spring of 1940 I joined the engineering department of an instrument
manufacturer in Waterbury, Connecticut, where I remained five and
one-half years (a long stretch for me).

[ 633 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Shortly after joining this firm, I remarried. We proceeded to have
four more children, one of whom died at birth. Alison, my first-born,
has been living with us all this time.

During this period, some inventions I had patented while free-
lancing were sold (for a modest sum), and we bought a big old house,
the fixing up of which wore me out. We sold it just as the war ended,
before inflation. ‘Then we had to live in it as tenants for a year, watch-

ing prices rise, because a new job J had just taken did not pan out well,
and it took a long time, in that unsettled period, to find another. Fi-
nally, I hitched up with the firm which had bought my patents, and we
moved to Jersey. But after three years, there was a great upheaval in
our division, during which the axe fell on many, from manager on
down. I was spared, But I was too uncomfortable, and transferred my-
self to my present position early in 1949. I am fairly content here, and
quite well paid, for an engineer (a prime consideration for a man with
small capital and a big family).

I am an engineer’s engineer. I have no managerial or supervisory
responsibilities, and do not want any. That puts a ceiling on the salary
I can hope for, but it is peaceful. Naturally, I long for the oldtime free-
dom. This is a futile longing. That nice check at the end of each month
is more than a consolation.

My wife was born and brought up in Germany. She is a very good
housewife. That occupation keeps her from doing much else, except a
little photography (which I do, too). My children are bright and
healthy. They are too young to know whither they are going. (Does
anybody, nowadays? ) Alison, now fourteen and a sophomore in high
school, doesn’t know what she will want to do (I had known for a
long time at her age), but gets around socially much better than her
old man did. Martha and Christine are in third and fourth grades, We
have to wait a whole year more before we can, at last, shoo Stephen off
to kindergarten. All in all, I suppose they are not more troublesome
than most children. |

As a boy, I was fervently religious, although I never joined any
church. At Harvard, I began to have doubts, After my father was
killed, I gave up religion, and have never returned to it, though I think
about it often, and try to live according to Christian principles, My
wife is Catholic (my parents were Protestant), and is taking our chil-
dren into her church.

As I did not join any church, I have not joined any political party.
I voted for Roosevelt, and was for him through part of his second term.
Then I turned against him with increasing opposition. In 1940 I voted

[ 634 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Socialist, not because I am Socialist (I am not), but because I did not
like either major candidate, and I felt the country had to move a little
further towards Socialism. I do not like Socialism, with its attendant
restriction of freedom and opportunity, any more than I like the dis-
appearance of the old frontiers my father knew. But, as exploration
resulted in the filling up of our habitable wilderness, until people could
no longer “‘go West” in search of new opportunities, so the develop-
ment of industry has led to division of labor, and an economy so deli-
cately balanced that it is easily started spiraling up or down. To control
these movements, we are bringing in Socialism. Even in small doses,
it does not work as well as some of us had hoped.

I hope that in 1952 I do not have to choose between Truman and
Taft! Where are the great leaders we need in these perilous times?

Turning finally to lighter things, I pursued eagerly for several years
the hobby of model railroading. But some of my children are too med-
dlesome. I have gone over to making movies, taking advantage of war
surplus equipment and films. This has led me to invent a gadget for
developing the films, which I am pushing, in hopes of doing a little
business on the side with it. But I swear to gosh, this is my last inven-
tion outside of my job. I have nine patents, most of them unprofitable,
and these activities do take a man away from his family, if pushed too
hard.

I would like very much to indulge in boating on the Hudson River,
but that’s too costly for me. So I have started clambering around the
Catskill Mountains with my two elder daughters, movie camera, and
heavy packs. Arduous but thrilling. |

Finally there is singing in chorus. I had done it for sixteen years in
boarding school, Harvard Glee Club, and Down Town Glee Club of
New York. When we went to Connecticut and later to Jersey, I was
disappointed to find no choruses available. Here, I am in two. One does
heavy music, the other light.

All in all, on the home front, things are looking up.

EDWARD TILDEN PAYSON

Home Address: North Terrace, Culver, Ind.

Office Address: Culver Military Academy, Culver, Ind.

Born: Nov. 27, 1902, Lanesville, Mass. Parents: George Edward Payson,
~ Grace Lee Saunders.

Prepared at: Culver Military Academy, Culver, Ind.

Years in College: 1922-1925. Degree: Mus, B. (Wooster Coll.), 1938.

[ 635 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Married: Dorothy Eisenhard, June 11, 1927, Culver, Ind. C4ild: Martha
Evelyn, July 11, 1928.
Occupation: Chairman, Fine Arts Department, Culver Military Academy.

MURRAY PEASE

Home Address: §2 Whistler Rd., Manhasset, Long Island, N. Y.
Office Address: Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Ave. & 82nd St., New

York, N. Y.
Bora: Sept. 20, 1903, Albany, N. Y. Parents: Herbert Dodge Pease, Amy

Barnes.

Prepared at: Richmond Hill High School, Richmond Hill, N. ¥.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Mary Frances Hunt, June 4, 1932, Cohasset, Mass. Child: Sarah
Jewett, April 4, 1938.

Harvard Brother: Horace Barnes Pease, ’30, M.D., 35.

Occupation: Curator of the Technical Laboratory, Metropolitan Museum of

Art.
Offices Held: U.S. membership committee, International Institute for the
Conservation of Museum Objects; U.S. delegate to ICOM Commission

on the Care of Paintings, Rome, 1949.
Member of: New York Academy of Sciences; I.1.C.M.O.; American Associa-

tion of Museums.
Publications: Technical articles on art in Art News, Museum News, Metropolitan
Museum Bulletin, T echnical Studies in the Field of the Fine Arts.

Faced with our committee’s appalling outline of an autobiography, I
suggested to my daughter that she write it for me. She was delighted.
Her account began, ‘‘My father is too feeble, tired, and conceited to
write his own report, and also I do not approve of his Fifteenth. . . .”
No doubt the remainder would have been livelier than my version, but it
seemed wiser not to find out.

Just after our last Report I joined the staff of the Metropolitan Mu-
seum to organize and direct a department for preservation and restora-
tion. I spent the war years unheroically nursing the Museum’s collection
in our emergency respository, and inuring myself to the dichotomous
life of a New York commuter. My department is comfortably flourish-
ing. I still resent having my work and home violently sundered by the
Long Island Railroad, but I am too happy with what I find at either end
of the daily trips to think of changing. I like my work and my associates,
and I love my home and family.

During the past year my foreign travels included England, Holland,
Belgium, France, Italy, and Texas. Asa New Yorker I take some pleas-

[ 636 J

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

ure in saying that any of these places may be nice to visit, but I shouldn’t
want to live there.

PERRY RODGERS PEASE

Home Address: 145 E. 54th St., New York 22, N. ¥.; Bridgehampton, Long
Island, N. Y.

Office Address: Clark, Dodge & Co., 61 Wall St., New York 5, N. Y.

Born: March 9, 1904, Hempstead, Long Island, N. Y. Parents: Walter Albert
Pease, Jr., 93, Martha Carroll Rodgers.

Prepared at: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Mary Trimble, Sept. 24, 1935, New York, N. ¥. Child: Mary Trim-
ble, Aug. 29, 1949 (adopted).

Occupation: Partner, Clark, Dodge & Company, New York Stock Exchange
firm,

Military or Naval Record: New York State Guard.

Member of : Harvard Club; Racquet & Tennis Club, New York City; National
Golf Links of America, Southampton, N. Y¥.; The Lunch Club, New
York City; Bridgehampton Club, Bridgehampton, N. Y.

My first job in the Fifth Avenue office of the Bankers Trust Com-
pany provided me with the opportunity, two years later, to become
treasurer of the Rayon Institute of America, a project abandoned by
the supporting rayon manufacturers at the end of 1929. By chance |
turned to Clark, Dodge & Company because I was anxious to study se-
curities and I was much impressed with their research material. It meant
starting all over again but I wanted the training, was not married, and
considered myself lucky to get the job. For ten years I wrote their daily
stock market letter, for the last eight years I have been a member of the
firm, and throughout I have been happy with my associations there.
Part of my work still involves advising on securities our fourteen corre-
spondent New York Stock Exchange firms in other cities,

For years I played a lot of squash racquets and together with class-
mates Debevoise and Haskins took part in the early growth of the game
in New York City. It soon came to be dominated by players coached by
Harry Cowles at Harvard.

In 1935 I married Mary, daughter of Richard Trimble, ’80, and
sister of our late classmate, Dick. In the next two years we took our
holiday in Salzburg during the Music Festival and in Ireland where we
wandered around in a dilapidated Ford. ‘Those two trips still stand as
high spots of the past twenty-five years and someday we hope they can
be repeated.

[ 637 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

A serious illness in 1940 forced me to give up smoking, a policy I can
recommend highly. I have felt like a new man ever since. During the
war I was a member of the New York State Guard where I worked up
to sergeant. I also was secretary to the Fighting French Relief Commit-
tee, supporting General de Gaulle in this country.

I am now very much interested in painting and music, whereas after
I left college all my spare time was taken up with squash racquets, golf,
lawn and court tennis. In 1945 I bought a little house in Bridgehamp-
ton, Long Island, and since then have become such an ardent gardener

that the less said about my golf the better. Another distracting influence
has been the thousands of Canada geese which winter in the estuaries
of eastern Suffolk County. From watching these fascinating birds one is
led almost imperceptibly into a study of the many shore-birds in the area,
Soon another earnest, eager, haphazard birdwatcher has been hatched.

I do not paint myself — I wish I did — but I have been studying the
modern French and contemporary American painters. While I am not
a devotee of non-objective art, the examples of the moderns that I have
cause much consternation to my old pals. The work of a young Ameri-
can, Edward John Stevens, has been a favorite of mine since his first
show in 1943.

Mary and I have never had any children and j in 1949 we adopted a
baby vid from the Cradle Society. Little Mary is now fifteen months old
and is a real charmer. By Reunion time we are hoping that she may have
a brother and that through our children we may get to know some of
your grandchildren.

HOWARD BURGESS PECK

Home Address: RR 2, Box 719, Albuquerque, N. Mex.

Office Address: Medical Arts Sq., Albuquerque, N. Mex.

Born: May 11, 1904, Cleveland, Ohio. Parents: Joseph Howard Peck, Mabel
Jeanette Burgess.

Prepared at: Cleveland Heights High School, Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

Years in College: 1923-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; M.D. (Western Reserve
Univ.), 1931.

Married: Aleen Della Hughes, Aug. 4, 1939, Mansfield, Ohio. Children:
Thomas Hughes, July 16, 1941; William Howard, Aug. 18, 1944.

Occupation: Medicine; ophthalmologist.

Military or Naval Record: Entered Medical Corps, Army Air Forces, as major,
August, 1942; stationed at Albuquerque, N, Mex., Mather Field, Sacra-
mento, Calif., Yuma, Ariz., and Roswell, N. Mex.; discharged as lieu-
tenant colonel in June, 1946.

Offices Held: Certified, American Board of Ophthalmology, 1941; American
[ 638 ]

T wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Academy of Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology, 1946; member, staffs
of St. Joseph’s and Presbyterian Hospitals in Albuquerque; supervising
ophthalmologists, State of New Mexico Department of Public Welfare,
Member of : Harvard Club of New Mexico; Rotary Club, Albuquerque; Coun-
ty and State medical societies; American Medical Association (fellow).

After leaving Cambridge, I attended the medical school at Western
Reserve University in Cleveland. I missed too much time in my third
year to hope to make it up, so I loafed and got well over an illness. I
graduated in 1931 instead of 1930 which was pretty important at the
time, but all is forgiven now. After two years of general internship and
residency, I decided that I wanted to practise eye, ear, nose, and throat.
Three more years of this and I was ready, or thought I was, to get out
on my own. I started in Mansfield, Ohio, and after three years felt I
was doing well enough to get married and cut out all this foolishness.
Besides, I was old enough. This was on August 4, 1939 (my wife re-
minds me), and then back up into New England for our honeymoon. I
remember wondering soon after we were married just how soon our
own country would be involved in the war, and I found out three years
later for sure when I pinned on my insignia, learned to salute, and read
the Officers’? Guide. In the meantime our first son was born in July,
1941, so we were three again when they joined me in Sacramento
(Mather Field) in November, 1942. Our second son was born there in
August, 1944, and two weeks later I was transferred to Yuma. This
was supposed to be rough, but we had the best crowd of medics there of
any of my three posts, including the C.O., and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
In fact as I am writing this, we are about to go back for a reunion of the
old gang. For us, this includes some of our old neighbors in Yuma Valley
where there is the best dove shooting in the world. In the fall of 1945
our C.QO. was transferred to Roswell and he took several of us along.
There, we ended our military life in March, 1946, and by the end of
terminal leave in June, we were thoroughly civilianized and ready to

start over.

This was going to be different though. While in Yuma, both my wife
and I independently arrived at the very same conclusion that there was
no reason to go back to northern Ohio weather when we could just as:
well enjoy ourselves living in the West. After some deliberation, we
decided that Albuquerque was to be the right place and we haven’t
changed our minds for a minute since, except for one thing: too many
other people decided the same thing, and the town has become almost
larger than we like. But we have handled that by getting seven acres up
the valley and building the kind of house we want. We are just about to

[ 639 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

move in now, and if the Russians don’t cut up too much we hope to
enjoy it.

We think we’re about an average family, perhaps a little luckier in
that we’ve had very little sickness and no real problems to handle. While
we vote any way we please, we’re registered Republicans and still think
that if the country had had sense enough to vote Hoover in we’d have
been better off now. VWVe still believe there is no Santa Claus despite the
administration. Sometimes I wonder if Hitler wasn’t partly right, that
we are decadent, and that the above is the greatest contributor. Al-
though I have two sons, I am convinced that we should have universal
military training.

JOHN HOWLAND GIBBS PELL

Home Address: Syosset, Long Island, N. Y.

Office Address: 1 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

Born: Aug. 9, 1904, Southhampton, Long Island, N. Y. Parents: Stephen Hyatt
Pelham Pell, Sarah Gibbs Thompson.

Prepared at: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

Years tn College: 1922-1926.

Married: Pyrma Tilton, Sept. 3, 1929, Newport, R. 1. Children: Sarah Gibbs,
Jan. 18, 1931 (7. Hubert R. Hudson, June 25, 1949); John Bigelow,
April 17, 1934.

Harvard Brother: Robert Thompson Pell, ’24.

Occupation: Partner, Pell de Vegh & Company, economic, financial, and invest-
ment consultants.

Military or Naval Record: Attended Plattsburg Camp, July, 1940; commis-
sioned lieutenant U.S.N.R.; active duty, August, 19413 served as en-
listed personnel officer, Third Naval District; received letter of com-
mendation from Secretary of Navy; commissioned commander U.S.N.R.,
August, 1945.

Offices Held: President, Wall Street Investing Corporation, since 1945, Fort
Ticonderoga Association, since 1949, Forty Wall Street Building, Inc.,
since 1946, Broadway & 58th Street Corporation, since 1937; director,
American Ice Company, since 1931, Moses-Ludington Hospital, Ticon-
deroga, N. Y, 1950; chairman, Investment Counsel Association of
America, 1950.

Member of: Board of managers, Scamen’s Church Institute, New York City,
since 1939,

Publications: Life of Ethan Allen, Houghton Mifflin, Boston, 1929.

[ 640 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

FRANCIS WILLIAM PERKINS

Home Address: 19 Forest Rd., West Hartford 7, Conn,

Office Address: Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford 8, Conn.

Born: Jan. 8, 1904, Brookline, Mass. Parents: Henry Grover Perkins, ’87,
Maria Theresa Tupper.

Prepared at: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Josephine Lovell Francis, Jan. 14, 1933, Troy, N. ¥. Children:
Francis William, Jr., June 27, 19343 Josephine Hastings, Sept. 28, 1937.

Occupation: Aircraft engine manufacturing; sales, economics.

Military or Naval Record: Naval Reserve Aviation, 1924-32.

Offices Held: Treasurer, Hartford Art School; president, Loomis Parents Asso-
clation; past president, Harvard Business School Club of Connecticut,
Hartford Tennis Club; member executive council, West Hartford Tax-
payers Association.

Member of: Harvard Business School Club of Connecticut; Hartford Tennis
Club,

A quick survey of the past twenty-five years reveals the following:

Marital Commercial Geographical
61 years single I year in real estate 3 years around Boston
1844 years married 2 years at Harvard Business School 3 years in New York
22 years in the aviation business, 1 year in Cambridge

the first 1374 years with Amer- 18 years in Hartford
ican Airlines and the last 814
years with Pratt & Whitney Air-
craft,

The tabulation of the bare framework means little, It is the surround-
ing padding that counts. The exposure to the real estate business back in
1926-27 did not take, despite those booming days. A two-year stretch
at the Harvard Business School was settling and clarifying and rein-
forced my determination to go into the aviation business. (As an under-
graduate I had learned to fly in the Naval Reserve in surplus World War
I planes and had become bitten by the flying bug.) Brashfully, I got a
job in 1929 with the airline that had, at that time, the poorest reputation
for efficiency, settled in New York, and became the first white-collar
airline worker at Newark Airport. It turned out to be a good decision on
my part. Others put in new efficient top management and the airline
business grew slowly even in the depression years. In the 193075, a sal-
aried worker in aviation was expected to take part of his reward in
glamor, and the resulting take-home pay being so small, I was as under-

[ 641 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

GEORGE HOLMES PERKINS

Home Address: 63 Brattle St., Cambridge, Mass.

Office Address: School of Fine Arts, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Pa.

Born: Oct. 10, 1904, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: George Howard Perkins,
Josephine Schock.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years ia College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; M. Arcu., 1929.

Married: Georgia Hencken, June 3, 1933, Greenwich, Conn. CAildren: Gray
Hayward, Sept. 26, 19365 Jennifer Holmes, Dec. 5, 1943.

Occupation: Architect; City Planner; Dean of School of Fine Arts, University
of Pennsylvania.

Wartime Government Posts: National Housing Agency.
Offices Held: Editor, Journal of the American Institute of Planners, since 1948;
chairman, Ann Arbor Conference, 1950; member, Cambridge Planning

Board.

Member of : American Institute of Architects; American Institute of Planners;
Boston Society of Architects; American Society of Planning Officials;
The Country Club (Brookline) ; Harvard Club of Boston.

Publications: Outline of Architectural History, 19353; New Towns for Britain; The
Architect and City Planning; Architectural Education; Design Research; The-
ory and Reality (Framingham Study) ; Our Future T owns,

Graduation in 1926 did not mean my departure from Harvard.
Most of the ensuing twenty-five years have been spent in Cambridge —
the first three getting a Master’s degree in architecture, A year teaching
at the University of Michigan followed and then a return to Harvard as
a teacher of architecture. There I remained until 1942 when I went to
Washington with the National Housing Agency for three years. In
1945 I returned to Harvard as chairman of the Department of Re-
gional Planning and in February, 1951, I again leave to become dean of
the School of Fine Arts (Architecture) at the University of Pennsyl-
vania.

During my stay at Harvard, I’ve witnessed and participated in a revo-
lution in architectural education which has given the school here leader-
ship in the field for the past fifteen years. It was a tumultuous period but
most of the furor caused by the first changes is now over, We are reach-
ing the end of a most successful period in the school and will soon again
have to find new leaders to carry on the development of an indigenous
architectural tradition. My own interests have led me into city planning
where the architect is only beginning, rather belatedly, to show a pro-
fessional concern,

[ 644 J

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Since returning to Cambridge in 1945, I have been to England three
times on problems of city planning. The first time was an abortive at-
tempt to convince the United Nations that Boston was the best of all
places to be. The second trip was to work as a consultant to the British
Ministry of Town and Country Planning in the rebuilding of their
blitzed towns. In fact, my obsession with housing and city planning has
taken my wife and me on an almost unending series of trips. We were in
Russia when the Spanish civil war broke out and in Germany when
Edward VIII abdicated, though one might never have heard the ru-
mors because of censorship except for the English papers. ‘These succes-
sive trips and work during the war resettling war workers and attempt-
ing to anticipate the problems of the cities under the impact of war or

. peace moved me away from architecture into the new field. The most
impressive experience has been to see the daring and the clarity of think-
ing which is going into the building of new towns in Britain. ‘The oppor-
tunities opened by the bombs are being grasped despite austerity. I wish
we here would not wait before embarking on an equally progressive
program.

Besides teaching I have carried on a modest architectural practice and
am now cleaning up, with my wife’s help in designing the interiors, a
final house before moving to Philadelphia. We have rather enjoyed
building or remodelling for ourselves some four homes and look forward
to still another on this next move. Our children are now in boarding
school — Gray at Groton and Jennifer at St. Hubert’s. But during the
summers at Edgartown we find ourselves puffing hard to keep up with
them through the series of boat races and tennis tournaments.

JOHN WILDER PERKINS

Home Address: Dearborn Avenue, Hampton, N. H.

Office Address: 164 Water St., Exeter, N. H.

Born: Aug. 13, 1902, Hampton, N. H. Parents: Herbert Perkins, Annie Wild-
er Towle.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Elizabeth Ruth Riley, Sept. 8, 1928, North Woodstock, N. H.
Child: John Calvin, Jan. 5, 1934.

Occupation: Lawyer.

Offices Held: Justice of Hampton Municipal Court, 1930-43, since 19453
New Hampshire Governor’s Council, 1943-443 member, New Hamp-
shire Board of Bar Examiners, since 1945; president, New Hampshire
Bar Association, 1949-50; vice-president, Rockingham National Bank,

[ 645 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Exeter, N. H.; chairman, Rockingham County and Hampton Republi-
can Clubs.

Member of: Masons; Harvard Club of Boston; New Hampshire Bar Associa-
tion; American Bar Association.

Since 1929 I have been a country lawyer with my office in Exeter,
New Hampshire. During the first five years | worked for another attor-
ney and since July 1, 1934, I have had my own office, now with two
associates. Life as a general practising attorney in the country will never
be dull, at least, as every time the door opens, a new problem is presented
—yes, new, and I have to look it up. As a member of the New Hamp-
shire Board of Bar Examiners, I am still in the educational field as we
have to prepare, give, and correct the Bar Examinations.

I am sorry to say that I have very little time for hobbies, but I doa
little skiing in the winter and mountain climbing and sailing in the
summer.

ROSCOE LAWRENCE PERLEY

Address: c/o Charlotte Perley, 4 Harding Rd., Melrose 76, Mass.

Bora: Sept. 12, 1903, Melrose, Mass, Parents: Roscoe Damon Perley, Char-
lotte Bronte Matthews.

Prepared at: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.; Stone School, Boston,
Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1924.

Married: Shirley Forrest, August, 1940.

Occupation: Promotion.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Perley
did not return a questionnaire.

CHESTER FRANCIS PERO

Home Address: 65 Windsor Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass.

Office Address: Vose Swain Engraving Co., §30 Atlantic Ave., Boston, Mass.

Born: April 26, 1904, Worcester, Mass. Parents: Albert Emery Pero, Ida
Maude Smith.

Prepared at: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926 (27).

Married: Linnie E, Ellis, April 27, 1929, Worcester, Mass,

Occupation: Vice-president in charge of production, Vose Swain Engraving
Company, printers and engravers,

Member of : Wellesley Country Club.

After leaving college I gravitated, as so many of us did, into the
business of selling securities. | worked at that until the following Febru-

[ 646 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

ary when I entered the Business School, taking only the first-year course.
Then, wishing to get married, I returned to the investment business,
working as a salesman for some ten years. We then moved to Boston and
I opened an investment counsel office, a move which also enabled us to
become regular followers of the ups and downs of Harvard football.

In the spring of 1941 it became apparent that the war clouds were
becoming heavier every day, and it seemed questionable if financial en-
terprises like our modest one could look forward to a favorable climate
in which to grow. We closed up shop and I started to look for a jobina
manufacturing business. Some months later I started in production work
with a Boston company making electrical apparatus, and we were soon
over our heads in Navy orders.

Since the end of the war I have been in charge of production for a
printing and engraving company in Boston, and thoroughly enjoy the
challenge of that hectic industry.

GEORGE SAWYER PETTEE

Home Address: 8503 Irvington Ave., Bethesda, Md.

Office Address: Operations Research Office, Johns Hopkins Univ., Fort Lesley
G. McNair, Washington 25, D.C.

Born: Oct. 29, 1904, Hartford, Conn. Parents: Charles Leslie Wight Pettee,
Edith Sawyer.

Prepared at: Hartford Public High School, Hartford, Conn.

Years in College: 1923-1926. Degrees: S.B., 19263 A.M., 19313 Pu.D., 1937.

Married: Margaret Shultz, June 16, 1933, Quincy, Mass. CAildren: George
Benjamin, July 5, 1934; Margaret Susan, May 29, 1941.

Harvard Brother: Charles Everett Pettee, 30, A.M., ’33.

Occupation: Social science research.

Wartime Government Posts: Executive assistant, Stockpile Branch, WPB; chief,
Official Sources Division, Bureau of Intelligence, OWI; chief, European
Enemy Division, Enemy Branch, FEA.

Offices Held: Associate professor of political science, Amherst College, 1945—

Member of: American Political Science Association; American Academy of
Political and Social Science.

Publications: The Process of Revolution, Harper’s, 1938; The Future of American
Secret Intelligence, Infantry Journal Press, 1946; “The Failure of Marx-
ism,” Journal of Social Philosophy, 1941.

Since I got out of college I have been trying to get an education. Be-
sides that I have tried to earn a living, and have a family, The first years
out of college were rather floundering years for me, partly because [had

[ 647 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

the luck of some good teachers who somehow taught me not to take the
world as it was for granted. ‘Two years in a factory and part of a year in
Europe, with a year of graduate work between, got me as far as the de-
pression. At that point I got back to Harvard for eleven years of work as
graduate student and assistant and instructor in government.

Those years of the thirties at Harvard were good. The depression
cleared the air of a lot of nonsensical assumptions that had been preva-
lent when we were undergraduates. The house plan created a hot bed
for the refreshened interest of teachers and students. My best friend-
ships, even with people in ’26, were made in those years, and my best
learning of how to try to be human was laid down then. I married in
1933, have now a son too big to borrow my shoes, and a daughter with
a zest for keeping me properly directed. My wife and the children have
had to teach me more than anyone should have to learn of how to live
with people. I think they are giving me passing grades now. It has been
a good course.

In 1941 I came to the end of a faculty instructorship in Cambridge,
and moved naturally into war agencies in Washington. Fun and frus-
tration come well mixed in government work as a lot of us know. War
production, war information, and foreign economic activities all gave
me the kick of accomplishing the unexpected, and the perplexity of fail-
ure to accomplish what seemed obvious, They also gave me friends, and
good ones, and enemies; and I do believe that I would not want to
change the lists much.

Since the war I have had two years at Amherst, and then returned to
Washington to work with other veterans of the Department of Govern-
ment at Harvard on the staff of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of
the House of Representatives. Working for the committee the year the
Marshall Plan was developed was the highest kind of graduate work in
government that one could ask for. In 1949 I joined an “‘operations
research” organization operated by Johns Hopkins University for the
Army. There I try to direct the research in social science fields and
problems. It has proved mainly that I have as much to learn as ever. So
now I’m trying to keep on learning.

ARMAND LEO PHANEUF

Home Address: 346 Park Ave., Revere 51, Mass.

Office Address: Dept. of Public Works, 100 Nashua St., Boston, Mass,

Born: Sept. 17, 1903, Lynn, Mass. Parents: Armidas Phaneuf, Emma Fitz-
patrick.

[ 648 |

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Prepared at: Lynn English High School, Lynn, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.

Married: Aeneas Carolyn Tranfaglia, July 10, 1949, Revere, Mass.

Occupation: Civil engineer, specializing in highway traffic engineering.

Member of : Massachusetts State Engineers Association; Registered Professional
Engineers, Massachusetts.

I am still trying to make Massachusetts highways safe for motorists
and pedestrians. My construction experience does not help me in getting
out of the rough. All my golf balls must have been born of mothers who
had been frightened by a fairway.

I hate Communism.

AUSTIN STEVENSON PHILLIPS

Home Address: 20 Colonial Ave., Larchmont 13, N. Y.

Office Address: American Cyanamid Co., 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20,
N.Y.

Born: Oct. 18, 1903, Brooklyn, N. Y. Parents: Frank Elbert Phillips, Edna
Louise Pine.

Prepared at: Richmond Hill High School, Richmond Hill, N. Y;; St. Paul’s
Cathedral School, Garden City, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B. (Brooklyn Law
School, St. Lawrence Univ.), 1933; J.S.D. (ibid.), 1935.

Married: Elizabeth Dean Bennett, Sept. 25, 1931, Newtonville, Mass. Child:
James Davis, Nov. 6, 1935.

Occupation: Executive and lawyer.

Military or Naval Record; Captain, Judge Advocate General’s Department,
Army, October, 1944, to June, 1946; patent representative, Office of
the Surgeon General, Army Service Forces; major, Judge Advocate
General’s Corps, U.S. Army Reserve, since May, 1949.

Wartime Government Posts: Assistant and acting Patent Representative, Office of
the Surgeon General, War Department, February, 1943, to October,
1944.

Offices Held: President, Westchester County Chapter, Reserve Officers Asso-
ciation of the U.S., 1949-50; member Patent Committee, Legislative
Section, American Drug Manufacturers Association, since 1949.

Member of: Harvard Club of New York; New York County Lawyers Associa-
tion; New York Patent Law Association; Judge Advocates Association;
Reserve Officers Association of the United States; Larchmont Post No.
347, American Legion; Troop 6 Committee, Boy Scouts of America;
Committee on Foreign Patents; New York Patent Law Association.

Just after Commencement, I spent three months in England,
Czechoslovakia, Switzerland, and France on the staff of Commission

[ 649 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

DAYTON PHILLIPS

Home Address: 1819 Wildwood Ave., Nashville 4, Tenn.
Office Address: Dept. of History, Vanderbilt University, Nashville 4, Tenn.
Born: Jane 2, 1905, Camden, N. J. Parents: Alfred Dayton Phillips, Gertrude
Simmington.
Prepared at: Springfield Central High School, Springfield, Mass. |
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; A.M. (Columbia Univ.),
1931; Pu.D. (ibid.), 1941.
Married: Eleanor Eddy, June 25, 1939, Palo Alto, Calif,
Occupation: Associate professor of history (medieval), Vanderbilt University.
Member of: Sierra Club; Freolac Club of Nashville; Medieval Academy;
American Historical Association; Southern Historical Association;
American Association of Teachers of Italian.
Publications: Beguines in Medieval Strasburg; “Petrarch’s Ethical Ideas,” Italica;
“Foundations of Experience,” Philosophy of Science; “Periodic Concept of
the Renaissance,” Journal of the History of Ideas.

Although the inspiration came from Harvard, my education began
at Columbia where, after nine months in France and Italy, I settled
down to study history and psychology. This work was interspersed with
three years of medieval studies in Europe. My first full-time job was at
William and Mary. In 1939 I moved to Stanford where I married an
assistant dean of women who in addition had a good figure. We settled
at Vanderbilt in 1948. Summers have been spent in research at Cornell
or, more recently, in teaching at Indiana and Columbia.

My interests lie in the field of intellectual history and I have concen-
trated upon tracing the history of treatises in psychology, ethics, and
rhetoric from the twelfth to the fifteenth century with the intention of
showing how the later preoccupation with nature has obscured under-
standing of earlier developments in the knowledge of man. For some
years, my chief occupation has been with graduate students, The under-
graduates with whom I have come into contact in each of my jobs have
been much alike, I am inclined to think that institutions of the West and
South offer the undergraduate a better rounded and saner experience
than do institutions of the East. Yet my deepest conviction is that in the
long run the quality of an education depends upon the men who are
giving it and this conviction has its roots in the influence which tutorial
conferences with Doolin and Whitney and lectures by Haskins, Lowes,
and Babbitt had upon my own life.

[ 652 J

T wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

ROGER ALCOTT PHINNEY

Address: 193 Boston Post Rd., Weston 93, Mass.

Born: Aug. 16, 1902, Dorchester, Mass. Parents: Wallace Berton Phinney, Ada
Pitcher.

Years in College: 1922-1924.

Occupation: Mercantile business.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Phinney
did not return a questionnaire.

DAVID ALLEN PIGUET

Home Address: 22805 Law Ave., Dearborn, Mich.

Office Address: E. 1. duPont de Nemours & Co., 2068 Penobscot Bldg., Detroit
26, Mich.

Born: March 3, 1906, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Adolphe Pierce David Pi-
guet, Mary C. Stone. .

Prepared at: Sharon High School, Sharon, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1923, 1924-1927. Degree: S.B., 1927.

Married: Helen S. Agnew, 1930, Philadelphia, Pa. CAildren: Shirley Frances,
1931; Mary Helen, 1933; Elaine Agnew, 1935; Sara Louise, 1941.

Occupation: Pigments; area representative, sales and technical service, Michi-
gan, Buffalo, and Toledo, Ohio, for E. I. duPont de Nemours & Com-
pany.

Offices Held: Secretary, Detroit Paint, Varnish & Lacquer Association.
It is so late I think I'l omit this part. What is done is done. Only the

future counts.

LEWIS STEPHEN PILCHER

Home Address: 67 Berkeley St., West Newton, Mass.

Office Address: 1180 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass.

Born: Feb. 13, 1906, Brooklyn, N. Y¥. Parents: Paul Monroe Pilcher, Mary
Finlay.

Prepared ate Brooklyn Friends School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; M.D. cum laude,
1930.

Married: Eleanor W. Bogart, Sept. 4, 1928, Peacham, Vt. Children: Lewis
Stephen, Nov. 15, 1932; David Bogart, May 11, 1934; Nan Eleanor,
March 11, 1937; Paul Schuyler, March 7, 1945.

Harvard Brother: Paul Monroe Pilcher, ’29.

Occupation: Physician, specializing in surgery.

Military or Naval Record: Army Medical Corps; entered as captain, May,
1942, discharged as lieutenant colonel, June, 1946.

[ 653 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Offices Held: Visiting surgeon, Newton-Wellesley Hospital, Waltham Hospital,
West Roxbury Veterans Hospital; associate surgeon, New England Bap-
tist Hospital, Mt. Auburn Hospital; chairman, membership committee,
Massachusetts Medical Society, Newton Medical Club; various jobs with
Boy Scouts of America, Red Cross; senior deacon, First Congregational
Church, Newton Center; Blue Shield Committee and Emergency Mo-
bilization Committee, Massachusetts Medical Society.

Member of : Boston Surgical Society; American College of Surgeons; American
Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society; Newton Medical
Club; Waltham Medical Club; West Newton Neighborhood Club; Che-
quesset Yacht Club, Wellfleet, Mass.; Harvard Club of Boston; Tuesday
Club, Newton; Longwood Covered Courts; Men’s Club of First and
Second Congregational Churches in Newton; A.O.A.

Publications: Various surgical articles.

The following little squib of poetry by John Masefield voices what
for twenty-five years has been my life’s ambition—one which for
twenty-five years I have not succeeded in obtaining except on a few all
too short occasions.

I must down to the seas again, to the lonely sea and the sky,

And all I ask isa tall ship and a star to steer her by,

And the wheel’s kick and the wind’s song and the white sail’s
shaking, |

And a gray mist on the sea’s face and a gray dawn breaking.

I must down to the seas again, for the call of the turning tide

Isa wild call and a clear call that may not be denied;

And all I ask is a windy day with the white clouds flying,

And the flung spray and the blown spume, and the sea-gulls crying.

I must down to the seas again to the vagrant gypsy life.

To the gull’s way and the whale’s way where the wind’s like a
whetted knife,

And all I ask isa merry yarn from a laughing fellow rover,

And quiet sleep and a sweet dream when the long trick’s over.

And from the looks of things it may be at least another twenty-five years
before I can shake off the conventions and shackles with which my Har-
vard education and training have bound me and realize that dream of
dreams of sailing the seven seas and letting the rest of the world go hang.

Not that my life these past twenty-five years has been in any sense
unhappy or uninteresting —it has in every sense been a busy, full, and
satisfying life, if anything, too full. Certainly I could have dispensed with
many months that I spent hiking and pounding in tent pegs for Uncle

[ 654 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Sam during 1942-46 — including all the C-rations the taxpayers so
generously allotted me. And there have been many nights when even
six hours’ sleep would have looked very good and I would have been just
as happy if people would keep their appendices and gall bladders to them-
selves instead of bursting them open between 1 and 3 A.M. just to see if
my good nature and sense of medical responsibility would stand up
under the strain. But by and large it has been an interesting and exciting
life since 1926 and there isn’t much of it that I would trade — even for
“a tall ship and a windy day with the white clouds flying.”
Of course, all my pleasures have not been maritime nor all my re-
sponsibilities military or medical. Even a Harvard man finds that the
universe centers around his family life and when you have a wife with
whom none can compare and four sprouts that put the rest of the world
to shame, what else is there to wish for this side of heaven? You fellows
who haven’t been as lucky as I, I pity you—— my two eldest boys are
almost old enough to support me (even though they aren’t going to
Harvard); I expect my daughter to marry into wealth and influence to
further cushion my reclining years; and I even have a five-year-old to
keep me from growing too old and sedate in spite of my gray hairs.
What then of the future? How can one worry with a set-up like
that? I must confess that although the rest of the world may be pessi- _
mistic, I am an optimist. Even if the Russians take over, I think I might .
reach my Utopia — perhaps in some obscure Nordhoff and Hall island
paradise in the South Pacific, for after all, my Utopia is not too com-
plicated.

... the wheel’s kick and the wind’s song and the white sail’s
shaking,
.... the flung spray and the blown spume, and the sea-gulls
: crying,
.... And all I ask is a merry yarn from a laughing fellow rover
And quiet sleep and a sweet dream when the long trick’s over.

ROBERT PILPEL

Home Address: 134 W. 93rd St., New York 25, N.Y.

Office Address: American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee, 270 Madison
Ave., New York 16, N. ¥.

Born: March 27, 1905, New York, N. Y. Parents: Emanuel Pilpel, Cécile

Meyer.
Prepared at: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. ¥.

[ 655 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Years in College: 1923-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B. (New York Law
School), 1932.

Married: Harriet F. Fleisch], June 15, 1933, New York, N. Y. Childrea:
Judith Ethel, Sept. 26, 1939; Robert Harry, Feb. 16, 1943.

Occupation: Executive and general counsel, overseas welfare.

Offices Held: Member Legislation Committee, Citizens’ Union, 1933-373
member Board of Governors, Ethical Culture Schools, since 1937; mem-
ber Board of Trustees, Educational Alliance, since 1947, Society for
Ethical Culture, 1942-48.

Farly in my teens I decided that I would become a banker. After a
freshman year spent happily at Reed College in Portland, Oregon,
where I did well academically and extra-curricularly, 1 determined
that Reed was too comfortable and that I’d better transfer to Harvard,
where I would be im- or compelled to tackle the job of life earnestly.
For that same reason I chose economics and money and banking as my
fields of concentration. I would have got a good deal more out of college
had I majored in history and languages in which I was interested. The
courses and activity I still recall with pleasure are Professor Kirsopp
Lake’s “Old Testament,” Professor Hocking’s “Philosophy of the
State,” “Introduction to Differential Calculus,” and membership in the
Glee Club.

Following my graduation, I spent fourteen months in Europe. I
worked as a volunteer in the Dresdner Bank in Munich, attended the
Zimmern School of International Studies in Geneva, heard Briand
eloquently announce the admission of Germany to membership in the
League of Nations (he spoke the words, C’est la jin de la guerre with a
convincing warmth that made you want to believe him), and travelled in
England, France, and Italy. Returning to New York, I abandoned
hope of joining the banking fraternity, went into the real estate business,
studied law at night, got my LL.B., met Harriet at Vassar, fell in love
with her, started private practice just as the banks were closed after
President Roosevelt’s inauguration in 1933, married in June, spent the
money we didn’t have for a honeymoon trip to France, came back hav-
ing persuaded my wife —she says— that she should go to law school,
and absorbed three years of her intensive Columbia Law School work

including two years of Law Review company. After her graduation
second in her class, she joined the firm of Greenbaum, Wolff & Ernst,
and became a partner in 1942.
By 1939 Hitler had brought his contribution to civilization to a point
which — insofar as it affected Jews in Europe — threatened their exist-
ence. The Jewish communities throughout this country were alert to the

[ 656

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report .

crisis and directed their assistance through the American Jewish Joint
Distribution Committee. ‘The committee was organized thirty-five years
ago to help the Jews in Europe who had suffered during and as a conse-
quence of World War I — simply because they were Jews. In 1939, the
year in which I joined the staff, almost $9,000,000 was spent for food,
clothing, shelter, medical care, and transportation to countries for which
individuals were able to secure visas. In the peak years of 1947 and 1948
about $65,000,000 was spent annually. One of the basic purposes of
the organization is to help Jewish communities overseas to regain their
self-sufficiency and self-reliance. Incidentally, it wants to withdraw its
financial support and its direct influence as soon as it may, and does so
gradually as the communities demonstrate their growing ability to take
care of their welfare problems themselves.

Initially, my job was to deal with the Latin-American area. We es-
tablished relationships with community groups in each of the twenty
countries south of the Rio Grande and in British and Dutch possessions.
Money grants were provided to help these communities receive the
newcomers. They numbered about 115,000 during the years 1937-
1941 and came in large part to countries strange in climate and Jan-
guage and to communities ill-equipped to receive and help them. Bolivia,
for instance, had a Jewish population of about 250 souls and was over-
whelmed by an influx of 10,000, Chile’s Jewish population of 13,000
was doubled. During the course of the years each of these communities
gained experience and achieved a maturity which made it possible for the

Joint Distribution Committee to discontinue its functional work in that
area. Furthermore, today these communities are themselves contribut-
ing towards the work in Europe, the Middle East, North Africa, Shang-
hai, and Israel.

Because of a particular problem which arose in Cuba in 1941, I was
sent to Havana for ten weeks in the fall of that year. There I learned
among other things that one can get just as much done in just as much
time working with Latins as one can here, mariana to the contrary not
withstanding. This experience was borne out during the year 1944
when I was stationed in Lisbon, Portugal. It took months, as it would
have here, to arrange the wartime sailing of a Portuguese passenger
boat from Lisbon through the Mediterranean to Haifa, Palestine. The
British Navy codperated and the Nazis seem to have kept a promise not
to molest the ship. The 434 passengers were eager to leave from Lisbon,
from Cadiz and Tangiers, and were elated upon reaching the shores of
what is today Israel. Lisbon was our wartime overseas headquarters, I
was in charge that year during the absence of our European director

[ 657 ]

. Harvard Class of 1926

who did an astonishing amount of hazardous and useful travel. That
year stands out asa “most”? — it was the most strenuous, the most excit-
ing, the most frustrating, the most satisfying, the most depressing, and
the one in which I had a constant homesickness for my wife, our lovely
then four-year-old Judy and robust one-year-old Bobby.

Upon my return in February, 1945, I put on an additional hat as
secretary to the Sub-committee on Health which was responsible for the
planning and implementation of a health and medical program overseas,
We engaged a staff of fine public health specialists who developed a re-
markable service in codperation with indigenous medical groups as well
as with UNRRA and the International Refugee Organization. We
also coralled great quantities of medical supplies and equipment. In the
spring of 1947 I made a two-month trip with the chairman of our
Health Committee through France, Germany, Austria, Poland,
Czechoslovakia, and Italy inspecting the hospitals, clinics, and other
health and medical facilities. ( |

In addition to these specific assignments I am liaison officer with our
offices and codperating committees in many countries throughout the
world, urging codperating committees to action, suggesting how to pro-
ceed, assuring them that they can do what they’ve never done before
and being constantly amazed at the high degree of confidence and of
effective working relationships which can be created largely through
correspondence and a common concern. A number of intriguing as well
as routine matters engage my attention in my capacity as general coun-
sel.

Judy, who this past summer changed the spelling of her name to
Judie, and Bobby went to camp for the first time. Harriet and I enjoyed
the luxury and pleasure of spending thirty days in each other’s company.
We drove to the west coast and back, visited half a dozen of the wonder-
ful National Parks and, early in the trip, came to the conclusion that it
was simply a survey. In other words we want to take many trips but
intend to limit each to one or possibly two spots.

Board and committee meetings and all the other activities of existence
in New York City consume an excessive amount of energy and time. I
enjoy my work, particularly on the boards of the Ethical Culture
Schools and the Educational Alliance, the latter being a large com-
munity center on the lower East Side. But the nights when I am free
seem to be the ones on which my wife is attending meetings of the
American Association of Marriage Counsellors, the Copyright Com-
mittee of the American Bar Association, or some other organization.
Judy and Bobby are just as absurdly busy with school, afternoon groups,

[ 658 }

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

music, dancing, not to mention their steady stream of requests (? ) tome
to fix or make something. We do have our island for family living
though, spend our weekends together, and in the fall and spring take to
our converted barn in the gently rolling hills of Connecticut. There our
greatest problem is to rid the barn of a long resident bat which makes his
home high up and apparently directly over the head of my bed.

JOHN McNEAR PITCHER

Home Address: 926 Commercial St., Weymouth, Mass.

Office Address: Liberty Mutual Life Insurance Co., 175 Berkeley St., Boston,
Mass.

Born: Oct. §, 1905, Mystic, Conn. Parents: Albert Leslie Pitcher, 96, Marion
McNear.

Prepared at: Waltham High School, Waltham, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degree: S.B., 1926 (27).

Married: Harriet M. Wahl, Oct. 28, 1929, Philadelphia, Pa. Children: Patri-
cia Anne, Dec. 18, 1930; Mary McNear, Jan. 9, 1936.

Harvard Brother: Donald Folsom Pitcher, 733.

Occupation: Assistant New England claims manager, Liberty Mutual Life In-
surance Company.

In attempting to conform to what apparently is expected for the
Twenty-fifth Report, as set forth in the questionnaire, I cannot record
past military service, have held no wartime government posts, held no
political, professional, or other kinds of office, belong to no clubs or so-
cieties worthy of mention, and have written no books. But I can an-
swer what is called the toughest question of all in the confidential ques-
tionnaire — “‘Do you consider yourself happy?” — very readily and
thoroughly honestly by saying, “Yes, very happy.”

My work takes me all over New England, involves largely personal
matters with a fine bunch of people, in an organization for which I have
worked ever since leaving college. Otherwise, the twenty-five years
have been devoted mostly to collecting. First, a wife in Philadelphia who
joined me in searching the rural Pennsylvania shops for early Americana
during the early thirties. Back to New England in °36 and many New
England sources of all kinds of old stuff to aid in the restoration and fur-
nishing of a house built by a sea captain for his daughter, two hundred
years ago. Since the essentials were collected, the emphasis has been on
clocks, rarely synchronized and then probably by accident, but all run
and strike. An inherited love of the sea and the coast of Maine on the
part of the most eager sailor who has rarely lost sight of the New Eng-

[ 659 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

land coast has resulted in a collection of early seagoing gear, navigation
instruments, charts, books, and pictures.

An acre of land and a fairly well-equipped woodworking shop keep
me from getting into too much trouble on weekends.

The sports that appeal to me are far from the crowds in the ball parks _
and stadiums. The woods and ocean, with only my dog and gunning
pal, with an occasional chance at a partridge or blue fish, are what I like.

My major achievement, although mine was a minor role, has been
the raising of two fine daughters. The elder will be married long before
this Report is out; the younger shows a great deal more promise of be-
coming a student than her father ever did.

It would have been nice to have a son. I have a lot of hobbies I'd like
to share with one. But one problem I shall never have to face is whether
or not to encourage him to go to Harvard.

CHARLES PLATT, JR.

Home Address: Lurgan Road, R.F.D., New Hope, Pa.

Office Address: Air-Shields, Inc., Hatboro, Pa.

Born: June 13, 1905, Philadelphia, Pa. Parents: Charles Platt, ’02, Dorothy
Falcon Sims.

Prepared at: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1924. Degrees: A.B. (Univ. of Virginia), 1927;
Ep.M. (Harvard Univ.), 1947.

Married: Rita Newbold Krumbhaar, July 6, 1929, Philadelphia, Pa. Children:
Charles, 3d, April 19, 1930; Rita Newbold, May 19, 1932; Hermann
Krumbhaar, July 10, 1936.

Harvard Som; Charles Platt, 3d, 52.

Occupation: Executive vice-president, Air-Shields, Inc., manufacturers of baby
incubators and other hospital equipment.

Military or Naval Record: Lieutenant, U.S, Naval Reserve, 1942-45; served
in administrative ground aviation: drill officer, Indoctrination School,
Quonset Point, R. L., and officer-in-charge, Auxiliary Air Field, Groton,
Conn.

Offices Held: Secretary, Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia, 193 2—39; chair-
man operating committee, Seamen’s Church Institute of Philadelphia,
1934-39; headmaster, Chestnut Hill Academy, 1939-42, Cambridge
School, 1948-51.

Member of : Phi Beta Kappa (University of Virginia Chapter) ; Harvard Club

of Boston.

I left Harvard in February, 1924, not of my own volition. At the
time it seemed like the end of the world; in retrospect it was one of the

{ 660 J

T wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

best things that ever happened to me, though by now the wound has so
perfectly healed that I often forget I am an “ex’”’-~member of the Class.
After a year and a half of being kicked around from one cage to another
of a highly respectable Philadelphia banking firm, “earning the busi-
ness,” I found sanctuary at the University of Virginia. There horizons
were broader: I made many good friends, learned to say “Hi, Gentle-
men”’ as I passed them on the street, and discovered the Honor System .
(which works — 100% ). During the second of my two years at Vir-
ginia I was allowed to take seven courses and graduated with a key in
June, 1927. As I was on almost constant probation at Harvard, I found
savage satisfaction in revisiting the-Dean’s office with my Virginia cre-
dentials and was readmitted for graduate work. But when September
came, I had passed up the chance for an A. M. and a teaching career, in
favor of the market place.

For twelve years I plied insurance wares in Philadelphia, and found
the “policy racket” lucrative but otherwise unrewarding, during the
period when most of our classmates were hit by the depression blues.
Then for four years, until I resigned to join the Navy, I was head-
master of Chestnut Hill Academy, a boys’ day school in Philadelphia.
Despite the harassments which only those who have run secondary
schools will fully appreciate, the rewards of teaching or school adminis-
tration are enormous.

I served in several East Coast air stations during my three years in
the Navy, and, like so many of us, felt that it was a rather futile per-
formance. We lived the war vicariously, through the experiences of
young ensigns who occasionally crashed to their deaths on our training
fields, or later were reported to have been killed in the Pacific. God
grant that the next war never comes; our own sons will have to fly its
planes.

Soon after the war we left Philadelphia for Boston, chiefly to have our
youngest child near an orthopedic specialist here. For lack of an ade-
quately paid opportunity in educational work I found myself again,
briefly, in the insurance business, but by February, 1947, [had pulled up
this anchor to windward and returned to Harvard as a graduate student.
Six months later, thanks to the G.I. Bill and a good deal of hard work, I
finally had my first and only degree from Harvard. Within a short time
thereafter I was appointed headmaster of the Cambridge School in
Weston where I have served three years. As this book goes to press, I
have just announced my resignation and am delighted that Dolph
Cheek has been chosen to head the school. In July I shall begin a new

[ 661 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

chapter as executive vice-president of Air-Shields, Inc., manufacturers
of baby incubators and other hospital equipment.

Rita and I were married in 1929. Our tastes are similar and simple.
Most of the real pleasure I’ve had since college has been outdoors. Dig-
ging fencepost holes, building chicken houses or sheep folds, making
endless dry stone retaining walls, chopping wood or burning brush in
winter — all these have given us lasting satisfaction. A minor vice, for
which I have so far not been jailed, is a collection of birds’ nests and eggs,
which by now has passed the one hundred species mark. Young Charlie
shares this peculiar mania with me, and recent Junes have found us
going further and further afield in search of new species. Tennis and
sailing round out the outdoor calendar.

We have three children and in them lies the truest happiness of all.
Charlie, now in his junior year at Harvard, reversed my field by spend-
ing his freshman year at Virginia. Young Rita graduated at Cambridge
School last June and has just started Pembroke College. And Hermann
is now a ninth-grader at Cambridge.

In most ways I feel as young as I did in 1926. I don’t worry as much
as I probably should about taxes, socialization, and the threats and ru-
mors of war. The only mark I had to make on the checklist of old men’s
infirmities served on us by Ben Thorndike’s confidence men was op-
posite ‘“‘athlete’s foot.” If the next twenty-five years are as satisfying as
these have been I shall consider life to be a pretty happy affair.

PEPPINO PORFILIO

Last Known Address: 501 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y.

Born: Feb. 8, 1901, Gessopalena, Italy. Parents: Luiyi Porfilio, Nicolina
D’Aurizio.

Prepared at: Clark University, Worcester, Mass.

Years ta College: 1922-1926.

Occupation: Mercantile business.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Porfilio
has been carried as a “lost” man since 1935.

t+ JOHN MILTON POTTER

Born: Oct. 22, 1906, Idaho Springs, Colo. Parents: Milton Chase Potter, Ca-

milla Barber.
Prepared at; Riverside High School, Milwaukee, Wis,
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. magna cum laude, 1926; A.M.

1930; Pu.D., 1935.
f 662 J

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Married: Faith Alden Eddy, June 16, 1928, Boston, Mass. Children: Mary
Alden, Sept. 19, 1935; Nicholas Warren, Aug. 25, 1940.
Died: Jan. 9, 194.7, at Geneva, N.Y.

John Milton Potter attended Harvard for four years with our Class.
As an undergraduate he was an honor student and was interested in
athletics, becoming a member of the freshman football team, freshman
track squad, the track squad in 1924, and the track team in his senior
year. He also was a member of the Glee Club and the Democratic Club.
Following graduation, he spent a year in Paris, studying at the Ecole
Pratique des Hautes Etudes and under M. Charles Bemont. He then
returned to Harvard for graduate study, spending summers in Europe
and in northern Wisconsin. After receiving his A.M. degree, he re-
mained at Harvard as instructor and tutor in history and literature, ex-
cept for the year 1932 to 1933 which he spent in France. In 1933 he
became senior tutor of Eliot House. In 1935 he received the Ph.D.
degree. Three years later he became assistant professor of history and
literature at Harvard. He was a member of the Faculty Council at
Harvard and President Conant’s Committee on Distribution. During
1940-41 he served as chairman of the Committee on Radio and Speak-
ing of American Defense, Harvard Group.

During the war he spent a year as a special assistant in the Office of
Strategic Services in Washington, and was a special consultant to the
State Department throughout the war. On September 1, 1942, he be-
came president of Hobart and William Smith, the Colleges of the Sen-
eca, and held this post until the time of his death. Under his leadership
the colleges made rapid strides to the forefront of small liberal arts col-
leges. He was active in the effort to make available every facility to
provide for the higher education of veterans, not only enlarging his own
college but working with Governor Dewey in the establishment of the
Associated Colleges of Upper New York, Sampson, Champlain and
Mohawk. | |

Potter was secretary-treasurer of the Association of Colleges and
Universities of the State of New York, a member of the board of trus-
tees of the Associated Colleges of Upper New York, a member of the
College Council of the University of the State of New York, a member
of the board of the New York Citizens Council, and a member of the
American Historical Association, the New York Historica] Association,
National Education Association, Association of School Administrators,
Geneva Rotary Club, and the University Club of Geneva.

He was survived by his wife and two children,

[ 663 ]

_ Harvard Class of 1926

WILSON MARCY POWELL

Home Address: 2577 Rose St., Berkeley 8, Calif.
Office Address: University of California, Berkeley, Calif.

Bora: July 18, 1903, Litchfield, Conn. Pareuts: Wilson Marcy Powell, ’96,
Elsie Knapp.

Prepared at: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; Pu.D., 1933.

Married: Fredrika Richardson, Oct. 25, 1930, Cambridge, Mass. CAildren:
Wilson Marcy, Jr., June 24, 1932; David Richardson, March 18,1935;
Fredrika, Oct. 11, 1938.

Occupation: Professor of physics, University of California.

Member of : Sigma Xi; American Physical Society (fellow).

Publications: “Researches in Cosmic Rays and Nuclear Physics.”

I taught at Harvard and Radcliffe while getting my Doctor’s degree
and while waiting for the weight of the depression to lift from the col-
leges of the country. In 1935 I went to Connecticut College for Wom-
en and taught there till 1937 when I went to Kenyon College in Gam-
bier, Ohio. In 1941 I got a Guggenheim Fellowship as the result of
some cosmic ray research I did on the top of Mt. Evans in Colorado in
1940. After a second expedition to Mt. Evans, I came to the University
of California and joined the Radiation Laboratory in 1942 in order to
work on the separation of the isotopes of uranium for the atomic bomb.
After the war I was appointed to the faculty and continued research in
the Radiation Laboratory under E. O. Lawrence.

Last summer I discovered trout fishing in the High Sierras and find
nothing more beautiful than the golden trout of that region.

It gives me particular pleasure to have former classmates look me up
in Berkeley. My trips east are always too brief and I hope many class-
mates will stop here while vacationing.

HAROLD IRVING PRATT

Home Address: Shutter Lane, Oyster Bay, N. Y.

Office Address: Room 2400, 26 Broadway, New York 4, N. Y.

Bora: Feb. 8, 1904, Brooklyn, N. Y. Parents: Harold Irving Pratt, Harriet
Lycenthia Barnes.

Prepared at: Groton School, Groton, Mass,

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; M.B.A., 1929 (30).

Married: Ellen Rice Hallowell, June 10, 1929, Milton, Mass. Children: Har-
riet Barnes, 2d, April 19, 1930; Margaret Hallowell, Jan. 4, 19323
Ellen Hallowell, 2d, Feb. 9, 19345 Harold Irving, Jr., April 13, 1937.

[ 664 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Occupation: Management of investments as trustee and adviser.

Military or Naval Record: Entered U.S.N.R., lieutenant (j.g.), May, 19413
assigned, commanding officer uss YMS-1, uss Direct, uss Pheasant (mine
sweepers performing various duties in Atlantic, Gulf of Mexico, Carib-
bean, and Mediterranean); executive officer, uss Vinton (attack cargo
ship in Pacific) ; awarded Bronze Star Medal with Combat V for service
during initial assault on France and during bombardment of Cherbourg,
June, 19443 also French Croix de Guerre with Bronze Star; partici-
pated in southern France invasion; separated as lieutenant commander,
November, 1945. :

Offices Held: Assistant secretary, U.S. Trust Company of New York, 1936—-
41; trustee, assistant treasurer, later treasurer, American University of
Beirut, Lebanon, 1936-41; trustee, assistant treasurer, later treasurer,
National Board of the YW.C.A., 1936-41; director, Virginia Hot
Springs Company, 1937-41; director, Charles & Company, 1936-41;

vestryman, St. John’s Church of Lattingtown, Locust Valley, N. Y¥,
1939-48; director, 1930-41, since 1946, president, 1939-41, since
1946, North Country Community Hospital, Glen Cove, N. Y.; trustee,
1931-41, since 1946, chairman Finance Committee, since 1949, Pratt
Institute, Brooklyn; trustee, since 1946, member executive committee,
1946, Green Vale School; partner, Charles Pratt & Company, since
1946; director, since 1946, treasurer, since 1949, Wall Street Investing
Corporation; director, Harrington, Righter & Parsons, Inc., since 19493
director, Canadian Corporate Management Company, Ltd., since 1950.
Member of : Harvard Club of New York; Piping Rock Club; Racquet & Tennis
Club; New York Yacht Club; Cruising Club of America; Cold Spring
Harbor Beach Club; Down Town Association.

My life since graduation can be divided into three phases — prewar,
war, and postwar.

Contrary to the experience of many, my first years in business con-
fined me to work close to the policy level and prevented me from be-
coming an integral part of a large organization. This situation arose
when in 1931 my father became ill and necessity took me from the City
Bank Farmers Trust Company to the family firm of Charles Pratt &
Company. Asa junior executive I then assumed investment responsibili-
ties and became a liaison between the owners and managers of several
small companies engaged in diversified activities,

In 1936 I accepted the office of assistant secretary of the United
States Trust Company of New York where in the banking department
I was given duties pertainin g to investments and credit, and j in addition
acted as representative of the company in connection with institutional

endowment accounts, as member of boards of directors, and in other
capacities. 7

[ 665 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Sensing the inevitability of war from international developments, in
the summer of 1940, I obtained a Naval Reserve commission and went
on active duty in the following May.

During my four and a half years in the Navy, command of three
minesweepers with 30 to 110 officers and enlisted men, and assignment
as executive officer of an attack cargo ship with 35 officers and 350 en-

listed men handed me long-desired opportunities to work with men.
Inept at the outset, I continually improved, but it was not until three
years had passed that, as prospective executive officer training several
hundred men, I felt confident of bettering human relationships through
what had previously seemed to me to be somewhat obscure, although
completely sound, procedures and channels established by the regula-
tions and customs of the Navy.

Except for the months of June and July and a few moments in Au-
gust, 1944, the war was easy enough on my nerves to permit enjoyment
of the sea; sunsets and sunrises, particularly in the tropics; and the many
new ports to which our orders took us. With congenial officers, life was
pleasant.

In the Navy I found myself reporting to officers with a variety of
backgrounds — Annapolis, “Mustangs,” Merchant Marine Reserve,
Organized Reserve, and R.O.T.C. — ranging in age from ten years
my senior to nine years my junior. ‘This stimulating experience left me
with the firm belief that even where as few as two people are involved
the most desirable results are achieved only from a clear-cut delegation
of responsibility and complete understanding and approval by all of the
duties of each.

When back in civilian life and faced with postwar taxes, I did not
rejoin the salaried group but set up an office to manage investments. In
making this move, because of my need for first-hand knowledge of se-
curities and my liking for the study of risks and probabilities, I merely
followed the path of least resistance.

In the spring of 1946 I was elected president of the North Country
Community Hospital at Glen Cove. Plans for enlargement were in
process at the time, and as building requires money, I assumed chair-
manship of the building fund campaign extending from the fall of 1946
to the beginning of 1948 and the intensive completion fund campaign
during the first five months of 1950. Fortunately, the addition is now
being constructed with the likelihood that it will be in use within a year
and I hope completely paid for from funds now in sight,

While I ski and play occasional tennis, my most absorbing diversion
has become what my wife calls “your girl,” my yawl Merry Maiden. An

( 666 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

able vessel carrying a crew of nine in an ocean race and affording com-
fortable accommodations for six on a coastal cruise, for four seasons she
has given pleasure to many and has provided me with chances to enjoy
the company of several members of our Class as crew. As she carries no
paid hands, we cannot relax all of the time.

Harvard has contributed to my life since 1926 through the warm
friends I made and what I experienced as an undergraduate, and also
because of the Harvard men IJ have come to know more recently. As we
are apt to take for granted the growth and development of those we
have known since our youth, I believe it is those in the latter group who
have increased the realization of my good fortune in being an alumnus
of a great institution which I feel confident will continue to maintain its
position of leadership in the future.

LAURENCE ORLEN PRATT

Home Address: Main Street, Dover, Mass.

Office Address: Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn, Inc., 1220 Statler Bldg.,
Boston 16, Mass,

Born: May 7, 1904, West Newton, Mass. Parents: Frederick Sanford Pratt,
94, Ella Winifred Nickerson.

Prepared at: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Frances Duncan Weed, June 8, 1929, Brookline, Mass. Children:
Frances Walker, July 16, 1930; Carolyn Nickerson, April 24, 19323
Laurence Orlen, Jr., Dec. 30, 1936.

Harvard Brothers: Frederick Theodore Pratt, ’22; Henry Nickerson Pratt,
24, M.D., 30; Albert Pratt, 33, LL.B., 36.

Occupation: Advertisin g; account executive.

Military or Naval Record: Lieutenant colonel, in charge of public relations,
Massachusetts National Guard, World War II.

Offices Held: Chairman public relations division, United Community Services
of Boston, since 1949, Community Fund Campaign, 1948; trustee,
Massachusetts Memorial Hospitals, since 1948, Community Workshops,

_ since 1940; chairman, Dover School Committee, 1943, 1944.

Member of : Longwood Cricket Club,

As in most enjoyable careers, there is small logic'in mine — from
teaching school at Loomis in Connecticut to a brief fling at Boston poli-
tics to the advertising business. This last profession has kept me busy and
excited for twenty years now, without a trace of an ulcer to date.

The list of my “principal works” is indeed a long one, but too tedious
to list here. I hope you have read many of them — perhaps an advertise-

[ 667 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

ment for Liberty Mutual Insurance Company or for those amazing
new Polaroid Land cameras that develop and print your pictures for you
in just sixty seconds (advt.). But I hope even more that you have been
urged by these commercial essays to spend your money for some of those
products and services. After all, I have to eat and send my son to Har-
vard, don’t I?

Though my name never appears in connection with the things I
write, there have been other rewards. I have made a comfortable living,
though one always keeps one’s fingers crossed in my business. And I
have had the satisfaction of receiving recognition from my own frater-
nity, twice winning National Advertising Awards for “the use of adver-
tising as a Social force.”

As for those other things my Class is so eager to know about me, I
shall spare your yawns through the use of brevity: My family is wise,
witty, and beautiful, but must be seen to be appreciated. My most recent
travels consisted of a leisurely jaunt by car from coast to coast by way of
Dedham. Hobbies, one-legged tennis and painting in the Churchillian
manner. When my wife drags me to church I’m an Episcopalian. And I
was born a Republican, suh.

Sounds drab, doesn’t it? Well, it isn’t.

JOSEPH PRESCOTT

Address: 317 W, 56th St., New York 19, N.Y. |

Born: Noy. 11, 1902, Mosty, Lithuania. Parents: Harris Prescott, Tillie Kap-
lan.

Prepared at: B.M.C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926 (27).

Occupation: Transportation.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Prescott
did not return a questionnaire.

GEORGE EUGENE PRETZFELD

Home Address: 6 Broadmoor Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.

Office Address: Custom Fabrics, Inc., 215 W. 40th St., New York, N. Y.

Born: Dec. 17, 1904, New York, N, Y. Parents: Eugene William Pretzfeld,
Amy Heidelberg.

Prepared at: White Plains High School, White Plains, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: §.B. cum laude, 1926; Gr. (Ziirich
Textile School), 1927.

[ 668 ]

T wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Married: Billie Kabrin, Feb. 3, 1939, New York, N. ¥. Children: Jill, Jan. 28,
1942; Thomas, Jan. 12, 1945.
Harvard Brother: Richard William Pretzfeld, ’26, M.B.A., ’28.

Occupation: President, Custom Fabrics, Inc., textile converting.

My life since graduation has been unmarked by anything very excit-
ing or dramatic and is, I believe, quite “normal.” After college I at-
tended textile school in Ziirich, Switzerland, then spent a year in silk
spinning and manufacturing plants in Italy. From 1929 through 1936,
I lived and worked in Pennsylvania and generally “sweated out” the
depression. Since 1937 I have been in the textile converting industry.

I married in 1939, have a daughter nine years old, and a son, six. My
home and family are the sources of my greatest satisfaction and pleas-
ures. My wife and I enjoy many of the same hobbies which are chiefly
skiing, fishing, sailing, and travelling. Fortunately, our resources en-
able us to indulge in these hobbies quite regularly and numerous short
vacations break the routine of home life.

If I were to formalize my convictions or philosophy they would re-
volve around the thought that the “material” things in life are unim-
portant. Real and lasting happiness derives largely from the simple,
basic things in life; friends, family, the home, appreciation and enjoy-
ment of nature, pride and joy in a job well done, being respected in your
community as a good citizen and a good neighbor.

RICHARD WILLIAM PRETZFELD

Home Address: Benjamin Franklin Apts., White Plains, N, Y.

Office Address: Custom Fabrics, Inc., 215 W. 40th St., New York, N. Y.

Born: Dec. 17, 1904, New York, N. Y. Parents: Eugene William Pretzfeld,
Amy Heidelberg.

Prepared at: White Plains High School, White Plains, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: .B., 1926; M.B.A., 1928.

Married: Claire Bach, Nov. 14, 1934, New York, N. Y.

Harvard Brother: George Eugene Pretzfeld, ’26.

Occupation: Textile converting; vice-president, Custom Fabrics, Inc.

Upon graduation from the Business School in 1928, I entered the
family silk business. My entire career has been devoted to various phases
of the textile industry.

As to the war, I’m sure I would have been mustered out a general,
but they wouldn’t take me because of physical incapacity. So instead I
spent two years on the night shift at a war plant. Consequently, though

[ 669 ]

—-

Harvard Class of 1926

I’m a VP. and a capitalist, I’m also a member in good standing of the
C.1.0.

I wrote a book once, but never found a publisher. I can catch my
share of fish on a dry or wet fly. I shoot in the eighties, and I'll race you
any time on Long Island Sound. I haven’t accumulated any great
amounts of money, but I’ve got some. On the other hand, I’ve never
been broke, and I’ve never had occasion to visit a psychiatrist.

So, while I haven’t a single claim to fame, I'll bet I’ve had as happy a
life as any man in the Class.

ROBERT WINSLOW PUFFER, JR.

Home Address: 65 Audubon Rd., Wellesley, Mass.

Office Address: c/o E. F. Hutton Co., 53 State St., Boston, Mass.

Born: May 2, 1904, Dorchester, Mass. Parents: Robert Winslow Puffer,
Blanche Elizabeth Smith.

Prepared at: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

Years ta College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Charlotte 1. Chapman, Feb. 11, 1939, Wellesley, Mass. Children:
Robert Winslow, 3d, Jan. 4, 1941; Ann Chapman, Jan. 8, 1943.

Harvard Brother: Donald Marshall Puffer, ’31.

Occupation: Manager, E. F. Hutton Company, stock and bond brokers.

Offices Held: Member Town of Wellesley Junior High School Building Com-
mittee, 1945—47.

Member of : Wellesley Country Club (director 1948 and 1949).

I still find myself taking the 8:15 in and the 5:15 out each day.
Weekends are given over to golf, gardening, and sand-lot baseball or
football with the kids. My son can now throw a baseball and football far
better than I. My daughter can twist me around her little finger. My
wife is really versatile; she has to be.

 

DAVID JOSEPH QUIRK

Home Address: 201-18 35th Ave., Bayside, Long Island, N. Y.

Office Address: Daily News, 220 E, 42nd St., New York, N. Y.

Born: March 5, 1903, Boston, Mass, Parents: Matthew Quirk, Mary Gill. |

Prepared at; Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922~1927.

Married: Thelma Hyland, 1925 (divorced 1942); Maude Carroll, 1943.
Children: Sally Ann, Sept. 13, 1927 (7. Paul Jones) ; David Joseph, Jr.
Nov. 30, 1928; James, Jan. 19, 1945. Grandchild: Deborah Ann Jones,
April 14, 1949.

[ 670 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report
Harvard Son: David Joseph Quirk, Jr.,’51.

Occupation: Newspaperman, editor and writer.

Offices Held: News editor, picture editor, and assistant managing editor;
drama and music critic; textile and financial editor; in Boston, New
York, Chicago, New Bedford, Washington, Baltimore, ‘Manchester, New
Hampshire, Atlanta; papers, Hearst, Scripps-Howard, New York Times,
Daily News.

Member of : Catholic Institute of the Press; Theatrical Mutual Association.

When most of this illustrious Class were making the leap from Bil-
lings and Stover’s to quiet boardrooms, I jumped from the quiet green
of Leavitt and Pierce’s pool room into a well of red ink. As a working
newspaperman, I’ve been there ever since.

I leave to you fellow-classmates the honorable — but profitable —
business of selling watered Amalgamated Mop at 163% to lonely old
widows and orphans. I write about young lonely widows found in bed
with fat-cat bankers and brokers, While most of you are rushing off to
the Harvard Club to lie on a board to be pounded into some semblance
of the shape that used to be, I am deep in a healthful slumber, my weary
head on a comfortable Remington.

It was falsely spread around that I went into the newspaper business
in my undergraduate days because I was by nature just plain nosy. The
truth is, it was a case of necessity — or in other words, the dollar.

When IJ got out of college, that same necessity was still with me be-
cause of my extra-curricular activities, But don’t get me wrong. I was
married in junior year and our first-born was soon due. ‘The big event
came while I was honestly trying to make a go of one of the businesses
that Harvard men turn to. I went into the travel business. It was nice
but financially unrewarding. I struggled for almost a year at the gener-
ous stipend of $90 a month. I could have made $250 a month in the
newspaper business. But I was always a sucker for the Horatio Alger
success stories, until one day the boss called me into his office. Said he:
“Dave, you’ve done a good job. The company is inordinately grateful.
We have put through a $10 raise for you.” That was happy news. The
birth wasn’t far off and I could use that extra $40 a month (according
to my way of figuring the raise). When the check came at the next first
of the month, it read: “exactly $100.’ We got paid once a month.

To say I was stunned would be an understatement. It made me feel
sorry for the company. Figuring that the firm was in distress — later I
was proved right I braced the president and informed him that I
would never be able to sleep nights unless the company took back its
magnanimous raise. He refused. A day later I was back in the news-

[ 671 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

paper business. I’m still there. Perhaps if it had been a year or so later, |
never would have gone back to this profession that makes up in supposed
fascination. what it fails to furnish in life’s luxuries. One of our class-
mates became a big shot in the travel firm. I might have got another $5
(a month). Unquestionably, that raise cost General Electric, Dorman
Mills, F. S. Moseley, J. P. Morgan, the Chase National Bank, and
Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn a top executive. “They'll just have
to wait for the next life. |
The old quip that “the evil men do lives after them” got a twist with
me. It lived with me. Some of our classmates and yours truly got mixed
up with a bevy of dolls from George White’s Scandals in the fall of 1923
— sophomore year. (Wives, keep prodding and maybe he’ll confess.)

The dolls were out of mind after that until I was on the New York
Journal in 1929. At 2 o’clock one morning the city editor got a tip that
somebody had shot somebody up in a swank Park Avenue apartment.
Get up there on the double, he sez.

T hustled up there and when the apartment door opened in answer to
my ring — there was one of the dolls from the Scandals. Not the one I
took out. It was ............ ’s girl. |

“Dave, do come in,” she purred. The cops were on some other floor
ringing apartment bells. Cool as a tomato, she pointed to a prostrate fig-
ure, sipped a drink and said: “I just shot the dope.” It was a Page One
sensation for weeks, But you can bet I didn’t let the editor know I knew
the lass before.

After that I did a stint for Hearst in Boston, as night managing editor
and news editor of the “refined” tabloid, The Daily Record. We got rid
of leg art, nude women, and cheap crime stories. When we printed
Cardinal O’Connell’s life story, the circulation boomed. At last reports
it was still way up there.

Then I returned to New York, did a brief hitch with Look magazine,
and then served as night editor of the World-T elegram until the manag-
ing editor warned me by telephone not to overplay the bombing of
Tokyo. I wasall over Page One with it until he called me off with what
is now a newspaper classic: “After all, our only source is the Tokyo
radio.” That sent me to The News where I’ve been ever since, except for
a brief — and costly — whirl as a Broadway producer. My drama stint
on the paper deluded me into thinking I was a play expert. I found out
the hard way and went back to The News as a news writer. I haven’t yet
recovered,

[ 672 ]

T'wenty-fifth Anneversary Report

MONROE HERMAN RADOVSKY

Last Known Address: Glenside, 6 Parley Vale, Jamaica Plain, Mass.
Born: April 7, 1905, Fall River, Mass. Parents: Joseph Solomon Radovsky,

Dora Laurans.
Prepared at: B.M.C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.
Years in College: 1922—1925, 1927-1929. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926 (29).

Occupation: Mercantile business.
The Secretary has been informed that Radovsky has been ill for
many years.

FRANK WELLS RAMSEYER, JR.

Home Address: Pine Street, Norton, Mass.
Office Address: Wheaton College, Norton, Mass.
Born: April 1, 1905, Boston, Mass. Parents: Frank Wells Ramseyer, Edna

Francis Holt.
Prepared at: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; A.M., 1928.
Married: Linda Chapin Marcus, Jan. 1, 1935, Jamaica Plain, Mass. Children:
Linda Marcus, Feb. 28, 1936; Héléne, March 19, 1938.
Harvard Brother: Charles Francis Ramseyer, ’22.
Occupation: Professor of music and head of the music department at Wheaton

College.
Member of: American Association of University Professors; Appalachian

Mountain Club.

Publications: About a dozen choral arrangements for women’s voices, published
mostly by the Boston Music Company; arrangement for women’s voices
of the complete Requiem by Fauré, published by Hamelle, Paris.

Strange to look at two photographs spaced so widely apart, to know
that the same person lives behind the two sets of eyes, to wonder what it
would feel like to live behind them yourself, and after all to realize that
you do know, because you’re the guy. The same guy, and yet more, too,
for the present casts its shadow in two directions.

I am my father when I walk through the woods and enjoy being
steeped in them; shaving in the morning also, although he only stripped
to the waist; at the head of a Thanksgiving Day table when the turkey
falls apart under the very same carving knife and fork he used. I am my
two kids when they are beginning French, or practising the piano, or
having to do arithmetic problems. And always, I am above all myself,
enjoying a three-fold pleasure.

Throughout my life I have had two ambitions — not so o much ambi-
tions as two requisites for my future existence which I took for granted:

[ 673 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

that I should have as happy a family life as my parents; and that my
home should be as rich in association and in lovely things to look at and
to feel of as the house of an uncle of mine where my taste was formed
when I was about twelve, and the pair of undergraduate rooms at Har-
vard — not my own — where I spent many waking, reading, and sleep-
ing hours. Both have become realities, gradually through all these years,
so that it is difficult to tell where the vision merges with fact. To be sure,
the domestic aspect required two tries, the first of which was inept, and
to be sought in vain in the history above. The second justified my predi-
lection for brunettes and gave me the satisfaction of feeling that I could
prove myself the answer to at least one maiden’s prayer. So I glory in an
Eve who answers also to the name of Lilith, and we continue to share
apples which have lost none of their savour.

Iam numbered among the lucky people whose vocations are among
their avocations. First off, however, I never became the architect I had
planned. My subsequent endeavors in that field can be related in few
words: a handful of pencil sketches; the placing of wall plugs in our
present apartment in the exact center of the greatest expanses of un-
interrupted wall space, thereby necessitating the removal of heavy fur-
niture whenever they are to be tapped; and the planning of our one-story
cottage on Mount Desert Island. Our living room there, open to the
rafters, is a joy for entertaining, for making music, and for just plain
living. On the other hand, I must admit to designing a hathroom where
the washbow/ is in the very gloomiest corner of an ill-lighted cubbyhole,
so that I shave by a sense of touch during the brightest months of the
year. Who am I, however, to belittle the advantages of a good technique
in the dark?

Two years at Harvard getting an A.M. in music were followed by
two years in Paris on a Paine Travelling Fellowship. My hebdomadal
letters home were duly saved, and I still find a good deal of pleasure in
getting them out and rereading between the lines,

The tangible evidence of my education abroad was a piano technique
much more developed and more adaptable than I had ever had before.
I took lessons of a retiring little old maid, a sister of Alfred Cortot. She
taught meas if I were a small boy just beginning to play, charged me the
equivalent of only two dollars a lesson, and gave me no famous Euro-
pean name to impress people with back home. But I have been deeply
grateful to her ever since. For the rest, adjustment to unaccustomed
living conditions, and immersion in a foreign tongue made me realize
(unconsciously, I speak twenty years after the fact) that every work of
art expresses a particular culture through a language of its own, often

[ 674 ]

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

unintelligible if not actually repulsive at first encounter. Ever since, I
have experienced exhilaration when confronted by a new technique of
writing, painting, or music which requires mastery before attainment to
the living truth beyond is possible. And the joy of recreating this inherent
beauty is incomparable.

I’ve had it at Wheaton in the two fields of drama and music. Drafted
for a production of some Victorian melodrama or other, I portrayed —
nay, was! —the village idiot. It really worried my wife, who feared
she was seeing me for the first time. Playing the part of the Chorus in
Anhouilh’s Antigone, it was fascinating to watch a jumbled torrent of
speech become transparent. Last year I was the masculine half of Shaw’s
Village Wooing. In every instance there has been the same laborious jour-
ney through words, sentences, and situations to the truth within, and
then the joy of giving life to that truth through the same words and
sentences, now no longer meaningless but full of purpose. The experi-
ence is equally rewarding in music, whether I conduct the Choir in the
Fauré Requiem or a Bach Cantata, the Orchestra in a Haydn Sym-
phony, or, alone at the piano, grasp, for an evanescent moment, the
essential spirit behind a Beethoven Sonata or an Intermezzo of Brahms.

ROBERT RANLET, JR.

Home Address: 125 E. 74th St., New York 21, N.Y.

Office Address: Guaranty Trust Company of New York, 140 Broadway, New
York 15, N.Y.

Born: Aug. 3, 1904, Holyoke, Mass. Parents: Robert Ranlet, Metta Potts,

Prepared at: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1924. Degree: A.B. (Univ. of Virginia), 1927.

Married: Suzanne Hanckel, June 13, 1928, Albemarle County, Va.

Occupation: Investment correspondent.

Military or Naval Record: Inducted Federal Service as first lieutenant with
Squadron “A” rorst Cavalry N.Y.N.G., Jan. 27, 1941; relieved of
active duty as lieutenant colonel, Dec. 23, 1946.

Offices Held: President, Squadron “A” Association, since 1949.

Member of: Farmington Country Club; Farmington Hunt Club; Squadron
“A” Association; Association of Ex-Members of Squadron “A”,

HOWARD HEATH RAPP

Home Address: 431 Bolsover Rd., Wynnewood, Pa.

Office Address: c/o Morgan, Lewis & Bockius, 2107 Fidelity-Philadelphia
Trust Bldg., Philadelphia 9, Pa,

Born: Sept. 9, 1905, Philadelphia, Pa. Parents: Fred Rapp, Louisa Lawton.

[ 675 ]

—— L-

Harvard Class of 1926

Prepared at: Central High School, Philadelphia, Pa.

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B. cum laude, 1929.

Married: Martha Elizabeth Tinker, Oct. 9, 1934, Philadelphia, Pa. Children:
Howard Heath, Jr., Oct. 4, 1936; William Emmett, March 29, 1938;
Martha Louise, July 8, 1942; Margaretta, June 24, 1946.

Occupation: Attorney-at-law; partner of Morgan, Lewis & Brockius.

Offices Held: Director, Wynnewood Civic Association, Bala-Cynwyd Com-
munity Concert Association; supervisor, District # FS, Main Line Red
Cross Disaster Program,

Member of: Union League of Philadelphia; Midday Club of Philadelphia;
Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Seaview Country Club, Absecon, N. J.;
Orpheus Club of Philadelphia; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and Ameri-
can Bar Associations; Juristic Society of Philadelphia; Lawyers’ Club of
Philadelphia; Wynnewood Civic Association.

Following my graduation from Harvard College, I determined to
take up the study of law. It was the consensus of opinion in my family at
home that I enjoyed nothing better than a good argument, so why not
make that my profession. Being one of eight children, the youngest of
five boys, I had a fine basic training for the stage which I now was set-
ting for myself, and so, not knowing what was ahead of me, in the fall of
1926 I trudged back to Cambridge to enter the halls of the Harvard
Law School for three years of monastic life and intensive work. How-
ever, not the least of the rewards which I reaped from my Law School
experience was that of becoming better acquainted with many of my
college classmates who, like myself, chose a legal career.

Armed with a Harvard law degree (cum laude), an editorship of the
Harvard Law Review, plus several letters of recommendation from
Dean Pound and members of the faculty of the Law School, I set forth
to find a niche for myself in the practice of law in my native city of
Philadelphia. Thus on September 1, 1929, I started making a daily trip
to the law offices of Morgan, Lewis & Bockius, a firm in which I became
a partner on January I, 1941.

Professionally I have engaged in the general practice of the law, not
having become a specialist in any particular field. Although I have never
become active in politics, I espouse the principles of the Republican party.
Pecuniary return has never been my objective and I have consciously
endeavored in the practice of my profession to be an instrument for the
administration of justice among my fellow-men, to uphold the right as I
see the right, to protect the weak and to defend the oppressed. Through
my professional contacts it has been my privilege to enjoy acquaintances
and friendships which I shall always treasure.

The crowning satisfaction, however, which I have thus far derived

[ 676 ]

Twenty-fifth Annrversary Report

from life is my family. My happiness in this regard began when I became
married on October 9, 1934, to Martha E. Tinker, also a Philadelphian.
In the sixteen-year interval which has elapsed since that time we have
been very busy with our children, an avocation which we realize will
keep us busy all the rest of our lives. We have been blessed with two sons,
Howard, Jr., and William, aged 14 and 1214 years respectively, and
two daughters, Martha Louise and Margaretta, aged eight and four
years respectively. Martha (my wife) and I are resigned to the fact that
we shall both be “going to school” for many years to come and no doubt
shall reach a “good old age” before we have earned our last diploma.

I am a member of St. Mary’s Protestant Episcopal Church, Ard-
more, Pennsylvania, where, as a boy, I had been a member of the choir
for many years. With the passage of time I have come to accept the
Christian faith as the most satisfying philosophy for living. Having be-
come fully convinced of the spiritual value of the Church and being de-
voted to the Episcopal form of service, I have, with the growth of my
family, taken a renewed interest in its activities. To insure that my sons
shall obtain a proper perspective of life, and also to develop in them a
keener sense of its ultimate meanings and values, I have not only en-
rolled them in the choir but am sending them to the Episcopal Academy
where religious education is given a prominent role in their curriculum.
All of my children regularly attend Church School each Sunday and, to
the extent possible, I am endeavoring to give my daughters a similar
religious training.

As for my hobbies, the first and foremost is my family. Parenthood
has served to occupy the better part of my leisure hours. As “Chairman”
of the “Entertainment Committee,” I am constantly devising and exe-
cuting various projects embracing the entire family. Their interests are
diverse and include, among other activities, entomological pursuits and
collections, museum trips and lectures, picnics, nature expeditions, sea-
shell collecting, the theatre, attending the Phillies’ baseball games, and
fishing, each in its appropriate season. Secondary hobbies which I enjoy
and in which I indulge myself whenever possible are hunting, fishing,
travelling, and good music.

We own our own home which is located on the “Main Line” of
Philadelphia in Wynnewood, and therefore live the average suburban
life of families in this vicinity. While I have a Ford station wagon to
take care of the transportation needs of my family as a unit, travelling,
except for occasional motor trips, is not a part of our life at the present
moment, but Martha and I with the two boys plan to be on hand at my
Twenty-fifth Class Reunion at Cambridge, in June, 1951.

[ 677 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

LEONARD BEELEY RASMUSSON

Address: 4708 Kingsessing Ave., Philadelphia 43, Pa.

Born: Aug. 26, 1905, Westport, Mass. Parests: Henry Rasmus Rasmusson,
Annie Taylor.

Prepared at: B.M.C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.

Married: Grace I. Hall, April 1, 1929, Boston, Mass. Children: Leonard
Beeley, Jr., Aug. 8, 1930; Nancy, March 29, 1934.

Occupation: Ministry.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Rasmus-
son did not return a questionnaire.

CARL JOSEPH RAUH

Home Address: Box 55, R.R. 6, Cincinnati 15, Ohio.

Office Address: The Rauh Co., Ninth & Sycamore Sts., Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

Born: Jan. 8, 1905, Cincinnati, Ohio, Parents: Joseph Louis Rauh, Sara Wei-
Jer.

Prepared at: University School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B, magna cum laude, 1926.

Married: Grace Stix, Sept. 18, 1927, Cincinnati, Ohio. Children: Joseph
Louis, 3d, Aug. 16, 1929; John David, May 28, 1932; Judith L., Aug.
16, 1936.

Harvard Sons: Joseph Louis Rauh, 3d,’513 John David Rauh, 54.

Harvard Brother: Joseph Louis Rauh, Jr.,’32, LL.B., 35.

Occupation: President, The Rauh Company, shirt manufacturers,

Offices Held: President, Board of Trustees, University School, 1939-43;
member, Board of Trustees, Jewish Hospital, City Charter Committee;
trustee, Security Savings Bank.

Member of : Harvard Club of Cincinnati; Losantiville Country Club.

I never enjoyed writing a narrative for English A, and what is more,
I find the subject matter very dull. While I like to think of myself asa__
liberal and try to support the progressive elements in our community,
my position as the head of a small corporation often makes compromises
with these desires necessary. I should welcome a ‘‘Deal,” Fair or New,
which would allow me as a businessman time to pursue those subjects
and ideas which I found so stimulating twenty-five years ago.

[ 678 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

ALLEN EUGENE REED

Home Address: 92 Sunset Rd., Weston, Mass.

Office Address: Raytheon Manufacturing Co., 138 River St., Waltham, Mass.

Born: Feb. 2, 1904, Auburn, N. Y. Parents: Fred Gooding Reed, Elma De
Reimer.

Prepared at: East High School, Rochester, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: §.B., 1926; M.B.A., 1928.

Married: Arline H. Genthner, Oct. 9, 1931, Newton Center, Mass. Children:
Allen Eugene, Jr., Aug. 2, 19333 Louise C., Dec. 20, 19343 Susan D.,
Dec. 9, 1938.

Occupation: Comptroller, Raytheon Manufacturing Company, manufacturing
military and commercial electronic equipment.

Member of: Controllers Institute; National Association of Cost Accountants;
Boston Camera Club; Sports Car Club of America; Weston Golf Club.

‘Twenty-five years ——in 1926 some rather distant point in the dim
future; in 1951 a very short time back due to the good life I have been
having with my wife and family. During this period many things have
been planned and no doubt too few accomplished. I am continually im-
pressed with the fact that a Harvard and graduate school education
plus some years of practical experience fail completely to fit me to keep
one jump ahead of the many different and sometimes startling questions
constantly being asked by my children.

To return to 1926. Graduation from college was followed by two
years at the Business School to get some better understanding of how to
earn a living. Sandwiched in with this during the school years was an
interesting experience in coaching lacrosse at Brown University because
I liked the game and also needed the money to help me through the
Business School. In addition, I spent two summers on a naval aviation
course and took some night classes at Tech. I have regretted that I did
not follow through and get a commission but like many other graduates
of that period, I felt that my future was made by taking a job in a broker-
age house, I survived the 1929-31 period certainly richer in no other

way than experience.

In 1931 I met the right girl and took the step towards a better life;
at least, that is the way it became for me. We acquired a boy and a girl in
1933 and 1934. In 1934 I changed my work from the stock brokerage
business to selling truck tires to large commercial users, the result I
believe, of my father-in-law, the president of the company, taking pity
on our struggle to make my salary meet both ends while acquiring the
two children, buying a house, and supporting a car.

I still was not satisfied that I had found the right work, so in 1936 1

[ 679 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

joined Remington-Rand in Boston as a tabulating machine salesman
and immediately started to receive what I consider the most valuable
business education and experience that I could have secured, as it gave
me an excellent sales training education plus an insight into many varied
types of business which later crystallized my mind towards the work I
wished to follow. This work resulted in a detour from New England
life by taking a year in Syracuse as district manager in 1939 and then
three years in Kansas City as branch manager. Another daughter was
added in Syracuse.

In 1942 it became obvious that, although not born a New Englander,

I had become one by desire. This met the full approval of the family, so
T pulled up stakes and came back to accept a position with the Submarine
Signal Company in Boston as assistant to the treasurer. As I could not
take a more active part in the war, I felt that I was helping out in the
best way that I could. A consolidation with Raytheon Manufacturing
Company led to my transfer to that company in 1947 and I have since
become an officer and the comptroller.

During the last few years I have become very much interested in two
hobbies, photography and sports cars. I limit my photography to “‘stills”
and enjoy trying to make good prints. I have limited any showings,
however, to color slides at the Boston Camera Club. My photography is
for my own and my family’s enjoyment. My interest in sports cars is
more recent and probably a good sign of second childhood. I own a two-
seater British M.G., small but with enough room, which is a real pleas-
ure to drive. I am becoming exposed to the pleasures of taking the M.G.
in the T & T’s (Trial & Tour) under the sponsorship of the Sports
Car Club of America. I even have persuaded my wife to go with me as
chief navigator.

I shall save the next installment of this for the Fiftieth in 1976. Per-
haps by that time I shall be more sure of my social, political, and religious
convictions.

JOHN ALDEN REED

Home Address: North Greenbush Road, West Nyack, N. Y.
Office Address: U.S. Treasury Dept., Bureau of the Public Debt, Office of the
Register of the Treasury, 201 Varick St., New York 14, N. Y.

Born: Sept. 26, 1899, Englewood, N. J. Parents: Horatio Roop Reed, Frances
Hoyt Coe.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
Years in College: 1922-1923.
Married: Emily Elizabeth Chapin, Nov. 26, 1924, Englewood, N. J. Chil-

[ 680 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

dren: John Alden, 2d, Oct. 17, 1925 (7. Marjorie Oblinger, Sept. 4,
1948); William Chapin, Dec. 2, 1926 (v. Thelma Ardis Prather, Sept.
1, 1950); Richard Coe, Jan. 14, 1928; Philip Marvin, Nov. 26, 19345
James Dixwell, Dec. 10, 1938.

Occupation: Government accounting; manager, New York Regional Office,
Office of the Register of the Treasury.

Military or Naval Record: Enlisted in French Army (American Field Service)
May 5, 1917, and in the U.S. Army at Sivrey-la-Perche, France, Sept.
26, 19173 discharged at Camp Dix, N. J., April 26, 19195 received
Croix de Guerre, Divisional Citation, August, 1918.

Wartime Government Posts: Rehabilitation Consultant (of the physically handi-
capped) to General Graves B. Erskine, U.S.M.C., Administrator, Re-
taining and Reemployment Administration.

Offices Held: President, West Nyack Civic Association, since 1949; member,
Teaching Aids Committee (National), U.S. Power Squadrons; district
legislative representative, District Public Relations Officer; secretary
1949-50, educational chairman, 1948-51, lieutenant commander
1950-51, Tappan Zee Power Squadron (local).

Member of: Englewood Men’s Club, Englewood, N. J.; Nyack Boat Club,
Nyack, N. ¥.; Minisceonga Boat Club, Grassy Point, N. Y.

Publications: Various papers and instructional pamphlets on the rehabilitation
of the physically handicapped and their proper and useful employment
in industry, commerce and government, and also on various aspects of the
interviewing and placement of applicants for employment, including
some precautions on the use of aptitude and personality tests in the evalu-
ation of the applicants.

WILLIAM THOMAS REID, II

Home Address: 153 Beach St., Cohasset, Mass.

Born: March 17, 1903, Belmont, Calif. Parents: William Thomas Reid, Jr.,
01, Christine Williams Lincoln.

Prepared at: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926.

Unmarried. |

Harvard Brother: Charles Willard Reid, ’37 (deceased).

Occupation: Teaching and lobstering.

Military or Naval Record: U.S, Coast Guard Auxiliary.

Member of : Cohasset Yacht Club; Cruising Club of America; Saengerfest.

Since I left college, my life has been largely devoted to teaching
which, as long as I can remember, has always been the one thing I
wanted to do. In this connection I have taught boys of grammar school
age, preparing them for such schools as Groton, St. Mark’s, and Milton
Academy. This included dormitory supervision and the coaching of
athletic teams.

[ 681 ]

TEP PR PATER RERRRRRRRE cy ea

ee eae

Harvard Class of 1926

During most of the summers J have conducted a cruising school for
boys, taking them up and down the New England coast, and instructing
them in the various phases of small boat handling. Supplementing this I
have taken several long cruises, on one of which I shipped as cabin boy
on a seventy-nine-ton ketch from Marblehead to Honolulu, via Ber-
muda, the Panama Canal, and Cocos Island. On another occasion J
sailed my twenty-three-foot Norwegian cutter from Cohasset to Cuba
and back, virtually single-handed.

Another interest has been the study and practice of jiu-jitzu under
the tutelage of a highly educated and skilled Japanese instructor. For a
period, he and I conducted a studio of instruction for both adults and
children.

Music has likewise been a great source of pleasure and relaxation.
Since my Glee Club days I have been singing in various choral societies
and barber-shop quartets. I like nothing better than to pump away on
the bass notes. I have seven different instruments which give me “no
end of joy” even though I have not qualified for the Symphony.

Among other activities I have had fair success harpooning swordfish,
tuna, and sharks, and recently I bought a thirty-two-foot power-boat for
lobstering and have “gone commercial.”

Finally I have found interest and pleasure in nature and the out-of-
doors with particular emphasis on bird and animal life.

I am a Unitarian and a staunch Republican utterly opposed to the
crack-pot New Deal ideology — paternalism and bureaucracy —and
hope to see the day when thrift, self-reliance, sound government, and
the American way of life— upon which the country was founded —
once more become dominant.

ELMER VAN NESS REINHARDT

Home Address: 111 Donaldson Rd., Route 12, Grand Junction, Colo.

Office Address: U.S. Geological Survey, Box 360, Grand Junction, Colo.

Born: July 20, 1904, Victor, Colo, Parents: Arthur Peter Reinhardt, Pearl
Gertrude Rogers.

Prepared at: Wallace High School, Wallace, Idaho.

Years in College: 1922-1925, 1927-1928. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926 (29)-

Married: Evalyn Mae Holmes, July 16, 1932, Denver, Colo. Child: Neil
Clark, Dec. 26, 1934.

Occupation: Geologist.

Mining here and there.

{ 682 }

nttennretnannaea as aemnnsssesemnaanasiinenanaaniseananenimidetitintlids.. Ma sat Ee

Twenty- fifth Anntversary Report

DAVID GEORGE REUTER

Home Address: 41-69 Parsons Blvd., Flushing, N. Y.
Office Addres: Laird & Co., 61 Broadway, New York, N. Y.
Born: Feb. 22, 1896, Hannibal, Mo. Parents: William Charles Reuter, Kathe-

rine Velde.
Prepared at: Lewiston High School, Lewiston, Idaho.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: §.B., 1926.
Married: Charlotte Russell Hone, Nov. 11, 1934, Flushing, N. Y. Cid: Jane

Hone, May 3, 1938.
Occupation: Investment counsel.

Member: Garden City Country Club.

On completion of my college course, I took a position as statistician
with the New York Stock Exchange firm of Taylor, Bates & Company.
I became a partner of this firm in 1941, and subsequently of the sucessor
firm, James B. Taylor & Company. Upon the dissolution of the latter
firm in 1948, I became, and still am, associated with Laird & Company,
members of the New York Stock Exchange.

4+: DONALD DROWNE REYNOLDS

Bora: Aug. 9, 1903, Malden, Mass. Parents: George William Reynolds, Kathe-

rine Gardner Higgins.

Prepared at: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B. cum laude, 1926.

Married: Ruth McKinley Plummer, June 15, 1929, Boston, Mass. CAildren:
Stephen Leighton, Aug. 31, 1933; John Lawrence, March 18, 1937.

Died: March 25,1951, at Mt. Sunapee, N. H.
Widow: Mrs. Donald D. Reynolds, 29 Hidden Rd., Weston, Mass,

As this Report went to press the Secretary learned of the sudden death
of Donald Reynolds on March 25, 1951, on a ski run at Mt. Sunapee,
New Hampshire. Since he had sent in his questionnaire for the Report
last November, the Secretary is printing it as Reynolds wrote it, as there

was not time to prepare an obituary.
“In the fall of 1928, after a year in graduate school and another in

Europe, I went with the Boston Sand & Gravel Company and I have
been there ever since. Although hired as a geologist, ve waded through
a variety of jobs until at present my title is the presumably exalted one
of vice-president.

“In marriage I have been somewhat old-fashioned, having had but
one wife —~ with whom I am getting older and balder in the good town

[ 683 ]

Or TEE EET ENaC L gE eh

Harvard Class of 1926

of Weston, Massachusetts. Our two sons appear to be adequately
equipped mentally and physically, and will, we hope, become reasonably
good citizens and, possibly, Harvard men.

“My ‘social, political, and religious convictions’ seem as fluid as the
times. Perhaps by our Fiftieth Reunion they will have crystallized suffi-
ciently to stay put on paper — who knows, maybe in Russian.”

WILLIAM HOOPER REYNOLDS

Home Address: 52 Prospect St., Marblehead, Mass.
Office Address: Northeastern University, 360 Huntington Ave., Boston, Mass.

Born: July 17, 1903, Marblehead, Mass. Parents: Joel Warren Reynolds, Car-

rie Gertrude Shepard.

Prepared at: Marblehead High School, Marblehead, Mass.

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degrees: S.B,, 1926; A.M., 1929.

Unmarried.

Occupation: Teacher of English, Northeastern University.

Military or Naval Record: Served in United States Army, July 18, 1942, to
November 11, 1945; stationed in U.S., England, and France; inter-
viewer of recruits, Fort Devens; an NCO (fighter squadron) intelligence
specialist in East Anglia; bomber group headquarters office worker at
Istres; member, Air Force Inactive Reserve.

Member of : ‘Marblehead Instrumental Club (treasurer, since September, 1950).

Enabled through the ministrations of some fitfully kind Fate to attend
the 1950 Commencement in the Yard, I found myself towards the last
third of the morning exercises, after roaming about speculatively, as is
my custom on such occasions, around the edges of the vast audience, all
of a sudden standing near the front of the extreme left al fresco aisle
looking smack into the staunch, substantial faces of a treble row of cele-
brants from the Class of 1925 whom their fathers two-score and seven
years ago had brought into this nation. In the old days I had known, at
least, and no more than by sight, many of these quarter-century alumni
thus decorously alined before me in that not too brilliant matinal June
sunshine, Their class tricolor (a symbolist could have gone to town here)
quietly flamboyant in neckties and as I remember, hat ribands, was
bravely in evidence; it did not harmonize over-Esquirely with their
other garb, but it did for the nonce recognizably hold together these
men, each otherwise in his own particular way like me made up so com-
petently, if with a somewhat heavy hand, for a character part. The sight
of them projected me straightway into the same surroundings a twelve-
month hence when, back for my own similar reunion, I also should
seem to be gazing into a beckoning and favorable prospect while sitting

[ 684 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

serenely on the airy, broad top of a medium-high mountain peak. “And
there, gentlemen,” I observed to myself in the manner of one of our
more baleful instructors in the twenties, his agate-white eyes behind
their gimleting rock-crystal pince-nez making little back-and-forth
erosive nail-scissors scallops on the distant, dark, rear wainscot of the
New Fogg Lecture Hall as inexorable as the crack of doom, “And
there, gentlemen, mutahtis mutawndts, after the lapse of but one year sit
I!” For I thought then as I said above, that my Twenty-fifth, like this
one, would come for me as the grateful pausing in a balmy and lofty
place. But at present writing, although the twelve-month is fast nearing
its end and the measuring peak is clearly within view, the serenity is not
as yet appreciable, and the favorable prospect is not even nebulously ap-
parent on the stark horizon.

In 1946 I shared proportionately in our common lot of having to
write for our ‘I'wentieth Yearbook while trying resolutely to right our-
selves in the midst of the lagging throes of postwar readjustment. When
I composed my own contribution, I was, because of home conditions,
about to resign from the position that had been kept open for me during
my forty months in the armed forces, and there was no sign of other
employment. Shortly after that installment of my life story had been
delivered to the mails, however, I got a job that was to be the first of a
series of six, one of the last of which I still hold, and I have not been for
long unoccupied ever since. For two days I was the stand-in for the
head of the Marblehead High School English Department; here mine
was the reasonably dubious good fortune of asking book-report ques-
tions and issuing library slips for some of the sons and daughters of my
own high school classmates, At the end of the second day, I returned to
my home hard by to find there a letter informing me that I had obtained
a position at the Boston Regional Office of the Veterans Administration,
and by the end of the following week, I received word that I had been
appointed to.a teaching post in the Marblehead Evening High School
for Veterans. 7

These two jobs began and ended about the same time; they lasted
sixteen months. For two hours an evening, two evenings a week I
taught eleventh- and twelfth-grade English to amiable and not objec-
tionably ambitious GI’s. ‘The classes were so small, the atmosphere so
agreeable, and the pace so accommodatingly elastic that the instruction
might virtually be considered in the Harvardian sense tutorial. Five and
a half days a week with liberal stretches of overtime I wasa VA training -
officer. This title is so unguessably elliptical that I had better expatiate.
A VA training officer is a government official in charge of the records of

[ 685 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

WILLIAM MORTON REYNOLDS

Home Address: 3§ Bartlett Ave., Pittsfield, Mass.

Office Address: Berkshire Trust Co., Pittsfield, Mass.

Born: Aug. 2, 1904, Norfolk, Nebr. Parests: Charles Henry Reynolds, Clara
McBride.

Prepared at: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B., 1926; LL.B., 1929 (30).

Married: Emily Barnes Pettee, Sept. 2, 1939, New York, N. Y. (divorced
1942).

Occupation: Trust officer, Berkshire Trust Company.

Military or Naval Record: World War I1: attached to U.S. Army as an employee
of the United States Office of War Information in China; in charge of
personnel and transportation for the China Division headquarters in
Chungking.

Offices Held: Assistant treasurer, United Nations, 1946; vice-president, The
Estate Planning Corporation, 1946—49; member of committee on Taxa-
tion of the American Bar Association, since 1949; trust officer, Berkshire
Trust Company, since 1950.

Member of: New York Bar Association; American Bar Association; Harvard
Club of New York; 7th Regiment Veterans’ Association.

Publications: “A Planner’s Primer” in Vanderbilt Law Review symposium on
Estate Planning; “Trust Department Letters” in Prudden’s Digest of In-
vestment and Banking O pinions.

 

Mine is doubtless a minority report, I do not have chips off the old
block to eulogize, a wife to do something or other about, or a batch of
hobbies cooked up to get out of washing the dishes. Unlike most Har-
vard Law grads, I have spent little time in the direct practice of law. I
have been unnoticed by the New Dealers. Perhaps my most startling
minority action was not the going with a large New York Trust Com-
pany, but rather the leaving of it for less marbled premises fourteen
years later.

Even in World War II, I was the odd man who was neither in the
armed forces nor out of the war effort in foreign lands. China was not a
majority camp even then. Since said World War II, I have done a short
stretch with the United Nations, been vice-president of an estate plan-
ning firm in New York, and have done some free-lancing in estate and
tax work. Finally, and quite recently, I accomplished the admirable
move of getting out of the big city into the smaller time in the beautiful
Berkshires.

[In April, 1951, Reynolds reported that he had gone with the First
and American National Bank in Duluth. — See.]

[ 688 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

GILES SUTHERLAND RICH

Home Address: 450 Riverside Drive, New York 27,N. Y.

Office Address: Williams, Rich & Morse, 225 Broadway, New York 7,N.Y.

Born: May 30, 1904, Rochester, N. Y. Parents: Giles Willard Rich, Sarah
‘Thompson Sutherland.

Prepared at: Horace Mann School for Boys, New York, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B., 19263; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.),
1929.

Married: Gertrude Verity Braun, Jan. 10, 1931, New York, N. Y. Child:
Verity Sutherland, March 20, 1940.

Occupation: Lawyer; patent and trademark law.

Offices Held: President, New York Patent Law Association, 1950-51 ; various
vice-presidencies, 1945-49.

Member of : New York Patent Law Association; American Patent Law Associa-
tion; Association of the Bar of the City of New York; American Bar As-
sociation. .

Publications: Numerous articles on patent law in professional journal.

Another five years on which I report under pressure from the Class
Report chairman who writes MUST, AT ONCE, and BY RETURN MAIL.
This strikes me as typical of this phase of life in which there never seems
to be enough time to do the things I want to do. Is time going faster or
am I going slower?

Whichever it is, five years isn’t much any more. Anyone interested in -
the first fifteen years is respectfully referred to the earlier Reports.

I am still practising law in the field of patents and trademarks. That
vice-presidency in the New York Patent Law Association got me mixed
up with legislative matters, testifying before Congressional committees
and the like, which led to my present involvement with a general revi-
sion of the patent statutes. It is a liberal education on how laws are made.

That land I bought in Newton, Connecticut, demanded a more per-
manent habitation than a tent, or at least my wife did. Suffering froma
propensity to do things myself, I decided to build a house — myself.
That too has been a liberal education. As an amateur carpenter, electri-
cian, plumber, heating engineer, and what have you, I have gained great
respect for the skills of the professionals and a better appreciation of the
advantages and disadvantages of the division of labor. I was also made
painfully aware of the physical limitations of a man of forty-five and the
reason for the eight-hour day. But I have a house. I hope soon to get the
lumber out of the living room and live in it. I am now having the fun
of duplicating the project for the benefit and at the expense of my in-
laws, acting as builder, and letting the professionals do the work.

[ 689 ]

—

Flarvard Class of 1926

My Ph.D. wife is still being a professor of philosophy at Barnard and
for three years has been adviser to one of the classes, Her charges are
now juniors and I follow their problems with interest. My daughter,
going on eleven, hasn’t the slightest desire to have a television set,
Hucksters please note,

I have pondered “class” consciousness this past year and still wonder
about it. I was at a conference with a client and his general counsel last
summer, Said lawyer looked vaguely familiar. After about two hours it
developed accidentally that he was the Dick Jones of ’26. We both
rushed home and read the books, Next day we were on a first name basis,
Presently I met his client’s vice-president, Lester Ginsburg. “Dick tells
me you were Harvard ’26,” he said. “So was I.” Browsing through the

Twentieth Report just now I discover Edmund H. Parry, Jr., patent
lawyer of Washington. I was on a committee of which he was chairman
a couple of years ago. Notwithstanding face-to-face encounters and
some correspondence, we never did discover our common background.
Moral: Harvard is too big. Crimson take notice.

Maybe I should go to a reunion and meet some classmates. Perhaps I
shall,

PAUL HILLERY RICHARDSON

Home Address: 7 Elm Pl., Chatham, N. J.

Office Address: Bell Telephone Laboratories, Murray Hill, N. J.

Born; Nov. 10, 1904, Cambridge, Mass, Parents: Arthur Wilbur Richardson,
Margaret Hillery.

Prepared at: Rindge Technical School, Cambridge, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1928. Degrees: S.B. in E. Com. Encin. cum laude,
1926; S.M., 1928.

Married: Nathalie M. Hurd, Sept. 16, 1933, Concord, N. H. Céildren: Paul
David, Dec. 20, 1935; George Peter, April 23, 1940.

Occupation: Engineering supervisor of design group concerned with a variety
of transmission networks used in telephone and television circuits.

Offices Held: Treasurer, St. Paul’s Episcopal Church, Chatham, N. J.; com-
mitteeman, Troop 23, Boy Scouts of America.

Member of : American Institute of Electrical Engineers; Telephone Pioneers
of America; Fish and Game Protective Association of Chatham, N. J.;
Chatham Community Players.

Publications: Contributor to Pender, Mcllwain Handbook on Communications.

In retrospect there seems to be little that would be of interest to my
classmates. My first job on leaving college was the one I have now, with
variations. I guess I qualify by now as the specialist who comes to know
more and more about less and less. My biggest headache at the moment

[ 690 J

ene asiniennssscsanitianath, «os tL aad

T wenty- fifth Anntversary Report

is to see to it that television pictures are at least recognizable at the receiv-
ing end of the coaxial cable stretching for too many miles. Some day I
may acquire a TV set!

As to outside activities I can only conclude that they grow on one di-
rectly as (1) one’s family increases; (2) one finds it difficult to say
“No.” My time for the workshop down cellar is restricted, to say the
least. In another twenty-five years I may have time enough to go
around.

I have one bit of news which may interest the Class. My elder boy
looks as though he could become a good enough pitcher to smack those
Yales, but good! He presently prefers Princeton, though, so I have
problems.

As you can readily see, since I have said so little, I am a reasonably
contented man. My major interests are centered around my job and my
family, and no crises have yet arisen in connection with either. Together
they give me something for which to live and work.

BERNARD ABRAHAM RIEMER

Home Address: 115 Sewall Ave., Brookline, Mass,

Office Address: Cohn, Riemer & Pollack, 159 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.

Bora: Apri] 20, 1905, New York, N. Y. Parents: Moses Joseph Riemer, Sophia
Isacson. |

Prepared at: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B., 1929.

Married: Marion Eisenman, Aug. 22, 1933, Brookline, Mass. Children: David
I., Nov. 11, 1935; Robert L., Nov. 14, 1938; Stanley J., Jan. 27, 1947.

Harvard Brother: Jacob Riemer, Sp. 1926-28.

Occupation: Attorney. .

Offices Held: Secretary, N. E. Upholstered Furniture Manufacturers’ Associa-
tion; secretary, Upholstering and Bedding Suppliers’ Association; mem-
ber board of trustees, Temple Emmanuel, Newton, Mass.; president,
Civic Symphony Orchestra of Boston Members’ Association.

Member of : Newton Squash and Tennis Club; Pinebrook Country Club, Wes-
ton, Mass.; Civic Symphony Orchestra of Boston, Inc.

Publications: Associate editor, Commercial Law League Journal; treatise on trade
associations.

In retrospect I find that my life has followed the pattern of the aver-
age citizen. I entered into the practice of law in 1930 when “prosperity
was always around the corner.” With the income derived from playing
the violin professionally, I was able to exist comfortably my first few
years after law school. My marriage in 1933 stabilized my life, crystal-

[ 691 ]

“NORE teas Mint tne SRNR there i cane fo met

Harvard Class of 1926

lized my interests, and furthered my ambitions. I discarded my interests
in jazz music and repaired to the pursuit of law. After serving my ap-
prenticeship, I became a junior partner and then a senior member of the
law firm of Cohn, Riemer & Pollack in Boston. During the ensuing
years I have been blessed with three sons, whose likes and habits are so
like mine that I shudder at the thought of society enduring them. The
Mendelian theory has asserted itself advantageously in my offspring, so
far as physical appearances are concerned. Each has inherited the attrac-
tiveness of his mother with none of the impediments of his father,
Among the pleasant memories of the past has been the playing of chess
weekly with my late father-in-law until his demise in 1940. My ap-
proaching senility has become manifest with my increasing love of golf,
accompanied by the lamentations of my spouse due to my absence from
home on weekends and Thursdays.

The last five years have witnessed my return to music. I have become
an active participator in orchestral playing. The Civic Symphoriy Or-
chestra of Boston has in its roster yours truly, as a section leader of the
second fiddle section. The music played is of the serious kind only, a
throw-back from the days of the twenties when the blare of the trumpets
almost drowned out the clinking of glasses full of bathtub gin, and my
poor violin was trying its best to make its shrill tones heard above all the
tumult. The other eighty-four instruments and I make public appear-
ances at Jordan Hall, Boston, thrice yearly, with the newspaper critics
throwing their encomiums and brickbats, alternately, the morning after.
My children are my best audience, my friends attend because of their
sociability. Communitywise I have engaged in numerous civic-minded
philanthropies and organizations, but to such limited extent that I do
wish I had more time to cater to these causes.

Lest the impression be that I spend my time in outside pursuits, I here-
by solemnly declare that I have enjoyed the fruition of a happy mar-
riage, surrounded by as nice a set of sons (although I never tell them so)
as any father could wish. My primary interests have been, and, I do
trust, will continue to be, the interests of my family, the daily chores of
their homework, their ever-present problems, and the sharing with them

the joys of life and good health.

[ 692 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

VOLNEY RIGHTER

Home Address: Bedford Hills, N. Y.

Office Address: Harrington, Righter & Parsons, 347 Madison Ave., New York,
N.Y.

Born: May 2, 1903, Bryn Mawr, Pa. Parents: Walter Leisenring Righter, Eva
Foster.

Prepared at: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N, H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; M.B.A., 1928.

Married: Sarah Elizabeth Williams, Oct. 3, 1931, Bedford Hills, N. Y. CAal-
dren: James Volney, May 31, 1935; Robert McCormick, March 30
1939-

Harvard Brother: Brewster Righter, ’31.

Occupation: Advertising.

Offices Held: Admissions Committee, 1941-46, Board of Managers and secre-
tary, 1947-50, Harvard Club of New York; vestryman and clerk, St.
Matthew’s Church, Bedford, since 19413; chairman, Boy Scouts for
northern Westchester County, 1942-45; director, Harvard Alumni As-
sociation, 1950; chairman of committee to nominate Overseers, Alumni
Directors, and Fund Council of Harvard University, 1950.

Member of : Harvard Club of New York; Bedford Golf and Tennis Club.

Following graduation in February, 1926, I went right into the Busi-
ness School where I continued to enjoy the pleasures of Cambridge and
Boston, although the tempo of the work was stepped up somewhat.

At the Business School I prepared myself for a banking career and
after graduation made the necessary calls on banks, looking for a job.
After noticing how tight the stiff collars fitted and how pale the V.P.’s
looked, I talked to a manufacturer who said his business wasn’t any
good, but advertising was. Asa result I have been in advertising since
1928, first with Erwin-Wasey and then with Young & Rubicam, prior
to switching to the broadcasting end of advertising.

I spent two years as a salesman with WOR in New York and then
went with Edward Petry & Company, the largest representative of
radio stations, where I stayed for ten years until with my two partners,
Harrington and Parsons, we formed our own company.

Harrington, Righter & Parsons are exclusive television station repre-
sentatives. Our thesis in going into business was that radio and television
were competitive for the advertiser’s dollar, that the present radio repre-
sentative firms were endeavoring to represent television and radio stations
at the same time unsuccessfully. However, with television being compet-
itive to radio, as well as all other advertising media, we felt that television

[ 693 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

stations deserved exclusive representation. So far we are the only firm in
the business solely devoted to the representation of TV stations.

We have offices in New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, San Francisco,
and Portland, Oregon. Lest you be confused as to what we do, we are
the national advertising sales representatives for six important television
stations. We secure advertising business for them from the big national
advertisers and their advertising agencies.

When we first announced our new firm, most people said we were
premature, that we were rash, were taking a terrible chance and would
not succeed. I am happy to report that none of those dire predictions
came about. We are just two years old and business is good and we are
making money.

On the home front life is going along serenely. We live forty miles
out of New York in Bedford Hills, which still maintains some of its
former rural aspects. The elder boy, Jim, goes to St. Paul’s School in
Concord, New Hampshire. The younger boy, Bob, is in school at home.

We spend a lot of time on our own place keeping the fields mowed
and gardening, and try to get in two weeks of Down East cruising in
the summer for our vacation. In the winter when there is snow, Mrs.
Righter and I with the two boys may be found on any of the New Eng-
land ski trails.

* JOHN LAWRENCE RIKER

Born: Oct. 8, 1904, New York, N. Y. Parents: Henry Ingersoll Riker, Mary
Jackson Riker.

Prepared at: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; M.D. (Columbia Univ.),
1930.

Married; Héléne Beaudrias, Jan. 30, 1932, Yonkers, N. Y. (died Feb. 17,
1933) 3 Cornelia Shepard, Feb, 18, 1937. Children: Richard J., Feb. 15,
1933; John Lawrence, Jr., April 26, 1939; Cornelia, Nov. 5, 1941.

Military or Naval Record: Entered Medical Corps, Aug. 25, 19423 served as
squadron surgeon, Headquarters and Headquarters Squadron, 22nd
Service Group; squadron surgeon, 49th Service Squadron; separated as
captain, November, 1943; citation device for Papuan campaign as pre-
sented to 22nd Service Group, Fifth Air Force.

Died: Feb. 26, 1951, Rumson, N. J.

Widow: Mrs. John L, Riker, Belknap Lane, Rumson, N. J,

John Riker’s major interests in college were football and music. He
was a member of the second football squad in his junior and senior years.
He sang in the Freshman Glee Club and took an active part in the Vocal
Clubs of the University Instrumental Club. His memberships included

[ 694 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

the Pierian Sodality, Cercle Frangais, and Speakers’ Clubs. He worked
actively in the Phillips Brooks House, and this same interest in helping
others led him to, the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia
University from which he received the M.D. degree in 1930. He in-
terned at Roosevelt Hospital in New York City and then in Rumson.
He was survived by his wife and three children, the eldest of whom is
Harvard, ’54.

HALLAM TAYLOR RING

Home Address: 179 Hillside Ave., Arlington 74, Mass.

Office Address: National Lace Paper Co., 36 Pleasant St., Watertown, Mass.

Bora: July 10, 1903, Boston, Mass, Parents: Arthur Hallam Ring, Barbara
Taylor.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1924.

Married: Beatrice Morrissette, Aug. 27, 1926, Rindge, N. H. (divorced
1936); Mary R. Murphy, Dec. 17, 1940, Portland, Maine. Children:
John Hallam, Aug. 29, 1929; Mary Barbara, April 11, 1944; Carol
Ann, Dec. 11, 1946,

Occupation: President and general manager, National Lace Paper Company,
manufacturing and selling paper doilies and specialties.

Offices Held; Arlington Town Meeting Member, since 1936; president and
treasurer, Ring Sanatorium and Hospital, Inc., 1936-50; Town Finance
Committee, 1939-44, chairman, 1941~44; representative, Massachu-
setts Legislature, 1944-48; clerk, Recess Commission on Rapid Transit,
1945-46; clerk, Recess Committee on Highways, 1947-48; secretary,
Rotary Metropolitan Development Committee, since 1947.

Member of : Arlington Rotary Club (president, 1950—51) ; Arlington Friends
of the Drama; Arlington Philharmonic Society; American Hospital As-
sociation; Russell Lodge, Menotomy Royal Arch Chapter, Boston Com-
mandery #1, |

Ts it inborn curiosity or just plain restlessness that has been guiding my
destiny over twenty-five years? A few years in Miami, Florida, taking
binders on real estate, selling building specialties, and a year as tax col-
lector of the pleasant little city of Fort Myers provided my take-off into
the blue uncertainties of life after college. Then came a year in Detroit,
as a “specialist” in bathroom accessories! But the boom took its toll and
I landed back at the home port and found myself taking courses in sales,
advertising, and administration. However, with a wife and baby boy,
income was a necessary evil and the loss of a maintenance foreman at a
private mental hospital operated by my family gave me an opportunity
to mow lawns, put on storm windows, and repair oil burners for a couple

[ 695 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

of years. I was gradually admitted to the inner sanctum and at the death
of my Dad in 1935, became administrator of the Ring Sanatorium and
Hospital in Arlington. This title and responsibility I held until the sale of
the property to new owners in May, 1950. The curiosity or restlessness
originally mentioned, however, led me in strange paths during the fif-
teen years since 1935.

I have always felt that we can and should as individuals in a democ-

racy do something about those things that affect the governmental con-
ditions under which we live — to me it is both an obligation and a privi-
lege. Living in a community with New England town meetings, the
road is not too hard —so from Town Finance Committee to chairman
of same and thence to Representative in the Legislature consumed about
six years. I served two terms on Beacon Hill and in 1948 came the
Democratic sweep that washed many of us Republicans back across the
Charles. I tried it in 1950 and got licked again — fun but most unprofit-
able. In the meantime I was mixed up in a few real estate enterprises,
some of which paid out and others that did not. I still have Florida sand
in my shoes though and have never ceased to seek my jack-knife where
I lost it, the result — an apartment house on the beach near Fort Lau-
derdale is still among my limited assets.

Quite naturally many community activities have gone along with
politics; Community Fund, Red Cross, Boy Scouts, Camp Fire Girls,
etc., have had their share of time and effort. Asa Mason I am a member
of Blue Lodge, Chapter, and Knights Templar (Boston). After twelve
years in the Rotary Club, I have the job of president this year. At this
point a new position is going to force me to retire largely from com-
munity activities,

Last July I assumed the presidency of a new company — the Nation-
al Lace Paper Company of Watertown, Massachusetts — making of all
things paper doilies. With war scarcities added to development of a
new industry it is a full-time proposition. Then there is a desire to spend
more time with my wife, Mary, and two small daughters, Barbara,
seven, and Carol, four, who of course dictate the activities of the house-
hold. Son, John, age twenty-one, will undoubtedly join us at the Re-
union. :

DONALD FAY ROBINSON

Home Address: Estli Ave., Cooperstown, N, Y.
Office Address: Studio Shop, 153 Main St., Cooperstown, N. Y.

Born: Feb. 6, 1905, Jamaica Plain, Mass. Parents: Thomas Pendleton Robin-
eon, Ethel Lincoln Fay,

[ 696 ]

Twenty- fifth Anuneversary Report

Prepared at: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926.

Married: Carol Howard, May 9, 1942, Hingham, Mass. Child: Mary How-
ard, Sept. 16, 1948.

Harvard Brother: Lincoln Fay Robinson, ’30.

Occupation: Co-owner and operator, Studio Shop, retail musical merchandise ;
free-lance writer.

Wartime Government Posts: Civilian Public Service (conscientious objector),
1943-45.

Member of : Society of Biblical Literature; New York State Historical Associa-
tion.

Publications: Out of The East (poems), 1927; Harvard Dramatic Club Miracle
Plays, 1928; In Search of a Religion, 1938; A People’s World, A Plan for
World Government, 1944; articles in Friends Intelligencer, Journal of Biblical
Literature and Anglican Theological Review.

Alfred Thomas predicted, about 1924, that I would not marry any
of the girls I then knew (I was seeing quite a bit of his sister at the time)
and that I would go through life with a three days’ beard on my face.
The first prediction was right: at that time the girl I ultimately married
was ten years old and utterly unknown to me. But the second prediction
was only partly correct. For three years (1936-39) I lived alone on my
great-grandfather’s farm in New Brunswick, Canada, writing books
(unpublished), and shaved for church on Sunday and once in the mid-
dle of the week. But for the past three years I have shaved every day
except Sunday, in order to present a shining face to that buying public
which is always right, even when it insists on liking both sides of a popu-
lar record before purchasing it. The rest of the time my beard (which,
alas, has never been the same color as my hair) has sprouted or been
kept severely under control in accordance with what I was doing —
teaching school (Valley Ranch School, Cody, Wyoming, 1927-28, and
Kent, Connecticut, 1930), researching in Europe for a biography
(unpublished ) of Sebastian Franck of Donauwérth, 1929, studying (at
Crozer Theological Seminary, 1937-38, and on my own at various
times before and since), writing (here and there and now and then),
preaching (in and around Hingham, Massachusetts, 1941-43), work-
ing for the Forest Service as a 4-E inductee (Cooperstown and Phila-
delphia), or just hitch-hiking across the country (but not for a long
time now).

Emerson said, in effect, to do what is in you to do, regardless of in-
consistencies, and you will find a general direction, like the over-all con-
tour of the earth, underlying the whole. Lord knows my life during the
past quarter-century has been outwardly indiscriminate, but there has

[ 697 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

been a continuity which has hitherto kept me from feeling like the scat
tered contents of a scrap-basket. I have long believed in one world. Some
of you may remember a confession of faith I made on the subject at our
Commencement. And in a somewhat hit-or-miss fashion, speculatively
and experimentally, I have been trying to find out what human beings
really are and to contribute something to the ethical and religious basis
for a unified world by applying the scientific (or if you prefer, Socratic)
attitude to the fundamental notions of right and wrong, good and evil,
God, man, and destiny. I haven’t accomplished very much so far, but the
story, God willing, is not yet ended. I have got well tarred with the pitch
of human frailty, I have learned something of the stresses and frustra-
tions of human responsibility, and I have seen and have never entirely
forgotten the supernal light that in some way forms the living core of
every real thing, person, or experience in the world. I am not the master
of my fate. I am not even the captain of my soul. And I expect nothing
but extinction when I die. I have my moments of bitterness, both per-
sonal and for the unreasonable fate of man. But underneath is a stub-
born belief that if we could see the ultimate meaning of it all, we would
see that it is very good.

EDWARD SCHOUTEN ROBINSON

Home Address: 1829 New Hampshire St., Lawrence, Kans.

Office Address: Dept. of Philosophy, University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kans.

Born: Aug. 30, 1904, Burlington, Vt. Parents: Edward Robinson, Clara Esther

houten.

Prepared at: Burlington High School, Burlington, Vt.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. magna cum laude, 1926; AM.,
1928; Pu.D., 1932.

Unmarried.

Occupation: Associate professor of philosophy, University of Kansas.

Military or Naval Record: US. Army, DEML; entered private, Sept. 23;
1942; served at Fort Sill, Okla., Camp Barkeley, Texas, Pittsburgh Re-
placement Depot, Calif., Portland, Oregon, Los Angeles, Calif., Fort
Missoula, Mont.; discharged as staff sergeant, July 4, 1945.

Offices Held: Secretary-treasurer, Southwestern Philosophical Conference,
1948-50.

Member of: American Philosophical Association (Western Division) ; South-

western Philosophical Conference; Association for Symbolic Logic;
Mind Association; Midwestern Psychological Association; Philosophy of
Science Association; American Association of University Professors; In-

ternational Society for General Semantics; Kappa Delta Pi; Pi Gamma
Mu.

[ 698 j

T'wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Publications: Translation: Werner Jaeger, Demosthenes, The Origin and Growth
of His Policy (University of California Press, 1938) ; Translation: Werner
Jaeger, The Theology of the Early Greek Philosophers (Oxford University
Press, 1947) ; minor articles and reviews in Philosophy of Science, The Ken-~
you Review, and Proceedings of the Oklahoma Academy of Sciences.

My second quarter of a century, like my first, has hardly been spec-
tacular. I can count no major professional achievements, no overwhelm-
ing political or religious conversions, and hardly any important decisions
which were not clearly forced upon me. I am still a well-domesticated
bachelor, appropriately childless and undivorced; until the last couple of
weeks I have not even owned acar.

The sequence is simple. After a year of teaching English at Syracuse
University and five years of graduate work in philosophy, one of them in
Europe on a Sheldon Fellowship, the rest at Harvard, I received my
Doctor’s degree in 1932, with a strong sense of having been treated

more generously than I deserved. ‘Then came three years of depression,
in which I had no regular work, but tried my hand at various odds and
ends — translation, tutoring, proofreading, even salesmanship — not
enough to pay for my living expenses, but enough to convince my family
that I was trying to keep my nose out of water. Very few things have hit

me harder than the depression. Its mark is still upon me. But though I

sat on the jaws of poverty, I escaped its maw; I had neither sufficient
character nor lack of it to take up the Marxists’ proffered torch; I was
discouraged but not desperate; and the three lean years which might
easily have made or unmade me, actually did neither.

_ My first full-time job, a thousand-dollar instructorship in philosophy
and psychology at Kenyon College, was an exhilarating contrast. At
least someone was willing to pay me a salary and entrust me with a
group of courses which more than taxed my powers. Moreover, I was
now among friends again. If I had had a departmental chairmanship at
ten times my salary, I could hardly have had a more kindly reception or
felt a fuller sense of responsibility and challenge. The very fact that I
was underpaid lightened the burden of my inadequacies; and I was
completely charmed by the little village of Gambier, with its quiet fields
and woods, glittering with fireflies and stars.

This happy season came sharply to an end. Just when I had decided
that Kenyon College was made for me, a new president decided that I
was not made for Kenyon College. I had the good fortune to move at
once into an assistant professorship at the Oklahoma Agricultural and
Mechanical College at a considerable increase in salary. But the shift to
Oklahoma was not easy. The preposterous summer heat, the long hay-

[ 699 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

fever season, the parched and dusty soil, the ugly rows of jerry-built
bungalows, the mingled respect and suspicion with which the New Eng-
lander was regarded, even the ubiquitous cordiality, made me feel mis-
erably alien. Moreover, since the salaries in my department were paid
by the School of Education, I found myself expected to absorb a great
deal of unwelcome indoctrination. It was disconcerting to find that the
liberal arts, to which in full awareness of their shortcomings I had de-
voted the best of my years, were now on the defensive again, to be toler-
ated on the rare occasions when they could exhibit themselves as “‘func-
tional,” but otherwise to be distrusted, and that any branch of philoso-
phy other than practical ethics or palaver about democracy and the aims
of education was looked upon as too difficult for anyone but a senior, and
too abstruse and tenuous for inclusion in a respectable curriculum except
as a personal favor to the instructor. It was also disconcerting to have to
fit my courses into the prevailing ideology by drawing up lists of praise-
worthy objectives which they might conceivably fulfill, especially when
their most obvious qualifications — that they represented a great tradi-
tion and might even be interesting in themselves — were ruled out of
court.

For at least a couple of years I still mourned the lost Eden. Then I
gradually came to realize that I too might be both the wiser and the
richer for my expulsion. I learned a great deal in Oklahoma, took pride
in the growth of the college, made many warm friendships even among
those whose views I found it impossible to accept, and came to love the
exuberant blue skies, the lilting wind, and the red-gashed prairie land-
scape. I also became very fond of psychology, which I had never studied
at Harvard, but which, by a series of academic accidents, occupied three-
quarters of my teaching load as long as I stayed in Oklahoma. From the
first I was very conscious of the light which philosophical analysis can
throw upon philosophical problems; later I saw that many philosophical
areas can become even more profoundly transformed when seen in the
light of psychology.

Compared with the shock of Oklahoma, my three years in the Army
were surprisingly undisturbing. I was in limited service, safe in the Zone
of the Interior, with pleasant acquaintances and generally attractive sur-
roundings. As most of my time was spent in clerical work or psychologi-
cal testing and interviewing, I could tend to my business honestly with-
out feeling that I was making any undue addition to the burden of
human misery. For almost the first time in my life I found myself with
a job which took only eight hours a day and was obviously well within
my powers; the sense of relicf was delectable. It had never occurred to

[ 700 ]

Twenty- fifth Anneversary Report

me that the gentle rigors of academic life could make those of the Army
seem gentler still, but I found that they did. I also learned other things.
I saw the Army educational system at its most efficient and its most ab-
surd, and could watch its impact on many types of men; and a year in
the psychiatrist’s office at a prison camp for military offenders gave me
not only my first administrative experience but my first extensive ac-
quaintance with American delinquents. Of course the Army had its
annoyances; sometimes it made me quite angry. But as the occasions
were unfailingly both trivial and ridiculous, and the emotion was one
which I had somehow previously missed, I could afford to be grateful
for a real advancement of learning.

Shortly after my return from the service, I was offered my present
job at the University of Kansas. As there was still a possibility that I
might be able to build up a proper philosophy department in Oklahoma,
I felt that to accept the security of a full-fledged philosophy job in
Kansas would be to repudiate a challenge which I would have been very
proud to meet. But I was not sure that I should ever be resourceful
enough to meet it, even with a fresh promotion and reassurances from
the dean; and the-courses I was to teach at Kansas were not only con-
genial but highly challenging in themselves. I left Oklahoma with real
reluctance; nor was this reluctance mitigated by the apparently correct
surmise that my very departure would make it easier for my successor
to achieve what I could not. But I have not regretted the change.

While I have never managed to attend a Class Reunion, I still spend
my summers at 48 Main Street, Thomaston, Maine, and would be de-
lighted with a visit from any of my old friends and classmates who may
be passing through. ~ , :

JOHN CHARLES ROE

Home Address: Grand Detour, R.F.D. 3, Dixon, TH.

Office Address: H. A. Roe Co., 105 E. Second St., Dixon, Il,

Born: Aug. 11, 1902, Dixon, Il. Parents: Harry Allen Roe, Mae Leota Hyde.

Prepared at: St. John’s Military Academy, Delafield, Wis.

Years in College: 1922-1925. Degrees: A.B., 1926; M.B.A., 1929 (30).

Married: Katherine Durker, April 10, 1924, Littleton, Mass. Children: John
Durker, July 28, 1926 (2. Ann Hoops, June 21, 1949); Lucy Canter-
bury, March 9, 1930.

Harvard Son: John Durker Roe, 749.

Occupation: Mortgages.

Member of : University Club of Chicago,

[ 7o1 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

ROBERT CLOWRY ROEBLING

Address: Modena Plantation, Skidaway Island, Savannah, Ga.

Born: Sept. 22, 1904, Trenton, N. J. Parests: Karl Gustavus Roebling,
Blanche Duel Estabrook.

Prepared at: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

Years tn College: 1922-1925.

Married: Dorothy B. Ripley, June, 1925, Newark, N. J. Children: Ellin
Cochrane, April 23, 1927; Karl G., 2d, Nov. 2, 1929; Wainwright
Ripley, December, 1933; Clara Estabrook, Dec. 25, 1938; Henry Dodge
Estabrook, August, 1940.

Occupation: Agriculture.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Roebling
did not return a questionnaire.

FRANCIS WALTON ROETS

Last Known Address: 351 Dean St., Woodstock, Ill.

Born: April 21, 1905, Madison, Wis. Parents: Francis Peter Roets, Elizabeth
Malinda Pyre. ,

Prepared at: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

Years ts College: 1922-1923.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Roets has
been carried as a “‘lost” man since 1926.

ARTHUR GOODWIN ROGERS

Home Address: 10 Stacey Ct., Marblehead, Mass.

Office Address: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

Born: Nov. 22, 1903, Marblehead, Mass, Parents: George Derby Rogers, Isa-
bel Conway Patey.

Prepared at: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1925. Degree: $.B., 1926.

Married: Florence L. Melanson, Feb. 17, 1950, Swampscott, Mass.

Occupation: Teacher, coach, Lynn Classical High School.

Military or Naval Record: Colonel, Chemical Corps, February, 1940, to Sep-
tember, 1946; overseas two years in North Africa, Sicily, Italy.

Offices Held; President, Reserve Officers Association, Chapter 13, Mass.,
1947-48; director, Teachers’ Union, A.F. of L., Lynn, Mass., 1949-

 

50.

Member of : Massachusetts State Coaches Association; Teachers’ Union, A.F. of
L.; Reserve Officers Association; American Legion; Armed Forces
Chemical Association; Harvard Club of the North Shore, Mass.; Uni-
tarian Laymen’s League.

[ 702 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Following graduation I taught and coached for two years at prepara-
tory schools in Maine and New Jersey. A year each at Harvard and
Northeastern Law Schools convinced me that I would be a better teach-
er than a lawyer, so in 1928 I returned to teaching and coaching at
Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Massachusetts, Except for six years
of military service in the late unpleasantness, I have been alternately
lifted and depressed by successive waves of good and bad athletic teams,
or stimulated and stifled by brilliant and average students in the class-
rooms.

My most outstanding achievement since graduation has been a re-
cent launching into matrimonial water (my only launching). South
Pacific and the “Veep” undoubtedly have exerted some influence. On
moving into our home in Marblehead, my wife suggested that “Road
Ends” might be an appropriate title for the domicile. I am not quite cer-

tain whether she is referring to our marriage, or the fact that we reside
on a street which is not a through way. My countering suggestion of
“Dead End” has left the matter quite undecided.

During the past twenty years the Army has been my hobby and, ex-
cept from 1940 through 1946 when it became my temporary vocation,
has furnished me with an outlet from the monotony of teaching and
coaching.

I prefer to be called a teacher rather than an “educator.” I am the
individual who has been educated by teaching. Even though I suppose I
am rationalizing, I like to teach. There are times today when a teacher
in a secondary school feels more like a clerk. I hope that the public will
some day be sufficiently aroused to pay all of their teachers more than
some of the custodians of their buildings.

My wife and I are looking forward to the Twenty-fifth Reunion of
the Class of ’26 with considerable pleasure and I hope that “Uncle
Joe’s” five-year plans are not in conflict with the reunion date. The late
paper hanger of Austria and Berlin caused my absence from the Twen-
tieth Reunion.

KENNETH MORSE ROGERS

Home Address: 429 W. Acacia Rd., Milwaukee 9, Wis.

Office Address: E. 1. duPont de Nemours & Co., 2100 Elston Ave., Chicago 14,
Ill.

Born: March 19, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parents: Melville Forrest Rogers, ’99,
Alice Gertrude Morse.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degree: A.B., 1926 (27).

[ 703 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Married: Virginia Emerson, Sept. 7, 1929, Randolph, Vt. CAildren: Richard
Emerson, May 20, 1939; Susan Denise, Feb. 1, 1944.
Occupation: Salesman, Wisconsin Industrial Finishes.

I took a job with duPont Company as soon as I finished college and
have been with duPont for twenty-five years. My first resting place was
New Brunswick, New Jersey, a hot-bed of pro-Princeton and anti-
Harvard. I was all alone in the mob. Hardly a Harvard man had ever
stopped between New York and Philadelphia, But a chemical plant was
a lot more interesting to me than Wall Street or State Street.

I married in September, 1929, and returned from my honeymoon
just in time to witness the Great Collapse. Fortunately duPont still
moved along and my job was safe. We moved to Wilmington, Dela-
ware, in 1932, where for four years I was in the sales department of the
main duPont office.

In 1936 I went to Chicago sales for a year and to Milwaukee in
1937, where I have been for thirteen years in charge of industrial fin-
ishes for the state of Wisconsin.

I’ve been back to Boston only a few times, and Cambridge seems far,
far away. My football interest now is the University of Wisconsin and
the Green Bay Packers. Life has been relatively good to us all these
years. But living a thousand miles away, it’s very seldom I see a Harvard
man, the one exception being Roy Grossman.

HUGH ELY ROMINE

Home Address: P.O. Box 84, Dahlgren, Va.

Office Address: Naval Proving Ground, Dahlgren, Va.

Born: May 20, 1904, Detroit, Mich. Parents: Robert Talbot Romine, Eliza
beth Wager.

Prepared at: Northern High School, Detroit, Mich.

Years in College: 1923-1926. Degrees: 8.B., 19263 S.M., 19283 S.D., 1929.

Married: Sarah Louise Gross, Jan. 20, 1932, Alliance, Ohio. CAildren: Valerie
Louise, April 23, 1935; Hugh Ernest, Jan. 17, 1942.

Occupation: Metallurgist.

Member of: American Society for Metals; Society for Experimental Stress An-
alysis.

[ 704 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

LOGAN HOLT ROOTS

Home Address: 396 Main St., Hartford, Conn.

Business Address: 281 Fourth Ave., New York, N. Y.

Born: Oct. 2, 1905, Hankow, Hupeh, China. Parents: Logan Herbert Roots,
’91, Eliza Lydia McCook.

Prepared at: Kent School, Kent, Conn. -

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; M.D., 1930.

Married: Mamie Louretta Berry, Aug. 15, 1933, Kuling, China. Children:
Eleanor Frances, Aug. 1, 1934; Loretta Rea, Feb. 17, 1936; Logan

Herbert, 2d, Dec. 18, 1939.
Occupation: Medical missionary; surgeon, mostly at Church General Hospital,

Wuchang, China.

Questionnaire received too late for inclusion of biography.

ROBERT GARDNER ROSEGRANT

Home Address: Valley Head, Putney, Vt.
Office Address: The Academy School, West Brattleboro, Vt.
Born: Nov. 15, 1903, Potsdam, N. Y. Parents: Clark Ames Rosegrant, Grace

Taylor Howe.

Prepared at: Cherry Lawn School, Darien, Conn.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B., 1926; A.M. (Univ. of Michigan),
1929.

Married: Julie Keith Sachs, Feb. 20, 1930, Norwalk, Conn. Children: Mary
Elizabeth Taylor, Sept. 2, 1934; Abigail Gardner, Jan. 19, 1938.

Occupation: Principal, The Academy School.

Offices Held: President, Vermont Credit Union League, since 1948 ; treasurer,

Putney Credit Union, since 1946.
Member of : National Education Association; Vermont Education Association.

With certain reservations for which the general state of the world is
accountable, there is being lived here at Valley Head much that man
seeks on our planet. Smug, you say? Yes, maybe so. But come up and see
us sometime before you smile too wryly. Let me list our assets:

One marriage — twenty-one years old.

Two daughters — ages sixteen and thirteen — growing up with no
corner drug store, no movies within fifteen miles, no television, plenty of
necessary chores, horses to break and ride as well as carry water to and
clean up after, and the Putney School to attend. Putney isn’t so far away
that the girls haven’t gone places, either. The elder has even seen South
Pacific!

An eight-room house and one hundred and fifty acres of land which

[ 705 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

can’t be rightly called a farm around here, because we don’t keep cows,
but we produce all our own eggs and chickens, and our winter’s supply
of potatoes and onions and vegetables to freeze and can, as well as wa-
termelons (have you tasted the small golden-colored ones? ), pickles
from our own cucumbers, and wild strawberry jam, to name only the
best.

A woodlot that more than paid our taxes for two years in “stump-
age.” (Is there a woodsman in the house? ) A sugar bush which is run
on shares with Huck Fullam, the best sugar maker in Windham County,
and which produces the best maple syrup in Vermont. Adv.: Pure Ver-
mont Maple Syrup, Valley Head, Putney, Vermont.

The principalship of a 225-pupil school in an up-and-coming West
Brattleboro community, for the “daily grind.” A small tutoring camp
during the summer, except for the summer of 1950 when with the
aforementioned two daughters and three other children as paying pas-
sengers, we travelled over 10,200 miles in sixty-nine days to the west
coast and British Columbia, with full camping regalia.

But though the world doesn’t blaze because of our efforts, nor does it
beat a path to our door, folks do find us and they stay to sit on the terrace
and lean their eyes against the hills or rest them upon our valley. And
when they come up to the house they always find the door unlocked. We
haven’t the remotest idea where the key is. You, too, will be welcome.
Route 5, ten miles north of Brattleboro. Turn left past the Co-op in
Putney village, up the Westminster West Road two miles.

+ HERBERT SIDNEY ROSENBLUM

Born: Aug. 6, 1905, Boston, Mass. Parents: Maurice Rosenblum, Haidee
Raminsky.

Prepared at: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926.

Died: April 4, 1927, at Boston, Mass,

Herbert Sidney Rosenblum was an honor student at Harvard, gradu-
ating cum laude with our Class. He entered the Harvard Graduate School
of Education but his death occurred before he had completed his first
year. As an undergraduate he had received a Parmenter Scholarship
and had been a member of Deutscher Verein, His special interests were
teaching and library work, through which he had hoped to pass on his
love of learning to others.

[ 706 ]

acaraangees cesses ol, ileal Rant Rr ANN ENT RE RAIIN sce Caaa

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

* BENJAMIN ISAAC ROSENWALD

Bora: March 14, 1906, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Moses Rosenwald, Etta De

Young.
Prepared at: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1924, 1925.
Harvard Brother: Harold Rosenwald, ’27.

Died: Nov. 25, 1925, Cambridge, Mass.

Brother: Harold Rosenwald, 465 W. 23rd St., New York 11, N.Y.

Benjamin Isaac Rosenwald entered Harvard from Cambridge High
and Latin School where he had been an exceptional student. He did
well in his college work, winning a scholastic prize in his freshman year,
was a member of the Freshman Glee Club, and was interested in social

service,

VICTOR HARRY ROWE

Home Address: 3a Coronet Ave., Mill Valley, Calif.
Office Address: Tamalpais Union High School, Mill Valley, Calif.
Born: Aug. 18, 1904, Cascade, Mont. Parents: Melvin Rowe, Mary L. Smith.

Prepared at: Great Falls High School, Great Falls, Mont.
Years in College: 1922—1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; S.M. 1n Ep. (Univ. of

Southern California), 1943.
Married: Helen Edna McLaren, Aug. 12, 1937, Havre, Mont.

Occupation: Teacher of English.
Military or Naval Record: Private, U.S. Army, four months, World War IIL.

Member of : Phi Delta Kappa; Masons.

‘Twenty-five years after finds me balding and bifocal but tolerably
sound of wind and limb — the latter due to a long-standing habit of
wandering about on foot whenever possible. Glacier National Park, the
Grand Tetons, the Sierra, and the hills of Marin County, California, are
favorite haunts. My wife and I enjoy travelling about the country, par-
ticularly the far West, by car, a pleasure my work fosters because of the
long summer vacations, some of which are available for this sort of thing.

Following college graduation, I tried specialty selling in New York
briefly and then went into the surety bond department of the Aetna
Casualty and Surety Company. After a few years with Aetna, during
which I spent time in Hartford, Chicago, Dallas, and Minneapolis, we
parted company. Now came a period of compulsory idleness; indeed,
the early thirties had descended. By the fall of 1933, I had secured a
position in the high school at Great Falls, Montana, after having taken
some educational courses at the State University. Since that time I have

[ 707 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

been teaching English in that school and, during the past seven years, in
two high schools in the San Francisco Bay area. I do appreciate living in
rural wooded Marin County close to San Francisco, a beautiful cosmo-
politan city.

Just thirteen years ago, Helen McLaren, then of Great Falls, Mon-
tana, and I were married. Far from proving an unlucky augury, thir-
teen has meant the best years of my life, as we have enjoyed an unusual
and delightful companionship.

Politically, we both admired and voted for F. D. Roosevelt and pres-
ently prefer the Democratic party. National and international affairs
have always interested us; we are now active members of the United
World Federalists and believe firmly that a limited world government
is the only hope for world peace, and that, far from being impractical or
visionary, such a world organization is the only practical solution of the
world’s number one problem.

My contact with the college and with other alumni hasn’t been at all
close, but I am appreciative of what Harvard and Harvard men con-
tribute to all phases of American life and of a degree of open-minded-
ness and intellectual curiosity which Harvard has stimulated in me. I
wish for our Alma Mater and its sons continued glory and achievement

in a world which increasingly needs wise leadership.

CHARLES ADRIAN RUBEL

Home Address: 410 South St., Needham 92, Mass.

Office Address: 24 Federal St., Boston 10, Mass.

Born: Oct. 22, 1903, New York, N. Y. Parents: Alexander Rubel, Florence
Taber Toel.

Prepared at: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degrees: A.B., 1926 (27); A.M., 1932.

Married: Elizabeth Carpenter Smith, June 20, 1930, Boston, Mass. Children:
Peter Adrian, Aug. 7, 1931; Anna Adrienne, Nov. 2, 1932; Edward
Alexander, Dec. 14, 1934; Judith Seymour, Nov. 27, 1937; Charlotte
Taber, April 6, 1942.

Harvard Son: Peter Adrian Rubel, ’5 3.

Harvard Brother: August Alexander Rubel, ’23 (deceased).

Occupation: Trustee.

Wartime Government Posts: Geographer and translator, Army Map Service,
Washington, D, C.

Offices Held: Director, Boston Center for Adult Education, 1936-48, Far
Eastern Ceramic Society of Massachusetts, since 1949; councillor, For-
eign Policy Association, Boston, 1935-49; member advisory council,
United Council on World Affairs, since 1949; member Board of Gov-

[ 708 }

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

ernors, Gore Place Society, Mass., since 1950; associate, Fogg Art Mu-
seum, Harvard, 1933-48.

Member of: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of Boston; Dedham
Country and Polo Club; Eastern Yacht Club.

After a little business training, I returned to my main interest at Har-
vard, which was the history of Far Eastern art, and burdened myself
with an A.M. What disturbed me in that field was the fearful ignorance
and lack of interest of so many people in our country regarding some
four hundred and fifty million Chinese and three hundred and fifty
million Indians, not to mention additional hundreds of millions of Indo-
nesians, Japanese, Koreans, Central Asians, and peoples on the south-
east Asian continent. Their intelligent capabilities had supported several
centers of culture through the ages, the greatest of which was the Yellow
River area. If we could improve our knowledge and understanding of
these people, we could the better help ourselves and them, including in
many ways business and diplomacy. With adequate teaching in the his-
tory of a culture, one should learn of the ideals and aspirations of its
people, for as Leo Tolstoi said, “Art is a human activity having for its
purpose the transmission to others of the highest and best feelings to
which men have risen.” And so, what was needed then was a collection
of photographs and scientifically prepared books on Asiatic art. ‘To this
I set myself in the Fogg Museum, and the Rubel Asiatic Research Bu-
reau began.

Then came the war. Far easier should it be to learn through books
and personalities than through war. But there is nothing like war to
awaken a nation. We moved to Washington (my wife, five children, and
I), where the Army Map Service kept me out of the sun, except for
Sundays, for seven months. Then, because (in 1935) we had already
bought a farm in Needham, and food was in demand, we moved back
and grew chickens and pigs, milked cows, sprayed and picked apples, and
raised potatoes and vegetables for the rest of the war period, supplying
many of our neighbors.

With a rather practical turn of mind, I have preferred to let others
teach, while I looked after the needs of our five children, never spending
quite too much time on our newly discovered Asiatic neighbors.

So to review our family life, on moving from New York to Boston
at our marriage, we lived up on Beacon Hill for five years, where the
exercise of pushing a baby-carriage up the steep slopes kept my wife in
good physical condition. But to get out from under the settling city soot
and to where we could stretch our arms and legs, we moved to the coun-
try, a convenient twelve miles out, on the Charles River, in Needham.

[ 709 ]

«

Harvard Class of 1926

Here we still are, on our sixty-three acres of woods and fields. Now, it
would seem that the many interests of our family, at school and college,
here and in Europe, will keep us busy for a long time to come.

ARTHUR RUBIN

Home Address: 25 Plaza St., Brooklyn 17, N.¥.

Office Address: Gray son-Robinson, 498 Seventh Ave., New York, N. Y.

Bora: March 29, 1904, Brooklyn, N. Y. Parents: Harry Rubin, Lena Green-
berg.

Prepared at: Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

Years #n College: 1923-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.

Married: Annette Kahn, Aug. 17, 1941, Montreal, P. Q., Canada. Children:
Carol Sherry, July 27, 1944; Phyllis Barbara, Sept. 14, 1946; Charles
David, April 30, 1949.

Occupation: Assistant general merchandise manager, women’s apparel, retail
chain stores.

Wartime Government Posts: Air Raid Warden.

Member of : Harvard Club of Long Island.

Publications: A few articles on merchandising.

My business life, to date, has been almost entirely associated with re-
tail merchandising: five years with a large New York department store
(Macy’s most violent competitor! ), and about twenty years between the
country’s two largest retail women’s ready-to-wear chain stores. One
of my recent duties has been merchandising mail order advertising. I’ve
enjoyed it a great deal.

In the fifteen years or so that I remained a bachelor (after gradua-
, tion) I saw a lot of the United States from Maine to Texas (never got
further west) and also eastern Canada. I developed a fair game of tennis
(for a late starter), met a good female tennis player, and we’ve been
playing doubles ever since as Mr. and Mrs., with some necessary time
out for our three children, the eldest of whom is just over six. Better late
than never! My principal activity now is with my family. My children,
being normal, love stories, and as I’ve always felt that Hansel and
Gretel, Red Riding Hood, etc., could give small children some awfully
scared feelings, I’ve been making up my own stories for the past five
years, and repeat one only on demand (and most of you know how de-
manding one can be from two to six — do they continue that way? ). As
I look back, my gratitude to my parents and my wife for a very happy
life becomes greater.

[ 710 ]

T'wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

LIONEL CHARLES RUBIN

Home Address: 151 W. 74th St., New York 23, N.Y.
Office Address: 2 W. 87th St., New York 24, N.Y.
Born: Aug. 4, 1905, Boston, Mass. Parents: Edward Rubin, Rose Engorn.

Prepared at: English High School, Boston, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; M.D., 1930.
Married: Eva Chofnas, July 3, 1930, Portsmouth, N. H. Child: Robert Ger-

shon, March 25, 1937.

Occupation: Medicine, specializing in dermatology.

Military or Naval Record: Entered as lieutenant commander (MC), April 26,
1943; released to inactive duty as commander (MC), June 25, 1946.

Offices Held: Associate clinical professor of dermatology, Postgraduate Medical
School, New York University-Bellevue Medical Center.

Member of: American Board of Dermatology and Syphilology (diplomate) ;
American Academy of Dermatology (fellow).

Publications: A few papers in medical journals on dermatologic subjects.

ALFORD PAUL RUDNICK

Home Address: 111 Clinton Rd., Brookline, Mass,
Office Address: Brown, Rudnick & Freed, 85 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.
Born: April 17, 1906, North Adams, Mass. Pareats: Joseph F. Rudnick, Bessie

Palowansky.

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B., 1929.

Married: Charlotte Sussman, July 4, 1930, Hull, Mass. Children: Mitchell K.,
Sept. 8, 1934; Virginia R., June 18, 1937.

Harvard Brother: Ralph Paul Rudnick, ’25.

Occupation: Lawyer.
Member of: Boston Bar Association; Massachusetts Bar Association; Belmont

Country Club.

My activities since graduation have been so conventional and routine
that I doubt that a review of them would be of any interest to anybody
except my immediate family and myself. I am probably as wrong as the
biology student who saw no reason why he should be required to know
how to determine the sex of fish when that knowledge could have prac-
tical value only to other fish.

With respect to my social and religious convictions, I can’t do better
than quote from a recently published book, Speaking of Man, by the late
Dr. Abraham Myerson, for many years clinical professor of psychiatry
at the Harvard Medical School. I believe it to be one of the great books

[ 741 ]

RPP Ap ear eeepc 8
So A NNR EOI cna Zana aNent 8

Harvard Class of 1926

of our time, although my opinion may be biased because of the complete
unanimity between his views and mine.

On religion: “T shall continue to reject revelation until it becomes
normal and mot schizophrenic to hear and see God and the Angels. A
double standard of morals is held to be reprehensible; a double standard
of belief is even worse,”

On social behaviour: “Could we really reach into the concealed rumi-
nation of the elderly, we would find as many regretful saints as repentent
sinners.” I suspect that while this observation may be correct over-all,
with respect to our classmates, there are or will be too many of the latter
to allow for an equal number of the former.

PHILIP RUSKIN

Home Address: 28 E. 31st St., New York 16, N.Y.

Office Address: P. D. Collier & Son, 640 Fifth Ave., New York 19, N.Y.

Born: June 9, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parents: Frank Ruskin, Fannie Etta Rosen-
berg.

Prepared at: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: 8.B. in MECH. Enoin., 1926.

Unmarried.

Harvard Brother: Harry Ruskin, 16.

Occupation: Engineering and science editor of Collier's Encyclopedia; technical
editor of Babcox Publications, Inc.

Wartime Government Posts: Engineering consultant, U.S. Naval Experiment
Station, Annapolis, Md.; engineer, War Dept., Radar Laboratory, Camp
Evans, N. J. -

Member of : American Society of Mechanical Engineers; Society of Automotive
Engineers; registered professional engineers, State of New York.

WILLIAM GOODWIN RUSSELL

Home Address: 27 Highland Ave., Cohasset, Mass.
Office Address: Derby Academy, Hingham, Mass.

Born: May 19, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parents: Thomas Russell, ?’79, Laura Lor-
ing Parks.

Prepared at: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.
Years tn College: 1922-1923.
Married: Grace Frampton, April 17, 1925, Boston, Mass. Children: Grace,

Sept., 28, 1926 (m. Edward M. Tuckerman, ’43, Dec. 11, 1948);
William Goodwin, April 25, 1930.

Occupation; Assistant headmaster, Derby Academy; director, Camp Wabun,
Ld.

Military or Naval Record: World War V1: enlisted as private, 17th Co., 26th

[ 712 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Reg. Inf., Mass. State Guard for the duration, discharged as 2d lieuten-
ant.

Offices Held: Scoutmaster, Troop 156, Michigan, 1933-39; T.C. Troop 28,
Cohasset, 1941~—51; P.C. Pack 38, Cohasset, 1949-51; director, Inde-
pendent School Association of Boston, 1949-51; president, Community
Center of Cohasset, 1949-51.

Member of: Union Boat Club, 1918-51; Great Books; Cohasset Sportsmen’s
Association; National Council Teachers of English; Massachusetts Mili-

tary Minutemen.
Publications: Wordings and Notes for the Eight Parts of Speech.

With the exception of one year, when I tried a business career, which
almost ruined the business as well as the writer, I have been fortunate in
being able to remain in my chosen profession, teaching. Briefly summed
up, these years include four years at Lower Nobles (now Dexter
School), eleven years at Grosse Pointe Country Day, Michigan, one
year at Edison Institute High School, Greenfield Village, Michigan, and
so far over nine wonderful years at Derby Academy, Hingham, Massa-
chusetts. The subjects I have taught are English (7-12), History (7-9),

Science (4-12), Manual Arts (4-10), and Athletics (4-10).

My summers during the above years have been spent in boys’ camps
in Maine, New York, Georgian Bay, and for the past twenty-three
years Lake Temagami, Ontario, with the last nineteen of these twenty-
three as partner and director of Camp Wabun, Ltd. (a canoe-trip
camp).

Mrs. Russell and I have been blessed with two fine children, a daugh-
ter, Grace (Mrs. Edward M. Tuckerman), and a son, William Good-
win, who at this writing is about to enter the armed services, having left
Lafayette College in the middle of his junior year.

As evidenced by what has been said above, my travels have been lim-
ited between the United States and Canada, but having seen my family
grow to love the outdoors as I do and having been privileged to meet the
finest people in the world, the parents of growing children, I feel that
life has been good to me and mine.

Being a home owner, I find myself having many hobbies, including
carpentry, plumbing, and oil burner repairs! Oh yes! there is grass to be
cut and there are leaves to be raked! Occasionally Cohasset offers me
some snow to be shovelled! One hobby had to be given up after my
move from Michigan to Massachusetts—curling. Distance and fi-
nances will probably prevent this sport from ever becoming a reality

again for me, but the four years during which I was able to participate
will never be forgotten.

[ 713 ]

— Sania A eel: 5 LNT nO NER i, Lo

Harvard Class of 1926

Ten years ago Mrs. Russell and I decided that life in a small New
England town was to be desired for our children and their parents; we
have never regretted our decision and have found that a small town
offers as much opportunity for service as the individual can physically
undertake.

This Class Life report was rather fun until I came to the subject
“political conviction.” I know that we have much for which to be
thankful in improvements in living yet feel that life today has lost much
of what I call the simple things — our country has gone from the desire

for individual initiative to seeking for the ‘‘easy way”’ to a so-called se-
curity. New Deal and Fair Deal are two of the biggest humbugs ever
created by the mind of man. May I live to see this country return to the
way of life that made it great previous to the election of Franklin D.
Roosevelt!

JOHN FRANCIS RYAN, JR.

Home Address: Briarcliff Manor, N. Y.

Office Address: Mead Sales Co., 230 Park Ave., New York 17, N. Y.

Born: Oct. 2, 1903, New York, N.Y. Parents: John Francis Ryan, Gertrude
Jane Robb.

Prepared at: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

Years sn College: 1922-1926.

Married: Dorothy Smith, 1932, White Plains, N. ¥. CAild: John Smith, Jan.

19, 1933.
Occupation: Paper manufacturer; sales.

Recently under pressure I had some photographs made. They were
very flattering. From the various poses I was made to look like either
“The Man of Distinction” or “Chairman of the Board.” Well, I am
neither; just an ordinary person. Even my wife sometimes looks at me
in a most peculiar way.

A short time ago, my son celebrated his eighteenth birthday. I looked
up at him and congratulated him. I don’t know what happened but since
then there seems to be something wrong with my fingers.

Last week I paid my barber a visit and told him not to take too much
off. That was a very foolish and unnecessary remark,

Now as to the boss. When I am good, which is practically never, -, she
drives me to the station. She can carry on a beautiful telephone conversa-
tion, Also she can knit and read at the same time. She has been to Eu-
rope and won’t let you forget it. Needless to say, I play second fiddle to
my son.

As to my son, Jack, he has me worried. Not a bit as I was. Has no

[ 714 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

faults or bad manners, A scholar, musician, and athlete. I can’t under-

stand.

In the business world I have enjoyed only moderate success from the
standpoint of money. I have, however, made some fine friends and
only a few enemies. Have been with the same concern for nineteen
years. I don’t know whether that is good or bad.

At one time I had Four Roses running on three shifts. They are now
on one shift. The doctor had a lot to do with that.

If you pass me on the street, say hello.

+ LEO WILLIAM RYAN

Born: March 2z, I go1 , Brighton, Mass, Parents: Thomas Edward Ryan, Anna

Burke.
Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1926.

Married: Jean Early, 1930, Brighton, Mass,
Died: Aug. 5, 1932, New York, N.Y.

Leo William Ryan became known as a track star while an under-
graduate at Harvard. He was a member of the cross-country team in
1924-25, the 1924 track squad, and the 1925 track team. In 1925 he
won the intercollegiate mile race in New York. His athletic skill was first
recognized at the Boston Latin School, where he starrred at track and
baseball. While still at Harvard he worked as a sports writer on the staff
of a Boston newspaper. Upon leaving Harvard, he joined the Western
Electric Company and in 1930, after his marriage, he moved to New
York. He was still affiliated with Western Electric at the time of his

death. He was survived by his wife.

JOHN JOSEPH SACCO

Home Address: 199 Cornell St., Roslindale, Mass,

Office Address: 4452 Washington St., Roslindale, Mass.

Born: June 14, 1905, Roxbury, Mass. Parents: Ralph Sacco, Jennie Ribbicco.
Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass. .
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B, cum laude, 1926; M.D., 1930.
Married: Edith L. Robbins, Feb. 16, 1946, Boston, Mass.

Occupation: Surgeon.

Military or Naval Record: Medical officer, U.S. Navy, 1942~46; received three
individual and unit citations; awarded Legion of Merit for combat.
Member of: Massachusetts Medical Association; American Medical Associa-

tion; American College of Surgeons (fellow).

Publications: Medical papers.
[715 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

I began the practice of medicine in 1933 in Boston and have remained
here since. I joined the Navy in April, 1942, and was attached to the
Marine Corps in July. We embarked for the South Pacific in December
and I served with combat units of the Marine Corps for over two years
on various islands of the South Pacific. The greater part of my time was
spent as commanding officer of the medical company of the Fourth
Marine Regiment. Here I operated upon serious war injuries for the
first time under combat conditions. The President’s remark notwith-
standing, I found the Marines excellent shipmates and soldiers. I have
only praise for their behaviour and accomplishments. My service with
them was very stimulating and educational as it was the first time since
I left Harvard that I was closely intermingling and exchanging ideas
with men from various parts of the country and from various stations of

society.

After discharge from the Navy in June, 1946, I found it necessary
to do postgraduate work at the Medical School for about a year to be
better fitted for civilian practice. I am now back “‘in the harness” once
more but, like many others, I am trying to prepare myself mentally for
the call again.

I have done considerable fresh and salt water fishing both locally and
in various parts of the West and Midwest, and in New Zealand and New
Caledonia, and the waters about the Solomon Islands. I found the trout
fishing in Lake Taupo in New Zealand almost unbelievable and caught
my first marlin off Guadalcanal.

I feel that the practice of medicine with the continual studying in-
volved is too confining and time-consuming. It takes up so much of my
life that I am just beginning to realize that I may never get to do so
many things that I had envisioned.

WALTER WALLACE SACKETT, JR.

Home Address: 1600 Tiger Tail Ave., Miami, Fla.
Office Address: 2500 Coral Way, Miami, Fla.

Burn: Nov. 20, 1905, Bridgeport, Conn. Parents: Walter Wallace Sackett,
Hermine Archambault,

Prepared at: Bridgeport High School, Bridgeport, Conn.

Years in College: 1922-1923, Degrees: A.B. (Univ. of Miami), 1932; M.D.
(Rush Medical Coll.), 1938,

Married; Separated. Child: John Arthur, April 18, 1944.
Occupation: Physician,
Wartime Cwernment Posts; Medical Examiner for Selective Service,

[ 716 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Offices Held: Attending physician, St. Joseph’s Villa, since 1944; member
board of directors, Doctors Hospital, Coral Gables, Fla., 1948-50;
membership committee, Dade County Medical Association, 1950-52;
research associate in Experimental Medicine, University of Miami,
19513 vice-president, Dade County Academy of General Practice, 1951;
national nominating committee, American Academy of General Practice,
1951.

M amber of: Harvard Club of Miami; Iron Arrow (University of Miami Hon-
orary Society); Phi Chi Medical Fraternity; American Medical Asso-
ciation; Florida Medical Society; Dade County Medical Association;
Southern Medica] Association; American Academy of General Practice.

Publications: Series of research anatomical publications on glosso pharyngeal
nerve, Department of Anatomy, University of Alabama Medical School,
1934-50; “A New Concept of Baby Feeding,” Commercial Press, Mi-
ami, 1951. |

As I sit here ruminating a bit too pessimistically, I stand helplessly by.
My chosen profession, medical science, has done its best but still there
hangs in the balance the life of a child, a boy of 16 — the same age at
which I entered Harvard and was so shortly forced to withdraw. On a
typically bitter cold day in February, 1923, I gazed in farewell on those
still well-remembered board-walk, snow-fringed paths of the Harvard
Yard. The ensuing four years found me becoming well acquainted with
the workings of my yet uncontemplated profession —a steady succes-
sion of painful days dotted by visits to and by the disciples of Aesculapius,
many long hard days and ultimate visits into then awe-inspiring operat-
ing rooms.

The year 1926 found me entering a long period of convalescence
during which I had the happy experience of entering into my first taste
of business life. As business manager, estimator, and jack-of-all-trades,
I joined an uncle in Waterbury, Connecticut, in the glazing business.
While there, ever aspiring parents moved to Miami, Florida, for a ven-
ture into new fields and a new life. In 1928 a hurried call from them
during one of Miami’s early ventures into the lucrative business of en-
tertaining national conventions found me learning a new trade, that of
the cleaning business. A return to the glass business in Waterbury for
that summer, and then that same fall found me, for the first time in
years, inspired to return to college in search of higher education. Con-
sequently, in October, 1928, armed with a statement of honorable
withdrawal from the Dean of Harvard, I presented myself as a fresh-
man at the University of Miami. For two years I labored rather success-
fully, alternating between the cleaning business and the arts and sci-
ences, always with the thought that law was my ultimate goal. For

[ 717 ]

Flarvard Class of 1926

and with it an appointment as research associate in experimental medi-
cine at the University of Miami.

My connections with Harvard are few, but as ever, deep-rooted.
Attendance at a few of the functions of the Harvard Club of Miami
results in moments of satisfaction and comradeship. As the Miami patron
saint of the Harvard polo team I have served as entertainer and morale
booster of that group in their endeavours at unseating Miami as National
Intercollegiate champions, a spectacle at which I enjoy the unique posi-
tion of being absolutely certain that my Alma Mater cannot fail me.

Interruption in my reverie —the voice of the nurse announcing the
death of the sixteen-year-old boy mentioned before. And so, this life,
unlike mine, has terminated. The reason why, for sad parents and family
as well as for me, the doctor, will never be quite understood. It makes
one wonder whether the long hard years have really been worth while;
but as ever so with this life and profession, the morrow brings new prob-
lems and new lives to be dealt with, surely some with happier endings
than this one so prematurely terminated.

FOSTER YORK ST. CLAIR

Home Address: No. 7 Veterans’ Apts., Grand Forks, N. Dak.

Office Address: 122 Merrifield Hall, University of North Dakota, Grand
Forks, N. Dak.

Born: March 2, 1905, Rockland, Maine. Parents: Arthur Washburn St. Clair,
Martha Mabel York.

Prepared at: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; A.M., 1927;
Pu.D., 1931.

Married: Geraldine Reed, February, 1933 (divorced 1933); Elna Ruth
Bogen, Dec. 19, 1936, Jamestown, N. Dak. CAildren: John Frederick,
July 27, 1941; Richard Collins, Sept. 21, 1946; Jeffrey Washburn,
March 16, 1949.

Occupation: Professor and head of English Department, University of North
Dakota.

Offices Held: Chairman and secretary, Committee of Sclection for Rhodes
Scholarships (North Dakota) ; member, administrative committee, Uni-
versity of North Dakota; instructor in English, University of Wisconsin,
1927-29; professor and head of English Department, Jamestown Col-
lege, Jamestown, N. Dak., 1931-47.

Member of: Modern Language Association of America; National Council of
Teachers of English; American Association of University Professors;
Sessions of the First Presbyterian Churches at Jamestown and Grand
Forks.

[ 720 ]

SO

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Publications: “Drayton’s First Revision of His Sonnets,” Studies in Philology,
January, 1939; “Emerson among the Siphars,” American Literature,
March, 1947; ““Emerson’s ‘Chiser, the Fountain of Life,’ ” PAilological

Quarterly, January, 1947.

After graduation I stayed on at Harvard and took the A.M. in 1927.
There followed two interesting years of teaching English at the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin, then two more years of graduate study at Har-
vard, and the Ph.D, in English (1931).

The Great Depression got into the way of my plans to find a berth at
a large university and make a career of scholarly research. Instead, I
was glad to find a position as head of the English department of a small
Presbyterian college on the prairies of North Dakota. ‘This appointment,

I told myself, was only temporary; actually, it lasted nearly sixteen

ears,

, Another arrangement, this one marital, which I had hoped would

mean a lifetime contract, lasted only a few months. Hasty and ill-
advised, it had little chance from the beginning, and both my wife and I
were well out of it. A second venture, begun three years later with a
former student of mine at Jamestown College, has brought even more
happiness than I had hoped for and probably much more than I deserve.
It has yielded very solid fruits, too, in the form of three young sons, at
various times the joy and the despair of my life.

At Jamestown College research was not only not encouraged: it was
frowned upon. One was supposed to be teacher, guardian, and friend to
one’s students. This system, though it went against the grain, did me a
great deal of good, and I now believe that it is educationally sound.
Teaching at a church-related college also aroused an interest in religion
which had slumbered since I entered high school. The interest grew and
led to my becoming an active worker in the Presbyterian Church. I owe
much to Jamestown College: a chance to develop as a teacher, a strong

conviction that religion has a vital role to play in the education of young
people, and perhaps chief of all, my present wife and children. .

Rather reluctantly, therefore, I accepted an offer of the headship of
the English department at the University of North Dakota. The salary
and the opportunity were too great to turn down, and I felt that I had
done all that I could at Jamestown, that all that remained would be a
tiresome repetition of past performance. So in June, 1947, I began my
work here.

The new position has turned out to be even more varied and interest-
ing than the old one, with many administrative and other duties in which
I had had no experience before. Among other things, I am now chair-

[ 721 ]

1 FER ON ETRE RNR bt REPT

Harvard Class of 1926

man and secretary of the Committee of Selection for Rhodes Scholar.
ships for North Dakota, My interest in the church has continued, and ]
am a member of the Session of the First Presbyterian Church of Grand
Forks as I was in the church at Jamestown.

As I look about me at others, I am grateful that the lines have fallen
to me in pleasant places. I am grateful for the men I knew at Harvard
and for the friends I have made since graduation. I am glad that I have
chosen the teaching profession, a profession that offers and yields so
many kinds of satisfaction. I have learned to love and admire young
people, and to appreciate the opportunity to make friends with them and
to help them (at least in a small way) to grow in knowledge and wis-
dom.

To me as to others, time has brought gray hairs and what I like to
think is only semi-baldness, but even time could not make me fat. I am
only twenty pounds heavier than I was in college. I am, however, physi-
cally stronger and more self-confident than in 1926, and time is partly
responsible for that change.

My mood, as I finish this sketch, is somewhat mixed — one of grati-
tude for the many opportunities I have had and of regret that I have not
made better use of them. I feel especially indebted to Harvard, which
was kind to me in so many ways, and wish I could do something really
important to pay off at least a part of that debt. Perhaps, some day, I
shall be able to do so.

DANIEL HERMILO SALAZAR

Home Address; Lafayette No, 93, Mexico 5, D.F., Mexico.

Office Address: Constructora Progreso, S, de R.L. Ave. Juarez 30-104, Mex-
ico 1, D.F., Mexico.

Born: Jan. 13, 1902, Cusi, Chihuahua, Mexico. Parents: Manuel I. Salazar,
Andrea Zea.

Prepared at: Instituto Cientifico y Literario, Chihuahua, Chih., Mexico.

Years in College: 1922~1926. Degree: S.B.1n C.E., 1926.

Married: Guadalupe Morton, April 15, 1931, Sabinas, Hga, Nuevo Leon,
Mexico. Children: Hector, April 26, 1932; Arturo, July 4, 1933; Man-
uel, July 17, 1934; Carlos, May 25, 1938; Maria de Ja Luz, Aug. 15,
1942; Alberto, Aug. 29, 1946; Jorge, Nov. 5, 1948.

Occupation: Civil engineering; road and railway construction.

Member of ; Colegio de Ingenieros Civiles de México; Asociasion de Ingenieros
y Arquitectos de México.

[ 722 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

EZRA DAVID SALINGER

Home Address: §4.42 S, East View Pk., Chicago 15, Ill.

Office Address: Salinger, Kohn & Paley, 135 S. LaSalle St., Chicago 3, Hl.

Born: April 17, 1905, Goshen, Ind. Pareuts: Louis Salinger, Rae Behrendt.
Prepared at: South Bend High School, South Bend, Ind.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; LL.B., 1929.
Married: Hortense Ciralski, March 22, 1931, South Bend, Ind. Child: Mar-

garet, June I, 1934.
Occupation: Attorney.
Member of : Chicago, [linois, and American Bar Associations; Harvard Club of

Chicago.

Examination of previous Reports and past events in the pending pro-
ceeding of Salinger vs. The World discloses substantially the following:

Occupation: Three years at Harvard Law School, graduated in
1929; admitted to the Illinois Bar in that year, and entered the practice
of law in Chicago; spent several years with a small firm, several years
with a large firm, five years with the newspapers and related enterprises
of Mr. William Randolph Hearst, and the last ten years in my own law
firm.

Family: Married, at South Bend, Indiana, March 22, 1931 (a de-
pression year, and almost twenty years ago); have one daughter, Mar-
garet, now sixteen, a high school senior, who is planning for college and
making me feel very old indeed.

Hobbies: Music, golf, photography, travelling; and I still buy books,
and read them. My principal difficulty is the lack of sufficient time to do
well, or at least better, the things I'd like to do.

Social and Political Convictions: Extreme pessimism as to men and
methods employed; and optimism nevertheless as to the eventual result.

GEORGE BUTTERFIELD SALTER

Home Address: 1204 Nebraska Ave., Norfolk, Nebr.

Office Address: 900 Norfolk Ave., Norfolk, Nebr.

Born: May 30, 1903, Norfolk, Nebr. Parents: Peter Harold Salter, Ada But-
terfield,

Prepared at: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B., 1926; M.D., 1931.

Married: Audrey Bauer, Aug. 19, 1934, Ripley, N. Y. Children: Peter Wil-
liam, July 9, 1939; John Bauer, May 12, 1941.

Occupation: Physician and surgeon.

[ 723 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Military or Naval Record: Army Medical Corps; entered captain, Dec, 21,
1940; commanding officer, Co. B, 110th Medical Regiment, 35th In-
fantry Division, 1941 ; 32 1st Medical Battalion, 96th Infantry Division,
1944-45; combat service with 96th Infantry Division invasion of Leyte,
Philippine Islands and Okinawa; later surgeon, Middle Philippine |s.
lands; discharged as colonel, Medical Corps, May 1, 1946.
Offices Held: Chief of staff, Lutheran Hospital, Norfolk, Nebr., 1940; Our
Lady of Lourdes Hospital, Norfolk, 1950.
Member of: University Club, Norfolk; local, state and national medical associa-
tions.

Mine has been the uneventful life of a doctor in a small town. After
medical school and internship I returned to my home town and engaged
in general practice. After two years I went to New York City for a post-
graduate course, refound a girl I had known in Boston, but who was
then on the New York stage, and married her. (Postgraduate work is
most unsettling.) Incidentally, she made the transition from actress to
housewife without a hitch. Then came the military period with life in
training camps from Arkansas to Washington and with my good wife
and children loyally following along. My family returned home when
I left for overseas. Little happened to me during combat that didn’t
happen to hundreds of others, except that I had the unique experience of
having a Jap Zero fall on me and being here to tell about it. After re-
turning home in 1946, I spent three months in Chicago refreshing my
knowledge of lay medicine and then returned home to practise again.
Since then life has been full, but without many highlights.

My outside interests are confined to golfing in the summer and bil-
liards in the winter. Since my Army days I have eschewed anything
which remotely resembled a hardship — hunting, fishing, etc. — and
take my vacations where the carpets are the thickest and the waiters are
the quickest.

 

CARLOS SANCHEZ

Home Address: Calle 19 #759, Vedado, Havana, Cuba.

Office Address: Sanchez Mola y Cia., San Rafael 208, Havana, Cuba.

Born: March 30, 1905, Camagtiey, Cuba. Parents: Pedro Sanchez, Florinda
Loret de Mola.

Prepared at; Storm King School, Cornwall-on-the-Hudson, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1925.

Married: Caridad Sanchez Montoulieu, July 25, 1928, Havana, Cuba. Ciil-
dren: Maria Cristina, May 17, 1930; Carlos, Dec. 31, 1931; Margarita,
March 26, 1934.

Harvard Brother: Pedro Sanchez, ’26.

[ 724 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Occupation: President of Sanchez Mola y Cia., a ready-to-wear specialty shop

in Havana.
Member of : Habana Yacht Club; Country Club de la Habana.

EDWARD HENRY SANCHEZ

Home Address: c/o Thorvald Sanchez, 6 y 13, Miramar, Havana, Cuba.
Born: April 9, 1904, Havana, Cuba. Parents: Bernabe Sanchez, Anais Culmell.

Prepared at: Stone School, New York, N. ¥.
Years in College: 1922—1926, 1948-1949. Degree: A.B., 1926 (49).
Occupation: Literature.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Edward

Henry Sanchez did not return a questionnaire.

PEDRO SANCHEZ, JR.

Home Address: Calle 2 No. 459, Vedado, Havana, Cuba.

Office Address: Importadores Sanchez Loret de Mola, S. A.

Born: Sept. 12, 1903, Camagiiey, Cuba. Parents: Pedro Sanchez, Florinda
Loret de Mola.

Prepared at: Storm King School, Cornwall-on-the-Hudson, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1925.

Married: Matilda Alvarez, Nov. 22, 1930, Havana, Cuba. Children: Aleida,
Feb. 5, 1932; Alina, April 21, 1934.

Harvard Brother: Carlos Sinchez, 726.

Occupation: Mercantile business.

Member of: Country Club of Habana; Habana Yacht Club; Vedado Tennis
Club; Harvard Club of New York.

ELBERT ARTHUR SANFORD

Home Address: 375 Oakridge Drive, Rochester 17, N.Y.

Office Address: Pfaudler Co., 1000 West Ave., Rochester 3, N. Y.

Born: Nov. 17, 1900, Omaha, Nebr. Parents: Harold Eugene Sanford, Grace
Evelyn Wall.

Prepared at: Kast High School, Rochester, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B. cum laude, 1926.

Married: Estelle Marie Spies, Sept. 4, 1926, Rochester, N. Y. CAild: Carolyn
Barbara, Dec. 21, 1940.

Occupation: Director of research, Pfaudler Company, manufacturers of glass-
lined steel and alloy processing and storage equipment for the chemical,
food, and beverage industries.

Offices Held: Member, executive committee, Rochester Section, American
Chemical Society.

Member of: American Chemical Society; American Ceramic Society; Ameri-
can Society for Metals; American Society for Testing Materials.

[ 725 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

In the midst of our present fears and vacillations over the state of the
world and the effects of our policies, it seems a little ridiculous to set
down the uneventful history of an ordinary citizen. It is somewhat re-
assuring, on looking back over the twenty-five years since our gradua-
tion, to realize that we have come through pretty well in spite of our
mistakes. I have made my own share of mistakes, and have certainly not
accomplished all the things I hoped to do as an undergraduate, yet it is
perhaps fair to say in my case also that the successes have outweighed
the failures.

I live with my family in a comfortable home, in a wooded and hilly
suburb, among congenial neighbors of about our own age and similar
interests. I am doing the kind of work I like to do, in codperation with a
group of co-workers whom I respect and admire. I am proud of the fact
that the company I work for is a leader in its field, and take satisfaction
in the knowledge that some of the things I have accomplished in the last
twenty-five years have contributed to that leadership. It seems reason-
able to hope that my contributions may continue, and perhaps increase,
in the future. My wife and I enjoy puttering about in our yard, building
stone retaining walls on our wooded hillsides, and experimenting with
plants to see how they will grow in the shade of our dogwoods, oaks,
and maple trees. Just now we are finishing a combined study and play-
room in the basement, and feeding the birds that spend the winter
among our hemlock trees. We have learned not to fret when things do
not progress as rapidly as we expected, and if we decide we don’t like the
wall we built last spring, we shall tear it down and rebuild it next spring.

Our family likes to spend vacations together on Cape Cod, or the
Maine coast, or beside a Canadian lake, or in the Adirondacks. The best
vacation of all was spent on the trails of Glacier Park, with my old room-
mate in Matthews 9, Paul Wendt, and his wife, Rachel. We hope to do
that again before long.

It is always a pleasure to meet and talk with old college friends and
classmates, and we are truly sorry it does not happen more often. We
hope that any of you who find yourselves in upstate New York will re-
member us and look us up.

FLOYD MAURICE SATHRE

Home Address: 1456 Marseille Drive, Miami Beach 41, Fla.

Office Address: 420 Lincoln Rd., Miami Beach 39, Fla.

Born: Nov. §, 1898, Crookston, Minn. Parents: Jacob Cornelius Sathre,
A’Thilda Anundsen.

[ 726 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Prepared at: Crookston High School, Crookston, Minn.; Valparaiso (Univer-
sity) High School, Valparaiso, Ind.

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degree: §.B., 1926 (27).

Married: Dorothy Estelle Hall, Oct. 23, 1933, Clearwater, Fla. Child: Diane,
June 23, 1940.

Occupation: Certified Public Accountant.

Military or Naval Record: U.S. Navy, Yeoman 1st Class, uss - Vermont, July,
1917, to September, 1919.

Offices Held: Secretary-treasurer, Harvard Club of Miami, since 1942 (date of
organization); chairman, Area Committee, Harvard Foundation for
Advanced Study and Research, South Florida.

Several years after graduation I was standing one morning in the
waiting room of a railway station in a Chicago suburb. The thermom-
eter was hovering well below zero and, in spite of the energy being re-
leased by the horde of shivering humans, I am certain that the tempera-
ture in the room was as low as that outside and the air definitely lacked
the oxygen there obtainable. Being of the virile type, I turned to my
companion and said, ‘“This place is too hot for me. I am going outside
where the zephyrs are blowing.” After I had left the room, my friend
later told me, one woman turned to another and said, ‘‘Nut!”’, to which
her companion responded, ‘“‘No, not nut, just plain damn fool!” Pre-
scient prophecy that, as many of my acquaintances will maintain against
all comers that I am a nut; others, more gracious to be sure, admit that
Iam aplain D.F.; while those remaining, including my wife, Dorothy,
must concede that I am definitely different.

Oh, not that I am different in the economic sense — I am broke just
like most everybody else. I have established a modest practice as a certi-
fied public accountant and every month so far I have always managed to
find one of my clients who was unable to withstand the pathos of my
impassioned plea and would pay enough on his overdue account to me to
enable me to pay the rent and thus tide me over that month’s crisis. We
own a lovely home on Miami Beach, and although we never go to the
ocean (a few blocks away), we are unable to escape the delightful
weather which is free to the residents of this fair city. Financially, I pre-
sume I am what might be called the median of Harvard alumni, as I

discovered in soliciting Harvard alumni for funds for the Harvard
Foundation that many have more pretentious residences, snappier auto-
mobiles, and indubitably a larger bank account than I have, while, on
the other hand, I have called on Harvard men whose abodes were less
ostentatious than mine, whose mode of existence was undoubtedly more
perilous, whose economic balance was considerably more precarious.

[ 727 ]

Flarvard Class of 1926

if you could only manage to find that spot. I pitched my tent on the
shores of the Gulf of Mexico (rent $5.00 per month) where I managed
to eke out an existence, which was not too dull either, thanks in a large
measure to a beneficent Providence which provided manna in the form
of coquinas, a small species of clam about the size of the nail on your little
finger, which we scooped up from the beach and made into a very
nourishing broth. Being a Harvard graduate, I managed to get a job as
mate or flunkey on a charter fishing boat at a salary of one dollar per
day plus all the fish I wanted. Undaunted by the seeming perversities of
Fortune, I assiduously applied myself to my accounting studies and be-
fore too long found myself apprenticed to a C.P.A. with my salary in-
creased to fifty dollars a month. Most fortuitously, I did not allow this
sudden taste of success to go to my head, but rather set my goals high,
and although I continued to walk with my head in the clouds I man-
aged to keep my feet on the ground and my nose in an accounting book
and eventually found myself the possessor of a certificate from the State
_ Board of Accountancy, duly inscribed and authenticated, purporting
that I was authorized to undertake the practice of public accounting in
the sovereign state of Florida,

My present plans are to continue such practice indefinitely, together
with my running — just to go on living and living, until conked by a
falling coconut or a jet-propelled shillelah hurtling across the backyard
hedge.

JAMES SHEAFE SATTERTHWAITE, JR.

Home Address: 40 Grandview Terr., Tenafly, N. J. |

Office Address: Lazard Freres & Co., 44 Wall St., New York 5, N. Y.

Born: Aug. 26, 1903, Nutley, N. J. Parents: James Sheafe Satterthwaitc, Lillie
Buckman Marden.

Prepared at: Trinity School, New York, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1923, 1924-1926. Degree: $.B., 1926.

Married: Margaret Howard Speer, Feb. 8, 1930, Piermont, N. ¥. Children:
Ann, July 10, 19313 Sheafe, March 2, 1939.

Occupation: Municipal bond business.

For practically all of the time since 1926 I have been in financial
work and most of the time in the municipal and government bond busi-
ness. ‘This, I expect, will sound narrow and dull to many of my class-
mates but the field of municipal and government bonds actually is an
interesting mixture of economics, politics, engineering, mathematics,
and dice-rolling. My interest having tended more to research than to
speculation, I have acquired a fair knowledge of public finance but rela-

[ 730 ]

\

rary

Twenty-fifth Anntversary Report

tively little money. In the process I have travelled around a good part of
the country, seen a lot of money flow into highways, bridges, dams,
schools, hospitals, and jails, and met a wide variety of people between the
County Courthouse in Riverhead, Long Island, and the Houston First
National Bank. |

Having spent so many years following the conflicting activities of City
Hall, the State House, and the Treasury, I have become very much in-
terested in taxation, a subject which was not considered of particular
importance in our college days but which has now become a dominant
factor in our economic life, Taxation in the United States is to me a
fascinating field —at once a vital problem and the strangest catch-as-
catch-can since the wrestling matches at the Old Howard. My ultimate
pipe dream and ambition is to settle in some pleasant college town where
I can study and discourse (with pay) upon taxation and its effects.

This desire for escape is in part a result of a growing distaste for urban
and suburban life. Since I left college I have lived entirely in the New
York metropolitan area and have seen it become ever more crowded,
unpleasant, and costly. I long to get away from city life and live where
mental work and outdoor work can be more nicely balanced. Among
other things, I should like to try fruit-growing on something more than
a suburban scale, Perhaps if my tax ideas didn’t take, the apples would.

For my most successful venture to date, I can claim little credit. Both
my children show a lot more promise than ever did their old man. About
all that I can say is that I have paid the bills. Over the years our biggest
family investment has been in education. Although the children enjoyed
the public grade school very much, we have found, beyond the grades, a
tendency to substitute for English and other fundamental subjects vague
“social studies.” Therefore, we have preferred the private schools and,
from 1933 when Ann began nursery school, to 1960 or later, when
Sheafe should finish college, we shall have struggled to meet an unend-
ing stream of tuition bills. We hope and expect the investment to prove
very worth while. Incidentally, Ann is at Harvard —I mean Radcliffe.
For the benefit of my classmates who may see Harvard only at the Re-
union, I should like to report that I journeyed to Cambridge and made
a survey of the Harvard-Radcliffe situation when Ann first thought of
going there. Some of my friends suggest that I am getting more suscep-
tible in my declining years but my impressions were definitely favorable.
TI sensed a decided improvement in the appearance of the Radcliffe girls
and found “‘joint instruction” to meet general approval among Harvard
students and faculty. As one student told me, not only did the girls add
a certain something to the classes but it was quite reassuring to Harvard

[ 731 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

pride when it was found that they did not get all the A’s. So Ann went to
Radcliffe and is having a wonderful time.

WILLIAM CLARK SAWIN

Home Address: 31 Bradbury St., Allston, Mass.

Office Address: Seamans, Stetson & Tuttle, 84 State St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Noy. 6, 1904, Roxbury, Mass, Parents: William Stevenson Sawin, Kathe-
rine Cicily Brassil.

Prepared at: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926 (27).

Married: E. Loretta Keegan, June 24, 1933, Brighton, Mass. CAildren: Clark
Timothy, May 23, 1934; Priscilla Ann, Oct. 29, 1935; Loretta, Oct. 6,
1938; Jane Kathryn, March 23, 1940; Judith, April 12, 19413 David
Joseph, Oct. 6, 1944.

Occupation: Certified Public Accountant.

Member of : Massachusetts Society of C.P.A.’s.

WENDELL FRANK SAWYER

Home Address: 3 Slaytonbush Lane, Utica, N. Y.

Office Address: Mayro Bldg., Utica, N. Y.

Born: Nov. 10, 1902, Boston, Mass. Parents: Fred S, Sawyer, Estelle Mabel
Barker.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years sn College: 1922-1925.

Married: F. Virginia Armstrong, June 10, 1933, Oak Park, Ill. CAildren:
Robert Barker, March 24, 1936; Thomas Pennel, March 26, 1938.

Occupation: Industrial consultant, self-employed.

Member of : Fort Schuyler Club.

HYMAN GABRIEL SAXE

Home Address: 181 Woodland Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

Office Address: Tanhide Sales Co., 420 Arsenal St., Watertown, Mass.

Born: Feb. 14, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parents: Joseph Saxe, Fannie Isenberg.

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

Years tn College: 1922-1925.

Married: Dora Feldman, Feb. 22, 1933, Boston, Mass, CAildren: Pearl, Dec.
12, 19333 Barry, Oct. 26, 1935; Joyce, July 12, 1939; Jane, March

21,1944.
Occupation: Manufacture and sale of shoe manufacturers’ materials.

A quarter of a century —a substantial segment of man’s life, carry-
ing with it the substance of one’s dreams, ambitions and efforts, as well

[ 732 ]

T wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

as some of their fulfillment. The pattern of life becomes established with
little probability of change. Major regret: I have not used the opportuni-
ties of my youth.

With an academic foundation in theories of economics, government,
and law, I cast my lot with industry. I spent more than a decade in the
shoe industry for experience in design, manufacture, advertising, and
sales promotion. In 1939, after enduring the rigors of a depression, I
undertook the incorporation of the Eastern Shoe Products Company.
This organization was predicated on the development of new, improved,
and economical materials for the shoe, luggage, and allied leather-con-
suming industries. Thus was realized an ambition for self-employment
and, simultaneously, a wish to contribute satisfactorily to the needs of a
major trade for acceptable product qualities.

With good fortune blessing the venttre, and with increasing demand
for my creations, it was deemed necessary to expand activities. Subse-
quent effectuation of this policy included an executive association with
the Wright-Batchelder Corporation as its president; and, in the course
of events, the Tanhide Sales Company and Fabricated Leather Prod-
ucts, Inc., were established to complete a program of expansion and
diversification of interests, Customarily the approach of the half-century
mark is accompanied with an ever-increasing infatuation with one’s job.
This expectedly spells overwork, which I have zealously tried to avoid,
hoping for a fuller perspective. However, it is feared that the war-im-
posed problems of material procurement and labor shortages or selling
prices and profits will continue to harass all business and necessitate un-
flagging supervisory attention.

It is said that, contrary to outer appearances, the typical young aspir-
ing American male carries in his subconsciousness a threefold ambition.
He wants to have sons; he wants to write a book; and he wants to be
President of the United States. The capacities which I so fortunately
enjoy in business will serve well in sating any innate desire for personal
aggrandizement. The réle of litterateur may remain permanently un-
filled. But I have been fortunate in the matter of a son who is now pre-
paring for acceptance by our Alma Mater in 1953. As for the final am-
bition, ah, well! But I have been well occupied during the past twenty
years. In truth, too little time has been available for avocation, for casual
or transient diversion. Yet, with a modicum of defiance towards the
confining involvements of business, I have assumed the interests and
hopes of my family as my own. By coincidence their pleasures and ac-
complishments constitute a personal hobby.

I have observed the children’s progress from babyhood to childhood,

[ 733 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

to adolescence, to young manhood and womanhood, and have seen
them grow tall, strong, honest, and idealistic. I have seen them work
and play, steadfastly cling to a purpose, and achieve headway in the di-
rection of a life of social usefulness. They and their mother thus have
given concrete meaning to a span of years which otherwise might have
been meaningless and devoid of purpose.

These activities have brought a full life. Even certain extenuated
business trips might well be delineated as occasions of extreme joy and
enlightenment. Meanwhile, life moves swiftly by and time is all too brief.
Somehow I have succeeded in retaining my interest in the classics and
the fun of gathering with friendly humanists to hear how Greek trage-
dies should be construed; or to indulge in the pleasure of the ballet, the
opera, the symphony, and the drama to satisfy a limited aesthetic sense.

Summers at our home in Kennebunk, Maine, would offer a much-
desired opportunity to relax if enough time were available for such lux-
ury. I would welcome the chance for more golf, fishing, and boating;
for closer contact with Mother Nature by taking a turn at the garden.
But, alas, my spare time is insufficient for all such indulgences. Yet I do
not wish back the past two decades any more than the previous days of
academic life. Nor would I exchange what my family has contributed to
my happiness for any attractions, enhanced fortune, or different career.
Most of all, there is satisfaction in a happy way of life in that “I can hate
things but I am, and shall always be, incapable of hating people.”

ROBERT HUGO SCHACHT, JR.

Home Address: 7 Charles Field St., Providence 6, R. I.

Office Address: 1 Benevolent St., Providence 6, R. 1.

Born: June 17, 1903, Brookline, Mass, Parents: Robert Hugo Schacht, Maud
Pierce Marshall.

Prepared at: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; S.T.B., 1929.

Married: Clara Hartwell Johnson, Sept. 9, 1931, Weston, Mass. CAildren:
Robert Marshall, Dec. 16, 1934; Arthur Hartwell, July 1, 1942.

Harvard Brother: Marshall Webster Schacht, A.M., ?30.

Occupation: Minister of the First Congregational Church, Unitarian, of Provi-
dence, R. I.

Wartime Government Posts: Local ARP warden,

Offices Held: President of trustees, Proctor Academy, Andover, N, H.; chair-
man, Board of Governors, Gordon School, Providence, R. I.; president,
World Affairs Council of R.I., Rhode Island Philosophical Society ; presi-
dent of board, Volunteers of America, Rhode Island Jurisdiction.

[ 734 ]

KN

\

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Member of: Harvard Club of Rhode Island; Rhode Island Philosophical So-
ciety; Bacon Club; Universal Club; Dodeka Club; Saturday Review
Club.

Publications: “Essay on Albert Schweitzer,” The Christian Register, August and

. September i issues, 1949; occasional book reviews and miscellaneous ar-
- ticles in denominational monthly, The Christian Register.

The fall of ’26 found me enrolled in the theological school in Har-
vard University (now renamed the Harvard Divinity School — its old-
er previous name) to prepare for the Unitarian ministry. This was a
decision arrived at slowly over six or seven years.

Beginning with my second year at the Divinity School, I was student
minister at the Unitarian Church in Bedford, Massachusetts. This was
followed by two years in Needham, Massachusetts, from where I was
called to my present pastorate of the First Congregational Church, Uni-
tarian, of Providence, Rhode Island, to commence in the fall of ’31.
After taking time out to be married on September 9, 1931, my wife and
T arrived in Providence to “take over” on September 20th. The gra-
cious people of this “university church” (we are next door to the Brown
campus) took us in with full New England hospitality, but the strain at
the age of twenty-eight to meet what a church of this size and unusually.
able congregation required, was nearly overwhelming. It took more
than ten years here to begin to feel that I could give what the church
really ought to have.

In the summer of 1933 my wife and I were able to have an unfor-
gettable vacation on the continent of Europe. In 1937 we spent an
equally unforgettable summer in England. In 1934 our first son was
born, and not until 1942 did we get our second. From 1941 to 1945 we
took into our family a little English girl of the “great exodus” of the
summer of 1941. For four and a half years, therefore, we managed to
have a daughter, too. She has returned happily to her family in England.

From the middle thirties up to two and a half years ago I engaged in
many “extra-curricular” activities as cited above. Since then I have re-
signed from all such positions to try to meet better the institutional and
personal needs within my church. My private practice as a counsellor in
all sorts of situations has increased enormously. Such help cannot be
given lightly nor with skimping in time. In close codperation with psy-
chiatrists this work consumes many hours and much energy.

Of writing I have done little. I have done a few book reviews and
miscellaneous articles for our denominational monthly, The Christian
Register, several papers for the Rhode Island Philosophical Society, and
was the Berry Street Conference essayist to all Unitarian ministers at

[ 735 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

our national gathering in Boston in May, 1949, doing a paper on Albert
Schweitzer. He, incidentally, is my idea of what the consecrated reli-
gious rationalist can be and do. I buy and read about everything con-
nected with him. I have started outlining a book for ’teen-agers about
him, but am beginning to fear that I am unable to find the time to do
the job.

Raised a rock-ribbed Republican, I have been driven to vote for many

a Democrat. I am still pretty much an Independent although I do be-
long to Americans for Democratic Action, one of whose aims is to back
good Republicans when one can find them. My vote will be split in the
coming election.

My elder boy has been at the Providence Country Day School but has
switched for his last two years before college to Classical High School.
This was done primarily because he wants to go to Harvard and Har-
vard Law School, and there is a scholarship fund available to graduates
of public high schools in the city of Providence who go to Harvard, that
he just cannot afford to miss. The college destiny of the younger fellow
is still a mystery.

Although anything but a distinguished scholar at Harvard or after,
I never cease to be grateful for the academic atmosphere of my college
and graduate school days when I was touched and inspired by the intel-
lectual disciplines indispensable for honest study and thinking, and their
root place in civilization and religion if they are to be healthy and grow
in the things that matter most.

Limited space forbids documenting the facts of a wonderfully satis-
fying family and community life while engaged in a work I love with
people whose response and loyal friendship is a constant inspiration.
There are only the normal frustrations and disappointments. Who could
ask for more?

PAUL ALEXANDER SCHACK

Home Address: 63 Ridge Rd., Glen Rock, N. J.

Office Address: Macy’s, Herald Square, New York, N. Y.

Born: Jan. 6, 1902, South River, N. J. Parents: Alexander Schack, Mary Lucas.
Prepared at: South River High School, South River, N, J.

Years in College: 1922-1924.

Married: Helene Marie Colerick, Sept. 12, 1931, Union City, N. J.
Occupation: Food buyer, Macy’s Department Store.

Member of : Wine and Food Society of New York,

Publications; Contributions to Grossman's Guide to Wines, Spirits, and Beers,

[ 736 ]

T'wenty- fifth Annrversary Report

FREDERICK HERMAN SCHARLES

Address: 603 El Morado Ct., Ontario, Calif.
Born: Oct. 23, 1904, Kansas City, Mo. Parents: William Lincoln Scharles, Pau-

line Levy.
Prepared at: Westport High School, Kansas City, Mo,

Years in College: 1922-1925.
Married: Amy Michaels, Oct. 9, 1939, Montreal, P.Q., Canada. Child: David
William, Sept. 28, 1942.
Occupation: Physician.
The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Scharles
did not return a questionnaire.

OSCAR ASMUS SCHLAIKJER

Home Address: 18 Sudbury Rd., Weston, Mass.
Office Address: Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 30 Pearl St., Boston, Mass.
Bora: Dec. 22, 1901, Hamilton County, Ohio. Parents: Erich Maren Schlaik-

jer, Clara Ryser.

Prepared at: Omaha Central High School, Omaha, Nebr.

Years in College: 1922-1925. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B., 1928.

Married: Georgia Street, Sept. 19, 1928, Omaha, Nebr. Children: Jay Arthur,
Oct. §, 1929; Paul Frederick, Oct. 15, 1932; Carl Roger, March 3,
1940.

Harvard Son: Paul Frederick Schlaikjer, 754.

Harvard Brothers: Hugo Christian Schlaikjer, ’27; Erich Maren Schlaikjer,

28.
Occupation: Banker-lawyer; vice-president and general counsel of the Federal

Reserve Bank of Boston.

Offices Held: General chairman, Red Cross Fund for Greater Boston, 1950;
director, Boston Metropolitan Chapter, American Red Cross, Junior
Achievement of Eastern Massachusetts; secretary and member, Weston
Board of Water Commissioners; clerk and trustee, Weston Scouts, Inc.

Member of: American Bar Association; Boston Bar Association; Sigma Alpha

Epsilon Fraternity.

If my own reaction is a fair test, it is safe to say that the literary excel-
lence of the sample autobiographies enclosed with Joe Lund’s first plea
discouraged prompt response by others too. The sincere note of despera-
tion in Ben ‘Thorndike’s last writing and in his oral supplement thereto
given recently at the Cambridge Boat Club prompts this extemporane-
ous and non-literary report about me since June, 1926.

To explain an overlapping of allegiance which becomes immediately

[ 737 ]

"TAIT TS 6 ae ated mmrRrRy ren pe ieenecpenere PEP HS: NY A

Harvard Class of 1926

to keep alive that everlasting hope which leads the surf fisherman to
believe that the next cast will be the one. Except as they may be jinci-
dentally reflected above, my social, political, and religious convictions
must be left the subject of other or further communications to my class-
mates.

RICHARD HARRY SCHMIT

Home Address: 1215 Kensington Ave., Buffalo 15, N. Y.
Office Address: 87 Bryant St., Buffalo 9, N. Y.
Born: June 4, 1903, Erie, Pa. Parents: Edward Schmit, Ollie Lang.
Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
Years in College: 1922-1927. Degrees: A.B., 1926 (27); M.D.C.M. (McGill
Univ.), 193.
Married: Josephine Dill, June 30, 1934, Portland, N. Y¥. CAildren: Carol
Louise, Feb. 11, 1944; Richard Harry, Jr., July 26, 1946.
Occupation: Physician, internal medicine.
Offices Held: Attending physician, Millard Fillmore Hospital, Buffalo, N. Y.
Member of : American Medical Association; New York State Medical Society;
Erie County Medical Society; Harvard Club of Buffalo; Buffalo Con-

sistory; Ismailia Temple.

ROBERT SIDNEY SCHWAB

Home Address: 108 Pleasant St., Lexington 73, Mass.

Office Address: Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston 14, Mass.

Born: Oct. 6, 1903, St. Louis, Mo. Parents: Sidney Isaac Schwab, ’94, Helen
Dorothy Stix.

Prepared at: Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; B.A. (Univ. of Cam-
bridge), 1928; M.A. (ibid.), 1929; M.D. (Harvard Univ.), 1931.

Married: Dorothy Smith Miller, Aug. 26, 1931, Peterboro, N. Y.

Harvard Brother: Mack Walter Schwab, 731.

Occupation: Physician, specializing in neurology and electroencephalography;
associate in neurology, Harvard Medical School; associate neurologist
and director of Brain Wave Laboratory, Massachusetts General Hospital.

Military or Naval Record: U.S.N.R. as lieutenant, since 1936; called to active
duty, Dec. 16, 19413 assigned U.S.N. Hospital, Chelsea, Mass.; pro-
moted lieutenant commander, June, 19423; overseas, November, 19433
Mobile Hospital #6, Auckland, New Zealand, until March, 1944; Base
6 Hospital, Espiritu Santos, in charge of neuropsychiatry until July,
1944; promoted commander, April, 1944; temporary duty, CINPAC,
Pearl Harbor, until September, 1944; medical officer, rsr 611, Leyte
Landing, Oct. 20, 1944; U.S.N. Fleet Hospital #103, Guam, Novem-

[ 740 ]

Twenty- fifth Annoversary Report

ber, 1944—September, 1945; U.S.N. Separation Center, Boston, until
December, 1945; retired from active duty, July, 1946.

Offices Held: President, Eastern Association Electroencephalographers, 1947;
secretary, 1947-50, president, 1950-51, American Electroencephalo-
graphic Society; managing editor, EEG Journal, since 1948; vice-presi-
dent, International EEG Federation; secretary to 3rd International
EEG Congress, Boston, 1953.

Member of : American Neurological Association; American Psychiatric Associa-
tion; Association for Research in Nervous and Mental Diseases; Harvard
Club of Boston; Cambridge Cruising Club, England.

Publications: Electroencephalography in General Medicine, and some fifty papers
on neurological and electroencephalographic subjects.

On leaving college I became an undergraduate again (climbing in,
cap and gown, punting, bicycles, May week) at St. John’s College,
Cambridge University, where I spent three most pleasant years doing
medicine and getting a Part II Tripos in Physiology. This involved, of
course, travel on the Continent, some work in a London hospital
(Kings) and a smattering of sailing and cruising on the east coast of
England. I went back to Harvard Medical School for my third and
fourth years and degree. Then various general and special internships
and residencies, somewhat interfered with along the line by being part
owner of a forty-foot sloop. I began practice on the staff of the Massa-
chusetts General Hospital and set up the first electroencephalographic
laboratory there. My practice was limited to neurology and electroen-
cephalography. I was on leave of absence for military duty, U.S. Navy,
from December, 1941, to July, 1946. The Navy treated me very well
— only did medical tasks, saw much of the South Pacific, had a fair taste
of combat and sea duty. In the free time in New Zealand I had some
magnificent sailing in Auckland Harbor and some equally pleasant
lagoon drifting on a homemade catamaran, with two sails, on Guam.
Since the war I have been busy enough in my work at the Massachusetts

General Hospital.

For the past three years my wife and I have lived in Lexington, and
I am an enthusiastic commuter on the B. & M. The enthusiasm is large-
ly for the fact that the 4:31 or §:20 must be caught each day (no later
trains) so the spill-over into most of the evening that plagues so many of
my colleagues is avoided. We have a family place at Cotuit, Cape Cod,
and an old Crosby Cat, 4/pha Wave, makes life down there in the sum-
mer vacation or spring and fall weekends all that anyone requires.

From the above, it would seem that I am not a sourpuss or pessimist.
In fact, I have a deep optimistic faith in my fellow-men. I fail to see the

[ 740 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

gloom and sepia clouds that surround so many because of distrust of the
motives of the average citizen — that he is soft — won’t work — wants
a handout and coddling from cradle to grave. I simply cannot see the
grim alarm of those choleric souls who sit in a new comfortable chair —
in a heated and lighted room surrounded with products of intensive in-
dustrial production (cars, radios, planes, etc.) and cry that no one works
any moré — the good old days are gone, I believe we are going to work
out a better life in this country than prevailed in 1890, 1910, or 1920,
Nor can I see any sense in those starry-eyed thwarted mortals on the
other side who want to scrap all we have and start all over again. I feel
that eighty percent of the population can be trusted to be both intelligent
and honest. .
My wife and I get about as much amusement out of our two poodles,
Le Malin and Bon Bon, in obedience training and dog shows as we do
from parties with our friends. This is as far as pessimism ever leads me,

SAUL BOLTON SCHWARTZ

Address: Passaic Herald News, Passaic, N. J.

Bora: Dec. 30, 1904, Passaic, N. J. Parents: Samuel Schwartz, Rosa Rosenstein.
Prepared at: Passaic High School, Passaic, N. J.

Years in College: 1922-1925.

Occupation: Journalism.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Schwartz
did not return a questionnaire. ,

LEO WALDER SCHWARZ

Home Address: 225 E. 79th St., New York 21, N. ¥.

Born: April 11, 1905, New York, N. Y. Parents: Adolph Schwarz, Ernestine
Walder.

Prepared at:'Townsend Harris Hall, New York, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926, Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Ruth Newman, Dec. 11, 1945, St. Louis, Mo,

Occupation: Letters,

Military or Naval Record: Army Medical Corps; inducted as private, April,
1942; assigned as first sergeant of field hospital in England, January,
1944; given field commission as 2nd lieutenant in Normandy; separated —
at Fort Dix, January, 1946.

Publications: Zionism and Palestine, 1932; Three Translations, 19343 The Jewish
Caravan, 1934; A Golden Treasury of Jewish Literature, 1937; Where
Hope Lies, 1940; Memoirs of My People, 1943; The Root and the Bough,
1949.

[ 742 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Whatever the impulse and circumstances which caused me to choose -
Divinity Avenue and the Semitic Museum as my point of orientation in
Cambridge, the subsequent years have rarely given me reason to regret
the choice. The teaching of such monumental scholars as the late George
Foot Moore and Harry Austryn Wolfson (who, though known only to
a handful of students, helped to change the intellectual climate of our
age) has remained an infinite source of revelation and inspiration so that
whatever I’ve been able to accomplish has been watered from the wells
of their wisdom. Aside from a variety of occupations (a brief period in
the rabbinate, direction of several schools, editorial work for a few mag-
azines and a publishing house, periodic lecturing and travel abroad, ad-
ministering DP operations in the U.S. Zone of Germany during 1946-
47 and a national project for the Hebrew University of Jerusalem dur-
ing 1947-48, and service as a GI), have been enabled to devote a solid
part of my time to study and writing. On the way I have stumbled into
all sorts of pits and bog-holes, but here and there Pve planted a seed and
picked a few blossoms. To add that in recent years I have been blessed
with a lovely and understanding wife is to say all.

FRANCIS MINTURN SEDGWICK

Home and Office Address: P.O. Box 86, Los Olivos, Calif.
Born: March 13, 1904, New York, N. Y. Parents: Henry Dwight Sedgwick,
82, Sarah May Minturn.
Prepared at: Groton School, Groton, Mass.; Santa Barbara School, Santa Bar-
bara, Calif,
Years in College: 1923-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.
Married: Alice Delano de Forest, May 8, 1929, New York, N. Y. Children:
Alice, Aug. 29, 1931; Robert Minturn, Sept. 24, 1933; Pamela, Aug.
14, 19353 Francis Minturn, Jr., March 5, 1938; Henry de Forest Min-
turn, Dec. 9, 1939; Katherine, Dec. 7, 1941; Edith, April 20, 1943;
Susanna, Jan. 17,1945.
Harvard Brother: Robert Minturn Sedgwick, ’21, M.B.A., 23.
Occupation: Art and agriculture.
Member of : Harvard, Century, and Knickerbocker Clubs, New York; Monte-
cito Country Club, Santa Barbara, Calif.
\ Publications: The Ritt, 1945.

The bad health which caused me to forsake a career in finance, after
brief but concentrated training in banks in Berlin, Paris, Amsterdam,
and London, immediately after graduation, and which, so many years
later, kept me out of the military service, has largely fashioned my life,
or certainly its locale, and is in no wise apparent. |

[ 743 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

We live a life of the Last of the Bourbons, in a tiny barony of 3000
acres, raising pure-bred Herefords. (Incidental note: our tractor man
also has eight children.) This is a mode of existence ideal for bringing
up five daughters and three sons in health and vigor, and an unearned if
not altogether unforeseen by-product makes it easier to send them to
boarding schools and eventually on to college (Harvard for the boys;
our eldest daughter is already at Radcliffe).

Half of every day is devoted to either sculpture (last year seventeen
pieces were sold), or painting, of which an occasional landscape sells,
and every now and then these are foresworn in favor of writing, with
one low-quality novel published to date, to show. The other half of every
day is spent in the saddle attending to the cattle. In this my wife always
joins me, as she is an excellent horsewoman, and the children, when they
are at home. All three boys are more skillful ropers than I.

On weekends we go to the coast where a small fruit and vegetable
farm (only ten acres under cultivation) is embellished by a tennis court
and swimming pool. Here, at Goleta, fifty miles from the ranch, I also
have the small collection of paintings to which we have devoted what
skill and taste we possess for nearly twenty years. Acquisition has been
made by inheritance, purchase, and gift. In the last-named category I
might mention a magnificent Hondecoeter, a seventeenth-century
Dutch painter, given to us by the Perry Peases. Other paintings are by
Wouverman, Giovanni Bellini, Memling, Gerard David, Juan de
Flandes, Guardi, and lesser men.

For life in a by-water, there is much to recommend it. We note in
closing that statistics show that Harvard men generally are dying out —

1.71 children pér graduate. What purpose a Harvard education if it
leads to extermination!

THEODORE SEDGWICK, JR.

Home Address: 6 Bedford Rd., Chappaqua, N. Y.
Office Address: Irving Trust Co., 1 Wall St., New York 5, N. Y.

Born: May 4, 1904, St. Paul, Minn. Parents: Theodore Sedgwick, ’86, Mary
Aspinwall Bend.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1923-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Emily Adair Hurt, July 6, 1931, Yonkers, N. Y. Children: Emily
Bend, April 15, 1932; Catherine, May 15, 1938.

Harvard Brothers: Harold Bend Sedgwick, 30; Charles Sedgwick, 34, Pu.D.,
*50.

Occupation: Assistant secretary, Foreign Department, Irving Trust Company.

[ 744 ]

Miaiieemsnibtiaaisiteaaiats ons __

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

The readers of this Twenty-fifth Report will be entertained with ac-
counts of interesting lives and eventful careers of many of our Class
members. They will also find records less full of big achievements and
“kudos,” which nevertheless seem to be sought for inclusion here to
complete the volume. My biography will fall in the second category.

College over with the rush to Memorial Hall for the then coveted
sheepskin (which I later had to produce for the voting officials and to
translate from the Latin for their edification in order to show a reading
qualification for my first vote) and with the strains of Valencia ringing in
my ears, I left Cambridge, and in a short space of time joined my family
on a trip to Europe, a pleasure junket without especial note except that |
the liner bearing us to France missed the right tide on the Garonne
River and ran aground. My acquaintance with Europe is entirely ante-
bellum because business and family preoccupations since have anchored
me on these shores.

This hopeful A.B. holder landed his first job teaching a full range of
subjects to boys of the upper crust at a private school in New York. It
was a happy interlude and allowed for some long summer vacations in
Maine. When the school went out of existence through a merger in
1928, a shift to the financial world took place, and I found myself on the
lower rungs of a banking career. The ensuing market collapse and de-
pression did not promote fast climbing up the ladder, but at least I steered
clear of boondoggling and apple vending.

Marriage in 1931 put an end to happy-go-lucky days, and my wife
deserves much credit for joining the team in those lean years. ‘Two
daughters came to engross our attention and to cause us to move from
New York progressively farther into suburbia. Harvard will not benefit
from this new generation unless the coeducational trend reaches the
maximum. One daughter is now studying archaeology at Bryn Mawr,
and the other rides a horse whenever she can find a mount.

We are country dwellers and commuters. A week’s chores are
crammed into two days, yet we wouldn’t change. The better-half, roll-
ing three jobs into one, keeps the household humming in tune and offers
hospitality to any members of 1926 who are travelling through West-
chester County.

ARTHUR FORSYTH SEREQUE

Home Address: 28 Chestnut St., Shelton, Conn.

Office Address: Sponge Rubber Products Co., Shelton, Conn,

Born: June 22, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parents: Miguel Sereque, Magdalena
Katherine Becker.

[ 745 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Prepared at: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

Years sw College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Ann Kozik, Oct. 31, 1931, Warren, R. 1. Children: Shirley Ann,
July 27, 19345 Arthur Forsyth, Jr., Oct. 8, 19353 Joyce Becker, Sept. 4,
19433 Richard Becker, Jan. 26, 1949.

Harvard Brother: William Sereque, ’36.

Occupation: Chemist; director of testing laboratory, Sponge Rubber Products
Company. .
Offices Held: Director, Shelton Building and Loan Association.
Member of: Division of Rubber Chemistry, American Chemical Society; Con-
necticut Rubber Group, American Society for Testing Materials,
Publications: Technical bulletin on sponge rubber.

After graduation I worked for a couple of years at the Carnegie Nu-
trition Laboratory, near Harvard Medical School, as a chemist, leaving
to become a trainee with the W. T. Grant stores. I lasted with them
about a year, working in Virginia, Nebraska, and Ohio. Returning to
Boston about depression time, I got into the habit of helping out in my
father’s printing business until I could get another job. I stayed there
over twelve years, taking over the business after my father retired.

In 1942 I was quite unexpectedly offered a position as chemist with
the Sponge Rubber Products Company, in Shelton, Connecticut. Leav-
ing the printing business in charge of my assistant, I made what turned
out to be an excellent decision and moved to Connecticut. Our firm has
been growing by leaps and bounds, doing a yearly business of about three
and one-half million when I started to work here, ten million in 1948,
fifteen million in 1949, and twenty-five million this year, We manufac-
ture the luxurious sponge rubber cushion for your rugs, the weatherstrip-
ping on your car’s doors, windows, and trunks, the foam cushions for
your furniture, sponge rubber balls, rubber sponges, and thousands of
other articles, Soon after I came here, they built a large laboratory anda
year or so later I was put in charge of the testing division. I am probably
all set for life here as this firm is a very fine one to work for. They assume
the complete cost for each employee of Blue Cross, Connecticut Medical
Service, large insurance policies, generous pensions and bonuses. Work-
ing conditions are ideal and there is a real kick in seeing new products
being developed.

Most of my evenings are spent helping two teen-agers with algebra,
geometry, Latin, and physics. With four children, ranging from two to
sixteen years, there is never a dull moment.

[ 746 }

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

MELVILLE AARON SHAPIRO

Home Address: 32 Curtis Ave., West Somerville, Mass.
Office Address: Mt. Auburn Realty Company, Inc., 32 Curtis Ave., West Som-

erville, Mass.

Bora: Nov. 10, 1904, Chelsea, Mass. Parents: Benjamin Shapiro, Edith Ida
Goldberg.

Prepared at: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degree: S.B., 1926 (27).

Married: Pear] Chorover, Dec. 31, 1944, Swampscott, Mass. Child: Jane
Louise, March 22, 1948.

Harvard Brother: Harold Shapiro, 31.

Occupation: President, Mt. Auburn Realty Company, Inc., a company special-
izing in the remodelling and development of low rental tenement prop-
erty in Somerville, Cambrid ge and Greater Boston, generally.

Wartime Goverament Posts: Served in civilian capacity in Army Air Base Forces
Aircraft Warning Service in Boston, during 1943-44.

Member af: Alpha Mu F raternity; Sigma Omega Psi Fraternity; Zionist Or-

ganization of America.

Since graduation I have been in the real estate business except for a
period of three years during which time I was employed in Blooming-
dale’s department store in New York City.

My primary interests are my work and family. Some of my happiest
moments are those spent with my two-and-a-half-year-old daughter,
Jane Louise. Shortly after birth, she was entered in the Class of 766 at
Wellesley.

Reading, color photography, an occasional game of badminton, and
drives to the surrounding countryside and the North Shore are among
my chief diversions.

OSCAR MOORE SHAW

Home Address: Beverly, Mass.
Office Address: Ropes, Gray, Best, Coolidge & Rugg, 50 Federal St., Boston 10,
- Mass,

Born: Nov. 17, 1904, Portsmouth, Ohio, Parents: Edward Harrison Shaw,
Fan Caldwell Newman.

Prepared at: McKinley High School, Washington, D. C.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: §.B. magna cum laude, 1926; LL.B. cum
laude, 1929.

Married: Margaret Curtis Pickering, Nov. 2, 1929, Beverly, Mass. CAiléren:
Margaret Curtis, July 18, 1934; Edward McMichael, April 27, 1937.

Occupation: Lawyer; member of firm, Ropes, Gray, Best, Coolidge & Rugg.

[ 747 ]

os

Harvard Class of 1926

Offices Held: Trustee, Shore Country Day School (president, 1942~47) ; di.

rector, Railway & Light Securities Company, American Thread Com.
pany, Felters Company.

Member of: American Law Institute; Union Club; St. Botolph Club, Boston,

Harvard Club of New York; Myopia Hunt Club, Hamilton, Mass,
Stage Harbor Yacht Club, Chatham, Mass.

Like a good many of our classmates, I merely changed Cambridge
addresses in September, 1926, and spent the next three years at the Law
School, from which I graduated in 1929 with another distinguished
Harvard Class — almost, but of course not quite, as distinguished as this
one. I went to work that fall as a Jaw clerk in the office of Ropes, Gray,
Boyden & Perkins, as it then was, and have been there since —as a
member of the firm from early 1937. I resisted the blandishments ofa

couple of administrative agencies, which attracted so many young law-
yers to Washington in the thirties, and thus have observed the New
Deal entirely from this side of the table. I thought well of that decision
at the time, and think better of it with every passing year. My work,
chiefly a corporation practice, has been varied and never dull. During
the war I spent most of my time, and still spend a good deal of it, on
labor matters. Aside from my family, my principal extra-curricular in-
terest has been the Shore Country Day School, of which I was president
for seven years and am still a trustee. We continue to enjoy small boat
sailing and the many other pleasures of spring and fall weekends and
summer holidays at Chatham. Possibly excepting the fact that I no long-
er run for trains, I mark the twenty-five years since college mostly by
the growing up of our two children. Polly is at Ethel Walker and is aim-

ing for Wellesley (’56). Mike expects to go from Exeter to Harvard
(58). |

WILLIAM ALBERT SHERMAN

Home Address: 63 Rhode Island Ave., Newport, R. I.

Office Address: Industrial Trust Co., Newport, R. I.

Born: May 12, 1903, Newport, R. I. Parents: William Anthony Sherman, 99,
M.D.,’o2, Kathrine May Kennedy.

Prepared at: Rogers High School, Newport, R. 1.

Years in College: 1922~1924.

Married: Marion King, Sept. 24, 1932, Newport, R. I. CAild: Sally King,
Feb. 7, 1934. .

Occupation: Manager, Newport Branch, Industrial Trust Company, Newport,
R. 1.

Offices Held: Member, Representative Council, City of Newport, 1930-37;
[ 748 J

Twenty- fifth Anmversary Report

director, Community Hotel Corporation, Newport, since 1932; treas-
urer and director, Redwood Library & Athenaeum, Newport, since
1934; trustee, Savings Bank of Newport, since 1934, Newport Hospital,
since 19373 treasurer and trustee, St. Michael’s Country Day School,
Newport, since 1940; vice-president, 1945-46, treasurer, 1946-48,
Community Chest of Newport.

Member of : Newport Casino (member board of governors since 1947) ; Rotary
Club of Newport.

On leaving college I entered the employ of the Newport Trust Com-
pany and in 1930, became an assistant treasurer. In 1937 I was elected.
secretary-treasurer and a director of the Newport Trust Company and
manager of the Newport Branch, Industrial Trust Company of Provi-
dence. Last year the two banks merged and, since then, I have been in
charge of the Newport office of Industrial Trust Company.

I have taken an active interest in various community organizations
and continue to play tennis weekends, summer and winter. Before the
war we made one trip to Great Britain and Europe but in recent years
have confined our travels to this country and Canada.

LEICESTER HAYDON SHERRILL

Home Address: 439 E. 51st St., New York 22, N. ¥.

Office Address: Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn, Inc., 383 Madison Ave.,
New York 17, N.Y.

Born: Feb. 7, 1904, Louisville, Ky. Parents: Arthur Bonnycastle Sherrill,
Martha Haydon.

Prepared at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Kathryn L. Keeler, Oct. 6, 1928, New York, N. Y. Children: Leices-
ter Haydon, Jr., Oct. 21, 1929; Christopher Douglas, June 8, 1932.

Harvard Brother: Arthur Miles Sherrill, ’25.

Occupation: Vice-president and account group head, advertising agency.

Member of : University Club; Waccabuc Country Club.

Upon leaving Harvard in 1926, I took a “students’ third class” boat
to England. After spending about a week there, I crossed to France
where I ran into Jack Maher. We took a two-month trip together
through southern France, Italy, and Switzerland.

Before I left on this trip, I managed to arrange to go to work for
Barton, Durstine & Osborn (later, Batten, Barton, etc.) upon my re-
turn from Europe. After the usual training period, I was put on an ac-
count which featured something new— the quick freezing of fish, In

[ 749 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

June I was asked to join the client’s company (Birdseye Frosted Foods)
and moved to Boston.

In the meantime, I married Kathryn Keeler of North Salem, New
York, in the Little Church Around the Corner, and we moved to Cam-
bridge. In the summer of 1929 General Foods Corporation bought out
the Birdseye Company and I moved to New York with the merger.
Since it was possible to take three weeks off in between the move, my
wife and I took a quick trip to England, France, and Ireland.

In the fall of 1929 we moved back to New York where I worked at
General Foods. Our first son arrived on October 21, just four days
after the Wall Street crash. I can remember being in the subway on the
way to the hospital and seeing the headlines. At that particular time,
those headlines didn’t mean very much to me. In the summer of 1930
we moved to Larchmont, New York, and lived there for sixteen years.
In 1932 our second son arrived. Both children were brought up in the
public schools in Larchmont.

In 1932 I had the old yen to get back on the other side of the business
fence and joined Compton Advertising, Inc., and took trips to Cincin-
nati practically every other week for over six years. In 1938 Batten,
Barton, Durstine & Osborn asked me to come back to work so I ended
up where I started almost ten years from the day I left — and I have
been there ever since.

In 1943 my elder son went away to my old school, Andover, and
spent four years there. In 1946 my younger son went away to Wooster
(a small Episcopal school near Danbury, Connecticut) and will gradu-
ate in 1951. My elder son entered Oberlin College in 1947 and will
graduate next year. In his first year at Oberlin he met a fine girl from
Wellesley and they are announcing their engagement.

When both our boys went away to school we decided to sell our house
in Larchmont and move into New York as we had an old country place
in North Salem, New York. So now we live just eleven minutes’ walk
from the office, and every Friday sees us on our way to the country for
the weekend, summer and winter! Our country house is 105 years old,
and we have had great pleasure in remodelling quite extensively.

Unfortunately, I was unable to participate actively in the war. In
March, 1942, I enlisted in the Air Force and was ordered to report for
my physical on a Monday morning at 90 Church Street. The day be-
fore, I was playing indoor tennis and broke my ankle. I reported
(crutches and all) and was told not to come back for several months.
When the Air Force situation blew up, I tried the Quartermaster Corps,
the OSS, and finally the Navy for public relations work. In every case

[ 750 ]

T wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

they said that they had enough men at the present, so the only work left
for me was senior Air Raid Warden, Red Cross activities, etc.

My wife is very active in hospital work and is on the Women’s Board
and a member of the executive committee at Roosevelt Hospital. She
was a nurse’s aid during the war and has continued this ever since.

My travels don’t often take me to Cambridge, but I drove along
Memorial Drive this spring and got quite a kick out of the developments
on both sides of the river.

LEE SHERRY

Home Address: 10669 Kinnard Ave., Los Angeles 24, Calif.
Born: Nov. 29, 1906, Boston, Mass. Parents: William Shapiro, Florence Silver-

man.
Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. magna cum laude, 1926.
Married: Alma Miriam Menline, Feb. 7, 1934, New York, N. Y.; Bernice
Padorr, Sept. 1, 1947. CAild: Allan Menline, Dec. 7s 1936.

Occupation: Sales manager.

Member of : Harvard Club of Southern California.

The why of human behavior has stimulated my return to school to
study in the field of psychology — even before reading my classmates’
histories. I have an odd feeling that perhaps life does begin at forty.

JAMES ROGER SHIELDS

Home Address: 109 8. Highwood Ave., Glen Rock, N. J.
Office Address: American Telephone & Telegraph Co., 195 Broadway, New

York, N. Y.
Born: Dec. 13, 1901, Boston, Mass. Parents: Edward ‘Thomas Shields, Cathe-

rine O’Brien.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1921-1926. Degrees: 8.B. cum laude, 1926; J.D. (New York
Univ.), 1931.

Married: Alice MacKerracher, July 4, 1931, New York, N. Y. Céil¢d: Marilyn,
May 26, 1940 (adopted).

Occupation: Attorney, Legal Department, American Telephone & Telegraph
Company.

I have been associated with the American Telephone & Telegraph
Company here in New York City since 1928 and during most of this
period have been handling the legal aspects of employee benefit matters
under the company’s Benefit Plan, Workmen’s Compensation, unem-

[ 751 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

ployment compensation, disability benefits, and social security legislation
generally. I have, therefore, been in rather close touch with develop-
ments towards the “Welfare” or “Socialized” state. I don’t like the
speed and scope of the trend but I do think that a minimum level of
protection through government action may be necessary or desirable,
where voluntary action is not adequate, in order to avoid conditions that
might lead to Socialism or Communism. I should like to see whatever
social security and other protection is necessary kept close to the people
with much less federal participation than we now have.

I have no definite religious beliefs but I respect those of others. I
know the comfort that many people get from religion and favor more of
it, particularly in these troublous times.

My extra-curricular activities center pretty much around my family
and home, including the backyard, termites, and the innumerable de-
sires of my ten-year-old daughter.

CLIFFORD KENYON SHIPTON

Home Address: Shirley Center, Mass.

Office Address: American Antiquarian Society, Worcester 5, Mass.

Born: Aug. §, 1902, Pittsfield, Mass. Parents: George Marsden Shipton, Edith
May Kenyon.

Prepared at: Pittsfield High School, Pittsfield, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B. cum laude, 1926; A.M., 1927;
Pu.D., 1933.

Married: Dorothy George Boyd MacKillop, June 11, 1927, Cambridge,
Mass. CAildren: Ann Boyd, June 10, 1930; Nathaniel Niles, Feb. 20,
1935; George MacKay, June 26, 1936.

Occupation: Librarian, American Antiquarian Society.

Wartime Government Posts: Civilian Defense posts; chairman, Shirley Post-War
Planning Committee.

Offices Held: Member, Shirley Town Finance Committee, 1941-49 (chair-
man, 1945-49); moderator, 1944—46, standing committee, 1944-49,
clerk, since 1944, First Parish of Shirley; standing committee, Bunker
Hill Monument Association, since 1949; member of council, Institute
of Early American History and Culture, Williamsburg, Va.; member
editorial board, William and Mary Quarterly, since 1946.

Member of: Shirley Town Finance Committee, 1941-49; American Anti-
quarian Society; Massachusetts Historical Society; Colonial Society of
Massachusetts.

Publications: Biographical Sketches of the Graduates of Ffarvard College, Classes of
1690-1730, § vols., 1933-50; Roger Conant, 1945; Isaiah Thomas, 1947.

After a year in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and another

[ 752 ]

Twenty-fifth Anntversary Report

as research assistant to Samuel Eliot Morison, I went to Brown where
I taught American history for two years. In 1930 I was asked to come
back to Cambridge to spend three months preparing for press a volume
of Sibley’s Harvard Graduates, and was so launched on a task which has
filled much of my time for twenty years. John Langdon Sibley, Class of
1825, wrote and published the biographies of the members of the Clas-
ses of 1642-1689 and left an endowment to provide for the carrying on
of the work. I have carried the series through the Class of 1730 in five
fat volumes containing a thousand biographies and well over a million
words. It is fascinating work which leaves me bored with bridge and
golf. J am beginning to be concerned with the fact that I am not likely
to live long enough to carry the series to the Class of 1800, my goal.

In 1938 the University authorities became so tired of finding me in
the Harvard Archives all the time that they put me in charge of them.
At that time the Harvard Archives, the richest deposit of its kind in the
world, consisted chiefly of the Harvardian collection, the Class records,
and the University records to about 1860. It has been my job to bring
into it and organize the records not in active use which, for the bulk of
the material, means down to the last three years. The department now
answers (so far as it can) every question which comes into the Univer-
sity regarding the past of Harvard and Harvard men. If you have any
material, particularly lecture notes and diaries, relating to our under-
graduate years, we should be glad to have it for the University Archives.
Of late years our staff has become so efficient that I keep office hours in
Widener U only on Mondays.

In 1940 I went to Worcester to become librarian of the American
Antiquarian Society. This library, purely a research organization, con-
tains the largest collection of printed material relating to the present
United States over the period 1620-1820. With this, the Harvard Ar-
chives, and the Harvard biographies, Ikeep busy.

For the past fourteen years Dean Bacon’s secretary and I have been
raising our children in a big old house in a quiet country town where, for
lack of better material, we are needed in town and parish affairs, It has
been a very full and active life, quite as good as we anticipated in 1926.

BARNETT ISRAEL SHUR

Home Address: 24 Wadsworth St., Portland, Maine.

Office Address: 119 Exchange St., Portland, Maine.

Born: July 1§, 1905, Lithuania. Parents: Joseph Shur, Ethel Brickman.
Prepared at: Portland High School, Portland, Maine.

[ 753 ]

Harvard Class of 1926
Years 1m College: 1924-1926. Degrees: S.B., 1926; LL.B. (Boston Univ.),

1930.
Married: Clarice B. Geller, July 10, 1938, Portland, Maine. CAildren: George
M., Nov. 10, 19423; Janet Leslie, June 15, 1947.

Occupation: Attorney-at-law; corporation counsel of the City of Portland.

Wartime Government Posts: Re-employment committeeman for Cumberland
County Local Board #2; member, Arbitration Board for New England
Shipbuilding Corporation.

Offices Held: President, New England Section, Jewish Welfare Board; corpo-
rator, Maine Savings Bank, Maine General Hospital; member, board of
directors, Portland Boys’ Club, Greater Portland Community Chest;
former president, Jewish Community Center, Portland; regional vice-
president, National Institute of Municipal Law Officers.

HYMEN THEODORE SILVERSTEIN

Home Address: 5806 Drexel Ave., Chicago, Ill.

Office Address: University of Chicago, Faculty Exchange, Chicago, Ill.

Born: Oct. 11, 1904, Liverpool, England, Parents: David Silverstein, Nellie
Dobson.

Prepared at: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. magna cum laude, 1926; A.M.,
1927; Pu.D., 1930.

Married: Bertha M. Alexander, Jan. 19, 1929, Boston, Mass. (divorced
1945); Mary E. Poindexter, 1945, New York, N. Y.

Occupation: Assistant professor of English, Humanities Division, University of
Chicago,

Military or Naval Record: U.S.A.A.F., World War 11; unit commander, major;
overseas duty in Africa, Sicily, Italy, Normandy, Bulge, Germany, Octo-
ber, 1942, to June, 1945.

Meméer of : Phi Beta Kappa; Cambridge Dante Society ; Medical Academy of
America; Modern Language Association; Philological Society (Univer-
sity of Chicago) ; Quadrangle Club.

Publications: Visio Sancti Pauli: a Study of the Apocalypse in Latin (London:
Christophers, 1935); articles on Dante, history of science and learning
in the twelfth century, mediaeval romances, poetry and philosophy of
Bernardus Silvestris, otherworld visions. .

With the brief exception of the war years 1942-45, I have been en-
gaged ever since leaving college in scholarship and teaching.

[ 754 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

EDGAR MAXIM SINAUER

Home Address: 1185 Park Ave., New York 28, N. Y.

Office Address: Suite 804, 342 Madison Ave., New York, N. Y.

Born: Aug. 13, 1904, Elberon, N. J. Parents: Bertold Sinauer, Amy Thur-
nauer.

Prepared at: Horace Mann School, New York, N. Y.

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degree: 8.B., 1926.

Married: Barbara Schiff Mack, Oct. 27, 1 936, New York, N. Y.C bildren: An-
thony Edgar, Sept. 28, 1938; Hope Madeline, Feb. 13, 1941.

Occupation: Management consultant, in business independently.

Military or Naval Record: First lieutenant, 17th Regiment, New York Guard.

Among my limitations, autobiographical writing is definitely one.
Out of consideration to all concerned, this will be brief and to the point.

If I had the opportunity to relive the years since graduation from high
school, almost the only things I would not want to change would be my
years at Harvard, the wonderful girl I married, and the fine children
we are rearing. These have been sources of deep satisfaction and great
happiness, which is more than can be said for the results of many other
decisions I have made!

On balance I guess I have no more — or less — to regret than most
of us, and who knows what the next twenty-five years will bring?

HAROLD HOWARD SISSON

Home Address: 352 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

Office Address: 112 Water St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Nov. 6, 1902, Boston, Mass. Parents: Israel Sisson, Annie Levy.

Prepared at: Huntington Preparatory School, Boston, Mass,

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.

Married: Bessie Ellen Morrow, May 27, 1929, Boston, Mass. Children: Jane,
March g, 1933; Wallace Egerton, May 17, 1935.

Occupation: Insurance broker.

Member of : Pinebrook Country Club; Sisson Family Association.

In looking back, the most impressive thought I have is that the years
have flown by quickly. Since the last Report, when I was fighting hard
to overcome the obstacles of building a career as a general insurance
broker, the years reflect a picture of gradual and then faster growth up
the ladder to limited financial success as well as middle age. In spite of it
all, I still have my hair, thank God! Most important has been the grad-
ual maturity forced upon me by my two children whose difficult ques-
tions forced into my flowering cranium an educational foundation that

[ 755 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

even Harvard couldn’t accomplish, Asa father, I have used most of my
time, like the rest of you, to develop an economic security that would
enable me to give my family as much as possible, without spoiling them.
Fortunately, I can say that, up to this point at least, I have succeeded!
My son, Wally, at Exeter, and my daughter, Jane, at Wellesley, are
making enviable reputations for themselves on their own initiative, not
scholastically, necessarily, for this would be a double-cross on father’s
Harvard record. All of this, of course, makes Mrs. Sisson very happy.

Without having to police the children, I have found gin-rummy and
the Pinebrook Country Club most relaxing comforts. In this sphere lie
my hobbies, exercise, and a good part of my social life. Winters, for
many years now, have been spent in the balmy sunshine of southern
Florida. This, together with side trips to Cuba, is the full extent of my
travelling.

Politically and in most other activities, I have been most guiltily lazy
or indifferent. As old age creeps up on me I’m sure to become much
more active in these respects, since the kind of world I leave will seem
more important. My ultimate goal is to see that my children are well
started on a happy life and that when baldness does start to strike, I am
well enough fixed so that I can relax in the sunny South and can afford
to spend my time as a judge in the various beauty contests of each season.

JOHN EDWARD SKILLING

Home Address: 136 Hesketh St., Chevy Chase 15, Md.

Office Address: 817 Munsey Bldg., Washington 4, D.C.

Born: April 12, 1904, Pittsburgh, Pa. Parents: John Kane Skilling, Emma
Curie.

Prepared at: Baltimore City College, Baltimore, Md.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B., 1931.

Married; Marion Virginia Bernard, 1927, Chevy Chase, Md. CAildren: Nancy
Lawrence, 1928 (7. Bates Warren Littlehales, 1948); John Chauncey,
1933.

Harvard Brother: Francis Curie Skilling, M.D., ’30.

Occupation: Member of firm of attorneys and counsclors at law.

Member of : Harvard Clubs of Washington and New York; Chevy Chase Club,
Chevy Chase, Md.; American Bar Association; District of Columbia
Bar Association ; American Judicature Society.

Marion has stood the competitions of her family in excellent manner
and will reach the end of the twenty-five-year stretch in first place.

Nancy, who was on the accclerated schedule at Vassar and in very
good standing, decided to accelerate herself home, for good, just eight

[ 756 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

months before she would have graduated. It must have been in the cards,
for before that eight months had passed she met here in Washington, the
Washingtonian she was later to marry, Bates Warren Littlehales,
Princeton ’48. Happily for Marion and me, they set up housekeeping in
Washington and we see them almost daily. Bates, who had a tour in the
Navy, preceded Johnny at St. Albans, by a half-dozen years or so, and is
now engaged in pioneering color television at NBC’s Washington sta-
tion.

Johnny is in top form at St. Albans School for Boys and plans to enter
Harvard College in the fall of 1951. It often has appeared to me that he
has had tougher scholastic routines at St. Albans than I had in college;
at any rate, I know he has worked harder and with better results. More-
over, he has played first string half-back and second baseman for six
years on the St. Albans teams up to and including the varsity for the past
two years. So, I believe he will do much better in college than I did.

I, of course, continue in the business of lawyering, and am more sold
on it here in Washington than ever. My eight years in the government
legal service have been balanced by ten years in private practice, More-
over, all eighteen or so years of such practice have brought me in inti-
mate touch daily with the functioning of American private enterprise
everywhere in America, and this practice has engendered in me a philo-
sophical belief. As I see it, law is really a matter of concern to a very
small proportion of the American people. It seems to me that the vast
majority of the American people try to do the mght thing whether there
is a law compelling them to do so or not. Perhaps this philosophical be-
lief and this deep faith of mine are colored by my experience, my good
fortune of being a member of Williams, Myers & Quiggle, a long estab-
lished and distinguished law firm, and otherwise of being thrown with
people who believe in preventive legal assistance rather than the com-
bative kind, I find the greater challenge to the lawyer to be to find the
right legal answer before the deed is done rather than after it is done.
The machinery of administrative law in the federal system of govern-
ment lends itself wonderfully to the meeting of such challenge, particu-
larly in the fields of taxation and anti-trust law.

The record of private enterprise in America, as well as the military
enterprise, during and since World War II, teems with the inspirations
of countless and incalculably great achievements above and beyond the
call of duty. The one enterprise being the backbone, and the other the
staying force, of American democracy, I just don’t see how that democ-
racy can do otherwise than grow stronger and give our children and the
children of other lands better opportunities than even we have had, for

[ 757 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. This will come true if we will
only better acquaint ourselves with the spiritual ingredients which, when
added to the material ingredients, give the American Way of Life the
enduring value it has; if we will only try as hard to improve those spirit-
ual ingredients as we do so successfully the material ingredients, and
then doa real and unremitting job of selling our Way of Life to ourselves
as well as the other peoples of the world. The important thing for all of
us to keep in mind is that the aforementioned inspirations and our own
spirits and the inspirations of our fellow-men generally are a power for
our security and good, far, far greater and surer than the man-made im-
plements we hear so much — too much — about today.

DESSA MASON SKINNER, JR.

Home Address: 104 Library PL., Princeton, N. J.

Office Address: National City Bank, 55 Wall St., New York, N. ¥.

Born: July 13, 1905, Kansas City, Mo. Parents: Dessa Mason Skinner, Mary
Elizabeth Clark.

Prepared at: Westport High School, Kansas City, Mo.

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Mary Lee Poe, Aug. 9, 1941, Baltimore, Md. C4ild: Mary Lee
Cromwell, Sept. 29, 1942.

Occupation: Municipal Bond Department, National City Bank.

Military or Naval Record: Lieutenant commander, U.S.N.R.; served as navi-
gator, cruiser Concord.

Member of : Nassau Gun Club; New York Society of Security Analysts.

JOSEPH SKINNER

Home Address: 103 Irving St., Cambridge, Mass.

Office Address: Massachusetts College of Pharmacy, 179 Longwood Ave., Bos-
ton, Mass.

Born: Feb. 7, 1897, Boston, Mass. Parents: Francis Fulham Skinner, Jessie
Clow Fraser.

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1920-1921, 1922-1923, 1924-1928. Degrees: A.B., 1926
(29); A.M., 1932; Px.D., 1940.

Married: Sarah Elisabeth Steckel, Aug. 28, 1931, New York, N. Y. Children:
Jacob Fulham, Aug. 19, 19423 Sarah Reed, Nov. 18, 1946.

Occupation: Teacher of languages, Massachusetts College of Pharmacy ; teacher
of history, Northeastern University.

Military or Naval Record: Pharmacist’s mate 2/c, U.S.N.R.F., service on U.S.
Transport Kroonland, 1917-19; Office of Strategic Services, service in
the Middle East, 1944~45,.

[ 758 ]

Twenty-fifth Anmversary Report

Member of: American Oriental Society; Phi Delta Chi; Rho Chi; Church of
the Advent, Boston.

There is very little to add to the report that I submitted in 1946, ex-
cept the new baby born in that year. I have been broadcasting for the
Lowell Institute on historical subjects for the past four years. At this
writing (November, 1950) I am broadcasting my lecture course, ““The
History of Civilization,” from my classroom at Northeastern on both
F/M and short wave to Europe. The questionnaire tells me that “The
Class wants to know all about my family, my travels, hobbies, and my
social, political, or (sic) religious convictions.” The Class is a glutton for
uninteresting reading if it does, But if it is panting for information I shall
try to satisfy it.

Family: see above in vital statistics.

Travels: cf. Skinner’s unpublished works on “Through Europe in the
Orient Express.”

Hobbies: electric trains.

Social convictions: there has been no society since Dr. Johnson’s death.

Political, ditto: Iam a Federalist, a good way right of center, with lean-
ings towards Toryism.

Religious: I am a high church Anglican.

Financial: (The committee delicately left this heading out, but I shall
add it. ) For my financial standing I beg the Class to consult Bob
Dole, °26. He assures me I am solvent.

GEORGE SLAFF

Home Address: 6875 Pacific View Drive, Hollywood, Calif,

Office Address: Samuel Goldwyn Productions, Inc., 1041 N. Formosa Ave.,
Hollywood, Calif.

Born: May 22, 1906, Passaic, N. J. Parents: Abram Slaff, Molly Ginsburg.

Prepared at: Passaic High School, Passaic, N. J.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; J.D. (Leland Stanford
Univ.), 1929.

Married: Eve Budd, Dec. 27, 1944, New York, N. ¥. Children: Edward Allan,
May 10, 1947 (adopted) ; Nora Beth, July 6, 1947 (adopted).

Occupation: Attorney; general counsel, Samuel Goldwyn Productions, Inc.

Military or Naval Record: American Red Cross; served in Great Britain,
Africa, Italy, and France as Club Director, Field Director, Executive
Assistant to the Delegate to North Africa, Director of Food Supply in
Italy and in France, July, 1942, to May, 1945.

Member of: American Bar Association; National Lawyers Guild; Harvard
Club of Southern California.

[ 759 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Publications: “Death March in a French Courtroom,” Saturday Evening Pout,

March 31, 1945; articles mostly on public utility matters in The Nation,

Neee Republic, Public Utilities Fortnightly, National Lawyers Guild Review,

At this point, the easiest thing in the world is to become terribly pre-

tentious or sententious or just plain stuffy. I hope I can avoid it. Maybe
being brief will help.

Early in the practice of law I specialized in a most esoteric field —
public utility cases, but only on the public side. That was a great deal of
fun and had me roaming over a few spots around the country from my
law office in New York until 1938 when the SEC Public Utility Divi-
sion got me down to Washington. Then the Federal Power Commission,
Then the War. After being at war with the Army (and the Navy and
the Marine Corps) for six months after Pearl Harbor because they said
they weren’t taking 4-F’s and I was insisting that they should, I joined
the American Red Cross and spent about two and one-half years in
England, Africa, Italy, France, etc., etc., in a variety of capacities.

Back to Washington in 745 as chief counsel of the Federal Power
Commission and then, at the invitation of Samuel Goldwyn, I switched
over to another esoteric legal specialty — motion picture law. I came |
out to Hollywood in 1946 as general counsel to Samuel Goldwyn Pro-
ductions, Inc., and am still at it. So much for the business of making a
living and having a lot of fun at it.

The marriage, you can see from the dates some place above, has been
comparatively recent — only six years ago. Although I was late getting
around to it, I must report that I am heartily in favor of the institution.

Socially and politically —let’s say ’'m a liberal. I shan’t go into a defi-
nition of the much-used word but perhaps I can indicate what I mean
if I say that I think that if any part of our Constitution is more impor-
tant than any other part then, of course, it is the Bill of Rights. And the
Bill of Rights becomes most meaningful as the expression of the very
best essence of democracy when its full protection is extended to those
whose views our society as a whole most despises and derides. The real
tests come only when the chips are down and if at such times we permit
prejudice, hysteria, malice, fear, and all the other hobgoblins of small
minds to sacrifice the full meaning of the Bill of Rights in its greatest
tradition, then we are preparing to cut, if not our own throats,
those of our children. For, if I may say it without falling into the sen-
tentiousness that was bothering me as I began to write, the democracy
of which we are damned proud here in the United States ——and with
mighty good reason — cannot afford to be less than great at all times.
True, we've survived temporary aberrations over our history, but with

[ 760 J

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

the sharpening tensions of history, I think that we cannot afford in the
future even such temporary abolitions of constitutional rights as marked
the days of the Palmer raids, etc., after the first World War, and which
seem to be returning to haunt the American scene right now.

This is a hell of a note to introduce into a happy 25th annual Class
Report, but it seems to me to be more than a trifle important that those
of us who have had pretty good treatment at the hands of society do
what we can to keep it at its very best functioning and in its finest tradi-

tion.

HOVEY EDWARD SLAYTON, JR.

Home Address: 20 Stonleigh Towers, St. Louis 24, Mo.

Office Address: Slayton & Co., 408 Olive St., St. Louis, Mo.

Born: Nov. 22, 1902, Manchester, N. H. Parents: Hovey Edward Slayton,

Luella Belle Hoyt.

Prepared at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926.

Married: Mary Elisabeth MacManus, 1927, Utica, N. Y. (divorced 1940) ;
Gladys Crawford, Jan. 16, 1943, Fort Edwards, N. Y. Children: John
Hoyt, Jan. 30, 1928; Patricia, Sept. 26, 1929; John Crawford Hayes,
April 4, 1930 (stepson).

Harvard Son: John Hoyt Slayton, ’50.

Occupation: Executive vice-president, Managed Funds, Inc. (investment trust)
and Slayton & Company, Inc. (investment banking).

Military or Naval Record: Indoctrination at Quonset Point, R. 1., February—
April, 19423 security officer and assistant executive oficer, Navy Pier,
Chicago, IIl.; executive officer, Naval School of Registration, Columbus,
Ohio; commanding officer, Naval School of Recognition, Gulfport,
Miss.; discharged Aug. 31, 1945.

It seems as though I have never settled down in any one place since I
left college. The first year I spent travelling through almost every State
in the Union except the far West, selling shoes, then settling down for
one year in Chicago. However, in June, 1928, I became interested in
one of America’s newest industries, the investment trust field, and after
six weeks of intense investigation in Boston, New York, and Philadel-
phia, I became associated with the Massachusetts Investors Trust, on
the sales end.

In November, 1928, the firm of Slayton-Learoyd was formed to be-
come the general distributors for the Massachusetts Investors Trust,
which is now the oldest and largest trust in this country, with present
assets around three hundred million dollars, Subsequently, we changed
our name to Massachusetts Distributors, and the outgrowth of this was

[ 761 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

the firm of Vance Saunders & Company, of which I was a limited part-
ner until March, 1949.

The day after the Japanese struck at Pearl Harbor, I offered my
services to the United States Navy, and on February 11, 1942, was com-
missioned a senior grade lieutenant in Uncle Sam’s Naval Aviation. I
reported for indoctrination at Quonset Point, Rhode Island, as one of
the so-called “Ninety-Day Wonders.” While my four years of duty in
the Navy were not too exciting because I did not go out of the country,
nevertheless, they were extremely interesting. Because I had joined up
early in the war, I had more responsibility placed on me than I had
counted on. My first duty assignment was at Navy Pier, Chicago, where
I spent almost two years, first as security officer, and then as assistant
executive officer. In August, 1944, I received my appointment as execu-
tive officer to the United States Naval Recognition School at Columbus,
Ohio. Three months later, when the school was transferred to Gulf-
port, Mississippi, I became commanding officer and received my other
half-stripe. I was fortunate to be one of the first officers to be dis-
charged in the Eighth Naval District in New Orleans on August 31,
1945, and although I was never one to be impressed by rank, I could not

help but smile when BuPers gave me my scrambled eggs in November.

It did not take me long to get back into civilian life, and, naturally, I
leaned towards my association with the investment trust field and on
September 7, 1945, I came to St. Louis and made arrangements to be-
come associated with my cousin, Hilton H. Slayton, in starting our own
investment trust. For the next two years I lived in Lake Forest, Illinois,
and on February 11, 1947, our firm bought out Managed Funds, with
an original investment of $100,000. In October, 1948, Gladdy and I
moved to St. Louis, due mainly to the fact that as a director and execu-
tive vice-president of Managed Funds, my responsibility called for my
being here at all times.

The past three and a half years have been a long and hard struggle,
but there has been a lot of satisfaction in creating something new. Dur-
ing these years we have established a rate of growth that has been un-
equalled in our industry, as Managed Funds’ present assets are very
close to eleven million dollars and we confidently look forward to the
day when we shall have between fifty and one hundred million dollars.

The highlight since I left college occurred on January 16, 1943,
when Gladdy and I were married in New York, and I can truthfully
say that it has been her understanding and codperation that have made
me consider myself one of the real fortunate men in this busy, nerve-
wracking world,

[ 762 ]

T wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

During the past twenty-five years I also have been fortunate to have
found enough time to make several trips to the West Indies, as well as to
Africa and Europe. Of late, my hobbies have confined themselves most-
ly to working around home, and playing golf. During the last few years
I have not been very sociable due to the fact that I have been tied down
to the old “‘business grind.”

In spite of a troubled world, I still have a tremendous amount of con-~
fidence and faith in America.

EDWARD BOWERS SLOCUM

Home Address: 960 Hudson St., Denver, Colo.

Office Address: Central Bank & Trust Co., 15th St., Denver 2, Colo.

Born: Aug. 3, 1904, Burlington, Vt. Parents: Allison Wing Slocum, Mary
Whiting Bowers.

Prepared at: Burlington High School, Burlington, Vt.

Years wf College: 1922-1927. Degrees: §.B., 1926 (28) ; M.B.A., 1930.

Married: Catherine G. Cannon, June 13, 1936, Boston, Mass. Children: Peter
Cannon, Feb. 8, 1948; Catherine Alison, Dec. 18, 1949.

Harvard Brother: Allison Whiting Slocum, ’28.

Occupation: Vice-president, Central Bank & Trust Company.

Member of : University Club of Denver; Cherry Hills Country Club.

WILLIAM JACOB SMALL

Home Address: 19 Seaver St., Brockton, Mass.

Office Address: William J. Small Agency, Inc., 216 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

Born: July 29, 1905, Brockton, Mass. Parents: Leon Small, Nellie Guren.

Prepared at: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Unmarried.

Occupation: Owner, advertising agency.

Offices Held: Member, Federal Union; president, Brockton District, Zionist
Organization of America, 1939-42.

~The worst aspect of sitting down to a report like this is to discover
that the more you have changed the more you are the same person you
were in ’26; and, oh yes, to recall Barrie’s remark that a man’s hum-
blest hour is when he sits down to compare the volume as it is with what
he hoped to make it.
Within the past twenty-five years I have come to the reluctant rec-
ognition that some of my eternal favorites were not quite bright. I still
love Honest Abe Lincoln but I think he was stupid when he said that

[ 763 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

early, etc., made a man. There are so many exceptions to this that they
destroy the rule. Take my own case. As head of a moderate-sized adver-
tising agency, I applied myself vigorously, but I have had to resign my-
self to shooting for my second million because I have found the first too
elusive to catch sight of, never mind catch. Yet I have watched other
men who have worked less hard make their million through accident,
personality, or simply talent and brains, So much for that —— except that
my agency is located at 216 Tremont Street, Boston. (‘This is just to
tip off you who have sons with wayward ideas about plunging into an
advertising career that advertising is not a profession that gives you any-
thing for diffidence and good manners.) To level with you, however, I
can’t remember practising that early-bed, early-rise ritual. Late hours,
social or industrious, have been another thing. Summing up, my work
has been colorful, stimulating, challenging, and sometimes exhausting.
From Einstein’s to Madeleine Carroll’s husband’s, I can imagine other
careers I would have preferred, but few that I would have enjoyed more
unless I were to change, myself.

On the intimate side, I report that I have not yet relinquished my
stoutly-defended and over-valued bachelordom. Okay, for the Class
Report I give the truth: I have been overlooked. Perhaps if a woman
assured me good football players, for the sake of Harvard I might. ...

On Harvard I am still chauvinistic —the pearl of universities, not
without weaknesses, but truly great. Despite all the plagues and pillories
that the flesh and the atomic-charged atmosphere is heir to, I am for life.
T’d like to live to be a hundred and then some. This may be sheer youth-
ful exuberance and naiveté, but I relish the feeling. For further intelli-
gence and, I hope, reiteration of this state, refer to my Fiftieth Report.

Meanwhile, your health — and blessing to you all.

FRANK PAUL SMALLWOOD, JR.

Home Address: 1383 Sunset Ave., Decatur, Ill.

Office Address: 401 Longview P1., Decatur, III.

Born: Dec. 21, 1903, Decatur, Il]. Parents: Frank Pendennis Smallwood,
Leora Sanderlin.

Prepared at: Decatur High School, Decatur, Il,

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B., 1930; A.M. (Univ.
of I}inois), 1939.

Married: Doris Ellen Lyons, Sept. 1, 1931, Decatur, Il. Children: David Paul,
Feb, 17, 1943; Susan Beth, Nov. 17, 1948.

Occupation: Executive director and secretary-treasurer, Decatur Housing Au-
thority ; secretary-treaturer, Cantrell Improvement Corporation.

[ 764 ]

—

Twenty- fifth Anneversary Report

Following graduation, I attended Harvard Law School, receiving
my LL.B. in 1930. The following year I married my high school sweet-
heart and opened my law office. The depression hit the Midwest and
after four years of accumulated accounts with few collections, I en-
tered public school teaching. My wife continued to finance us with her
piano and kindergarten teaching and church organist position. I taught
school for seven years in a local junior high school and four years in the
senior high school.

Upon entering the teaching field, I entered the summer school at the
University of Illinois and was granted an A.M. in 1939. Throughout
these eleven years I worked constantly to improve the schools and the
position of the teachers. I served a year as president of the local teachers
association, three years as director and five years as president of the
teachers credit union. I also served a three-year term on the executive
committee of the south central division of the Illinois Education Asso-
ciation and then a year as president of the division and a year as director.
I served on the teacher welfare committee of the Illinois Education
Association for five years, during which time a teachers’ mutual casualty
insurance company was organized, I was delegate to the NEA in New
York in 1938 and five times to the Illinois Education Association An-
nual Meeting. I also have served as secretary of the Decatur Council of
Education for the past eight years.

Improvements consummated in the local schools during my eleven
years in the Decatur Public Schools included the inauguration of kinder-
garten for the five-year-old, expanded vocational offerings, increased
salary schedule from a top of $2,050 to $4,500. At this point I left the
schools and went to public housing.

For the past four years I have served as executive director of the
Decatur Housing Authority which operates 434 units of low-income,
low-rent housing and 210 of veterans’ temporary re-use housing. Dur-
ing this time I have attended N.A.H.O. conventions in Cleveland, New
York, and Boston, served two years as director of the North Central
Region of N.A.H.O., and chairman of the membership committee.

T have been church school superintendent in a church with a member-
ship of 3000, chairman of the properties commission of this same church
for a three-year term during which the sanctuary was redecorated, the
entire exterior of the church tuck-pointed and waterproofed and two
parsonages purchased. I have served as secretary of the official board for
eighteen years and have been “conference trustee” of the I]linois Con-
ference of the Methodist Church for five years.

I have been busy. The busiest time started on February 27, 1943,

[ 765 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

when David Paul came to our house. My wife and I thought we were
busy before this date, but the busy time really started with David’s ar-
rival at our house. We were busy as busy and got busier when Susan
Beth arrived on November 17, 1948. Now we are planning for college
and asking ourselves, “What did we used to do with our time?”

My wife is in her twenty-seventh year on the staff at the Millikin
School of Music, Decatur, and her twenty-first year as church organist
at the First Methodist Church. We work, travel when we can, and en-
joy life every day we live.

Harvard helped me to a full conviction that we are our brothers’
keepers and our whole life expectancy lies in helping one another day by
day and being better persons for helping others. I shall ever be grateful
for my years at Harvard and I try to show it by my small but annual gift
to the Harvard Fund.

CHARLES ALLEN SMART

Home Address: Oak Hill, R.F.D. 3, Chillicothe, Ohio.

Office Address: Ohio University, Athens, Ohio.

Born: Nov. 30, 1904, Cleveland, Ohio. Parents: George Smart, Lucy Allen.

Prepared at: Richmond Hill High School, Queensborough, New York, N.Y.

Years im College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926.

Married; Margaret Warren Hussey, Jan. 1, 1935, Plymouth, Mass.

Occupation: Writer; at present, writer-in-residence, Ohio University, teach-
ing English composition and literature.

Military or Naval Record: Enlisted U.S, Naval Reserve, May 18, 1942; ap-
prentice seaman, signalman, quartermaster, lieutenant (j.g.) and lieuten-
ant in ust #456 (New Guinea), 138 (Normandy), and 1122 (Oki-
nawa); in last ship, executive officer, navigator, briefly commanding
officer; released Sept. 28, 1945.

Offices Held: Member board of directors, Ross County Farm Bureau, 1940;
member board of trustees, Ross County Historical Society, 1948-49.

Member of : Ross County Farm Bureau; Ross County Historical Society.

Publications: New England Holiday, 1931; The Brass Cannon, 1933; R.F.D.,
1938; Rosscommon, 1940; Wild Geese and How to Chase Them, 19415
Sassafras Hill, 1947.

Although as a writer I am keenly interested in the design of human
events, I do not yet know enough about myself and the world to see
clearly the basic design of my own life so far. However, here so sud-
denly is the time when each of us has to make the attempt and at least
various forces can be seen at play.

From youth I have had a passion to understand, feel, and imagine,

[ 766 j

L'wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

and to communicate some of the results in words. This passion or habit
has given me great pleasure and pain. It has earned me part of my living
and given me a very small reputation. It has also made my life incoher-
ent and mildly hazardous. I think that if and when I find my best vein,
I shall write much better. The attempt seems worth some risk and dam-
age, and I shall keep on making it, in any case.

Yet writing is notoriously an economic gamble, and writers too are
human beings with proud commitments. I worked for several years in
the publishing business, and as a free-lance hack. After a junket in Eu-
rope, I taught English at Choate. On inheriting an old home and farm
in Ohio, I farmed for eight years, and finally made money at it. At
thirty-seven, I enlisted, partly because I believed in the war, and partly
because I couldn’t miss the experience. On release, I was too poor and
tired to go back into farming and got my present job as an unconven-
tional and impermanent teacher. This won’t last long, and I don’t know
what will come next. All these jobs have been fascinating. They have
interfered with and enriched my writing, and my writing has interfered
with and enriched them.

The luckiest event in my life has been my marriage. I hope that we
can make it last, and I hope that my peculiar work and life have not cost
my wife too much, and will not do so.

There are, of course, many other forces obscurely at play. I have,
more or less, the “background,” home, interests, and habits of a petty,
Middle Western, liberal “country gentleman” — but without the in-
come to support all this, and with a somewhat Bohemian temperament
in conflict with it. Last year I got a leave of absence and we went to
Mexico to study painting, an old dream and enthusiasm now paying vast
private but non-negotiable dividends. We have a good many old and
dear friends, including even relations. I feel that Harvard has given me
too much more than I have been able to give it. In politics [ am an unre-
constructed New Dealer. In education I hold to the arts, the true sci-
ences, and standards — which of course means being a conservative. In
religion I am an agnostic and a mystic, with an aesthetic morality — and
this, like some of the other events and attitudes reported here, is not so
inconsistent as it may seem to be.

Looking back from this point, I find my life lucky, rich, and still
promising, if odd and chaotic. Looking forward, I want to clean it more
thoroughly of egotism and of egotism’s shadow, anxiety, and I want to
write at least one fine novel and one fine biography, With even more
luck, I may get this old farm really in order and make a really good
wash drawing or two.

[ 767 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

ALVAN GEORGE SMITH

Home Address: 23 Everell Rd., Winchester, Mass.
Office Address: First National Bank of Boston, 67 Milk St., Boston, Mass,

Born: July 5, 1905, Medford, Mass. Parents: Thomas Smith, Evelyn Gertrude
Wallis.

Prepared at: Nedford High School, Medford, Mass.

Years ts College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Alice Stuart Mitchell, June 6, 1931, Winchester, Mass. CAildren:
Alvan George, Jr., Feb. 24, 1932; Langdon Mitchell, April 24, 1934,
Elizabeth Langdon, July 27, 1938 (died Feb. 23, 1943); Jeffrey Wil-
liam, July 27, 1944.

Occupation: Vice-president, First National Bank of Boston.

Member of : Harvard Club of Boston; Winchester Country Club.

There has been no particular change in my life since I reported five
years ago. I have continued to sit in the east transept of Boston’s “Ca-
thedral of Finance” listening to stories of success and failure and assist-
ing in both. Fortunately, the former have been in the majority so that I
seldom feel I am running the charitable end of the bank. Seriously, I
have thoroughly enjoyed my business life and, as one might expect, feel
I am with the best bank in the country.

I have never spent very much time in town affairs and, therefore,
have no minor successes or failures to report in that quarter. Most of my
time outside of working hours has been spent with my family — bring-
ing up three boys takes a fair amount of time in itself. The eldest boy is
finishing preparatory school this year and will head for engineering
school, although in all probability he will have to spend some time in the
Army first. Langdon has one more year of high school and hopes to
enter Harvard. The youngest is just beginning school so that we are
starting a new round with him. I must say that I am always glad now
when spring arrives when I can look forward to a good many weekends
in Maine where I can do as little as I please as slowly as I please. It is an
excellent antidote to the pressures of threatened war, draft, atom
bombs, rationing, price ceilings, and other things which complicate life
today. It would be pleasant indeed to have these sources of worry well
settled by 1956, but one has to be quite an optimist to expect that.

I have already attended the two pre-reunion gatherings of the Class

and they were very good fun, and the whole Smith family is looking
forward to the event in June.

[ 768 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

CLYDE FLEETWOOD SMITH

Home Address: 1332 Midland Ave., Bronxville 8, N. Y.

Office Address: Turner Construction Co., 420 Lexington Ave., New York, N. Y.

Born: Jan. 25, 1905, Malden, Mass. Parents: Allison Clarke Smith, Leila
Grace Stone.

Prepared at: Malden High School, Malden, Mass,

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degree: 8.B.1n C.E., 1927.

Married: Dorothy A. Crossman, Aug. 18, 1934, Hastings-on-Hudson, N. Y.
Children: Valerie, May 26, 1938 (died Sept. 21,1944); Cynthia Gwen,
Feb. 20, 1946.

Occupation: General contractor ; construction project engineer.

Offices Held: Treasurer, 1935-38, board of governors, 1939-41, 1941-48,
Harvard Engineering Society; real estate officer, Dry Dock Savings Bank,
1941-44; first vice-president, Savings Bank Mortgage & Real Estate
Forum, 1940-41.

Member of : Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Engineering Society; Lee-
wood Golf Club.

With our arrival at the twenty-fifth milestone on the road leaving
Cambridge, this seems to be the customary point at which to pause for
review and comment — and refreshment.

In the early years in the journey I inflicted myself upon the construc-
tion industry, which bore up remarkably well under the strain. The de-
pression brought a fork in the road and IJ travelled the one labelled
“banking” for a considerable distance. The indoctrination along this
route seemed successful on the surface, but eventually it proved to be
only a detour. Now back on the construction highway, where the scen-
ery is pleasant, my present intentions are to remain on this particular
road.

During this same period many of my classmates have come to be con-
sidered leaders in industry, science, or the professions. I think I can best
be described as the median statistic.

Along the way I have long since given up the young man’s tennis and
squash for the old man’s golf and bowling. I am also one of the growing
number who prefer to see football — there’s a foreign word — by tele-
vision rather than by braving the elements.

In retrospect the years have been enjoyable — particularly those with
my family. There were dark days but the joy has greatly exceeded the
sorrow. We are looking to the future with hopes for still better things to
come,

[ 769 ]

. uss asamatienmiatatauteinentbeatatstamanncstinsaesii

Harvard Class of 1926

** GEORGE EMERSON SMITH

Bora: July 4, 1902, Worcester, Mass. Parents: Edwin Walter Smith, 797, So-
phia Glynes Tallmadge.

Prepared at: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.

Married: Olivia Benson Staples, Oct. 2, 1928, Roanoke, Va. CAild: Olivia,
1936.

Died: Nay 31, 1938, Worcester, Mass.

George Emerson Smith was an active participant in many college af-
fairs as an undergraduate at Harvard. He was interested in crew and a
member of the freshman four-oared crew. He was on the business board
of the Lampoon, and on the staff of the Freshman Red Book. After work-
ing as a member of the Freshman Musical Clubs he became a power in
the resurgence of the University Instrumental Clubs, serving as secre-
tary-treasurer during his junior and senior years. His memberships also
included the Pierian Sodality and the Speakers’ Club, and he was chair-
man of the Senior Nominating Committee.

Smith’s first job after graduation was with his father in the wholesale
shoe business. After six months he switched to finance which proved to
be of lasting interest to him. He joined Dillon, Read & Company, train-
ing in their Boston office and in their bond school in New York and
eventually selling for them in Worcester. In March, 1929, he left this
company to become a salesman in the Worcester office of Lee, Higginson
& Company. A year later he was made manager of this office. At the
time of his death he was Worcester representative of the Lee Higginson
Corporation.

Smith was active in Harvard and community affairs in spite of the ill-
ness which handicapped him for many years and ultimately resulted in
his death. He was secretary of the Harvard Club of Worcester and treas-
urer of the Worcester Rowing Club. When his illness precluded more
vigorous activities, he became a skillful worker in wood, and builder of
ship models, and as a philatelist had a fine collection of American issues.

He was survived by his wife and daughter.

GOUVERNEUR ELWES SMITH ~-

Home Address: Berry Hill Road, Oyster Bay, Long Island, N. Y.

Office Address: Cunard Line, 25 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

Born: Oct. 7, 1904, Brooklyn, N, Y. Parents: Gouverneur Elwes Smith, Jessie
Milne.

Prepared at: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

[ 770 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Years in College: 1922-1925.

Unmarried.

Occupation: Manager of the tour department, Cunard Line, New York.
Military or Naval Record: Four years with the British Ministry of War Trans-

port.

After leaving college in the fall of 1925 on account of my father’s
death, I spent one year in the lumber business. In 1927 I joined the
passenger department of the Cunard Line. In 1928 the company sent
me abroad on an educational trip. I spent five months in Paris, several
weeks in England and then proceeded to Monaco to board the Franconia
on her Around the World Cruise as a member of the cruise staff.

Shortly after my return to New York, I was transferred to the tour
department of which I eventually became assistant manager and later
manager. During the war I was lent to the British Ministry of War
Transport where I spent about four years as assistant to the manager of
the passenger division, We handled the priority passenger travel in trans-
ports and other ships. At the end of the war I returned to Cunard to
reorganize the tour department of which J am again the manager. Our
function is to arrange transportation by sea to all parts of the world.

I am still single and live in an old Long Island farmhouse with my
mother and a younger brother. I have been abroad five times including
twice in the last two years. Both times I visited Rome and had a special
audience with Pope Pius XII.

For many years I was active in community affairs in the Boy Scouts,
the Syosset Community Association, the vestry of Christ Church in
Oyster Bay, and on the local committee for religious education. I no

longer have any connection with these activities. As far as politics are
concerned I have maintained an independent status.

Born and educated an Episcopalian, I met the Oxford Group (later
_ known as Moral Re-Armament) in 1936 and immediately became at-
tracted to the movement in which I was active for over ten years. In
1947 I joined the Roman Catholic Church. My conversion was the
outgrowth of about eight years’ consideration. My first contact with
the church was when I attended a retreat for men in the steamship
business at Mount Manresa on Staten Island under the auspices of the
Jesuits. I went to these retreats for several years and then lapsed until
1946 when I returned again. In December of that year (just ten years
after I had met the Oxford Group almost to the day) I definitely made
up my mind that I wanted to become a Roman Catholic. In January I
started taking instructions from a Franciscan priest and in July, 1947;
I was received into the church.

[771 ]

a 1. lise aa pee aca aaNAtaanN a ROO TO a INTs Aan

Harvard Class of 1926

JOHN STORY SMITH

Home Address: Gypsy Run, Gwynedd Valley, Pa.
Office Address: Wings, Inc., Lincoln-Liberty Bldg., Philadelphia 7, Pa.

Born: June 11, 1904, Philadelphia, Pa. Parents: Edward Brinton Smith, Laura
Howell Jenks.

Prepared at: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

Years in College? 1922-1924.

Married: Katherine Churchman Snowden, May 7, 1927, Bryn Mawr, Pa.
Children: Sidney Howell, Feb. 3, 1928; Nancy Snowden, March 20,
1930; Elizabeth Story, June 11, 1939.

Harvard Brothers: Albert Lawrence Smith, ’12 (deceased) ; Geoffrey Story:
Smith, ’22.

Occupation: Aviation; chairman of the board and treasurer, Wings, Inc.

Offices Held: Governor, 1939-45, member executive committee, 1941-45,
vice-president, 1943-44, Aeronautical Chamber of Commerce of Amer-
ica (now Aircraft Industries Association of America) ; trustee, Aircraft
Owners & Pilots Association, since 1946.

Member of: Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences; The State in Schuylkill;
The Rabbit; Philadelphia Club; Harvard Club of New York; Harvard
Club of Philadelphia; Gulph Mills Golf Club; Whitemarsh Valley Hunt
Club (president) ; Philadelphia Aviation Country Club (former presi-
dent).

Looking back to college days, my principal regret is that I did not
then have a better idea of what Harvard has to offer to any young man
who has the opportunity and the foresight to take advantage of it. I left
college in my sophomore year, at the request of the Dean, and have
kicked myself for it many times since.

On receiving the boot from Cambridge, I got a job with the Philadel-
phia Electric Company, which assigned me to sleuthing up the smelliest
back alleys in Philadelphia to list the houses that did not have electric
wire running into them. I graduated from that to worming my way in
the front doors of these same houses to persuade them that they should
no longer be without the advantages of the electric age, After two years
of serving progress in that way, I spent three in the investment banking
business. On being moved from the accounting department into sales at
the beginning of 1929, I decided that I didn’t enjoy selling securities at
the then current values and that there should be great opportunities in
the budding aviation industry. With no thought of the headaches that
were to go with those opportunities in the next ten years, I blithely quit
my job, learned to fly, and set up a small airplane distributorship and
flying service with my flight instructor.

Just about that time the Jacobs Aircraft Engine Company was

[ 772 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

formed by a group of my friends to produce and sell a new radial air-
craft engine that had been developed by a Philadelphia engineer. They
asked me to join them as a stockholder and as secretary-treasurer of the
company. Since this was just the kind of opportunity I was looking for, I
plunged right in. Almost immediately came the 1929 crash, and for
some years aircraft engines sold about as readily as gold-plated bathtubs.
We were usually not more than a jump ahead of the sheriff, and I would
hate to go through those years again, but they produced many colorful
and entertaining associations. Somehow we managed to stay in business,
and by the late thirties we were powering a majority of the planes pro-
duced in our power class and had engines operating in a number of for-
eign countries, as well as in most of the forty-eight states. In addition to
correspondence with all parts of the globe, customers dropping in at the
factory were almost as likely to be from Calcutta, Nairobi, or the Yukon,
as from Des Moines, Dallas, or Seattle. This was stimulating, but the
volume of business was still small, and meeting our bills and payrolls
was still a constant problem.

In 1940 we got our first large contract, from the Canadian govern-
ment for engines to train the R.C.A.F. cadets, soon followed by U.S.
contracts which entailed expansion of our production by 5000% in a
matter of months. Just as we were beginning to hit our stride in our own
plant, we were called upon to build, equip, and operate a million square-
foot government plant for the production of Pratt & Whitney engines,
in addition. Fortunately, with the assistance of the management- engi-
neering firm of Ford, Bacon & Davis, we were able to meet all assign-
ments given to us. During this period I was vice-president and secretary,
and in addition to processing all contracts and my other duties at the
plant, I was the company’s representative with the government agen-
cies in Washington and with the industry trade association. In these con-
nections I did quite a lot of work on various committees concerned with
general wartime problems of the aircraft industry.

In the spring of 1945, when the aircraft procurement program had
been practically completed, we received a fairly good offer for the pur-
chase of the company. As the postwar problems in our field looked pretty
formidable, we decided to accept it.

In the meantime, Wings, Inc., the aviation sales and service organi-
zation that I had started j in 1929, had grown through many tribulations
and needed attention, so I went back into it actively. It is far from an
easy street, but it is coming along encouragingly as more and more busi-
ness concerns are discovering the time that can be saved by the use of
private airplanes.

[ 773 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Throughout these years I have been happily married to the same
wife, and because she is a top-notch gardener and a pretty effective farm
hand ina pinch, we have been able to enjoy life on a pleasant place in the
country. In addition to working on our place, I have found relaxation in
riding and fox hunting. We have no candidates for Harvard, but do
have three highly satisfactory daughters. Since my business enables me
to keep a small plane economically, we have flown pretty much all over
the country from time to time, but haven’t been out of it for a good
many years except for Canada and the West Indies. Speaking of the lat-
ter, we were fortunate enough to be invited to cruise on a yawl from
Trinidad up the entire length of the Lesser Antilles last winter, and one
of the high spots of the trip was finding John Knowlton, ’26, whom I

hadn’t seen since college days, living on a delightful plantation on
Dominica, the most beautiful and most inaccessible of the larger Wind-
ward Islands.

RICHARD ESTABROOK SMITH

Home Address: 1737 York Ave., New York 28, N.Y.

Office Address: Allied Carbon and Ribbon Manufacturing Corp., 165 Duane
St., New York 13, N.Y.

Burn: Aug. 13, 1905, Melrose, Mass. Parents: Willis Estabrook Smith, Lillian
May Wing.

Prepared at: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Doris Dickie, April 28, 1927, Melrose, Mass. CAéldren: Robert
Dickie, Aug. 13, 1928; Stanley Estabrook, Oct. 11, 1929.

Harvard Sons: Robert Dickie Smith, ’49; Stanley Estabrook Smith, ’so.

Occupation: Factory manager, Allied Carbon and Manufacturing Corporation.

Member of : Port Washington Yacht Club.

The story of the past twenty-five years for me seems to be about what
was to be expected: I have married, raised two children, and have been
able to keep the wolf from the door. My work has been entirely in the
field of manufacturing, starting with industrial engineering and devel-
oping into factory management.

Doris and I have spent almost twenty-four years proving that a mixed
marriage (Catholic-Unitarian) can be a success, and we are happier
than ever. Our boys have grown up, graduated from Harvard, and
started on their careers, As this is written Bob has entered a seminary in
Boston and Stan is a process engineer in a radio tube factory in Phila-
delphia.

The task of carving out a career and raising a family has taken most

[ 774 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

of our time and resources but now we feel that we are starting over
again and can develop new interests. So we have bought a power cruiser
and have just spent the most delightful summer of our lives cruising
weekends and on our vacation in Long Island Sound.

We feel that we have achieved our major objectives and hope that we
may continue to be as comfortable and contented as we are now.

WILLIAM THOMPSON SMITH

Home Address: 11 Wyndehurst Drive, Madison, N. J.

Office Address: 14 Wall St., New York, N. ¥.

Born: Aug. 30, 1902, Butte, Mont. Parents: Arthur John Smith, Ellen Powell.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Edith M. Briscoe, Jan, 23, 1928, East Orange, N. J. Children: Rich-
ard Arthur, Jan. 30, 1931; Margaret Ellen, Jan. 15, 1936.

Harvard Brother: Thomas Arthur Smith, 718.

Occupation: Assistant secretary, assistant treasurer, Newmont Mining Corpora-
tion,

Offices Held: Director, Newmont Mining Corporation; treasurer, Boyce
Thompson Institute for Plant Research, Inc.

Member of : Downtown Athletic Club.

CROCKER SNOW

Home Address: Ipswich, Mass. —
Office Address: Logan Airport, Boston, Mass.
Born: Feb, 26, 1905, Boston, Mass. Parents: Frederic Elmer Snow, Lilian
‘Townsend.
Prepared at; Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.
Married: Lilias Sterling Sheffield Moriarty, Sept. 24, 1931, Bristol, R. I. (di-
| vorced 1934)3 Janice Vaughan Little, May 21, 1938, Falmouth Fore-
side, Maine. CAildren: Donald Vaughan Little, Nov. 21, 19343 Janice
Patricia Little, April 21, 1937 (stepchildren) ; Crocker, Jr., Feb. 21,
1940.
Harvard Brothers: William Townsend Snow, ’18, LL.B., ’21; Kitchell Snow,
20 (deceased).
Occupation: Director of Aeronautics, Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Military or Naval Record: Commanding officer, North Atlantic Sector, Air
Corps Ferrying Command, 1941-42; Hq., Air Transport Command,
1942; Special Siberian Mission, 1943; commanding officer, Snow Provi-
sional Group (B-17), Tennessce and U.K., 1943-44; deputy CO and

[ 775 ]

—~

Harvard Class of 1926

CO 498th Bomb Group (B-29), Kansas and Saipan, 1944-45; DCS
A-2 73rd Bomb Wing (B-29) Saipan, 1945.
Ofices Held: President, National Association of State Aviation Officials, since

October, 1950; member, Governor’s Civil Defense Council, since Sep-
tember, 1950.

Member of: Myopia Hunt Club; Tennis & Raquet Club; Long Island Aviation
Country Club; Harvard Travellers Club.

Publications: Mostly professional ; a few magazine articles,

Whether it was because of two older brothers who served in the U.S.
Naval Air Service and the Royal Flying Corps during World War I, or
whether some other aerial influence was at work, aviation has domi-
nated my activities since college. During 1927, Law School lost in a
running fight with the renascent Harvard Flying Club, of which Fred
Ames, Augy Pabst, and I were the first three pilots. Ever since then I
have been mixed up with airplanes in business, public life, and personal
transportation and war.

The business started as Skyways, Inc., selling, operating, and repair-
ing aircraft at Boston, Lawrence, Portland, Maine, and Cape Cod, and
continued as Ames-Skyways until the organized hard times of the mid-
Roosevelt era brought about its voluntary dissolution. The public life
has consisted mostly of writing and then administering an aeronautics
law for the Commonwealth since 1939. The personal transportation,
based on the consecutive ownership of airplanes since 1927, includes two
honeymoons, years of commuting from Cape Cod and Ipswich to Bos-
ton, and a nearly complete avoidance of trains, boats, or cars for long
trips to anywhere. This utility, incidentally, has been made possible only
because of backyard airstrips at home, and as a result of complete equip-
ment for bad weather flying.

The war began in 1941, with the task of setting up an air ferry route
to England, and ended in Saipan, where I had the good fortune to be
able successfully to fly, as pilot, quite a few B-29 missions against Japan.
From our bird’s-eye vantage point, the Hiroshima and Nagasaki atom
bombs were clearly unnecessary and anti-climactic, and the Russian al-
liance against Japan was stupid for us and designed to benefit no one but
the U.S.S.R.

My family life has been varied but very fortunate, and has been spent
mostly in Boston, Cape Cod, and Ipswich. After the war we somewhat
reluctantly migrated from the south to the north shore, largely for the
sake of school for the children. We now have a minor farm, with a little

of about everything, and we are building a slightly contemporary house
on the Ipswich River.

yw

[ 776 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

My political beliefs are best illustrated by the fact that I have voted
religiously for president and have yet to pick a winner. Franklin Roose-
velt will go down in my history book as being primarily responsible for
World War III, if it comes in this generation.

Socially, I have always detested the Russian experiment and all of its
by-products at home and abroad, particularly those seemingly innocuous
ones that are finding their way into our schools and colleges.

My hobbies are varied but mostly concerned with the out-of-doors,
Tennis, horses, water and snow skiing, and duck hunting seem to be
semi-permanent fixtures (I hope). Polo and road racing were once in-
cluded but have lapsed, for economic reasons. I can usually count on
some member of my family, most frequently the youngest, to give me
competition and companionship.

My proudest accomplishment at the moment (December, 1950) is
an AAF staff paper written in 1942 about some proposed far northern
air ferrying bases. In it I discounted their value for that purpose, but
predicted that the war we were in would result in making the United
States, the U.S.S.R., and China the world’s most powerful countries;
and recommended that we build them for use in the next war which
would probably be with Russia, or China, or both! | .

I only hope that the bungling of our inadequate President and his
mostly inept Cabinet won’t justify my position.

DAVIDSON SOMMERS

Home Address: 3620 Prospect Ave., N.W,, Washington, D. C.; Sharon, Conn.

Office Address: International Bank, 1818 H St., N.W., Washington, D.C.

Boru: Feb. 15, 1905, St. Paul, Minn. Parents: Charles Leissring Sommers,
Rosa Davidson.

Prepared at: St. Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn.

Years in College: 1922~1926. Degrees: A.B. magna cum n laude, 1926; LL.B. cum
laude,1930.

Married: Alice Decker, June 30, 1938, New York, N. Y. Children: Elizabeth;
Marian.

Harvard Brothers: Charles Leissring Sommers, Jr.. °31 (deceased); Frank
Morris Sommers, ?37 (deceased).

Occupation: Lawyer; general counsel, International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development,

Military or Naval Record; Commissioned 1st lieutenant, Army Air Corps,
A.U.S., 1942; discharged, lieutenant colonel, 1945; lieutenant colonel,
Air Force Reserve.

Wartime Government Posts: Special assistant to Secretary of War, 1946.

[ 777 ]

Flarvard Class of 1926

Ofices Held; Assistant corporation counsel, City of New York, 1937—38; mem-
ber of firm, Parker & Duryee, New York, 1938-42.

Memder of : Bar of New York, 1931; American Bar Association; Association of
the Bar of City of New York; Harvard Club of New York.

Since graduation from the Law School in 1930, my working life has
divided itself into three phases. First, I spent twelve years of general
practice as associate and partner in a New York law firm, with an eight-
een months’ interlude of legal jobs for the LaGuardia administration.
Next, there were four years of war work, mostly Army Air Forces
procurement at Wright Field and Pentagon staff work in the office of
the Assistant Secretary of War, winding up with six months as a civilian
in the War Department. Next, and still continuing, I have been four
years with an international organization engaged in raising funds and
extending credit for international capital investment. I have enjoyed
all of it.

I married a sculptor — a good one — and find that watching my wife
engage in hard manual labor is a thoroughly satisfactory hobby. When
not lifting stone carvings into and out of station wagons, we devote our
leisure to raising two daughters and maintaining a precariously long-
range grip on a run-down Connecticut farm.

HORACE HOMER SOULE

Home Address: 978 High St., Dedham, Mass.

Office Address: Brewer & Lord, 40 Broad St., Boston, Mass.

Born: April 4, 1904, Brookline, Mass, Parents: Horace Homer Soule, Adeline
Merit Train.

Prepared at: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

- Married: Barbara Wendell, Dec. 29, 1934, Chicago, Ill. (divorced 1938);
Genevieve M. Ross, June 27, 1941, Falmouth, Mass. Children: Chris-
topher W,, Oct. 27, 1935; Horace Homer, Jr., Dec. 9, 1943.

Occupation: Insurance; partner in firm of Brewer & Lord.

Military or Naval Record: 211th C.A. (AA) Mass. National Guard, Oct. 24;
1939, to Sept. 13, 1940; Ist Motor Squadron, Mass. State Guard; en-
tered private, Feb, 18, 1941, discharged as sergeant, April 1, 1946.

Offices Held: Secretary and director, Channing Home, Inc., since 19323 di-
rector, Bay State Armed Forces Club, since 1936; Boston Chamber of
Commerce.

Member of: Dedham Country and Polo Club (governor) ; Sippican Club of
Marion; Harvard Club of Boston; Military Historical Society of Massa-
chusetts; Veterans Association of the First Corps of Cadets,

[ 778 ]

T wenty-fifth Anntversary Report

Following a trip to Europe after graduating, I settled down to learn
something about insurance and the possibility of selling it around Boston,
Although progress was slow for about fifteen years, I now consider my-
self pretty well versed in most of its intricacies and am a partner in the
successful firm of Brewer & Lord, as well.

Concerning my family, I have a fifteen-year-old son who has been
a boarder at Milton Academy for four years and it looks as if he would
graduate from there in 1953. The choice of his college is a mute subject
and I feel that it should be decided entirely by him. His seven-year-old
brother has already determined that a locomotive engineer is everything
he wants to be. My second marriage won for me a devoted wife plus the
opportunity of being a stepfather to her three small daughters. ‘This
June brings our tenth wedding anniversary and I am happy to report
that there is a lot of sense in the adage “the more, the merrier,” at least
as respects children.

At home I have an acre and a half of well-developed lawns, trees,
and gardens which for some time were attended to by yours truly, unas-
sisted. For the last couple of years this responsibility has been turned over
to an outside man and now I can devote myself to less arduous projects
which involve hand tools and gadgets I have in my workshop. A nine-
foot dinghy, bird shelters, duck decoys, and model train layout have
been put together at odd times when repairs to one thing or another
about the place haven’t been pressing. My golf has taken a turn for the
better as evidenced by a four-stroke cut in handicap last year. If I can
play at twelve for the next decade I shall have a good chance to show
my sons how it is done. That old sport of shooting duck still holds its
fascination every fall although I must admit to having slowed down on
the barrel technique in favor of a jumbo floating blind within which
nestles a shack and comforts of home.

I once was elected a town meeting member in Brookline but my in-
aptitude for political life became apparent only too soon. This past No-
vember a group of us insurance brethren who are concerned with the
threat to our business from the socialistic majority in the Massachusetts
Legislature, belatedly raised funds to support some twenty Republican
candidates for the House, While that effort did not quite pay off to the
hoped-for extent, I am at least convinced that financial assistance to
proper candidates in the “grass roots” is the surest means by which the
Republicans could stage their return in the future.

[ 779 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

JOHN VAN DUYN SOUTHWORTH

Home Address: 229 Brattle Rd., Syracuse 6, N. Y.

Office Address: Iroquois Publishing Co., Inc., 333 W. Fayette St., Syracuse,
N.Y.

Born: June §, 1904, Syracuse, N. Y¥. Parents: Edward Franklin Southworth,
’9~, Gertrude Van Duyn.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; A.M. (Columbia Univ.),
1936

Married: Martha Barnard Collins, Nov. 25, 1925, Portsmouth, N. H. Cuil-
dren: Joan Barnard, Jan. 28, 19273; Edward Franklin, 2d, Aug. 17,
1929; John Van Duyn, Jr., Nov. 17,1931.

Occupation: President, Lroquois Publishing Company, Inc., publishers of school
textbooks.

Military or Naval Record: Corporal, Co. A, 19th Battalion, Texas State Guard,
1943-45.

Offices Held: Member, Executive Committee, Onondaga Council, Boy Scouts
of America, 1947-49; member Speakers’ Bureau, Federal Union, Inc,

Member of: University Club of Syracuse; Syracuse Camera Club; Federal
Union; Phi Delta Kappa; Kappa Delta Pi; Syracuse Chamber of Com-
merce; American Association of School Administrators.

Publications: Long Ago in the Old World; Early Days in the Neww World; American
History; Our Own United States; educational motion picture scripts; radio

scripts (including some “Cavalcade of America”) 3 numerous additional
textbooks and miscellaneous writings.

My graduate life started out with a bang, since Martha and I had
been secretly married during my senior year, and there was a great deal
of explanation and family readjusting to be done. This. was accom-
plished without undue difficulty, and in July, 1926, I assumed the posi-
tion of editor with my father’s firm, Iroquois Publishing Company, Inc.,
working in the home office at Syracuse, New York.

The next nine years were devoted to editing schoolbooks on many
subjects, and to writing a series of history texts which have proved to be
very pleasantly successful. From the personal point of view, there were
the usual family excitements. In the late fall, 1926, our house burned
down, destroying everything of value except the coal, which character-
istically refused to burn. At intervals of two years, three children were
born — Joan, Edward, and Jack. (In some unexplained manner, the
Harvard ’26 Triennial Report listed Joan as “Ivan.” ’Taint so! )

The Biblical writer who said, “Of making many books there is no
end,” undoubtedly had something there, but the end came for me (or

[ 780 ]

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

so I thought) in the fall of 1935. Nine years of dealing with educational
publications had convinced me of two things: (a) I was cut out to be a
teacher rather than an editor; (b) working in a family-run business
may be ideal for some, but not for me. In September I left the company
and entered Columbia Teachers College in search of an A.M. in the
teaching of history. I got it. It would amaze my friends and roommates
of the pleasant “gentleman’s grade of C” days at Harvard to learn that
I maintained an A average at T.C, and made both Phi Delta Kappa
and Kappa Delta Pi honor societies, but I did. It makes a difference
when you know where you want to go and what you want to get.
There followed nine very arduous but exceedingly pleasant years. It
is not easy to break into teaching with a wife and three kids and support
them, even though they may not insist upon the level of living to which
they have become accustomed. My first teaching job was at Birch-
Wathen School in New York City. ‘T’o piece out my rather inadequate
salary of $1400, I did writing and editorial work evenings and man-
aged to get by. The next year I had two teaching jobs — Birch-Wathen
by day and the Y.M.C.A. Evening High School by night. It made a very -
long teaching day, from 9 A.M. to 10 P.M., and I was frankly “bushed”’
at the end of one year of it. I was extremely happy to accept a job teach-
ing history at Brunswick School for Boys in Greenwich, Connecticut, at
a slightly higher salary than the total of my two New York jobs. I also
supplemented my income during the Brunswick period by writing edu-_
cational radio scripts, including some of duPont’s “Cavalcade of Amer-
ica,” and educational motion picture scripts for Erpi, now a part of
Encyclopaedia Britannica, Besides teaching history I also coached track
and boxing. Brunswick was good to me. I enjoyed every minute, re-
ceived steady increases, and was made associate headmaster at the end of -
the fourth year there. Nevertheless, I stayed only one more year, and
when I moved, the shift was complete — from secondary school to col-
lege, from Connecticut to Texas, from boys to girls. I went to Dallas as
dean and head of the History Department of Hockaday Junior College.
After two years more of very pleasant and challenging teaching, a
situation arose that caused me to bring my career around, full circle. My
father became ill and asked me to return to publishing, Shades of H. M. |
Pulham! After considerable soul-searching, I agreed. In July, 1945, I
returned to the editorial department of Iroquois, and when my father
died the next year I became vice-president. In 1950 I became president.
There have been many compensations in addition to the financial one. I
have had an opportunity to give birth to some books that were craving
to be born, and I have come back to my home town and my old friends.

[ 781 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

But I still miss the fun of sharing knowledge with my classes, and I stil]
think that teaching 1s the most satisfying of occupations.

That’s the story. Here are some addenda. Hobbies? Photography. I’m
an ardent “shutter-bug,” spending far too much time, money, and en-
ergy in search of the perfect picture. I rationalize this by pointing out the
many useful ways in which my photography serves the company. An-
other hobby is my little summer place, “Magnificent Bluff,” on Skane-
ateles Lake —a place which started life with no conveniences and still
has very few. Military service? Nothing much, I’m sorry to say — two
years as an air raid warden and two years as a member of the Texas
State Guard. I like to think that those services were of value to my
country, but I can’t seem to convince even myself.

Travels? The usual business excursions about the country, usually by
air to save time. The only unusual one was a weekend in Mexico City,
won as a prize in a radio contest for providing a motto for the United
Nations — “That men may solve their problems with their minds.”
(Three and one-half days from Syracuse to Syracuse, by air, with 48
hours spent in M. C, Well, it was a taste, anyway! )

Political convictions? Until about 1934, I was a staunch and ¢ con-
servative Republican. In that year I wrote a book on the New Deal in
action, and sold myself on it. Since then, in watching the misuse of basi-
cally splendid ideas by basically selfish people here and in Britain, | have -
come to the conclusion that the only thing wrong with Socialism is the
human race; it would be wonderful with angels, but with the “gimme”
boys we have here on earth the old dog-eat-dog capitalist system has
more of real worth to offer. I also most firmly believe that this world
desperately needs, first, a federal union and, eventually, a world govern-
ment to replace isolationist anarchy and make aggression an obsolete and
unpopular crime which cannot hope to succeed.

Religious convictions? No comment!

Family? First there’s my wife, née Martha Barnard Collins, better
known as Benny. I swiped her out of the sophomore class at Wellesley,
married her secretly at Portsmouth, New Hampshire, in November,
1925, and have been living with her and loving it ever since. Many
people decry that sort of marriage, but if I had it all to do over again I'd
do it just the same way. I’ve always been tickled pink that I married her,
and I’ve never known another woman to whom [’d want to be married,
even briefly. Then there’s my daughter, Joan, a graduate of Cornell
(748) and a worker in the Onondaga County Welfare Department
with the job of finding homes for other people’s unwanted and often
illegitimate mistakes. There’s my son, Edward, currently a senior at

[ 782 J

 

SO

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Cornell and a candidate for a degree in mechanical engineering, with
an automotive career in mind. And there’s the youngest boy, Jack, a
plebe at Annapolis. "

Why not Harvard for the kids? I would have liked nothing better,
but it didn’t work out that way. Joan, being a girl, was largely disquali-
fied by gender. Edward wanted more intensive work in Diesels and such
than Harvard seemed to afford. That left Jack, who had his heart set on
a naval career. I promised him that I would do everything I could to
help him get into Annapolis if he would make Harvard his second
choice. He agreed, saying that if he didn’t get into Annapolis he didn’t
give a damn where he went. For a while the Annapolis prospect looked
dim, and I had high hopes for Harvard. (After all, the kid was a mem-
ber of city championship track and football teams.) Then Harvard fixed
the thing right by losing his application blank, filed well in advance, and
dropping him from consideration on a technicality. Fortunately, in that
eventuality, Annapolis came through. But it is a source of regret to me
that I cannot say, “Married, two sons — Harvard of course!”

PAUL CALLOWHILL SOWDON

Home Address: 462 Maple Ct., Hayward, Calif.

Office Address: Montgomery Ward & Co., Hayward, Calif.

Born: Nov. 7, 1902, Boston, Mass. Parents: Edward Pickthall Sowdon, Selina
Ellen Callowhill.

Prepared at: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1924.

Married: Helen Fay Smith, 1937, San Francisco, Calif. CAildren: James Fd-
ward, March 25, 1938; Paula Fay, April 28, 1939; Robert Charles, Oct.
11,1944.

Occupation: Department head, Montgomery Ward, in charge of plumbing and
building materials departments.

ELIOT BARKER SPALDING

Home Address: 101 Washington Ave., Cambridge, Mass,

Office Address: Cambridge Chronicle-Sun, 620 Massachusetts Ave., Cam-
bridge, Mass.

Born: Aug. 6, 1906, Cambridge, Mass, Parents: Ephraim Spalding, Elsie Cor-
coran.

Prepared at: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926.

Married: Jessica Tredwell, June 1, 1940, Brooklyn, N. Y.

Occupation: Editor, Cambridge Chronicle-Sun,

[ 783 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Military or Naval Record: Agent, Security Intelligence Corps, U.S. . Army, 25
months during World War II.

Offices Held: Director, Military Intelligence Association of New England,
1946-47.

Member of : Cambridge Press Club; Military Intelligence Association of New
England.

Publications: ‘Three articles in American Mercury, 19 37-38 (“America’s Cry
Baby Athletes,” “Sports Writers are Always Wrong,” “I Like Basebali,

But”); editorials and news stories in Cambridge Chronicle-Sun, during
past 10 years.

The next witness took the stand and testified as follows:

Question: What is your name and occupation?

Answer: Eliot B. Spalding, newspaperman.

Q: You must have interviewed many people. How do you now feel on
being interviewed yourself?

A: Wary.

Q: What do you recall about your college days?

A: That I lived at home, had few close friends at Harvard, associated
mostly with Harvard and M.I.T. graduate students rooming in my
mother’s house, and learned as much from random reading at Widener
as I did from formal courses. Rate Kenneth Payson Kempton, Byron $.
Hurlbut, and Whitney Wells, my tutor, as best and most stimulating
teachers I had at Harvard.

Q: What led you to enter the newspaper business?

A: I needed a job and an editor hired me — to collect bills.

Q: What are the rewards of a newspaper career?

A: Principally non-monetary,

Q:Do you wish you had taken up some other line of work?

A: No, sir. I do not. ,

Q: Where did you meet your wife?

A: At the Monte Carlo Auto Courts, Las Vegas, Nevada (Mike
Paps, proprietor). Incidentally, neither of us was there to acquire a
divorce. Just looking the place over and playing roulette.

Q: Are you satisfied with your choice of a life partner?

A: Yes, sir. I AM!

Q: What is your wife like?

A: A jet-propelled redhead from Brooklyn who can do everything
from steam fitting to painting in oils. She is leader of the biggest and best
Girl Scout Troop in Cambridge. When she blows the whistle, they snap
to attention, or else.

Q: What are your political convictions?

[ 784 ]

Twenty-fifth Annrversary Report

A: Independent, I am a registered Republican but never voted the
straight ticket in my life. Skip around all the way down the ballot.

Q: What is your opinion of politicians?

A: Regard most of them as above the average of their constituents
both in honesty and intelligence.

Q: Are youa crusading editor?

A: I feel more charitable towards my fellow-men and less like a
crusader the older I grow. However, I am glad that I perhaps helped a
little to bring Plan E-City Manager government to Cambridge.

Q: What military distinction or decorations did you receive during
World War IT?

A: A Good Conduct medal which I gave to the litde boy next door to
hang on his cowboy suit.

Q: What important contribution did you make towards winning the
war?

A: I suspect I would have been more useful if I had stayed at home.

Q: Have you any advice, philosophy, or commentary on life that you
think would be beneficial to your classmates?

A: No, sir. I have not.

DONALD SPENCER

Home Address: 78 Lake View Ave., Cambridge, Mass.

Office Address: Scudder, Stevens & Clark, 10 Post Office Sq., Boston, Mass,

Born: Aug. 15,1904, Montpelier, Vt. Parents: William Sawyer Spencer, A.M.,
14, Florence Gafheld.

Prepared at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926 (28).

Married: Margaret Lang, May 18, 1935, Boston, Mass, Children: Malcolm
Lang, Oct. 29, 19393; Ambrose Ranney, July 12, 1942; Charles Hutton,
April 6, 1944.

Harvard Brother: Wesley Gafheld Spencer, Ev.M., ’27.

Occupation: Investment counsel.

Offices Held: Director, Cambridge Community Federation, Cambridge Chap-
ter American Red Cross, 1947~—48, Craftsman Insurance Company;
treasurer, Spencer Kennedy Laboratories, 1949; president, Cambridge
Civic Association; vice-president, Massachusetts Council-Manager Asso-
ciation,

Member of : Cambridge Club; Cambridge Boat Club; Harvard Faculty Club,

Some of us, luckily for the readability of this book as well as for the
good of the country, have had extremely active and varied lives. With
others of us our vocations have been much less interesting, if not to our-

[ 785 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

victions, it is high time we stopped worrying about how well democracy
works for us and start being concerned about how well we work for
democracy.

Anyway, we have made some gains. We have a mayor in Cambridge

at the moment who graduated from Harvard in 1935, magna cum laude
in municipal government, and who is a member of Phi Beta Kappa So-
ciety. He was a high ranking graduate from Harvard Law School. We
have two other Harvard men on the City Council and the son of an-
other City Councilor is now a student of Harvard; we have a Harvard
Law School professor on the school committee, as well as a history pro-
fessor from Tech. Our city manager, after taking office, became a special
student at Littauer and received his advanced degree in municipal gov-
ernment. I don’t suppose that any university city will ever be entirely
free from a certain amount of “town and gown” friction. No commu-
nity or its resident universities, however, can afford to let these frictions
get out of hand. M.I.T. and Harvard are great assets to Cambridge —
Cambridge would have become something very different without them
— but they are also great burdens, and both they and the community
must recognize both facts. The relations between Harvard and Cam-
bridge in this day are immeasurably better than they were in ours. A
great deal of credit for this is due to the conscious and intelligent effort
of the Harvard administration and the Harvard family generally. The
balance can be attributed to the attitude of mingled pride and forbear-
ance which growing numbers of Cambridge citizens of all kinds enter-
tain towards their “distinguished guest.”

EDWARD RUSSELL STABLER

Home Address: 90 Muttontown Rd., Syosset, Long Island, N. Y.

Office Address: Hofstra College, Hempstead, Long Island, N. Y.

Born: Sept. 14, 1906, Greenwich, Conn. Parents: Edward Lincoln Stabler,
Elizabeth Tubby. :

Prepared at: Brooklyn Friends School, Brooklyn, N.Y. —

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; Ep.M., 19273
A.M., 1933; Ep.D., 1935.

Married: Amna E. Cope, Sept. 12, 1931, Ann Arbor, Mich. Child: Edward
Cope, Dec. 18, 1933.

Harvard Brother: Howard Parker Stabler,’25, A.M.,’29, Pu.D., 31.

Occupation: Associate professor of mathematics, Hofstra College.

Member of: American Mathematical Society; Mathematical Association of
America; Association for Symbolic Logic; American Association of Uni-
versity Professors; United World Federalists; Long Island Choral So-
ciety.

 

[ 788 ]

T wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Publications: An Introduction to Mathematical Thought (experimental textbook,
lithoprinted by Edward Brothers, Ann Arbor, Mich., 1948); several
articles on mathematics and teaching of mathematics in American Mathe-
matical Monthly, Mathematics T eacher, School Science and Mathematics.

I am postponing an autobiography until the Fiftieth Anniversary Re-
port. Suffice it to say that I have been associated, in one way or another,
with educational institutions about as long as I can remember. I am par-
ticularly grateful to two of them, Harvard and the University of Michi-
gan; the former for obvious reasons, the latter for holding a summer
school reception at which I met my wife.

Since the last Report we established a record for ourselves by complet-
ing seven years’ residence in one locality. This was Hempstead, Long
Island, of fame as “the largest village in the Empire State.” Recently,
we have got ourselves out of a rut by moving to an older house in more
rural surroundings further east and north on Long Island. Life on a
half-acre here is proving a welcome change from a 60x 100 suburban
plot.

Otherwise, many of our activities are unchan ged. I continue teaching -
mathematics at Hofstra College. My son is a senior at Friends Academy
in Locust Valley, and unaccountably is a budding biologist, or naturalist.
My wife and I sing in the Long Island Choral Society, an organization
with a varied program including the Messiah every Christmas and a
Bach Festival every May. We are partial to summer vacations in the
White Mountains; in 1949 we went there for our first family camping
trip and had a particularly en joyable time.

As for the state of the nation and world, at the present writing Tam
more disturbed by the rapidly growing militaristic trend in this country
than by continued militarism in Russia. I have the peculiar notion that
the best way to work for world peace would be to make an about-face,
and mobilize for peace as urgently as we are now mobilizing for war.

Also, I am more worried at threats to freedom of speech and thought,
including academic freedom, in the current attempts to control subver-
sion than at dangers due to possible subversive activities of American
Communists or others. I am pleased, though not surprised, that Harvard
has refrained from oaths and purges, and has done so in a positive man-
ner.

ALFRED HART STAFFORD

Home Address: 50 Dwhinda Rd., Waban, Mass.
Office Address: Boston Insurance ‘Co., 87 Kilby St., Boston, Mass.
Born: April 10, 1903, Plainfield, N. J. Parents: "James Alfred Stafford, Ella

May Sebring.
[ 789 ]

Harvard Class of 1926
Prepared at: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.
Years tn College: 1922~1927,
Married: Frances Carter Sutton, June 10, 1935, Waban, Mass. CAildren: Deb-
orah, March §, 1937; David Carter, Feb. 6, 1940.

Occupation: Insurance; special agent; field man covering Essex, Middlesex,
and Norfolk Counties.

Wartime Government Posts: State War Inspection Service under Facility Security
Division, First Civilian Defense Region.
Offices Held: Chairman, executive committee, New England Insurance Ex-
change, 1943-44; president, Bay State Club, 1946-47.
Member of : International Brotherhood of Magicians.
Publications: The Magician at The Bridge T able.

We gathered in the humble abode of the great Swami, realizing that
we were about to witness a miracle or else gradually be brought under
his hypnotic spell. Could he actually conjure up the events of the past in
the crystal ball? Was he able to describe present-day happenings taking
place in distant lands? Would his predictions of things to come prove to
be more accurate than those of Drew Pearson? Time would tell — but
who ever heard of a clock talking? |

Now the Seer gently waves his hands over the globe and a hazy image
appears — but wait, the mist is rising. It’s the figure of a young lad set-
ting out to make his first million. Employed by the security firm of
Estabrook & Company, he passes from department to department learn-
ing the fundamentals of the business until ready to venture forth as a
bond salesman and in 1929 as a customer’s man. Success is merely
around the corner, but our hero must have lived in a round-house.

But what is this that looms up in the crystal? Fiery red smoke accom-
panied by lightning and thunder. The Swami explains that it is Satan
showing his wrath by pricking the Wall Street bubble. Down tumbles
our lad and his house of cards.

A new picture is evident in 1932 and our classmate is seen travelling
for an insurance company through Massachusetts, Connecticut, and
part of New York State. Many happy experiences later, a second image
comes into focus. There are bridesmaids, a minister, wedding cake, and
a loving and beautiful bride. Joyous days of planning and building. A
baby now comes into view — daughter, Deborah. Records of first
words, first steps, first teeth. A prize babe, winning only first — no place
and no show.

Events are depicted in rapid succession until in 1939, a new position
opens up with a larger company and a smaller territory. The crystal ball
clearly defines a small home in Waban, where peace and contentment
reign, Sometimes it even pours,

[ 790 ]

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

A year later a new addition enters into the round glass arena. An-
other child —- David Carter. A second round of diapers, photographs,
and baby-sitters, but all interesting fun.

The Swami’s globe displays view after view of trips, vacations, holi-
days, and parties enjoyed by the family. In 1944 another insurance or-
ganization bids for our lad’s services and suggests merely eastern Massa-
chusetts for a territory. The travelling salesman now becomes almost a
commuter and is able to spend evenings at home and take a more active
part in community projects.

Three years later the Boston Insurance Company beckons and the
crystal shows our special agent covering a still more compact territory
within a forty-mile radius of the Hub. The round screen transmits a
likeness of a summer cottage at Boothbay Harbor, Maine, producing
light hearts and smiling souls. A true resting place, minus the epitaphs.

Someone asked the Swami if he could divulge what the lad did in his
spare moments. Immediately flashed a picture of a farmer hoeing his
vegetable garden — next a rabbit poked his ears out of a tall silk hat,
then a deck of cards shuffled across a bridge table, and finally Cub and
Boy Scouts paraded by, saluting the leader. |

Another questioned if any secret ambition could be discerned. The
image of a boat slowly came into view and the Fortune Teller inter-

_ preted it to represent a desire to cruise up and down the Maine coast
during the summer vacation.

What theme or philosophy guides this individual in his daily life? The
Swami smiled and appeared very pleased, signifying the Happy Medium,
or, as the Greeks would say, ‘Moderation in all Things.”

The future? Could the Seer predict coming events? He accepted the
challenge by quickly polishing the glass ball and muttering mysterious
incantations that sounded like “Fun in Fifty-One.” A blinding flash fol-
lowed by vari-colored rockets bursting in every direction lit up the sky to
reveal a gala occasion that will take place next June when old friendships
are strengthened and new friendships formed. A true climax to twenty-
five happy and productive years.

You are perhaps wondering who is the great Swami who sees little
and knows nothing, yet tells all. Your old friend, Jake the Fakir! And
the dummy in the inverted fish bowl? His shadow!

[ 791 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

EVERETT H. STAHL

Home Address: 199 San Felipe Ave., San Francisco 27, Calif.
Office Address: 219 Natoma St., San Francisco 3, Calif.

Born: Nov. 10, 1903, Berlin, N. H. Parents: Abraham M. Stahl, Flora Gutt.
man.

Prepared at: Andover Academy, Andover, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B., 1926 (27) ; M.B.A., 1928.

Married: Margaret Schimmel, Feb. 1, 1943, New York, N. Y. Cé4ild: Nor-
man A., 2d, April 21, 1949.

Harvard Brother: Norman Abram Stahl, ’24.

Occupation: Mercantile business; vice-president and treasurer, commercial
refrigeration distributors,

Military or Naval Record: Three and one-half years in Air Corps; one and
one-half years overseas in European Theatre with gth Troop Carrier
Command of the 1st Allied Airborne Army; separated with rank of
major.

Member of : Harvard Association of Chemists; Sigma Alpha Mu; Variety Club,

Saints and Sinners.

The first two years after graduation I spent at the Harvard Business
School. From 1928 to 1930 I was with the First National Stores in
Hartford, Connecticut, and during the next two years I was with the
Fruit of the Loom mills in New York. From 1932 to 1937 I was with
the Dromedary Company in New York and supervising sales through-
out the East. I was operating my own merchandise brokerage business
through eastern New York out of Albany from 1937 to 1942. I wasin
military service from 1942 to 1946 and since then have been in my own
business in San Francisco,

CARL MYERSON STEARNS

Home Address: 68 Myrtle St., Claremont, N. H.

Office Address: 131 Broad St., Claremont, N. H.

Born: Dec. 13, 1901, Boston, Mass, Parents: Louis Stearns, Jennie Ferror.

Prepared at: English High School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 19263; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1937:

Married: Lillian Goldman, Sept. 9, 1933, Boston, Mass. CAildren: Janet
Rissa, Dec. 19, 1940; Cynthia Ann, April 24, 1946.

Occupation: Physician in general practice.

Military or Naval Record: Private, 27th Infantry Regiment (American Expedi-
tion to Siberia), 1919-20; captain, Medical Corps (43rd Infantry Divi-
sion), Aug. 12, 1942, to Jan. 9, 1946; twenty-seven months in South
Pacific, battles of New Zealand, New Caledonia, New Georgia, and New
Guinea.

[ 792 ]

 

=
e

T'wenty-fifth Anneversary Report

Offices Held: President, New Hampshire State Zionist Federation, 1948-49.

Member of : Massachusetts and New Hampshire Medical Societies; American
Medical] Association; B’nai B’rith; Zionist Organization of America;
American Legion; Veterans of Foreign Wars; Hiram Lodge #9 (F. &
A.M.) ; New Hampshire Consistory of S.P.R.S. 32°; Veterans of A.E.F.
Siberia; member (non-resident) , Medical Society of Israel; Gin Rummy

and Bicycle Outing Club, Claremont, N. H.

After 1926 I taught high school subjects in New York City but
switched to medicine as I resented having to use discipline in the class-
room. In 1937 I was graduated from Tufts College Medical School
and interned here and there for three years, then chose New Hampshire
because of the beautiful scenery here. I am a general practitioner, doing
a little of everything. I am satisfied that I am in my proper field of en-
deavor.

Incidentally, I got married two weeks before my first year of medical
school began and had a tough time making the grade financially — but
Id do it all over again.

I have done a lot of travelling in my day, and I have come to the con-
clusion that New England is the best place to live, especially New Hamp-
shire.

My hobbies are reading and the piano. I am a Republican, try to live
by the Golden Rule, and go to my synagogue on Friday evenings. I am
keenly interested in the plight of my fellow-Jews in Israel, and I help

them all I can. I am proud of their achievements.

FRANCIS UPHAM STEARNS

Last Known Address: c/oR. M. Stearns, 49 E. 53rd St., New York 22, N.Y.

Born: May 27, 1904, New York, N. Y. Parents: Francis Upham Stearns, 93,
Lucy Kirkland Macdonald.

Prepared at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Francis
Stearns has been ill for many years.

EDWIN JOSEPH STEEFEL

Home Address: 205 E. 78th St., New York, N.Y.

Office Address: Cohn Hall Marx Co., 1412 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

Born: July 8, 1905, Rochester, N. ¥. Parents: Joseph David Steefel, Sadie Lang.
_ Prepared at: Kast High School, Rochester, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

[ 793 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Married: Jean Schafer, Jan, 21, 1937, New York, N. ¥. Children: John E.
Dec, 2, 1946; Peter L., June 18, 1950. ~

Harvard Brother: Robert David Steefel,’22, LL.B., 24.

Occupation: Merchandising cotton and rayon piece goods.

Military or Naval Record: Entered Army Signal Corps as private, 1943; re-
leased from active duty as second lieutenant in Quartermaster Corps in

1945. :

RICHARD JAY STEIN

Home Address: 336 Central Park, W., New York 25, N. Y.

Office Address: Kriegsman Paper Co., Inc., §27 Fifth Ave., New York 17,N. ¥.

Born: June 12, 1905, New York, N. Y. Parents: Jacob Stein, Clara Josephine
Kahn.

Prepared at: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Ann Louise Sonnentheil, April 11, 1941, New York, N. Y. Children:
Diane Cecile, May 10, 19473 Sally Ann, July 20, 1949.

Haroard Brother: James DeWitt Stein, 24.

Occupation: Vice-president, Kriegsman Paper Company, Inc,

Military or Naval Record: Entered Army, March 12, 19423 separated, Feb. 3,
1946.

MILTON AUSTIN STEPHENS

Home Address: 541 Winthrop St., Medford, Mass.
Office Address: 25 Brighton Ave., Allston, Mass.
Born: July 14, 1904, Brooklyn, N. Y. Parents: Harold Stephens, Caecelia
Marie Becker.
Prepared at: Manual Training High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926 (27).
Married: Mary Elizabeth O’Sullivan, Dec. 18, 1942, West Newton, Mass. t
Occupation: Construction engineer. F
Military or Naval Record: From 1941 to 1946: construction of U.S. Army |
bases in Trinidad, B.W.1.; construction of Goascoran Bridge Pan Amer-
ican Highway, El Salvador and Honduras, U.S. Army; construction of
harbor at Monrovia, Liberia, U.S. Navy.
Member of : Society of American Military Engineers; Association of Harvard
Chemists; Massachusetts Horticultural Society; American Association
for the Advancement of Science.

 

I come from a family of engineers, father and grandfather, but was
diverted from my natural inclinations by the lure of business in the
booming twenties. On getting out of school, I went into business in
Florida with a pal of mine who was then graduatin g from the Harvard

[ 794 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report
Business School. We planned to make a fortune but were broke by 1930.
Since few depression jobs had large salaries attached, I decided to do
work that I took pleasure in, got into construction engineering, and have
enjoyed my work ever since.

In 1942 I married Mary Elizabeth O’Sullivan who brought a bit of
competition into the new family. She is a doctor and had a distinguished
career as a neurologist before retiring a while after we married.

The war years I spent in the West Indies, Central America, and
Africa on Army and Navy construction. Since the war I have done
some marine construction, built some veterans’ housing projects, and
have gone into the real estate business on the side. My favorite sports are
golf and fishing. My hobbies are antique furniture, drawing, and sculp-
turing.

+ MAURICE KAHN STERN

Born: Aug. 22, 1904, Brookline, Mass. Parents: Arthur Clarence Stern, Au-
relia Kahn.

Prepared at: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.

Married: Edith Rosenfeld, May 28, 1938, Newton, Mass. Children: Mary A.,
Dec. 27, 1941; Edward Arthur, April 28, 1945.

Died; Sept. 11, 1946, New York, N. Y.

Maurice Kahn Stern attended Harvard for four years with our Class.
He was a member of the freshman track squad, and of the track squad
from 1923 to 1925. For three and a half years following graduation,
he worked with the Union Indemnity Company in New Orleans as an
underwriter, In March, 1930, he went to work at Bloomingdale’s in
the capacity of buyer, and was affiliated with that company at the time of
his death. He was survived by his wife and two children,

ROBERT MORRIS STEVENS

Home Address: Hartford, Vt.

Born: Sept. 14, 1904, Hartford, Vt. Parents: Roland Eugene Stevens, Annie
Louise Morris.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926.

Unmarried.

Occupation: Clergyman and organist, Second Congregational Church, Hart-
ford, Vt.

My life since leaving Harvard in May, 1926, has been necessarily
[795 ]

.

Harvard Class of 1926

restricted due to poor health. I received a diploma from the Auburn
Theological Seminary, Auburn, New York. For the most part I have
lived a quiet, regular routine at the home of my parents in Hartford,
where I have been caretaker of the estate. In 1937 I was ordained to the
Christian ministry by the Vermont Congregational-Christian Confer-
ence, and have, from time to time, served the little White Church in
Hartford, both as full-time and substitute minister. For a brief period I
was also minister of two rural churches in northern Vermont. Within
the last five years I have taken up the study of the pipe organ and violin.
At the present time I am organist of the Hartford Congregational
Church, and for four years have directed a choir festival in my church
sponsored by the Central Vermont Council of Churches, which includes
some forty churches in this vicinity. I received my inspiration for good
music from the Glee Club, under “Doc” Davison. His training and per-
sonality have made a lasting impression on me.

JULE E. STOCKER

Home Address: 30 Stratford Rd., New Rochelle, N. Y.

Office Address: Chadbourne, Parke, Whiteside, Wolff & Brophy, 25 Broadway,
New York 4, N. Y.

Born: Sept. 16, 1906, Detroit, Mich. Parents: David Reuben Stocker, Hattie
Vina Gerber,

Prepared at: Central High School, Detroit, Mich.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. magna cum laude, 1926; LL.B.
magna cum laude, 1929.

Married: Beatrice Klipstein, March 26, 1932, New York, N. Y. Cdsldren:
Maida Kay, May 22, 1938; Michael Adam Gerber, Dec. 29, 1940.
Occupation: Attorney; member, Chadbourne, Parke, Whiteside, Wolff & Bro-

hy.

Ofice Held: Lecturer, Practising Law Institute (New York City), since
1941; chairman of Committee on Real Property Law, Association of the
Bar of the City of New York, 1946-49; secretary of committee on the
Surrogate’s Court, New York County Lawyers’ Association, since 1946.

Member of : Phi Beta Kappa; Association of the Bar of the City of New York;
New York County Lawyers’ Association; New York State Bar Associa-
tion; American Bar Association; American Law Institute; Legal Aid So-
ciety of New York.

Publications: Editor, Harvard Law Review, 1927-29; “Wills for Servicemen,”
published by National Association of Legal Aid Organizations, 1944, and
distributed by Army and Navy to their Legal Assistance Officers; “Draw-
ing Wills,” co-author with Harold Schwarzberg, first published by Prac-
tising Law Institute and American Bar Association in 1946, several re-
vised editions published later by Practising Law Institute.

[ 796 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Although a detailed account of the events of twenty-five years could
fill this book, the statistics above should suffice for most purposes, particu-
larly if I add, to the March 26, 1932, date, that I married a redhead
whom I had met five months before. However, tradition and our editors
demand amplification.

Following graduation from college, I spent three years at Harvard
Law School, three years of hard grind, yet more enjoyable, at least in
retrospect, than college. Perhaps it was because the work in Law School
seemed to have more purpose. Perhaps it was because there seemed to be
more of a personal element at Law School. Today, the College is doubt-
less far different. Certainly, the “new” President’s Annual Reports,
which I read with interest and increasing respect, make me wish my
college days had come later.

Upon graduation from Law School, I went to work with a large law
firm in New York City, and I have been with them ever since. In the
financial district, it was natural to decide to become a corporation law-
yer; but the depression soon diverted my principal work, until World
War II, to estates and wills and such like. Meanwhile, I was learning
the importance of one Latin maxim that the Law School did not teach:
lex concubina invidia est. And my wife soon learned and so too, as the years
passed, did my children learn that the law is a jealous mistress.

A great deal of my work has been routine, but now and then a real
thrill has come from reading in the newspapers about important matters
involving large sums on which I had burned the midnight oil. On the
other hand, I obtained as much satisfaction from drawing up a set of
one-page will forms during World War II which the Legal Aid Societies
could use throughout the country and which were distributed to Army
and Navy Legal Assistance Officers.

At the close of World War II, I co-authored a monograph on “Draw-
ing Wills.” This was part of the work which the Practising Law Insti-
tute of New York City did for returning servicemen and which,
through lectures and correspondence courses and monographs, reached
all over the United States. I also found —as I had found in occasional
lectures given since 1941 — that I gota real kick out of lecturing.

In the 1940’s, my Bar Association committee work became more
active. Much of it has been intensive study of pending legislation. We
endeavor to make impartial analyses covering both practical and theo-
retical questions. Occasionally we help draft legislation. This too is de-
tailed, meticulous, and often tiring work.

In 1946 I helped organize a new committee on real property law at
our City Bar Association. We tried not to confine ourselves to technical

[ 797 ]

~~

¥

Harvard Class of 1926

studies of pending legislation, Some of us thought that the more directly

social aspects of real property were at least as important. A great deal of

our work, therefore, dealt with housing and similar problems, and in-
cluded two exciting forums on restrictive covenants and controls,

What did our committees accomplish? We probably got some people

thinking. Maybe their thinking led to some results. As for the reports on
legislation which we sent up to the State capital, we at times debated
how much attention was paid to what we wrote. Yet now and then I
have found a suggestion adopted, and recognized with pride some of our
own language in the statute books. Parenthetically, I have wondered
whether the satisfaction that comes on completing a tough piece of draft-
ing — whether it be a complicated contract or will for a client or a form
for a monograph or a report on legislation — is not akin to that of an
artist who has finally completed a painting or a piece of sculpture and
feels that it is “right.” Perhaps this is merely rationalization or idealiza-
tion, as it was sometimes called in college days, to help make my work
seem important.

More recently, my formal education has started over again. With the
children bringing home more homework, I have gone back to subjects
I had not seen for decades, in fact to subjects I had never seen, even in
college. Some of the work in Junior High seems more difficult than the
work I had in Harvard. And now that my son is a Cub Scout, I am
reverting to scouting days.

This may indicate that more of my activity is now centered around
and with the children. That is as it should be. I have said little about
my family. To say much more would be — to my mind — too personal.
What else to report? My wife and I have managed to do a bit of travel-
ling — chiefly in New England, but we did get out to Glacier Park
once, and once to Cape Breton in Nova Scotia, and once to the edge of
South America, and way back in the thirties, to Scandinavia. We hope to
see more.

My job, the extra-curricular legal work and commuting and home-
work, seem to leave little time, even for filling out Class questionnaires
and writing this Report. But to get into proper spirit for THE Reunion,
I have gone back to watching Yale win at football (no Harvard indif-

ference there) and my wife has bought me a Harvard necktie complete
with Pilgrim Hats!

[ 798 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

BENJAMIN STOLOW

Home Address: 92 Beals St., Brookline, Mass.

Office Address: Staley College, Brookline, Mass.

Bora: July 15, 1905, Boston, Mass. Parents: Barnet Stolow, Ray Herman.

Prepared at: East Boston High School, East Boston, Mass,

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; A.M. (Staley Coll.) ;
Pu.D. (ibid.) ; D.A.O. (ibid.), 1943.

Married: \da Gross, Feb. 23, 1930, Paterson, N. J. Children: Robert David,
March 9, 1932; Arthur Gordon, Jan. 2, 1936.

Occupation: Professor of English; teacher of public speaking, Staley College,
Brookline.

Offices Held: Chairman, Old South Historical Society of Boston, 1926—40.

When I was graduated in 1926, my formal education did not stop.
I worked during the day and went to school at night. At Harvard I
completed the following extension courses; two Italian courses with
Professor Camillo Marlino, a course in abnormal psychology with Pro-
fessor Willem Pinard, and also a complete course in Adult Civic Educa-
tion, I am now an authorized teacher of aliens and certified by the State
Department of Education of Massachusetts.

After I completed all the courses given at the Henry George School
of Social Science, I taught there for two years. Then I began taking
courses at the Staley College of the Spoken Word on Babcock Street in
Brookline. After three years of hard work as a student, I was awarded a
doctorate degree and I have been teaching there for the past ten years.

Teaching at Staley College is exciting as well as fascinating. Here I
feel that the education I received at Harvard is being put to the service
of mankind. Here I am respected as a Harvard graduate and even when
I travel I always find that Harvard is regarded with great dignity and
admiration. Last winter I visited Miami University and I found that the
Harvard men on the faculty were regarded with the highest esteem.

During the past ten years I have devoted some of my time to the art
of letter writing. I have many letters that I value highly from famous
people, living and dead. A few of the people who have written to me
several times include: Rabbi Joshua Loth Liebman, Norman Corwin,
Hibbard Richter, and George V. Denny, Jr. I have two letters from
Ralph Morgan, the famous actor and movie star, plus individual letters
from important people all over the world.

For the 1949 Boston Chest X-Ray Program, I trained a dozen men
to go out and speak in all sections of the city in behalf of complete partici-
pation by the public.

At Staley College I now teach speech delivery, argumentation and

[ 799 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

debate, and the art of creative writing. This year Staley College is cele.
brating the Golden Jubilee. When I look over the records of the school
during the past half-century, I note many great contributions in the field
of higher education plus many vital achievements in the liberal arts. This
progress in education makes life worth while.

I do a great deal of private teaching at my home. Here I accept stu-
dents who stutter or stammer. Here I accept students who are blind,
Here I can teach the very young or the very aged. In my work with
aliens, under Adult Civic Educational Programs, I try to remove the
accents of foreigners. This work is quite interesting as each person pre-
sents individual problems.

In my humble way, I try to help open the eyes of those who are still
blind to the fact that bigotry and intolerance are a great danger to the
peace and security of our beloved country. Twenty-five years from now
I hope to be able to report that I continued teaching and that I inspired
many students to go into the educational fields, I shall always try to en-
courage my students to have a genuine friendship for and a sympathetic
understanding of their students.

In conclusion, nothing would have been accomplished without the
patience and inspiration of my wife. She wanted me to be a teacher and
she never complained while I was attending classes as a student for ten
years after we were married.

My elder son, Robert, is now a sophomore at M.I.T, He is eighteen
and made the highest honor roll as a freshman in college. He is on the
first dean’s list. My younger son, Arthur, is a sophomore at Brookline
High School and is doing very well. He is fourteen and growing fast.
Robert wants to become a research chemist while Arthur is planning to
become an architect. Time will tell.

 

WILFRED SCHAFER STONE

Home Address: 620 Davis Terr., Glen Ellyn, Ill.
Office Address: 134 S, LaSalle St, » Chicago 3, Ill.

Born: July 21, 1904, Clyde, Til. Parents: William Stone, Jessie Elizabeth
Schafer.

Prepared at: Cleveland Heights High School, Cleveland Heights, Ohio.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. magna cum laude, 1926; LL.B.,

1929,

Married: Mary Elizabeth Kunkel, Dec. 23, 1933, Kansas City, Mo. C&ildren:
William Kunkel, March 15, 1936; Elizabeth Ann, April 5, 1938; Dan
Frederick, Oct. 21, 19403 Sally Louise, April 15, 1947.

Harvard Brother: Howard Arthur Stone, ’33.

[ 800 J

T'wenty-fifth A nniversary Report

Occupation: Patent, trademark, and copyright lawyer.

Offices Held: Chairman, Civic Betterment Party, Glen Ellyn, 1949-513 co-
chairman (with my wife), Glen Ellyn Junior High P.T.A., 1949-50;
board of religious education, Glen Ellyn Congregational Church, 1951—

. 84.
Member of: Chicago Bar Association; Union League Club of Chiceeos Glen
Ellyn Chess Club.

Perhaps Thorndike’s “Goads” should be reprinted in the Class Re-
port. They have been more widely read by my family than any literature
that has come from Cambridge in the last twenty-five years.

I had intended to prepare this report principally from the previous
four, but they do not now seem to have the weight that I probably
thought they had when I wrote them. Probably this one does not have
the weight that I think it has as I write it.

My father once remarked that a successful businessman was one who
knew at twenty-five what it took most men until fifty to learn. Perhaps
this applies to all endeavors in life, and if so, it looks to me as if his range
is a little narrow. I am almost fifty, and yet eighteen months ago I ac-

cepted the chairmanship of the non-political party that runs Glen Ellyn,
after an election wherein the right of the Maryknoll Fathers’ Seminary
to a connection to the Glen Ellyn sewer system had been denied by my
party’s selected village trustees, Having won the election and the Mary-
knoll Fathers having sued, I thought I ought to check our trustees on
the right and wrong of their action. I concluded that they might be
wrong. The county court and the Illinois Appellate Court (and in-
ferentially the Illinois Supreme Court) ruled them wrong, and I found
myself the head of a party charged by many with religious prejudice.

So I leaned over backwards in favoring nominees of that group in the
coming April election. In the eyes of some I am now an apostate of the
Congregational Church. A few avoid me. Others threaten another
party. The word “dirty” has been used to my face — by a woman.

But as I suggest — maybe at seventy.

The financial situation is probably worse. Its most irritating feature is
that it continuously misleads by giving promise of improving. The home
situation is fine. Our four-year-old is the life of the family. What’s left?
The Harvard Class. I have been helping organize the Chicago group
and I think that the values of the members of this group warmly justify
a Harvard education.

[ 801 ]

Flarvard Class of 1926

FLOYD FRANKLIN STONER

Home Address: 442 Fountain Ave., Dayton 5, Ohio.

Office Address: National Manifolding Co., Dayton 2, Ohio.

Barna: Dec. §, 1903, Dayton, Ohio. Parents: John Franklin Stoner, Lydia
Maud Hodson.

Prepared at: Steele High School, Dayton, Ohio.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: $.B. cum laude, 1926.

Married: Anona Spitler, Nov. 25, 1933, Dayton, Ohio.

Occupation: Vice-president and treasurer, National Manifolding Company,
printers of commercial stationery.

Member of : Engineers’ Club of Dayton.

MOORFIELD STOREY, JR.

Home Address: 407 Pond St., Jamaica Plain, Mass,

Office Address: Boston Public Library, Copley Square, Boston, Mass.

Born: Jan. 27, 1905, Boston, Mass. Parents: Richard Cutts Storey, ’96, Anna
Ladd.

Prepared at: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922—1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Dorothy Craven, Aug. 23, 1934, Annapolis, Md, CAildren: Moor-
field, 2d; Robert Craven; David.

Harvard Brothers: Richard Cutts Storey, Jr.,?24; William Ladd Storey, ’30;
John Cutts Storey, 735, LL.B. 738.

Occupation: Library assistant.

Member of : Boston Public Library Professional Staff Association.

RICHARD KITSON STOVER

Home Address: 34 Rockwood Rd., Plandome, Long Island, N. Y.

Born: Nov. 13, 1901, Lowell, Mass, Parents: Charles Livingston Stover, Lucy
Kitson Stott.

Prepared at: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N, J.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926 (27).

Married: Frances Joan Gasser, Jan. 10, 1928, Manhasset, Long Island, N. Y.
Children: Frances Joan, Jan. 26, 1931; Richard Kitson, Jr., Sept. 13;
1933.

Occupation: Advertising.

DUANE STRANAHAN

Hume Address: §77 E. Front St., Perrysburg, Ohio.
Office Address: Champion Spark Plug Co., Toledo, Ohio.

—[ 802 J

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Born: Sept. 25, 1903, Brookline, Mass. Parents: Frank Duane Stranahan,
Marie Celeste Martin.

Prepared at: Scott High School, Toledo, Ohio,

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Virginia Secor, Jan. 31, 1929, Toledo, Ohio. Children: Duane, Jr.,
March 9, 1930; George Secor, Nov. 5, 19313 Stephen, May 3, 19343
Michael, June 22, 1939; Mary Celeste, Jan. 12, 1945; Virginia, Nov,
23, 1946.

Occupation: Executive vice-president, general administration and supervision,
especially of aviation division, Champion Spark Plug Company.

Offices Held: Chairman, Toledo Aviation Commission, 1947-49; Toledo
Community Chest Budget Committee, 1949, 1950; president, Toledo

Air Association, 1946-49, Toledo University Research Foundation,
1951. :

Member of: ‘Toledo Chamber of Commerce; Toledo Club; Toledo Country
Club; Toledo Tennis Club; Carranor Hunt and Polo Club; Otsego Ski
Club; Detroit Athletic Club; Inverness Country Club; World Federal-
ists; Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association.

Working in a successful family-owned and -operated company, I
have found my business career interesting and gratifying, but not
startling.

My principal interest is my family. In sports I enjoy skiing in winter
—and tennis, fishing, and hunting in the summer and fall. I also do
considerable flying for both business and pleasure —in a 1938 Beech
biplane Model D175, built originally for Walter Beech, which I shall be

glad to sell reasonably to anyone interested in collecting antique but
sound aircraft.

I think modern teaching techniques and probably also post-World
War IT scholastic competition have helped my two elder boys. ‘They and
their friends seem to me to be much more mature in their attitudes and
thinking than I remember my contemporary friends or myself being at
their ages. In spite of this, they both chose colleges other than Harvard.
Pat (Duane, Jr.) is a junior at Princeton, and George is a sophomore
at California Institute of Technology. Stephen is second year at Brooks

and still unsettled as to his choice of college. Michael does well at our
local Country Day School. The two little girls are comparatively new,
but very welcome and interesting additions to the family circle.

I believe that a strong world government will be needed to stop fu-
ture wars, and I hope that we can avoid involvement in another major
conflict before some effective preventive measures are worked out.

[ 803 ]

ii a arene tana anit aati caine biti hha te ot i ene ac eee

Harvard Class of 1926

FREDERICK WILLIAM STRAUS

Home Address: 222 E. Chestnut St., Chicago, Il.
Office Address: Straus & Blosser, 135 S. LaSalle St., Chicago 3, Il.

Born: April 9, 1905, Chicago, Ill. Parents: Samuel Jones Tilden Straus, Lillie
Wolf.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years tn College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Katherine Stern, 1929 (divorced 1934); Bernice Grawoig, Jan.
11, 1937, Chicago, Il. CAildren: Susan, Jan. 23, 19313 Joan, Dec. 10,
1933; Lynn, Aug. 4, 1938.

Harvard Brother: Samuel Jones Tilden Straus, Jr., ’33 (deceased).

Occupation: Senior partner of Straus & Blosser, investment bankers. °

Member of : Harvard Club of Chicago; Standard Club; Lake Shore Country
Club; Chicago Fishing Club.

The reason why I delayed sending in this report until Goad No, 3 ar-
rived, is because I cannot think of enough to say to fill this vast white
space which confronts me.

I have been in the investment business ever since I left college, and
have had neither thrilling adventures nor wartime experiences. My life,
while not dull, has run on more or less an even keel, The Army didn’t
want me, and as for the Navy, I get seasick anyhow.

After reading about some of the more heroic and adventuresome
lives of my classmates, I do not think this will make interesting reading.

GEORGE HENRY STRICKLAND

Address: Oakwood Manor, Far Hills Ave., Dayton, Ohio.

Born: Jan. 3, 1898, Lawrence, Mass, Parents: Elijah Strickland, Clara Harr
son.

Prepared at: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1924.

Occupation: Lawyer.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. George

Strickland did not return a questionnaire.

% WILLIAM ALEXANDER STRICKLAND
Born: Jan. 17, 1899, Lawrence, Mass, Parents: William Strickland, Ann Lay-
k

cock.
Prepared at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1926, Degree: §.B., 1926 (27).

[ 804 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Married: Jeanne Collette, June, 1927, Ashland, N. H. Cfild: Jeanne Ann,

Dec. 27, 1931.
Died: June 14, 1946, Minneapolis, Minn.

After graduating from Harvard with our Class, William Alexander
Strickland began his work in the field of education, He taught first at the
New Hampton School in New Hampton, New Hampshire, spending
three years there. In September, 1929, he joined the staff of the Blake
School in Hopkins, Minnesota, as a teacher of French and German. He
remained there for seventeen years, up to the time of his death. He was

survived by his wife and daughter.

ARTHUR STURGIS, JR.

H ome Address: 4209 Oakridge Lane, Chevy Chase, 15, Md.
Office Address: American Retail Federation, 1627 K St., Washington 6, D. C.
Bora: Dec. 7, 1904, Brookline, Mass. Parents: Arthur Sturgis, ’00, Emily

Frances Dodge.
Prepared at: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.; Western High School,

Washington, D.C.
Years in College: 1922-1 926. Degree: A.B., 1926.
Married: Elizabeth Manley, Oct. 3, 1936, Washington, D. C. Children: Bar-

bara, April 8, 1938; Arthur, 3d, May 27, 1941.

Occupation: Legislative analyst.
Member of : Kenwood Golf and Country Club,

WILLIAM LINDSAY SUIRE
Address: 1229 Paxton Rd., Cincinnati 8, Ohio.
Born: Oct. 8, 1903, Cincinnati, Ohio, Parents: Frank Overton Suire, ’80,

Marion Lindsay.
Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1924.
Married: Evalyn Wilson Tillinghast, Oct. 22, 1942, Cincinnati, Ohio. CAild:

David Tillinghast, Aug. 1, 1928 (stepson).

Occupation: Production engineer,
The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Suire did
not return a questionnaire.

JOSEPH FRANCIS SULLIVAN

Home Address: 8837S. Dante Ave., Chicago 19, Ill.
Office Address: International Packers Ltd., 135 S, LaSalle St., Chicago 3, Ill.

[ 805 ]

 

syne OR MEO LOCI RS

UVC Rp RerHe ER mageRRtE HI MIRC AE

Harvard Class of 1926

Born: Dec. 25, 1899, Boston, Mass. Parents: John P. Sullivan, Mary O’Brion,

Prepared at: Everett High School, Everett, Mass.

Years tn College: 1921-1926.

Married: Laura Frances McQueeney, Nov. 18, 19315 Buenos Aires, Argen-
tina. Child: Mary Frances, Nov. 25, 1935.

Occupation: Sales and production executive.

Military or Naval Record: World War 1: U.S. Navy, aboard a destroyer in war
zone operating out of Brest, France, April, 1917, to July, 1919.

After leaving Harvard, I went into the meat packing business with
Swift & Company, and in 1929 left this company to join Swift Inter-
national in Buenos Aires, and since that time I have served in the Ar-
gentine, Uruguay, and Brazil. In the course of this business I have
travelled through most of South America, West Indies, and a great part
of Europe. In 1947 I was assigned to South Africa and during 1948
and early 1949 covered this great country and Mozambique. Not much
is known in this country about South Africa but I can recommend it for
a visit, especially its wild animal life, as probably there are very few
places in the world where the tourist can spend his time observing the
wild animals in their native lairs. In June, 1949, I returned to Chicago
to the head office of International Packers Limited.

In addition to my hobbies of rhumba dancing and gourmandizing, I
have now added Zulu dancing. However, the gourmandizing is now
reduced to the “Fat Boy’s Diet.”

JAMES LEROY SURPLESS

Home Address: 205 Abingdon Ave., Kenilworth, Il.

Office Address: Surpless, Dunn & Co., 34 N. Clinton St., Chicago 6, Ill.

Born: July 17, 1904, Chicago, Ill. Parents: James Surpless, Ethel Gertrude
Sweet,

Prepared at: Evanston Township High School, Evanston, Ill.

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Ruth Bower, March 4, 1930, Wilmette, Ill. (died July 14, 1936);
Mary Sayles Hill, Feb. 2, 1938, Winnetka, Ill. CAildren: James Bower,
May 27, 1932; Lorin, July 14, 1936; Frank Hill, June 15, 19393
Mary Deborah, June 7, 1943.

Occupation: Manufacturers’ representative in the hardware and mill supply
field; vice-president and western branch manager, Surpless, Dunn &
Company. .

Member of ;: Masonic Order; Kenilworth Club; Central States Hardware Club.

The wheel turns and since our Twentieth Anniversary Report, its
revolutions have speeded up with consequent complications and solu-

[ 806 J

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report .

tions, high spots and those not so high, and small fry becoming definite
personalities,

College days, once again, have entered the pattern of our family circle
since our eldest wears a green cap at Carleton College. In fact we look
forward to a renewal of those pleasant and worth-while days during the
next fifteen years. The best wish that I could have for them is that each
one enjoys the accomplishment of “attaining the first rung in the ladder
of knowledge” as President Lowell mentioned in his graduation ad-
dress to our Class.

After reading some of the Records of the Class, published five years
ago, the workaday career of a hardware salesman seems prosaic. I
wish to commend all of those classmates who have taken on themselves
the task of holding together the Class of 1926. Their satisfaction in a job
well done may suffice but at least add my thanks for their efforts,

Good luck to all members of the Class of 26 on our Silver Anniver-

sary.

FREDERICK BENJAMIN SWARTS

Home Address: 25 Foreway Drive, Clayton 24, Mo.

Office Address: Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Beane, 511 Locust St., St.
Louis, Mo.

Bora: June 15, 1903, St. Louis, Mo. Parents: Sol Lewis Swarts, 88, Florence
M. Eiseman.

Prepared at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Elizabeth Von Phul Keeler, April 27, 1935, St. Louis, Mo. Children:
Elizabeth Von Phul, April 22,1938; Mary Saugrain, Oct. 22, 1941.

Harvard Brother: John Swarts, 34 (deceased).

Occupation: Investments.

Wartime Government Posts: Office of Price Administration, in charge of shoe
rationing for district,

Member of: St. Louis Country Club; Noonday Chib; Harvard Club of St.
Louis.

It hardly seems possible that we shall have been out of college for
twenty-five years next June and that we are all about to go back to that
greatest of reunions, the Twenty-fifth. Unfortunately, I haven’t had
the chance to get east very often during this time and have missed the
opportunities of seeing my classmates, except during our Third and
Fifteenth Reunions, which I did attend.

My business career has been mostly in the field of brokerage and in-
vestment banking, except during the war period when I was with the

[ 807 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

government and three years thereafter when I was an officer of a na-

tional shoe chain. I now find myself back in the brokerage business in the
recently established St. Louis office of Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner &
Beane. I must admit that working for sixty-eight partners in a firm of
one hundred offices is somewhat different from being a partner in my
own small company as before the war — however, I think “bigness” i
business is a good thing, in spite of the opinion of the present administra-
tion in Washington,

I have two young daughters who are growing up rapidly and who, in
years to come, will undoubtedly turn my thoughts away from Harvard
to Vassar. My wife is quite interested in civic and charitable affairs but so
far hasn’t neglected me. We live outside St. Louis in a house overlooking
our Country Club golf course. This has inspired me to great golfing
ambitions, but so far hasn’t improved my game.

Somehow life seems a lot more complicated than it was s twenty-five
years ago, but I guess that is understandable.

DONALD LEBOSQUET SWEENEY

Home Address: 3014 N.E. soth Ave., Portland 13, Oregon.

Office Address: City of Portland, 610 N.W. Front Ave., Portland 9, Oregon.

Born: Aug. 11, 1904, Newton, Mass. Parents: John Richard Sweeney, Mary
Lilian Le Bosquet.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Jerusha Eleanor Eakin, March 21, 1927, Astoria, Oregon. Chéldren:
Donald LeBosquet, Jr. (Univ. of Oregon, ’50), Jan. 8, 1928 (2. Mar-
garet Ann McKillop (Univ. of Oregon, ’49), Aug. 28, 1949) 3 Thomas
Eakin, April 9, 1935. Grandchild: Barbara Dawn Sweeney, Noy. 26,
1950.

Occupation: Municipal government with City of Portland.

Military or Naval Record: Commissioned 2d lieutenant, F.A. Reserve, Harvard
R.O.T.C., June, 1926; active duty with U.S. Army, 1933-373; retired
as captain, 1941.

Offices Held: President, Episcopal Parish of St. Michael’s, All Angels Parish
Men’s Club, 1948-49; secretary, Portland Chapter No. 75, National
Sojourners, a fraternal order of present and former officers of U.S. armed
forces who are also Masons.

Member of: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of Oregon; Masonic
Club; Sons of the American Revolution; several Army societies.

Trying to recapture the thrills and chills of the last twenty-four years,
“in narrative style” as Class Committee suggests, is much like John
Donne’s sentiment:

[ 808 J

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Go and catch a falling star
Get with child a mandrake root
‘Tell me where all past years are...

After I had completed my formal studies in February of our senior
year, a European trip brought an acquaintanceship which led to my mar-
rying a girl from distant Oregon — distant from my then restricted
viewpoint of Newton Highlands since birth. Parenthetically, I followed
her out here nine years ago.

Starting out with high hopes and a chance, as it looked then, to make
a million in the investment business just after graduation, I was well
started on this sum — had as much as ten dollars ahead — when “I faw
down and go boom,” as Harry Richman used to sing about the depres-
sion thirties. Army and overalls during the war, on ship repair work,
just about sums up my career to now, when a modest job with the City
of Portland provides bread and butter without cake.

One appears to be in step with the times in fulminating bitterly on the
present doleful condition of the world and telling how liberal one is, For
my part, on the other hand, I am heartily opposed to the ultra-liberal
concepts of many intellectuals. I am one Harvard man who believes that

here in America we have attained the highest living standards of the
entire globe because of our capitalistic and democratic form of govern-
ment. I am naive enough to believe that if we leave alone this experi-
mentation with billions for welfare, socialized medicine, farm aid, and
the like, and concentrate upon self-liquidating projects combined with
sensible defense expenditures, and simultaneously economize by shut-
ting needless and wasteful government bureaus, we shall not only sur-
vive as a nation but will progress as we have done consistently since any
one of our present Class was born. Nonetheless, I feel sacrifices are due
on the part of every class of society to permit such a happy picture to exist.

Despite a pessimistic nature, [ am an incredible optimist regarding the
United States of America. I believe in waving the flag on any and every
occasion. I believe in free speech, but I do not believe in affording our
enemies a rostrum from which they may tear down our beloved concepts
of free government. I’o make my views crystal clear: I have seldom
been more thrilled than when I read Harvard-man Judge Learned
Hand’s recent decision upholding the conviction of the eleven Com-

munist party’s top officials.

My hobbies are reading, writing classmates (who, miradile dictu, do
reply ), and listening to symphonic and operatic music on stage and radio
- and victrola records. Along with my portly frame and form, due to old
age fast advancing, and simultaneous with the dropping of tennis,

[ 809 ]

eee
Harvard Class of 1926

squash, golf, and other active exercise, something new has been added:
chess playing. Finally, travel is an avid interest, in which an annual trip
to the home town of Boston and Newton looms large.

In the Twentieth Report I mentioned sending out many postcards of
beautiful nearby scenes to interested classmates as enclosures in personal
letters. I am happy to report a few inquiries in person for more of the
same from classmates at the Scituate reunion in 1946. I believe firmly
that all Easterners should view the West extensively and vice versa, and .
such feelings motivate my being a huckster for Northwest nature scen-
ery. Whether such “travel advertisements” have prevailed with class-
mates, or whether other business interests have brought them here, I do
not know, but at any rate, I am very glad that many have looked me up
at my Portland residence, since the last reunion. Needless to say, they
are as welcome as the flowers that bloom in the spring —tra-la-la
(which have nothing to do with the case). More of you fishing, hunting,
and scenery addicts are urged to go and do thou likewise. The latch-
string always hangs out on Fiftieth Avenue.

Although my business goal, as hoped for in 1926, has been far from
reached in actuality, like Cornelia, the ancient Roman matron, I have
my jewels, two loving sons. God has given me far more than my un-
worthy deserts throughout life. I have an angel on this earth for a wife,
fine in-laws, and a fine family of my own, a precious daughter-in-law,
and a grandchild. From here on out “the goose hangs high.”

HARRY LESLIE SWIFT

Home Address: 9361 Longwood Drive, Chicago 20, III.

Office Address: Swift & Co., General Office, Union Stock Yards, Chicago 9, Ill.

Born: Nov. 7, 1904, Somerville, Mass, Parents: Norman Swift, Mary Gertrude
Doucette.

Prepared at: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

Years in Callege: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Rhoda Louise Lawson, May 14, 1930, Chicago, Ill. CAéildren: Nor-
man, March 3, 19323 David, Aug. 7, 1935.

Occupatiom: Head of Dairy and Poultry Industrial Relations Department,
Swift & Company.

My activities since graduation can be classified in three areas — busi-
ness, family, and social. All my business life has been in the dairy and
poultry division of a large packer — basic training at Nashville, Ten-
nessee, and more training at Marion, Indiana, Fort Worth, Texas,
Hutchinson and Garden City, Kansas, and Clinton, Iowa, with a few

[ 810 ]

T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

days off in 1930 to get married. Finally I wound up in the Chicago
General Office in 1931, spent twelve years in the dairy and poultry op-
erating department, thence to the dairy and poultry industrial relations
department in 1943.

My family life started with marriage in 1930. Son Norman arrived
in 1932. He did well in the public schools, earned the Eagle Rank in
Scouts and entered Purdue University to study chemical engineering in
September, 1949. Son David arrived in 1935. He, too, has done well in
school, earned his Eagle Rank and entered high school in February,
1949. Both boys won the American Legion Award,

Our social life has been bound up in the Beverly Hills community —
church (Protestant), politics (Republican), Beverly Improvement As-
sociation, Cub Scouts, Boy Scouts, YM.C.A., community concerts,
’ bridge parties, P..T.A., ‘Tennis Club, University Club —all the usual
activities, nothing spectacular. My good wife has often been a “Boy
Scout” widow. I like to kid myself that I am keeping young by trying to
keep up with the boys on canoe trips, overnight hikes, and at summer
camp. It’s a lot of fun! We have had our problems but we have been
happy. If our boys turn out to be a credit to society, life will have been a
success.

ISAAC GERSON SWOPE

Home Address: 151 Franklin St., Newton 58, Mass.

Office Address: Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 77 Massachusetts Ave.,
Cambridge, Mass,

Born: March 12, 1904, St. Louis, Mo. Parents: Gerard Swope, Mary Dayton
Hill.

Prepared at: Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.

Years in College: 1922-1925. Degrees: §.B., 1926; §.B. 1n E.E. (Massachusetts
Inst. of Technology), 1927.

Married: Elizabeth H. Hanson, July 30, 1932, Salem, Mass. Children: Fliza-
beth H., 2nd, May 28, 1929 (adopted) (7. Benjamin M. Collins, Sept.
9,1 950) ; Mary Hill, May 20, 1933; Julia C., June 7, 1934; Lucy D.,
April 22, 1937; Thomas H., April 1, 1939.

Harvard Brothers: John Swope, 30; Gerard Swope, Jr., LL.B., 732.

Occupation: Electrical engineering, staff member in Laboratory of Nuclear Sci-
ence and Engineering at Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Member of : American Institute of Electrical Engineers.

After leaving Harvard in 1925, I spent two years at Massachusetts
Institute of Technology and received an S.B. in E.E, in 1927. In 1928
I started work with the Philadelphia Electric Company (power and

[ 811 ]

Flarvard Class of 1926

bght utility ) where I spent fourteen years in various capacities in the
engineering and power sales departments.

In 1942 I was turned down by both the Army and Navy because of a
poor health history but joined the Radiation Laboratory at Massachu-
setts Institute of Technology doing work on radar development — very
secret at the time but now, of course, well known.

This came to an end with the peace in 1945 and I tried the Naval
Research Laboratory in Washington, D. C., but in six months I found
civil service not to my liking and returned to M.I.T. in May, 1946,
where I am associated with the Laboratory for Nuclear Science and En-
gineering working on various engineering problems, but chiefly con-
nected with the construction and operation of a 350,000,000 electron-
volt-synchroton, in other words, a high power atom smasher.

Outside of working hours I spend most of the time doing odd jobs
around the house and trying to keep up with my wife and children. My
eldest daughter was married last September, the other children are still
in primary and high schools. I have only one son and have no idea
whether he will go to Harvard or to M.I.T. (my allegiance seems to be
divided ), or perhaps somewhere else. :

FREDERICK PEET TAFT

Home Address: 8 Buckingham St., Rochester, N. Y.

Office Address: St. Paul’s Episcopal Church, 13 Vick Park B, Rochester, N. Y.

Born: July 25, 1904, Colorado Springs, Colo. Parents: Arthur Nelson Taft,
Amy Gordon Torrance.

Prepared at: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; S.T.B. (Episcopal Theo-
logical School), 1929.

Married: Emily Walton, Dec. 30, 1940, Milton, Mass.

Occupation: Minister; assistant, St. Paul’s Episcopal Church, Rochester, N. Y.

Offices Held: Curate, St. Matthew’s Church, San Mateo, Calif., 1929-32;
rector, Church of the Ascension, Wakefield, R. I., 1933~40; vicar, St.
Michael’s Church, Worcester, Mass., 1940—44; assistant, Grace Church,
Providence, R. I., 1944-47; chairman, Committee for World Relief,
Rhode Island Council of Churches, 1947-49; chairman, Rhode Island
State Displaced Persons Committee, 1949-503 assistant, St. Paul’s
Church, Rochester, N. Y,, since 1950,

Collegiate heresy and schism! I did not even attend my last examina-
tion in college, much less my own graduation, but, after moving books
and furniture to the Episcopal Theological School, 1 took my suitcase in

[ 812 ]

T wenty- fifth Anniversary Report

hand and departed for a summer in France. This was the second of five
summers spent in different countries in Europe.

On my return in the fall, I spent three years in Cambridge, learning
theology and all other things that a Christian minister ought to know for
his professional health. After a summer in France and Italy, I took a
train to San Mateo, California, Three years in the sunshine state, where
all the weather is unusual, was enough for a basic New Englander in
spite of the fact I was born in Colorado. I returned to Andover, Massa-
chusetts, for a winter’s work in Grace Church, Lawrence. That was
during the depression,

‘The Church of the Ascension in the village of Wakefield in the town
of South Kingston in the state of Rhode Island and Providence Plan-
tations —— to give its full title — asked me to become its rector. For
seven years I enjoyed the “South Country” and the pleasure and variety
of ministering to a small community. For several of these years my sister
lived with me.

In the spring of 1939 Emily Walton appeared. We met, properly
enough, at my parents’ house in Andover. A year later we were married
and moved to Worcester where I was in charge of St. Michael’s Church.
We were in Worcester during the war, doing what we could for the
home front. We spent our vacations in Chatham, Massachusetts, where
my wife’s parents had purchased an old sea captain’ s house. With my
marriage a whole new life of companionship and interests opened: his-
tory, maps, first editions, autographs, prints and antiques, even publish-
ing, for together we wound up my father-in-law’s business. We have
managed to work in an unusual variety of trips on our vacations —
cruising along the New England coast, skiing in the Laurentians, put-
tering about our house in Chatham, bicycling in Sweden, Denmark, and
Holland, jeeping over the peaks of Colorado,

For five years we were in Providence, Rhode Island; three of the
years I spent at Grace Church and two years as chairman of the World
Relief Committee of the Rhode Island Council of Churches. ‘This com-
mittee was able, with the codperation of ninety per cent of the Protes-
tant churches in Rhode Island, to send supplies of food and clothing for
about one hundred thousand people. We also did our share in helping
displaced persons find new homes in the States. To organize and do this

practical work when it needed to be done has been one of the most
gratifying tasks in my ministry.

Emily and I have now left Providence which we loved and have
come to Rochester where my special task at St. Paul’s Church is con-
cerned with the Christian education of the coming generation. New

[ 813 ]

2 mg po teye MH ——

Harvard Class of 1926

surprises and tasks appear always to be at hand. We en joy them, but ina
few years we plan to settle down in one spot, probably in New England,

ARTHUR FRANCIS TALLMAN

Home Address: 11 S, Madison Ave., Spring Valley, N. Y.

Office Address: Wright Aeronautical Corp., Wood-Ridge, N. J.

Barn: Feb. 10, 1904, Spring Valley, N. Y. Parents: Francis Perry ‘Tallman,
Sarah Arbuckle Torrey.

Prepared ot: Spring Valley Public School, Spring Valley, N. ¥.

Years in College: 1923-1926. Degree: §.B., 1926 (27).

Married: Phebe M. Robinson, Oct. 20, 1940, Millbrook, N. Y. CAildren:
Beatrice Ann, Jan. 12, 1944; Phebe Susan, Nov. 12, 1947.

Occupation: Sales department, Wright Aeronautical Company; instructing
Army, Navy, commercial, and company personnel in aircraft engineer-
ing, maintenance, and operation and procurement.

Member of : Masonic Order; Boy Scout Movement; civic-minded groups; his-

torical societies (local) .

I settled down about 1935. My present occupation was interrupted
after the war by a short interim as a building materials salesman. The
children dominate our lives leaving little time for my wife’s professional
interest in the legitimate stage and my own interest in Boy Scouts.
About two years ago I served as a scoutmaster of an active troop.

At present I am president of a local Republican club. Pressure of
keeping abreast with technical changes in aircraft power plants and the
educational requirements of a first grader and a pre-schooler occupy
most of my waking hours.

JOSEPH BONDI TAUSSIG

Address: Route 2, Mosely Road, Creve Coeur, Mo.

Born: Oct. 3, 1904, St. Louis, Mo. Parents: Albert Ernst Taussig, Harriet
Palmer Learned.

Prepared at: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo,

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926 (28).

Married: Frances §. McConnell, Aug. 15, 1932, St. Louis, Mo. Children:
Robert Trimble, April 26, 1938; Frank Joseph, May 22, 1940.

Occupation: Medicine.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files. Taussig
did not return a questionnaire.

[ 814 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

AUGUSTUS TAYLOR, JR.

Home Address: 207 El Cerrito Ave., San Mateo, Calif.

Office Address: Union Ice Co., 354 Pine St., San Francisco, Calif.

Born: Feb. 16, 1904, San Francisco, Calif. Parents: Augustus Taylor, Helen
Hopkins.

Prepared at: Cates School, Carpinteria, Calif.

Years in College: 1922-1925.

Married: Isobel McCreery, June §, 1937, Hillsborough, Calif. CAildren:
Richard Stephen, Nov. 7, 1938; Pamela Isobel, Jan. 11, 1944.

Occupation: Vice-president, Union Ice Company.

Military or Naval Record: World War II: western sea frontier stationed at Ala-
meda Naval Air Station; temporary duty as communications officer,
Naval Auxiliary Air Station, Monterey, thence to Treasure Island; rank,
lieutenant commander, U.S.N.R.

Member of: Pacific Union Club; Burlingame Country Club; San Francisco
Commercial Club; Harvard Club of San Francisco.

On leaving college I went to work for the Union Ice Company
whose headquarters are in San Francisco. My first job was that of a
mechanic’s helper in an ice plant at San Jose, California, the theory be-
ing that it would be a good way to get a liberal education as to how water
is frozen for commercial purposes by mechanical means. This proved to

_ be quite beneficial, particularly as I had taken no such course at Harvard
University. .

The next seventeen years passed rapidly while I tried to learn the
various ramifications of the company’s business, Suddenly I found my-
self cast in an entirely new role with quite a different employer —as a
lieutenant in the United States Naval Reserve.

After I had three years’ duty, the Navy undoubtedly decided that my
services were no longer indispensable and put me on inactive duty in
October, 1945, with the rank of lieutenant commander.

I have two children: a son, twelve, and a daughter, seven. The boy’s
chief interest is making model planes and if this continues he might pos-
sibly pilot me to our Fiftieth Reunion.

At long last, after much discussion, my wife and I finally decided that
it would be a good idea to travel, and Europe was selected as our destina-
tion. Needless to say, it was a wonderful experience but for a permanent
residence the U.S.A. still looks pretty good.

My present position 1s that of vice-president of the Union Ice Com-
pany with much time spent travelling throughout California. I am still a

Republican.

It is truly unfortunate that due to the distance involved and the press

[ 815 ]

tn

Harvard Class of 1926
of business it is not possible to get back more often to renew old friend-
ships.
BRAINERD RICHARDSON TAYLOR

Home Address: 185 Van Rensselaer Ave., Stamford, Conn.

Office Address: American Maize-Products Co., 100 E. 42nd St., New York 17,
N.Y.

Born: Jan. 5, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parents: Brainerd Taylor, ’o1, Vesta Eloise
Richardson. .

Prepared at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

Years ta College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; M.B.A. cum laude, 1932.
Married: Elia Ocampo Abreu, June 13, 1934, Mexico City, Mexico. Cail-
dren: Elita Vesta, Nov. 1, 1935}; Brainerd Ocampo, Dec. 15, 1939.

Harvard Brother: Harold William Taylor, 33.
Occupation: Manager of planning and development, corn refining industry —
cornstarch, corn syrup, dextrose, dextrines, etc.

Meméer of : Harvard Club of New York, Stamford Yacht Club.

Twenty-five years ago, when we were graduating, I helped my fa-
ther’s classmates celebrate their Twenty-fifth Reunion. They seemed
so old and, when they talked of their college years at the turn of the
century, I didn’t know whether one rightfully classified those days as in
the middle ages or colonial times.

The second twenty-five years of the century were apparently a much
shorter period, because the members of 1901, now on their Fiftieth Re-
union, don’t look much older to me than they did in 1926; my own
classmates, with few exceptions, have not changed at all; and we all
know that the year 1926 belongs to modern times, or doesn’t it?

Well, it may have been a short twenty-five years, but as far as I’m
concerned an awful lot was crowded into it. I started out rather uncer-
tainly, dabbling at school teaching, real estate, and banking during the
first four years, Then I found Mexico, met my future wife there, and

“spent two hard years at the Business School, all in one breath; and I
finally had a purpose in life, with an avocation thrown in, namely,
exploring Mexico.

I joined the American Maize-Products Company in 1934, went to
Mexico to get myself married, and moved to Chicago, where, during
the next twelve years, we were blessed with our two young hopefuls and
got well launched asa family. For the past five years we have lived back
east, as I am stationed at our head office.

Asa family we like to travel. Both children had been to Mexico be-
fore they were a year old. There they find cousins by the dozens, and

{ 816 j

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

aunts and uncles, too. In the many trips we have made in the past fifteen
years, we have visited most parts of that country and love it all, and the
children and I become more at home with the Spanish language on each
visit.

As for my business life, my work in the first years out of the Business
School was primarily in the controller’s department. Then, with the
war, I became assistant to the plant manager in Chicago, and was
plunged into the maelstrom of labor relations during war times, the
plant having been organized about then. Those were the most hectic
days of my career (so far). I now have research and planning as my
responsibilities and am enjoying my work more than at any time before.

My politics is right of middle, but, although I have always voted Re-
publican, I consider myself an independent voter who could easily swing
over to the Democratic side if isolationism ever again gains any kind of
an influential voice in our Republican ranks. Either America or Russia
is going to lead the world for the next few decades, and it had better
be us.

WALTER MAITLAND TAYLOR

Home Address: 332 15th St., N.W., Charlottesville, Va.

Office Address: Has., Second Army, Fort George G. Meade, Md.

Born: Nov. 30, 1904, Winthrop, Mass. Parents: Walter Maitland Taylor, Car-
rie Louise Parsell.

Prepared at: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1925. Degrees: S.B., 1926 (25); Ep.M., 1934.

Married: Dorothy Frail, September, 1926, Hanson, Mass.; Edith Lent, Dec.
21, 1940, Washington, D. C.; Nancy Cooley, Nov. 20, 1946, Yoko-
hama, Japan, CAildren: Marcia, June 12, 1928 (m. John Yntema, June
25,1949) 3 Jeremy, Jan. 29,1943; Marc, Feb. 7, 1948.

Occupation: Educator.

Military or Naval Record: Special services officer, Camp Myles Standish; educa-
tion officer, Hqs., ETOUSA; director, Army University Study Center,
Zurich, Switzerland; education officer, Information and Education Sec-
tion, GHQ, Far East Command; executive officer, Special Services, Hqs.
Second Army; major, special service officer, Fort George G. Meade, Md.

Offices Held: Director, Sandy Island Men’s Camp (Boston YMCA), Lake
Winnepesaukee, N. H., 1935-40; Executive secretary, treasurer, New-
ton, Mass., Community Forum, 1935-42.

Member of : National Educational Association; Harvard Club of Japan (presi-
dent, 1948-49).

Publications: Magazine articles on education.

In these querulous times, with simple civil rights squirming under the

[ 817 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

and Japan — not to forget England, Hawaii, Guam, Korea, the Phil-
ippines, and even Okinawa.

Now, I’m a strong Army man. The Army has enabled all of these
travels, including those three months in Switzerland. Without it, I
would not have seen these places or come to know at first hand how
other-than-Americans tick. Yet there are two faces to the Army coin, in
spite of the common opinion that it always comes down tails. There are
probably more frustrations in the Army than in most forms of profes-
sional life. And heaven knows nothing under heaven takes itself more
seriously than the Army; it hates criticism, no matter how mild, justi-
fied, or amusingly clothed. (Like this!) One of the compensations —
involving sweeps of sea and land, and the habits and customs of other-
than-Americans — is travel. :

“My boy, join the Army and see the world,” I would say to many o
your sons. “But for the sake of humanity, son, see it wholly, with your
eyes and mind open. In trying to do so you will be up against some
first-rate propaganda (from all sides, not just from sources of pre-
digested and slanted information), aimed to close your eyes and mind.
If you are not too critical, youll enjoy the Army life, and conversely.”

You know, in the final analysis, most of us have kidded ourselves into
believing that life contains more than any other form of being, in spite
of it all. So, all that remains for you to do is to discount any seeming
pontification in this revelation and realize that we can congratulate
ourselves that things are no worse than they are. Whatever the outcome
of the next ten years (by which time I expect the current impasse will
have been resolved), I hope that Harvard men, under Veritas, will have
done their share to sustain the right and privilege of candid comment.
By which time, son Marc and your son will have picked up the cudgel in
fighting the good fight. He should matriculate about 1968, God willing.

ALFRED THOMAS

Home Address: 130 Meadowbrook Rd., Weston 93, Mass.

Office Address: 50 Fedcral St., Boston 10, Mass.

Born: July 1, 1905, Boston, Mass. Parents: John Jenks Thomas, M.D., ’90,
Frances Pickering.

Prepared at: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926, Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B., 1929.

Married: Frances Flood, July 11,1929, Boston, Mass. CAéildren: Eleanor, Feb.
7, 1931; Charles F., April 3, 19333 John J., Dec. 15, 1936; Henry P.

Harvard Brothers: John Grimes Walker Thomas, ’24, S.B.,’27; Henry Pick-
ering Thomas, ’2§,5.M., 27.

[ 820 ]

oT Ne

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Occupation: Lawyer.

Military or Naval Record: First lieutenant, Office of the Judge Advocate Gen-
eral of the Army, May to fall of 1942; assigned to Northwest Service
Command Headquarters, Whitehorse, Yukon Territory, Canada, 1942;
released from active duty, major, December, 1945; resigned from serv-
ice, 1946.

Offices Held: Chairman, Board of Appeals, Town of Weston, since 1946;
judge advocate, Weston Post of the American Legion.

My youngest son was born after the close of Act I of World War IT.
Now that he is old enough to understand war talk he says, ‘“What did
you do in the Civil War, Pop?” That gives me a chance to start my
reminiscences. It is practically perfectly safe, too, because there are al-
most no Civil War veterans left who can contradict me. It is much more
glamorous than the actual story of my career since graduating from
Harvard in 1926.

My career has been normal, if there can be such a thin g. [have done
my bit, in a nice way, to populate this strife-torn world, I dabble a little
in home town affairs, usually getting into hot water as a result. I have
tried for some twenty years to learn how to ski, with the aid of carping
criticism of my offspring and several classmates. I tried raising dogs
once. Production was tremendous but sales were poor so I gave up the
venture with a net profit of three dogs on hand.

My home town is a little more countrified than most, but we have the
usual suburban life, exchanging cocktails and gossip.

Despite Uncle Sam’s best efforts, I remain an unreconstructed civil-
ian. It’s rather pleasant and I wish the rest of the world felt the same.

CURTIS KINNEY THOMAS

Home Address: The Brick House, Ring’s Island, Newburyport, Mass.

Born: Sept. 1, 1905, Cortland, N. Y. Parents: Fred Mitchell Thomas, Maude
Annette Kinney.

Prepared at: Cortland Normal High School, Cortland, N. Y.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; A.M., 1943.

Married: Elissa Landi, Aug. 28, 1943, New York, N. Y. (died Oct. 21,
1948). Child: Caroline Maude Landi, Sept. 10, 1944.

Occupation: Author, composer, teacher.

Member of : Harvard Club of Boston; Oldtown Country Club, Newbury.

Publications: Devil Take the Foremost (Crime Club, pseud, Thomas Kinney) ;
magazine stories,

For four years after leaving Harvard, I travelled in Europe and

[ 8ar ]

——__

Harvard Class of 1926

North Africa. During the thirties, I kept to the States except for a win-

ter in the West Indies, and another winter in that most foreign of all
countries, Hollywood. I started the forties by coming back to Harvard

for my A.M, and afterward was turned down by the Army because of

low blood pressure. My future wife, Elissa Landi, fortunately did not
judge by Army standards, nor Hollywood standards for that matter,

We were married in 1943 and our daughter was born a year later. For

the first time, I engaged actively in theatrical writing, collaborating
with my wife, who was an author as well as an actress, when we were

not hanging out laundry or feeding the baby. We both taught night
classes at City College of New York, commuting between our Kingston f
farm and city apartment. If syntax will not stretch to cover our activi- ©
ties in two sentences, its failure is in direct proportion to the success of a
marriage based on mutual interests. My wife’s abrupt death from cancer
in 1948 has left me with her interests as well as my own to be carried on
and doubly interpreted for our daughter.

As I understand social responsibility only in terms of what one has to
offer personally to the world, and not in terms of political or ethical
theory, I am far too busy to repine at the failure of my generation asa
whole to understand its own culture or anyone else’s. Insofar as our
group of Harvard graduates, privileged particularly for leadership, has
contributed to the failure of our atom-sized leadership at the start of the
atom-age, history will write the apology if there is any, and each of us
will make his own whether there is one or not.

My apology for being alive at all is that I continue to be interested in
a world upon which Washington, Moscow, and Korea occupy space,
and over which radio waves carry opinions which are equally soothing
and annoying to every man alive. Everybody has a frequency whether
he has a radio or not, or even a roof over his head, or a head under his
roof. The opportunity for drawing conclusions is unprecedented and as
stimulating as the difficulty of doing so is perilous.

BENJAMIN APTHORP GOULD THORNDIKE

Home Address: 56 Glen Ridge Rd., Dedham, Mass,

Office Address: Childs, Jeftries & Thorndike, Inc., 50 Congress St., Boston 9,
Mass.

Born: March 16, 1905, Boston, Mass. Parents: Albert Thorndike, ’81, Mary
Quincy Gould.

Prepared at: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; M.B.A., 1928,

{ 822 J

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Married: Elizabeth Gardiner, Nov. 17, 1928, Brookline, Mass. Children:
William Albert, Dec. 7, 19303 Elinor Whitney, Oct. 23, 1934-

Harvard Brothers: Samuel Lothrop Thorndike, 27; Albert Thorndike, ’36.

Occupation: Officer and director of investment banking company; trustee.

Military or Naval Record: Army, entered as captain, Sept. 18, 19433; European
Civil Affairs Division; H.Q, First U.S. Army; 2nd Military Govern-
ment Regiment; 36th Infantry Division; received five campaign stars on
European Theatre ribbon; discharged as major, Dec. 20, 1945.

Offices Held: Treasurer and director, Childs, Jeffries & Thorndike, Inc.;
treasurer, Chain Store Investment Corporation; director, H. K. Porter,
Inc., Preferred Utilities Manufacturing Corporation; ‘The Sheraton,
Inc.; trustee, Massachusetts Savings Bank, Quincy Real Estate Trust,
incorporator, Boston Penny Savings Bank; treasurer, Massachusetts Asso-
ciation for Promoting the Interests of the Adult Blind, Channing
Home; incorporator, Perkins Institution and Massachusetts School for
the Blind; secretary and Past Master, Lodge of St. Andrew, A.F. & A.M.

Member of : Dedham Country and Polo Club; Dedham Tennis Club; Duxbury
Yacht Club; Harvard Club of New York; Society of Colonial Wars;
Massachusetts Charitable Fire Society; A Republican Institution in the
‘Town of Boston (secretary).

How high our hopes were in June, 1926, our personal ambitions, our
dreams for our country, our world, our future! Looking back now to
that era of peace and prosperity, how different we find the intervening
twenty-five years to have been from those we thought lay before us!
How different a world we now have from anything we could then
imagine!

After my two years at the Business School, I entered the’employ of
Lee, Higginson & Company. I could not have been more convinced
that I had planted my feet on the first rung of the proper ladder. My
work, after necessary training in Boston, was to be in the field of foreign
bond financing, three months of each year to be spent in Berlin and the
remaining nine in Boston. Before I had completed the training, there
was no more foreign bond financing. In six years there was no more
Lee, Higginson & Company. In seventeen years there was practically no
more Berlin. Boston, at the date of writing, still stands,

In 1932, one of the minor results of the misdeeds of a man named
Kreuger, my personal ladder had been jerked out from under my feet
while they were still on practically the original rung. It was a tough year
in which to “make a new connection,” but I finally connected with an-
other office. From that developed, two years later, the firm of Childs,
Jeffries & Thorndike, Inc., investment bankers and dealers, specializing
in the securities of retail merchandising companies, with offices in Bos-

ton and New York.
[ 823 ]

. cecnegen sy 10
range ete: eotent att ct

Harvard Class of 1926

In the sixteen years of our corporate life we have not grown spec-
tacularly. In fact, measured by the floor space of our offices and the
number of employees, we are substantially smaller now than we were a
few years ago. So long as it provides a living, however, there is a variety
and challenge in the conduct of a business of one’s own, no matter how
small, which to me is more satisfying than becoming a perfect specialist
in a limited réle in some vast enterprise. Also, if one is a “‘boss,”” even
with relatively few to boss, while one inherits unexpected headaches and
problems, one can with a clearer conscience devote business time to
worth-while outside activities (such as being a Class Report Chair-
man! ). As the years have passed I seem to have accumulated my share
of those, but I do not regret them.

At the beginning of 1943 I took a leave of absence from both the
office and outside activities in an effort to make a more tangible war
effort contribution than my job as an air raid warden seemed to be. The
first four months were a period of complete frustration in an alphabeti-
cal agency. In June I received an Army commission and entered into
service in September as a Military Government Officer. I served in Eu-
rope for two years, principally with the First Army, returning home
just in time for Christmas, 1945.

Since 1932 we have lived in Dedham. To my mind it is an ideal type
of location — far enough out of the city to have elbow-room and quiet
and some country atmosphere, yet near enough so that commuting for
business or pleasure offers no problems. Our summers have been varied.
For many years we spent them in Nahant. Later we tried Marblehead
and Plymouth. Since my return from overseas we have been summering
in Duxbury, Always near the water, you will note, for we prefer that to
farm or mountains. For the actual vacation part of the summer | for
years have had a most fortunate arrangement of an invitation to accom-
pany a friend and Dedham neighbor on an annual sailing cruise “down
East” on his boat. We covered the coast of Maine pretty thoroughly
before the war. Recent years have seen usin New Brunswick and Nova
Scotia, and this last summer we made the hop across the Cabot Straits
and started our exploration of Newfoundland.

I have always enjoyed travel. Not counting the most recent trip fi-
nanced by the taxpayers, I have managed to arrange five trips to Europe.
I have also had a couple of vacation trips to Florida, once on a honey-
moon and once on terminal leave, and a brief but pleasant interlude in
Bermuda with two classmates and our wives, Maybe a family liking to
look at far places is one reason that my son, heresy of heresies, is a sopho-
more at Indiana University.

[ 824 ]

TT

Twenty fifth Anniversary Report

I may have irritated some of you by my “needling” in my efforts to
get out this Class Report. If so, forgive me. For me it has been a grand
experience being in touch again with members of the Class whom I had
not seen or heard from for years. I am looking forward to seeing you all
in June.

WILLARD LEWIS TIBBETTS, JR.

Home Address: 408 E. Main St., Shiremanstown, Pa.

Office Address: Pitney-Bowes, Inc., 226 Telegraph Bldg., Harrisburg, Pa.

Bora: March 26, 1903, South Boston, Mass. Parents: Willard Lewis Tibbetts,
Annie Franklin Damon.

Prepared at: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926.

Married: Elizabeth Ford Dolliver, Feb. 21, 1933, Milton, Mass.

Occupation: Harrisburg branch manager, Pitney-Bowes, Inc.

Member of : Rotary Club; Chamber of Commerce; Eureeka Lodge, No. 302,
F. & A.M. of Pennsylvania.

The first two years after college I spent learning the investment busi-
ness and trying to sell bonds. No success, even though in those days
it seemed as though you could sell anything to anybody. Another sell-
ing job for a year. The company folded up. Then I made a connection
with the Boston office of Pitney-Bowes, Inc., as a salesman (August,
1929) and have been with them ever since. I am now Harrisburg
branch manager, in charge of sales and service of postage meter ma-
chines and allied mailing equipment.

My chief interest outside of my business is the study and application of
Christian Science. This is understandable in view of the fact that it saved
me from flunking out of college during the fall of my freshman year.
Had I not been introduced to the principles of Christian Science during
that crucial period in my life, I should not be writing this report for our
Twenty-fifth Anniversary. From January, 1946, to December, 1948,
inclusive, I served as First Reader in the Harrisburg Christian Science
Church.

My interest in track has been kept alive by officiating at some of the
local meets along with a few other members of U.S. Olympic track
teams. Concerning our travels, all I can say is that we make several trips
a year to our families in Boston. The highlights of these trips are an
Esplanade concert and a thrilling ride on the famous Public Garden
swan boats. I have thrown myself into the civic life of Harrisburg by
working on Red Cross, Community Chest, and Chamber of Commerce
membership drives ever since I arrived here in 1943.

[ 825 ]

SN

Harvard Class of 1926

ALBERT TILT, JR.

Home Address: Bramble Brook Farm, P.O. Cornwall Bridge, Warren, Conn.
Office Address: Young & Rubicam, Inc., 285 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y,

Born: Sept. 18, 1903, Lawrence, Long Island, N. Y. Parents: Albert Tilt, Ger-
trude King.

Prepared at: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.
Married: Mary Campbell Chester, Oct. 2, 1926, Greenwich, Conn. Children:
Albert, 3d, Oct. 19, 1928; Victoria Patricia, Sept. 21, 1939.
Harvard Son: Albert Tilt, 3d, ’5o.
Harvard Brother: Rodman King Tilt, 29.
Occupation: Vice-president, account supervisor, advertising agency.
Military or Naval Record: Commissioned lieutenant U.S. Naval Reserve, Janu-
ary, 19423 instructor and staff Naval Air Training Command, Staff of
Air Group 88 on uss Yorktown; inactive duty, commander, November,
1945; awarded Commendation Ribbon, Presidential Unit Citation,
Pacific Theatre Ribbon with one star.

Member of: Harvard Club of New York; Verbank Hunting and Fishing Club;
Marshepaug Hunting and Fishing Club; Triton Hunting and Fishing
Club; Lake Waramaug Country Club; Society of the Cincinnati; Co-
lonial Lords of the Manor.

For about a year after graduation, I was in the textile business. My
first job was as a mill hand, and the last, as a salesman. Since the future
of this industry did not look particularly bright at that time, I decided to
make a change, and after considerable pounding of sidewalks and the
usual long waits in lobbies, I found an opening in what was then a small
advertising agency. Though the job was not much, advertising at that
time was in somewhat the same stage as television is today — new, ex-
citing, and promising. I took the position offered and have been with
Young & Rubicam ever since.

During the intervening years there have been the usual ups and
downs, accentuated, no doubt, by the fast changing world in which we
live today. Fortunately, the firm prospered and has grown to be one of
the largest in the business. Fortunately, too, I grew with the agency and
today find myself a stockholder, vice-president, and supervisor. It has
been exhilarating and interesting work; I have never regretted the
decision to become a “huckster.” Occasionally I have wondered why I
have never had the lurid experiences which Wakeman wrote about in
his book on the “Ad Business.” It occurs to me that if I don’t “enjoy”

them soon, it won’t be long before I am too old to take advantage of
them.

[ 826 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

The Japs made me sore as hell when they bombed Honolulu. So,
shortly after Pearl Harbor Day, I found myself in a blue uniform, For
reasons I have never fathomed, the Navy Department decided that a
“huckster” makes a good instructor, which I was for three years, teach-
ing a variety of subjects at a variety of air stations. Finally, I broke loose
and joined the staff of an air group, which during the last year of the war
saw duty in the Pacific and celebrated V-J Day on the Fighting Lady
off the coast of Japan. One of the subjects I taught was ‘“‘Recognition of
Aircraft and Vessels.” ‘Therefore, as a collateral duty on the Yorktown,
I was made the ship’s Lookout Officer. ‘This assignment permitted an
unexcelled view of aerial attacks; however, the Kamikazes came so fast
and so unexpectedly I must confess that I never did have an opportunity
to “recognize.”

For years we lived in Greenwich, Connecticut. Since the war, we
have spent the weeks in New York City and the weekends on a so-called
“farm” in the northwest section of Connecticut. We have raised a fam-
ily, consisting of a boy and a girl. The first one is to be married shortly;
the second promises to stay with us a bit longer.

Perhaps because age is creeping up, perhaps because there are no ten-
nis courts or golf courses near us in the country, I find that most of my
weekends are now spent either on a trout stream or with hunting dogs
in the field. These sports have become engrossing hobbies, which, fortu-
nately, all members of the family enjoy.

CHARLES LEE TODD, JR.

Home Address: Lincoln Road, South Lincoln, Mass.

Office Address: Boston Stock Exchange, § 3 State St., Boston, Mass.

Boru: Jan..17, 1904, Lincoln, Mass. Parents: Charles Lee Todd, Pauline Eve-
leth.

Prepared at: Concord High School, Concord, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Unmarried,

Harvard Brothers: Eveleth Reed Todd, ’29; John Todd, ’3r.

Occupation: Commission broker, Boston Stock Exchange.

Military or Naval Record: Headquarters Army Air Forces; collection and dis-
semination of intelligence.

Member of : Concord Country Club.

There is little to add since the last Report. Still trying to scalp an
eighth on the Boston Stock Exchange; still trying to change my bache-
lor status; still wondering why the football team doesn’t do a little bet-

[ 827 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

ter; and still trying to figure out where our domestic and international
policies are leading us. Hope there is an improvement before our Fiftieth,

JOHN OTTO TRAGARD

Home Address: 75 Orchard Ave., Providence 6, R. I.

Office Address: Hammel-Dahl Co., 243 Richmond St., Providence, R. I.

Born: Jaly 7, 1903, Boston, Mass. Parents: John Otto Sigurd Olaf Tragard,
Elsie Petrina Berg.

Prepared at: Mansfield High School, Mansfield, Mass.; Walpole High School,
Walpole, Mass.

Years in College: 1921-1922, 1923-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1925 (26); LL.B.
(Northeastern Univ.), 1936.

Married: Margaret Cook Towar, July 3, 1950, Ogunquit, Maine.

Occupation: Vice-president and general manager in charge of sales and engi-
neering contracts, Hammel-Dah] Company, manufacturers of valves and
automatic control equipment.

Wartime Government Posts: Dollar-a-year consultant to radio and radar division
of the War Production Board for four years; chairman, Industrial Instru-
ment Industry War Problems Committee.

Offices Held: Director, Cliff Realty Corporation, Ogunquit, Maine; vice-
president and director, Cliff Country Club, Ogunquit, Maine.

Member of : Boston Bar Association; Harvard Club of New York.

I spent the twenty years from graduation to December, 1946, with
the Foxboro Company in various and sundry jobs. I started as assistant
to the sales manager and soon won the title of exhibition manager. |] saw
the seamy side of life for the ensuing six years, manning our exhibit
booths at conventions and exhibits from Chattanooga to Chicago and
back again to New York and Philadelphia.

I always wanted to be a lawyer, so I finally went to Northeastern
University four years at night and received my LL.B. in 1936 and
passed the Bar exams that July. Just about that time, F.D.R.-sponsored
legislation had begun to place a new value on and a real need for some
kind of legal talent in every business, Quite naturally all of Foxboro’s en-
tanglement with federal legislation gravitated to my desk. I was able to
propound theories of life under the New Deal successfully enough so
that I soon rose to assistant sales manager. Then World War II came
along in time to stall my meteoric rise!

My trade association inclinations and affiliations propelled me into the
chair of a nine-man committee to handle negotiations with Washington
for our industry. In February, 1942, I was made a dollar-a-year con-

[ 828 ]

T wenty- fifth Anntversary Report

sultant to the War Production Board where I gained a thorough indoc-
trination in bureaucracy and a worm’s-eye view of the war effort.

After the war I found numerous changes in the old scene at Foxboro,
and allowed big business to seduce me from our beloved New England.
In January, 1947, I became eastern sales manager for the Fulton
Sylphon Company. By saving my money and cultivating many new
business acquaintances during the ensuing three years, I was able to kid
myself into thinking that I was ready to leave the nest and fend for
myself. Accordingly I resigned in December, 1949, to start my own
sales consulting business, Shortly thereafter, my present wife convinced
me of the obvious benefits of matrimony. Despite forty-seven years of
bachelorhood, the idea had always appealed. Accordingly, we were
married at beautiful Ogunquit-by-the-Sea on July third of this year. By
that time I had also become convinced that my friends were right. It
would take five years to organize a profitable consulting business. So-o,
after a wonderful honeymoon, we're here in Providence working like
beavers once more. And it’s lots of fun.

ROBERT CHAMBERLIN TREADWELL

Home Address: 34, Webster Hill Blvd., West Hartford, Conn.

Office Address: Hamilton Standard Division, United Aircraft Corp., East
Hartford, Conn.

Born: Jan. 19, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Robert Hastings Treadwell,
Bertha Martin Chamberlin.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1923-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Eleanor Judge, Sept. 18, 1926, Waterbury, Conn. C4ild: Robert
Chamberlin, Jr., Dec. 12,1927. |

Harvard Son: Robert Chamberlin Treadwell, Jr., 49.

Occupation: Controller, Hamilton Standard Division, United Aircraft Cor-
poration, manufacturers of aircraft propellers and accessories,

Member of : Controllers Institute of America; American Institute of Account-
ants; Harvard Club of Connecticut; The Country Club of Farmington,
Conn.

The year 1951 is a banner year for me, for, besides marking my
twenty-fifth reunion at Harvard, it is also my twenty-fifth wedding
anniversary. How any one woman could put up with me for this length
of time will always be a mystery to me. She tells me, however, that it
was a pretty tough struggle at times.

My twenty-five years divide into three almost equal periods wherein

[ 829 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

my domicile, my business, and my hobbies were different. In 1926, with
my degree under one arm and my wife under the other, I rented an
apartment in Cambridge and took a job in the accounting department
of a wholesale paper merchant in Boston. For the next eight years ]
chased debits and credits through the ledgers. Living near Harvard, we
were able to take in the football games and dances and spend weekends
skiing in New Hampshire or boating on Buzzards Bay.

In 1934 I passed the C.P.A. examination in Massachusetts and
shortly thereafter left Boston to enter public accounting in New York.
For the next seven years we lived in White Plains, although most of the
time I lived out of a suitcase as public accounting took me all over the
United States and Canada. At this time I became a C.P.A. in New
York. In 1941 I moved my family to West Hartford. We have now
lived here ten years and are extremely happy to be back in New Eng-
land.

Six years ago, I left public accounting to join United Aircraft Corpo-
ration, first as assistant controller and, presently, as controller of the
company’s Hamilton Standard Division whose chief product is aircraft
propellers. With the rapid changes taking place in aviation, I find my
work most stimulating and interesting. As these are busy days, my recre-
ation is now confined to an occasional game of golf.

My son, Bob, Jr., is now twenty-three. He entered Harvard as an
undergraduate in 1945, left for two years of service in the Navy, and
then returned to Harvard to complete his studies. I am proud to report
that he received his degree this year.

+ RICHARD TRIMBLE

Born: Feb. 6, 1904, New York, N. Y. Parents: Richard Trimble, ’80, Cora
Randolph.

Prepared at: St, Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926.

Married: Winifred Loew, June 25, 1930, Old Westbury, Long Island, N. Y.
Children: Winifred, April 12, 1932; Richard, Jr., Jan. 31, 1934.

Died: July 17, 1941, Old Westbury, Long Island, N. Y.

Richard Trimble continued at Harvard the interest in rowing he had
developed as a student at St. Paul’s. In his first year he was captain of the
freshman crew. His memberships included Hasty Pudding-Institute of
1770 and the Stylus, 8.K., and Porcellian Clubs. After leaving college,
he made a trip around the world with two members of the Class of
1927, working his way as far as Singapore on one of the cargo ships

[ 830 ]

Twenty-fifth Annswversary Report

belonging to the United States Steel Corporation of which his father had
been secretary and treasurer. He secured his first job with Shearson,
Hammill & Company, a stock exchange firm. He remained with that
company until the time of his death.

Trimble had an active interest in various philanthropies in the City
of New York and held the posts of trustee of the Roosevelt Hospital and
life member of the board of directors of the New York Eye and Ear In-
firmary. His club memberships were many and included the Racquet
and Tennis Club, the Brook Club, the River Club, the Players, and the
Seawanhaka Corinthian Yacht Club.

He was survived by his wife and their two children,

CHARLES HARRISON TRYNIN

Home Address: 491 E. 17th St., Brooklyn, N. Y.

Office Address: 50 Broadway, New York 4, N. Y.

Born: Aug. 17, 1905, Brooklyn, N. Y. Parents: Max Trynin, Anna Harrison.

Prepared at: Manual ‘Training High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B. cum laude, 1926; LL.B., 1929.

Married: Evelyn Lois Janowich, June 22, 1930, New York, N. Y. Children:
Margot Jean, July 15, 1935; Janet R., Jan. 19, 1941.

Harvard Brother: Ben Sion Trynin, 716.

Occupation: Lawyer.

Member of : New York County Lawyers’ Association; Harvard Club of Long
Island; Harvard Law School Association.

In reviewing the twenty-five years since graduation, I find that
middle-aged conservatism and modesty prevent me from expounding
too freely on the subject in question — certainly without the help of a
highball or two. That may be because, as a lawyer and as a parent, my
energies have been so centered on the lives and problems of others that
it is almost impossible to turn the mirror around to reflect on myself.

I have been a lawyer for more than twenty years with a practice that
has covered so wide a ground that, in looking back, it appears kaleido-
scopic, and therefore confusing and difficult to sort out. However, so far,
it has paid the rent and the butcher, although that job seems to be be-
coming increasingly difficult each year. We have a happy, well-adjusted
family life with two lovely daughters who attend the Friends School.
As the girls grow up we seem to find more things to do together, and
more ways to have fun. I can’t think of anything further to ask, until
that time comes when, in the course of adolescent development, the girls
find other men more interesting than their father. When that time does

[ 831 ]

Flarvard Class of 1926

come, I am sure that Evelyn and I have sufficient mutual interests ty
enable us to continue our happy married life on the same plane.

RICHARD DERBY TUCKER

Home Address: 136 E. 79th St., New York, N. Y.

Born: Dec. 7, 1903, New York, N.Y, Parents: Samuel Auchmuty Tucker, Anne
Caroline Derby.

Prepared at: Browning School, New York, N. Y.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.
Married: Mimi Elvira Brokaw, Feb. 16, 1927, New York, N. Y. Children:

Richard Derby, June 30, 1928; Samuel Auchmuty, May 22, 1931;
Minnie Nave, Nov. 4, 1936.

Harvard Sons: Richard Derby Tucker, Jr., ?50; Samuel Auchmuty Tucker,

3

Military or Naval Record: Commissioned lieutenant (j.g.), U.S. Naval Re
serve, September, 1940; Duty Office and Operations, New York City,
until March, 19413 executive and commanding officer uss Cythera (py
26), uss Olivin (py c22), uss Pc §54, Uss Brister (DE 327).

The past twenty-five years have been marked by so much variety as
to be termed “checkered.” None, however, has been boring, for which
a Harvard liberal education gets the credit. The first nine were spent
working for the now defunct, but once flourishing firm of Redmond &
Company, Wall Street, New York. For the next three years I was presi-
dent of Acker, Merrall & Condit Company, also now defunct, but then
operating a chain of twelve wine and liquor retail stores in and around
New York. There followed three pleasant years with Frank Schoon-
maker who is still going strong as a wine expert par excellence.

The war interval of four and one-half years with the Navy kept me
at sea for all but six months. I still like the sea. I then tried teaching for
a year and a half at the Aiken Preparatory School, Aiken, South Caro-
lina, and then as headmaster of Viewpoint School, Amenia, New York.
I resigned from this job in March, 1950, and am at present unemployed.
This last is in a technical sense only, as I’ve taken up water color paint-
ing and completed over fifty (sz) pictures in the past three months dur-
ing which the Tucker family drove 10,000 miles through the West.

To strike a balance sheet, I would put my wife and family — two
boys, one graduated from Harvard last spring and the other entering
this fall, plus a fourteen-year-old daughter — at the top of the asset col-
umn. On the other side of the ledger would come a tendency to specula-

tion in the ’29 era, and the lack of training for a profession.

[ 832 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report
My chief worry, along with five or six hundred million other people
right now, is the Communist threat to freedom of existence. More par-
ticularly, I’m worried about the mediocrity in our Washington adminis-
tration. Let the Class of ’26 send her sons out into public life and drive
these crack-pots off their mounds!

FRED SALISBURY TUPPER

Home Address: 2320 N. Vernon St., Arlington, Va.
Office Address: George Washington University, Washington 6, D.C.
Born: July 31, 1904, Minneapolis, Minn. Parents: William Goodwin Wheeler

Tupper, Mary Anna Farrington.

Prepared at: East High School, Minneapolis, Minn.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; A.M., 1928;
Pu.D., 1935.

Married: Mildred Agnes Peregrine, Dec. 28, 1931, Evanston, Ill.

Occupation: Professor of English literature.

Member of : Modern Language Association of America; American Association

of University Professors.

Publications: Various articles, bibliographies, and reviews in professional jour-
nals, such as “Mary Palmer, Alias Mrs, Andrew Marvell,” PALA, LI
(1938), 367-392.

These last twenty-five years have marked out for me a straight path,
though I don’t pretend to have followed it very far. As an undergradu-
ate I decided that I wanted to become a teacher, and on the whole,
though the academic profession is not without its peculiar harassments,
I have never regretted the decision. My pattern is almost completely
orthodox: prep school teaching (Loomis), the A.M., four years of
freshman English (Northwestern), the Ph.D., a year abroad on a Har-
vard fellowship, and for the last fifteen years, service here at the George
Washington University in Washington, D. C., in the course of which I
have risen at appropriate intervals from an instructorship to the profes-

sorship which I have held since 1947.

JOSEPH AKKIBA TURITZ

Home Address: 72-17 34th Ave., Jackson Heights, N. Y.
Office Address: Thanhardt-Burger Corp., La Porte, Ind.
Born: Oct. 16, 1905, Brooklyn, N. Y. Parents: Morris Turitz, Julia Gelman.

Prepared at: Mt. Vernon High School, Mt. Vernon, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.
Married: Olga Droshnicop, September, 1933 (divorced 1936); Josephine

[ 833 ]

Flarvard Class of 1926

Williams, March 16, 1937, Stamford, Conn. Children: Julia Ann, Aug
10, 19435 Nina Jo, July 26, 1949.
Harvard Brother: George Turitz,’23, LL.B., ’28.

Occupation: Salesman of pictures used for wall decoration.

FRANCIS BOUTELL TURNER

Home Address: 44 Wellesley St., Weston 93, Mass. ~
Office Address: Abbott, Carr, ‘Turner & Hardy, 53 State St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Oct. 19, 1902, Waltham, Mass. Parents: Benjamin Lincoln Turner,
Edith Merrill Gibbs.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; LL.B., 1930.

Married: Celia M. Rogers, Feb. 13, 1937, West Newton, Mass. Children:
Judith, Aug. 5, 1940; Sara Merrill, June 12, 1942.

Harvard Brother: Lincoln Lull Turner, ’22.

Occupation: Lawyer, general practice, office and trial work.

Offices Held: Waltham City Council, 1934-35; counsel, Massachusetts Golf
Association, Francis Ouimet Caddie Scholarship Fund, Inc.

Member of : Massachusetts Bar Association; Weston Golf Club; Skating Club of
Boston ; Webhannet Golf Club.

There was a time during the war when I wondered what might hap-
pen next in my business. One of my partners entered military service,
two died, and another withdrew, all within a two-year period. Fortu-
nately, we who were left managed to keep our health and carry on.
When my junior partner returned from service five years ago, we
formed a new partnership. Shortly after, that Shylock, classmate Fred
Dabney, who is our landlord, raised the office rent but, despite that, we
have prospered, are very happy together, and hope we shall not be
shaken to the roots again.

Ours is a general practice and my work is chiefly the trial end. I am
in court frequently trying everything from jury cases and divorces to
matters connected with probate of wills, trusts, etc. About the only
thing we eschew is criminal work.

I was a late-starting father and at times I am envious of those of my
classmates who have grown children. Actually, however, I am thor-
oughly enjoying each of the growing stages of my daughters and if ]
were starting over I would have more children.

The town where I live seems to attract Harvard men..Seven mem-
bers of our Class are raising families here and a number of them are near

neighbors. My wife and I both love golf and our daughters have just

whiffled through their first season. We used to play in state and sectional

[ 334 ]

 

 

t

Le OL MERTEN PES EN:

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

golf tournaments, but our competitive activities are now limited mostly
to club tournaments and mixed foursomes. For a time my wife was
secretary of the Massachusetts Women’s Golf Association, and in 1948
I became an officer of the Massachusetts Golf Association. Because of
that connection I was given the task of incorporating the Francis
Ouimet Caddie Scholarship Fund and have continued on as counsel for
the Fund since its organization. For the past two years we have awarded
scholarships to thirty-one caddies, several of whom are now under-
graduates at Harvard, and my contacts with these fine and worthy boys
have been a rewarding experience.

For some years I have owned a summer cottage in Kennebunk,
Maine, where I take frequent refuge during the hot weather to swim,
relax, and play golf. My wife, my daughters, and I all enjoy figure
skating. We are members of the Skating Club of Boston and take part
each year in the Club show “Ice Chips” at the Boston Garden, Believe
it or not, a year ago I performed in a dance number in the uniform of a
West Point cadet. One of my friends who saw the show said, ““To be
honest, you looked a little as though you were back for a refresher
course.”

We have been counsel for the Harvard Athletic Association for many
years. In the early ’30’s, when there was a premium on tickets to the
big games, I used to attend the games regularly on ticket inspection
work. The disciplining of students who sold their tickets to speculators
was an unpleasant task. I would, nevertheless, be glad to do this work
again if Harvard football could be sufficiently revived to make it neces-
sary. My view is that the football situation is unfair and detrimental to
the players and we should have either a stronger team or a weaker
schedule.

T have stayed quite close to Boston ever since graduation, except for a
year spent in Oregon teaching history in a small college. In the summer
of 1934 I travelled in England, France, Switzerland, Austria, and Ger-
many. For a number of years before the war, my wife and I took winter
vacations in Bermuda. We went back again in 1947, but our winter
vacations from here on, if there are any, will probably be in Florida
where we have found the sunshine more dependable.

In my bachelor days I spent a number of years in municipal politics.
I began as a ward and city committee member, and when I was elected
to the city council I thought I was headed up the ladder, but my foot

slipped on the bottom rung. Since then my civic activities have been
confined to raising funds and campaigning for other candidates, most of
whom have been defeated. As for political convictions, my experience

[ 835 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

has led to the belief that politics, at least above the municipal level, jg
for professionals only.

I have to confess that I have not been a very faithful churchgoer,
I believe that there should be a United Protestant Church, but it ap-
pears to me that the movement is not making much progress, probably

because most Protestants, like myself, are too casual to do anything
about it.

1 FREDERICK HENRY TWEEDIE
Born: Aug. 13, 1904, Lamoine, Maine. Parents: James Kerr Tweedie, Sarah
Lord Coggins.
Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
Years en College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.
Married: Henrietta L. Herrlich, June 17, 1933, Albany, N. Y. CAildren: Lucia

Joan, July 1, 19343 Carol Elizabeth, 1937; Alice Louise, March, 1941.
Died: Dec. 2, 1940, Albany, N. Y.

While an undergraduate at Harvard, Frederick Henry “Tweedie
participated in athletics as a member of the freshman track squad, and
of the track squad in 1924-25. He also served in the U.S. Army Re-
serve Corps. Immediately after graduation he went to Albany in the
employ of the New York Telephone Company. Both the job and the
location proved permanent. He worked first as an accountant and at the
time of his death he was supervisor of studies in toll service. This field
required knowledge of accounting, in which he had concentrated in
college and which he had studied further after graduation. His outside
interests were varied and he devoted much time to the Washington
Avenue Unitarian Church and all its various organizations, the Con-
sumers’ Co-operative Movement, and the Harvard Club of Eastern
New York, of which he was secretary-treasurer when he died. He was
instrumental, as one of the original fifty subscribers, in bringing the
Consumers’ Co-operative to Albany.

His wife and three children survived him.

HAROLD PEARCE VALENTINE |

Home Address: Kimball Circle Drive, Westfield, N. J.
Office Address: Mack Motor Truck Corp., 350 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y.

Born: Feb. 21, 1905, Rochelle, Ill. Parents: Clarence Elbert Valentine, Jennie
Pearce.

Prepared at: Rochelle High School, Rochelle, Il.
Years in College: 1923-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.
Married: Ora Mae Smith, Aug. 31, 1928, Oak Park, Ill. CAildres: Ann Mere

[ 836 ]

Twenty- fifth Anntversary Report

dith, April 25, 1935; Sue Marie, Jan. 3, 19383; Mary Jo, Jan. 6, 1944.

Occupation : Vice-president, Mack Motor Truck Corporation,

Military or Naval Record: Lieutenant colonel, A.U.S,, 1941-45; awarded Le-
gion of Merit. .

Member of : Military and Naval Club; Echo Lake Country Club; Empire State
Club; Harvard Club of New York.

Having grown up in an atmosphere somewhat tinged with the fumes
of an automobile engine, through my father’s occupation in that indus-
try since its early days, I not uniquely conceived the idea, on leaving
college, of seeking a livelihood in a similar direction. Over-all I have
enjoyed it.

I first went to work in the Packard factory in an apprentice course,
and having acquired (at least to my own satisfaction ) the factory train-
ing experience, looked enviously at those individuals who travelled
around the United States and the rest of the world, representing the
company, and, as I conceived it, enjoying life. In the course of not too
long a time I was able to arrive in one of those jobs — and on a subse-
quent trip in the West, including a side visit to Yellowstone Park, met my
future wife who had been awarded a vacation trip by her parents upon
graduating from Southern California. After twenty-two years, and
now with a family of three daughters, plus numerous dogs, we both still
think well of Yellowstone Park.

Following a number of years of travel, then with the Chrysler Cor-
poration, during which we moved from Detroit to the West Coast, to
the East Coast, to the South and then back again several times, I was
back in Detroit, up a few notches, and again stationed at the factory,
when the war came along.

There being a reported need for automotive “experts” in the Army,
I shortly found myself in a uniform, in Washington, as a staff officer
with General Clay and subsequently General Knudsen, working on
tank and automotive production for the Army. In this experience I was
undoubtedly fortunate as it was hardly s.o.p. in the Army to be in a job
in which you had had at least some related prior experience. Finally,
however, with the war moving toa finish in Europe, I got an Ordnance
assignment in E.T.O., in time to get around Italy, France, and Ger-
many.

With a somewhat enlightened interest in heavy motor transport from
my experience with the Army, I joined Mack trucks after the war
and now handle export operations. With the need for modern transport
throughout the world, and with the currency, trade, and local assembly
operations involved, I have found this very interesting. Although some

[ 837 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

of the travelling ts rather rugged, I find I still like to go places, with the

proviso that I don’t have to be away from home too long.

When we moved back to New York after the war, we had the usual
problem at that time of finding a place to live, finally winding up in
New Jersey, twenty-five miles out, all of which we like, after becoming
resigned to the commuting. After buying and selling several houses, we
are now building again, and providing we get it finished before the next
war starts, would like to stay in one location for awhile.

While I had thought the possibility of any of our children going to
Harvard was precluded by the fact that they were girls, apparently
from recent reports on the merger of classes with Radcliffe, Harvard
has almost joined the co-educational ranks. I am not sure I like this idea
for Harvard, but perhaps one or more of my daughters may.

With the present state of world affairs, endeavoring to look back over
the past twenty-five years brings forth, more than anything else, the
wish that the next twenty-five years can be as good — and that our
children growing up today will have a country to live in that will afford,
in some degree at least, the individual freedoms we have enjoyed. This
type of thinking is, of course, a sign of advancing age and undoubtedly
at a like point in life our parents may well have indulged in similar dim
retrospective views. However, from the pinnacle of power and world
leadership this country enjoyed only five years ago, it is almost incon-
ceivable that we should be in a position today where our very survival
as a free country could be questioned.

While it is apparent that we are now going to have to pay severely
for these past aberrations in national defense and the state of our govern-
ment, we can and will, of course, win out again. Likewise, of the future
I am confident that Harvard in its sphere will capably meet the chal-
lenge presented by these conditions, and further enhance its record of
service to the nation.

Among other hopes I have for the future is the election of a capable
Republican president, and the resurrection of Harvard football. I look
forward to our Reunion in June.

REGINALD FRANKLIN CONROY VANCE

Home Address: Vienna, Va. (temporary) ; Bexar County, Texas (permanent).
Office Address: Joint Staff, Pentagon Bldg., Washington 25, D.C.

Born: May 13, 1903, London, England. Parents: Reginald Henley Conroy
Vance, Clara Meacham Brown.

Prepared at: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.
Years in College: 1922-1926, Degree: A.B., 1926 (27).

[ 838 ]

Loren

Twenty- fifth Annrversary Report

Married: Susan Hansell, Nov. 27, 1929, Chattanooga, Tenn. CAildren: Susan
Hansell, April 12, 1931; Mary Haywood, Dec. 12, 1933.

Occupation: Air Force.

Military or Naval Record: U.S.A.A.F.; commanded 22d Bomb Training Wing,
1942-433 344th Bomb Group Medium, 1943-44; 99th Combat Bomb
Wing, 1944-45.

My career has been military, now touching on the political and eco-
nomic aspects pertaining to the military defense complex. I have a wife
and two grown daughters, whom I won’t brag about here, but I shall
bring them to Reunion instead. Travels have been quite extensive,
which is one of the nice things about being in the Air Force. My hobby
at the moment is a farm in Virginia which has temporarily eclipsed golf,
fishing, and hunting. Having written three drafts of a longer biography,
I shall let the above serve as an over-all brief coverage instead, and sub-
mit it late rather than notat all.

ANTHONY VARA

Home Address: Vara Drive, Windover Hills, Library, Pa.

Office Address: Eastern Gas & Fuel Associates, Kopper Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa.

Born: Jan. 12, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parents: Carmine Antonio Vara, Carmela
Palma.

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Edith Miriam Foster, May 29, 1926, New York, N. Y. CAildren:
Carmela Louisa, March 18, 1927; Carmine Foster, March 5, 1931.

Occupation: Assistant director of laboratory.

Member of: American Chemical Society; 1.8.D.A. of Pittsburgh (Pa.); Har-

vard Club of Western Pennsylvania.

After being graduated from college and several months’ rest, due to
the prevalent lack of jobs, I nosed out an M.I.T. man for a job as
chemist in a coke plant at Everett, Massachusetts. The chief chemist was
an M.I.T. man, decreasing the odds, but the Harvard appetite (and a
mighty thin purse) stood strongly, so, while the M.I.T. applicant went
out to lunch, Crimson got the job.

Less than two years later I was delegated to go to West Virginia and
set up a laboratory to analyze and select the various coals at their source
to expedite the shipping of same. This venture was intended as an ex-
periment, supposedly requiring two years at most, but due to the depres-
sion and a change in company ownership, this assignment lasted thirteen
years,

In 1941 I was promoted to the main laboratory in Pittsburgh as

[ 839 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

assistant director. So now in this year of our T'wenty-fifth Anniversary
you may find meat Vara Drive, Windover Hills, Library, Pennsylvania,
with the same job, same company, same sized family, but I am a
changed man! Iam a new member of the “Now-I’ve-Got-It-How’m-
I-Going-To-Keep-It” Club, of which the highly publicized Mr,
Blandings is the honorary head.

Having been warned against building one’s house on sand, I was
careful to avoid that particular hazard, only to discover after the house
was inhabited by my exuberantly exhausted family, that there were
several dormant underground springs awaiting this occasion to perform.
Result: our basement, tool cellar, utility room and game-room in-
undated!

We have been seriously considering offering our backyard to the
U.S. Navy for any emergencies such as floating the “Big Mo” or deep
sea diving practice. Several close neighbors have water problems in
varying degrees and after considerable discussion on the matter, an
informal club was formed. Members are given naval rank according to
the amount of water in their basements. I am sorry to report that my
rank is the highest.

After a detailed study of underground waters and the hydraulics
thereof, we hope to eliminate this unwelcome flood by re-distributing
the soil with bull-dozers, highlifts, and many strong backs.

Eventually, I hope to spend many happy hours in the horticultural
aspects of my half-acre and perhaps a little time on the golf course
nearby.

JAMES ALBERTSEN VELDE

Home Address: 711 Park Pl., Lake Bluff, Ill.

Office Address: Gardner, Carton & Douglas, 33 S. Clark St., Chicago 3, Ill.

Born: Oct. 6, 1904, Pekin, Ill. Parents: Dietrich Fokke Velde, Emma Sophia
Albertsen.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B., 1929.

Married: Esther Dwyer Finn, Aug. 2, 1934, Chicago, Il]. C4ild: Margaret
Finn, Nov. 9, 1936.

Occupation: Private law practice.

Offices Held: Assistant corporation counsel, City of Chicago, 1940—42; trus-
tee, Lake Forest Day School, since 1950; member, executive committee,
Legal Club of Chicago, since 1950.

Member of: Harvard Club, University Club, Legal Club, Law Club (all of
Chicago) ; Knollwood Club (Lake Forest, I11.).

Publications: Co-editor, Lilinas Probate Act Annotated, 1940.

[ 840 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

After law school my general education was continued by five years
of residence in Hull House (Chicago), where the founder, Jane Ad-
dams, still presided as head resident. A Harvard roommate, Gordon
Crothers, had rightly directed me there for its cheap living and rich
experience. Its doors opened on a neighborhood of slums and poverty,
of immigrants from Greece, Italy, Mexico, Russia, and lately the South,
of delinquents and gangsters, but also of hard-working, honest people.
We Hull House residents were also a mixture, including businessmen,
teachers, artists, and social workers, with opinions ranging from C'/i-
cago Tribune Republicanism to Socialism. Living there in the valley of
depression was education that, though by environment and the current
event, was as conscious a process as college courses.

A livelihood was harder to find in the early thirties. After a year of
volunteer legal aid work, I took what became a ten-year job on a tip
from Bill Stone. This provided experience in the smaller matters of law
practice. Drudgery, I tried to rationalize, can have its high moments.
By 1940, time, chance, and bread cast upon the waters yielded a job
with the City of Chicago and a glimpse of the satisfactions and dis-
appointments of public legal work. Two years later more chance and
the suggestion of a law school classmate led to a law firm with clients
and problems in constant and interesting variety. There I remain and
complacently see no other future, for my partners and my work are
pleasant and stimulating and provide a comfortable livelihood.

My wife and I first met as residents of Hull House. She had then
spent most of her life on the western slope of Colorado, which is as far
from Ilinois as Boston and as different in character. Our daughter, by
present plans, will get her education on the eastern coast. For many
years we lived in Chicago, fortunately believing that one who worked
in a city should live there. Now, giving up theory for a practical condi-
tion, we live in a small, serene village overlooking Lake Michigan.
Golf, gardening, and other so-called recreations are near at hand, but
concerts and the theatre are accessible only with difficulty.

Reading back, I see that this placid account of twenty-five years out
of college is essentially incomplete. It wishfully ignores the central fact
of working and living as a struggle of physical and mental effort, fears,
interests, convictions, pleasure and pain, etc., etc. Even our quiet village

is a near miss from two great military establishments. But, there being
no compulsion, I don’t write of such things on this quiet Sunday after-
noon.

XQ

[ 841 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

JOHN BENJAMIN VERNAGLIA

Home Address: 10 Traincroft St., Medford, Mass.
Office Address: Winthrop Square, Medford, Mass.
Born: Jan. 31, 1905, Somerville, Mass. Parents: Louis Vernaglia, Henrietta
_ Galiani.
Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
Years tn College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; M.D., 1930.
Married: Madeline A. Baruffaldi, Dec. 30, 1936, Somerville, Mass. Children:
John Lawrence, July 19, 1938; Paul Albert, July 19, 1941; Madeline
Ann, Aug. 20, 1945.
Occupation: Surgeon; chief of surgical services, Cambridge City Hospital,
Cambridge, Mass.
Offices Held: Trustee and member of corporation, Massachusetts General Hos-
pital, Boston, Mass.
Member of : American College of Surgeons; American Medical Association.
Publications: Several articles published in surgical and medical journals.

I have spent these twenty-five years working to make myself a better
doctor but have not neglected to live. I have a perfectly grand wife and
three wonderful children and have been successful beyond my earliest
expectations.

After graduation from Harvard Medical School in 1930, I spent
three years training at the Boston City Hospital, the Boston Lying-In
Hospital, and at the Truesdale Hospital in Fall River. I then did general
medical work and after twelve years specialized exclusively in surgery
which ever was my true love. Now I am honored with the title and re-
sponsibility of chief of surgical service at the Cambridge City Hospital
in Cambridge, Massachusetts.

My hobbies are hunting and fishing. For ten years (1940-1950) I
held the world’s all-tackle tuna championship with my record catch of
927 pounds off Plum Island, Massachusetts, on Aug. 25, 1940. This
is hard work as you must know. Frankly, I enjoy hunting, especially
deer hunting, a great deal more.

My vacations have been spent each summer at Winthrop Beach
where we have a cottage on the ocean at Point Shirley. We also all enjoy
the woods and mountains, and frequently visit up through New Hamp-
shire in all seasons of the year,

So you see the life of a busy doctor has been rounded out with a happy
home and outdoor life. Much of this I owe to Harvard, but also to my
hard working mother and father who came to America to make a better
life here for themselves and their children.

[ 842 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

EDWIN VIEIRA

Home and Office Address: 221 Warren Ave., East Providence, R. I.

Born: May 15, 1904, New Bedford, Mass. Parents: Antonio Claudio Vieira,
Maria Louisa Da Costa Mello.

Prepared at: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; M.D., 1931.

Married: Mary Elsie Rosa, Oct. 17, 1942, Newport, R. 1. Children: Edwin,
Jr., Sept. 27, 19433 Stephen, June 15, 1949.

Occupation: Physician in general practice.

Military or Naval Record: Member Army and Navy Reserves since 19313
served as flight surgeon with rank of commander, Medical Corps, U.S,
Naval Reserve, Aug. 15, 1940—March 13, 1946; currently battalion
medical officer, Battalion 1-8, Providence, R. I.

Member of : Providence Medical Association; Rhode Island Medical Society;
American Medical Association.

Trying to live a simple, quiet life but am being thwarted by the mili-
tary demands of the Navy. Expect to be back in active duty status by
December, 1950.

CARL FREDERICK VIETOR, JR.

Home Address: 1§ Norcross St., Rockville Center, N. Y.
Office Address: Savings Banks Life Insurance Fund, 369 Lexington Ave., New

York 17,N.Y.
Born: Aug. 1, 1904, Amesbury, Mass. Parents: Carl Frederick Vietor, Emma

Gray Kingsbury.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926.

Married: Elizabeth Bartlett Currier, Sept. 4, 1928, Amesbury, Mass. C4il-
dren: Ann Elizabeth, Jan. 26, 1930; Elizabeth, Feb. 8, 1936.

Harvard Brother: Robert Kingsbury Vietor, 733.
Occupation: Vice-president and actuary, Savings Banks Life Insurance Fund.

Member of : Harvard Club of New York.

During 1926-27 I taught mathematics and coached football at the
St. Louis Country Day School. In 1927 I joined the Actuarial Depart-
ment of the Division of Savings Bank Life Insurance of the Common-
wealth of Massachusetts. Savings bank life insurance was originated by
Louis D. Brandeis in Massachusetts in 1907. It provides life insurance
which is sold over the counter by mutual savings banks and because of
its unique merchandising method, it is very low in cost. At the time I
went to work for the Massachusetts system, it had $49,000,000 insur-
ance in force which had grown to $15§5,000,000 by 1938.

[ 843 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Upon the passage of legislation setting up savings bank life insurance
in New York, I went to Albany to assist in getting the system started.
During this period (1938-40) I held the title of associate actuary in
the New York State Insurance Department and had the interesting ex-
perience of launching a new business.

In 1940 a revision of the law created a new organization, Savings
Banks Life Insurance Fund, to provide the banks with a guaranty fund
for their life insurance operations and to furnish various technical serv-
ices. I was employed as actuary of the Fund and in May, 1947, was
made vice-president and actuary, a position I now hold. Since my asso-
ciation with Savings Banks Life Insurance in New York, it has grown to
the point where there is now $175,000,000 insurance in force.

Aside from business, my life and activities are probably typical of
those of a Long Island commuter, including a gradual evolution to less
strenuous athletic activity. Although I enjoy living and working in New
York, I must confess to a nostalgia at times for New England.

THEODORE VOORHEES

Home Address: 101 Cherry Lane, Ardmore, Pa.

Office Address: Barnes, Dechert, Price, Myers & Clark, 13th Floor, Packard
Bidg., Philadelphia, Pa.

Born: April 28, 1904, Elkins Park, Pa. Parents: Harlow Chittenden Voorhees,
Martha White Gamble.

Prepared at: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B. (Univ. of Pennsyl
vania), 1929.

Married: Dora May Johnson, March 3, 1945, Bray-on-Thames, Berkshire,
England. Children: Harlow Chittenden, Sept. 9, 1946; Lilian Harbor-
ough, Nov, 20, 1947; Theodore, May 24, 1949; John, Jan. 20, 1951.

Occupation: Lawyer.

Military or Naval Record: Commissioned lieutenant, Air Force, September,
1942; overseas service in European Theatre, May, 1943, to October,
1945; discharged as major, January, 1946.

Member of : Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Rittenhouse Club.

After graduating from the Pennsylvania Law School in 1929, I
joined the small firm of Barnes, Biddle & Myers, one of the oldest law
offices in this city. For the next thirteen years — with a minor inter-
ruption of one interesting year which I spent in Washington as an assist-
ant counsel in the N.R.A. — I enjoyed a diversified practice and also a
good deal of extra-curricular activity (being a bachelor). I was, for a

[ 844 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

time, president of the Philadelphia Travelers Aid Society and chairman
of the Philadelphia U.S.O.

In 1942 I was commissioned a first lieutenant in the Air Force and,
after training in Miami and Harrisburg, was assigned to a “most secret”
intelligence camp in Beaconsfield, England, where I stayed for a year
and a half. We operated an interrogation center for high-ranking pris-
oners of war who had special information, military, scientific, and
political, and this we extracted by interrogation and other more inter-
esting methods. While there I married a British WAAF, an intelligence
officer who was stationed at the camp. After the war she came to this
country and we have had four children.

Following D-Day, I commanded Mobile Field Interrogation Unit
No. 4, with nine officers and fifty-five men. We were stationed for vary-
ing lengths of time in France, Belgium, Luxembourg, and Germany,
and became successively the Twelfth Army Group Interrogation Unit
and the Theatre Intelligence Center, having in the end, forty-five offi-
cers and seven hundred and fifty men. While in Germany, I had the
opportunity to meet, and in some cases get to know, a few of its better
people, including Goering, Von Papen, Doenitz, Von Rundstedt, Kal-
tenbrunner, and Skortzeny.

After the war, I returned to the practice of law but under changed
surroundings. We merged in 1942 with another law firm and now
practise under the name of Barnes, Dechert, Price, Myers & Clark.
Before entering the service I had four partners, now I have nineteen.
While we all used to try our hands at anything that came along, we
now are specialized and I spend most of my time in the preparation and
trial of cases that go into court. Since our new firm consists largely of
young and energetic lawyers, our practice has kept up with our growth.

T have devoted a good deal of time to Bar Association work. I am on
a small committee of the American Bar Association which is trying,
through a mechanism known as the “Lawyers Reference Plan,” to
make the services of lawyers more available to people of moderate
means, am chairman of a committee of the Pennsylvania Bar Associa-
‘tion, devoted to the same purpose, and executive vice-chairman of the
Philadelphia Bar Association referral service. ‘This is intended to be the
Bar’s answer to the outcry for socialization along the lines of the Legal
Aid and Assistance Plan that has recently gone into operation in Eng-

land.

[ 845 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

BOMANJI KHURSHEDJI WADIA
Home Address: “Las Palmas,” Little Gibbs Road, Malabar Hill, Bombay 6,
India.

Born: March 1, 1899, Bombay, India. Parents: Khurshedji Nusservanji Wadia,
Ruttonbai Sohrabji Powvala.

Prepared at: St. Xavier’s High School, Bombay, India.

Years in College: 1923-1926. Degrees: S.B. cum laude, 1926; A.M. (Columbia
Univ.), 1929; Pu.D. (ibid.), 1933.

Married: Avabai D. Mehta, April, 1946, Bombay, India.

GEORGE RANDIE WADSWORTH

Home Address: 975 Park Ave., New York 28, N. Y.

Office Address: Union Securities Corp., 65 Broadway, New York 6, N.Y.

Born: March 21, 1905, New York, N. Y. Parents: George Reed Wadsworth,
Alice Marion Randie.

Prepared at: Riverdale Country School, Riverdale, New York, N. ¥.

Years i College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 19263 M.B.A., 1928.

Unmarried.

Occupation: Vice-president of Union Securities Corporation.

Military or Naval Record: Inducted as private in Air Force, April 27, 1942;
weather observing and weather forecasting in the U.S, and Iceland; sep-
arated as master sergeant, July 28,1945.

Offices Held: Director, Wilmington Associates, Inc.

Member of : Shoreham Club, Old Greenwich, Conn. (president).

Twenty-five years is a sizable chunk out of one’s life, and I suppose
if any of us looked so far into the future on that fine June day in 1926,
we hoped to approach 1951 with a sense of reasonable personal accom-
plishment, a feeling that life in general was pleasant, and a hope that the
second twenty-five years could be viewed with some equanimity.

Originally I started to write this early in June of last year. Unfortu-
nately (perhaps) procrastination won the day. And every time I’ve put
fingertip to typewriter since then (it is now mid-January, 1951) Ihave
been overcome with a sense of weariness and futility. The world
atmosphere created by Uncle Joe (and many others) does not lend itself
to nurturing overweening self-importance. Personal accomplishments
are relatively insignificant when compared with the huge task that seems
to face us all for an indefinite future. However, for those of my class-
mates who may yet be interested, here goes for a personal dossier.

Being still a bachelor, I cannot — or dare not! — report on the
pleasures of family life and the progress of my youngsters. With the ex-

[ 846 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

ception of thirty-nine months in the Air Force as a G.I. — private to
master sergeant — my work-a-day life has been in the same general
field and with the same associates ever since my graduation from the
Business School in 1928. It has chiefly been in the non-sales end of
investment banking, with, in recent years, a little more concentration on
the petroleum and natural gas industries. On the whole it has presented
an interesting variety of problems and has been mentally stimulating to
a degree. As to its importance in the cosmic scheme of things, I have
grave doubts! I can also tell you some of the problems of (but not
recommend) the summer hotel business. And I can expound on why
wild-catting for oil and gas is not necessarily a sure road to riches (the
experience of various Texas and Oklahoma friends to the contrary),

My love of mountain country has induced me to spend most of my
vacations in the West and I have covered many a trail mile in the
American and Canadian Rockies. I find few experiences as physically
and emotionally satisfying as a pack trip in the wilderness; and at the
risk of sounding “precious,” the sight of a snow ridge against the sky is
spiritually rejuvenating. Why do I continue to live in Manhattan?
Well, there is the little matter of occasionally having some margarine to
go with the bread; and of course the great human characteristic, inertia.

My current hobbies include philately, and to a lesser degree meteor-
ology. Summer — to the extent that it is spent in Connecticut instead
of the mountains — sees a reasonable amount of swimming and bad-
minton, and a lot of sunning. Otherwise, I eschew exercise. Come that
happy day when I can retire to the general region of the Continental
Divide, I hope to pursue weather studies somewhat more actively and
to reacquaint myself with astronomy. And, of course, there will always
be a few horses to raise and ride, and things to grow, even though not on
a full ranch scale.

Aside from a certain apparently inevitable redistribution of weight
and greying hair, the passage of time doesn’t impinge itself on me physi-
cally to any unpleasant extent; it’s chiefly an ever more conservative
(or should the word be crotchety? ) point of view that makes itself felt.
However, despite the somewhat doleful start of this personal recital, I
really don’t have any complaints, nor feel too discouraged about the
world of the guided missile. What’s the use! Ave atque vale.

[ 847 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

HAROLD NICHOLSON WAGAR
Home Address: 25 Woodcliff Drive, Madison, N. J.
Office Address: Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc., 463 West St., New York,
N_Y.
Bors: May 23, 1905, Mt. Hermon, Mass. Parents: Gardiner Lincoln Wagar,
Annie Marian Nicholson.
Prepared at: Mt. Hermon Boys’ School, Mt. Hermon, Mass.
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B., 1926; A.M. (Columbia Univ.),
1931.
Married: Dorothy Rae Spedick, Feb. 1, 1930, Brooklyn, N. Y. Children: P2-
tricia Nicholson, May 11, 1939; Barent Spedick, Jan. 27, 1942.
Occupation: Member of technical staff at Bell Telephone Laboratories, design-
ing and developing switching apparatus.

My life since college might be subdivided into the bachelor period and
the married period, with the married part broken into two approx-
mately equal periods: pre-children and post-children. There are no sub-
divisions in my business life, however, which has been with Bell Tele-
phone Laboratories ever since graduation. Looking back, I find that I
have many pleasant memories.

Thoughts of the period immediately after college produce a some-
what hazy picture of a succession of small apartments ’round about
Manhattan, of evening courses in engineering and physics, and miscel-
laneous activities indigenous to that era of wonderful nonsense. Fora
while I supplemented my daytime job with evening work as desk clerk
at the Bowery Y.M.C.A., to help repay some college debts.

Though I had always claimed a suspicion of “women with a pur-
pose,” in 1930 I married a social worker — in fact, a psychiatric social
worker. Again, I have a blurred recollection of apartments here and
there in Manhattan, while my wife and I both worked and did graduate
study at Columbia. I remember various pleasant vacations in the Adi-
rondacks, Canada, Bermuda, and two trips to Europe. On our last trip
there, we returned via the old Europa just at the time of Munich. Be-
cause all news on that subject was suppressed on the boat, we sometimes
wonder what might have happened if Chamberlain had not achieved
his famous “‘peace in our time.”

After that came our two children, destined perhaps for Radcliffe and
Harvard in the late ’50’s. We have lived successively in homes in Forest
Hills, New York, and Madison, New Jersey, spending our summers in
Center Moriches, Long Island, where we have remodelled a relic from
the 38 hurricane into a comfortable bungalow, and can enjoy the sail-
ing and swimming along Long Island’s south shore.

[ 848 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

My work at Bell Laboratories has been designing and developing
apparatus used in telephone switching, mainly on types of magnets called
“relays,” which are used by the millions in our business. During the war
years I helped develop various stuff for military purposes, working part
of the time on anti-aircraft directors, and part on proximity fuses for
magnetic mines. Magnet development remains my primary specialty. I
have found it absorbing — to the point of preparing text material and

_ teaching courses on the subject for many years, in addition to my regular
duties,

I have loyally gone to the polls at each election, but must sadly con-
template an almost blank record of winning candidates.

RAYMOND AUGUST WAGNER

Home Address: 744 Cook St., Denver, Colo.

Office Address: U.S. Fidelity & Guaranty Co., 922 Un niversity Bldg., Denver,
Colo.

Born: Sept. 4, 1904, Denver, Colo. Parents: Harry Ulysses Wagner, 797,
Amalia Marie Biegel.

Prepared at; Kast Denver High School, Denver, Colo.

Years in College: 1923-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B. (Univ. of Denver),
1929.

Married: Mary Josephine Mizer, Oct. 6, 1934, Denver, Colo. Child: Mary
Jo, May 15, 1943.

Harvard Brother: Harold Biegel Wagner, ’23.

Occupation: Lawyer; superintendent of claims for branch office of insurance
company.

After twenty-five years it would seem to be a comparatively easy
matter to fill a page concerning my activities. However, I do not find it
Is so easy, although I have been busy all the intervening years. I have
been with the same company for the past sixteen years and am now
superintendent of claims for a branch office of the company which serves
the states of Colorado, Wyoming, and New Mexico, part of Nebraska,
and part of South Dakota. From one end of the territory to another the
distance is about twelve hundred miles. Fortunately, we also have sub-
offices in Pueblo, Colorado, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and Albuquerque,
New Mexico.

I am a member of the Denver and Colorado Bar Associations and
the Denver Law Club, and am on the board of trustees of the First
Plymouth Congregational Church. Membership in a couple of claim
men’s associations is almost mandatory, and I am currently president of
the Denver Claim Managers’ Council. I am no longer active in the

[ 849 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Rocky Mountain Harvard Club, but at one time I was secretary-treas-
urer and later vice-president.

My longest recent trip was early in the spring, when I took a business
trip to Baltimore, stopping in Washington, D. C., only long enough to
change planes, because I felt that for a Republican a longer delay would
be of slight benefit,

I am contented without being satisfied. That is, I find my day-to-day

life pleasant and interesting, but I do not expect my condition to remain —

static, and I hope it will improve.
If I do not suffer a misfortune in the meantime, I plan to be at the
Reunion with my family in 1951.

TOBIAS WAGNER °

Heme Address: 8611 Montgomery Ave., Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia, Pa.

Office Address: Smith, Kline & French Laboratories, 1530 Spring Garden St,
Philadelphia, Pa.

Born: Oct. 31, 1904, Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia, Pa. Parents: Joseph Wood
Wagner, Grace Waith.

Prepared at: Chestnut Hill Academy, Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia, Pa.;
Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926.

Married: Eleanor Diana Bassall Lee-Warner, Oct. 9, 1937, Boston, Mass.

Children: Luciana Maud, Sept. 24, 1939; Vivian Anne Astley, Oct. 9,_

1941; Philip Henry, July 25, 1946.

Occupation: Director of advertising, Smith, Kline & French Laboratories, phar-
maceutical manufacturers.

Military or Naval Record: Joined First Troop, Philadelphia City Cavalry, Feb.
14, 1927; Non-active Roll, May 4, 1936; U.S. Coast Guard Reserve,
1942-44, CBM; Honorary Roll, Nov, 3, 1947.

Offices Held: Member board of trustees, Pennsylvania School for the Deaf,
1939-41, 1945-49; member board of directors, Miss Zara’s School,
Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia, Pa., 1949-50; member board of trustees
and former secretary, Wagner Free Institute of Science, Philadelphia, Pa.

Member of: First Troop Philadelphia City Cavalry (Honorary Roll); Shak-
spere Society of Philadelphia; Zoological Society of Philadelphia (life
member) ; Whitemarsh Valley Hunt Club; Philadelphia Club; Penllyn
Club; Harvard Club of Philadelphia; formerly, Rosetree Hunt Club,
Racquet Club of Philadelphia.

Publications: The Turbulent Pendrayles, Little, Brown & Co., 1937.

[ 850 ]

TORE Ty Re RR ean rep

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

CHARLES FOLSOM WALCOTT

Home and Office Address: 81 Sparks St., Cambridge, Mass.

Born: May 14, 1904, Cambridge, Mass, Parents: Charles Walcott, ’92, Martha
Spelman Eustis,

Prepared at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922~1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; M.D., 1931.

Married: Susan M. Cabot, Sept. 16, 1933, Brookline, Mass. Children: Charles,
July 19, 1934; Benjamin, May 31, 1941.

Harvard Brothers: Eustis Walcott, ’32; Richard Walcott, ’34.

Occupation: Physician.

Due to an extra year of college for premedical courses, I graduated
from Harvard Medical School in the Class of 1931 and thereby enjoyed
four years in the new dormitory, Vanderbilt Hall. After my medical
internship at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, I assisted Dr. Conrad
Wesselhoeft of Boston and worked in contagious diseases at the Haynes
Memorial Hospital.

For fifteen years I have been a family doctor in Cambridge, practis-
ing internal medicine, and doing hospital work. For twelve years I
taught courses in contagious disease at Harvard and Boston University.

T have served on various charity boards and was for a time chairman
of the local chapter of the Red Cross. My activities in World War IT
were confined to the same and more of it, due to a duodenal ulcer.

Since the war I have resigned from my contagious work and teaching
and have been trying to learn more medicine and, incidentally, taking
more time off to enjoy my family and recreation. It has been a little
difficult to combine my hobbies with the practice of medicine, How-
ever, I have endeavored to bring the country into the city by transplant-
ing native shrubs and trees to attract birds to the house, and the recent
census has rated me as a farmer due to my five bee hives.

In the summer I commute from Marblehead and get in some fishing,
rowing, sailing, and bird watching. I find an Indian arrowhead occa-
sionally and otherwise amuse myself and family. In the fall I manage
to get in a little gunning.

JOHN REED WALDEN

Home Address: 39 Kirkland St., Cambridge, Mass.

Office Address: D. C. Heath & Co., 285 Columbus Ave., Boston, Mass.

Born: Aug. 1, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: John William Henry Walden,
88, Grace Reed.

Prepared at: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

[ 851 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Years ins College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; A.M., 1928.
Unmarried.

Occupation: Publishing — head of college department, D. C. Heath & Com-
pany.
Member of: Harvard Faculty Club; St. Botolph Club, Boston.

Since 1936 I have been in the textbook business, since 1939 with my
present firm. Being in charge of a college department of a textbook
house means (1) explaining to someone every few days why business is
not better; and (2) wondering why textbook authors are not better,
Our customers, who probably include, once removed, many of my class-
mates, are, I am sure, wondering why textbooks are not cheaper, The
quandaries suggested are faint reflections of basic problems of what
some people call the book “industry.” It may be that that last word con-
tains an explanation of some of those problems. There may well be too
much industry about the whole thing and too little of other desirable
qualities. I see hopeful signs, however. There is probably more chance
for originality and imagination in textbook writing now than at any
other time in the last thirty years. If there is a chance for originality and
imagination, one hopes they will gradually appear. They need not be of
the highest order but they need to be genuine. I like to take some credit

for certain ventures in what I think is the right direction.

The admirably complete and neat evaluations of life that are apt to
come forth in Class Reports leave me slightly embarrassed at not being
able to do better along this line. I don’t like to seem disagreeably reticent
in forming judgment on the works of the Creator, but I should really
like to wait until a later Report. I might say that I don’t take an un-
favorable view.

PAUL SAMUEL WALGREN

Heme Address: 97 Brace Rd., West Hartford, Conn.

Office Address: Walgren Tree Expert Co., 24 Cody St., Elmwood, Conn.;
1708 Dixwel] Ave., New Haven, Conn.

Born: Feb. 28, 1902, Hartford, Conn. Parents: Robert W. Walgren, Maud
Elizabeth Chisholm.

Prepared at: Hartford High School, Hartford, Conn.

Years in College: 1922-1924.

Married: Audrey M. Monroe, February, 1920, Northampton, Mass. Children:
Paul Robert, Dec. 13, 19215 Marjorie, Sept. 19, 1928 (. Frank L.
Eblen, Feb. 11, 1950) ; Bruce Monroe, March 11, 1932.

Occupation: Arborist. .

Member of : Connecticut Tree Protective Association; New Jersey Shade Tree

[ 852 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Federation; National Shade Tree Conference; National Arborist Asso-
ciation; Harvard Club of Connecticut.

I find it difficult to write at any length about my business career,
Twenty-five years ago I established our own company, Walgren Tree
Experts, and since that time have devoted myself to a type of work
which has been both interesting and satisfactorily remunerative.

Our elder son, Paul, who is now twenty-nine years old, attended the
University of Vermont for three years previous to the last war. He was
elected captain of football in his junior year. A lieutenant in the In-
fantry, he was wounded twice. After the war he graduated from Ohio
State where he pursued graduate work in horticulture. At present, he
is handling our New Haven division. A traitor to Harvard, he lists as
one of his best accounts — Yale University.

Marjorie, our daughter, is now twenty-one, a graduate of Edge-
wood Park. She was married to Frank Eblen last February. Our first
grandson is anticipated this spring.

Bruce, our youngest, is now eighteen. He is at Kingswood School,
where, despite his small stature, he has proved to be an outstanding ath-
lete in basketball, baseball, and football. His interests, too, are in tree
work. .

Certainly in mentioning family, a wife who has been a constant help
and guide through these years should not be omitted.

MANNIX WALKER

Home and Office Address: Walker School of Foreign Service Preparation, 2024
Hillyer Pl., N.W., Washington 9, D.C.

Born: Aug. 31, 1904, Washington, D. C. Parents: Ernest George Walker, 792,
Romaine Susie Mannix.

Prepared at: Friends School, Washington, D. C.; Central High School, Wash-
ington, D.C,

Years in College: 1922-1925. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Unmarried,

Occupation: Writer and teacher.

Wartime Goverument Posts: Economic analyst and expert on South Africa, De-
partment of Commerce.

Member of : Chevy Chase Club; University Club.

Publications: Five novels, all published by Dodd, Mead & Co.: Count on Two
Days, Everything Rustles, The Lonely Carrot, Thinly Veiled, Magnolia
Widow.

I was formerly a member of the Foreign Service on duty in the De-
partment of State in Washington but resigned because of my father’s ill

[ 853 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

health. In 1932 I started my school which I have been running ever
since with two intervals when the exams given by the Department of
State were cancelled. Walker alumni are scattered all over the world
and some have already become heads of missions.

I have done a good deal of work with the Little Theatre movement
here. I have travelled a certain amount, especially in the Balkans, a part
of the world which interested me very much before it fell behind the
iron curtain. In 1943 I more or less inadvertently had my first novel
published and have written one nearly every year since. To my mind
the biggest thrill in life is the day the jacket of the new novel arrives.

I am Episcopalian, I like to swim and play squash and most card
games.

JOHN ROGER WALLACE

Home Address: 11 McKinley St., Bronxville, N. Y.

Office Address: Journal of Commerce, 63 Park Row, New York, N. Y.

Born: Aug. 10, 1902, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Samuel Peter Wallace, Anne
Jane Kenny.

Prepared at: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Edith Evens Tiffany, March 21, 1933, New York, N. Y. Children:
Bruce Tiffany, July 13, 1934; Margaret Elizabeth, June 30, 1937;
Katharine Anne, Feb, 16, 1945; Richard Kenny, May 25, 1947.

Occupation: Economist on editorial staff of Journal of Commerce; economic con-
sultant.

Wartime Government Posts: Chief, Materials Reports Section, Statistics Divi-
sion, War Production Board; chief, Fats and Oils Section, Food Division,
Foreign Economic Administration.

Member of : American Economic Association; American Statistical Association;
Westchester-Greenwich Harvard Club.

This business of drawing up a balance sheet of assets and liabilities
after almost twenty-five years leaves me cold. In many respects, which
at least one of my classmates will fully understand, I have begun to live
only within the past four and a half years or so. My business career has
been a shuttle between private business in New York and government
service in Washington. There was a time when Edith and I seriously
considered buying a home at some half-way point, possibly near Wil-
mington, Delaware. I thought I had forsaken Washington for good
when I left the Department of Agriculture in 1937 but World War II
settled that. I am still trying to pick up the pieces now that I am back in
New York again, And, if World War III comes along, I aim to sit it
out and let someone with more courage fight the Battle of Washington.

[ 854 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

My principal occupation is banging this old typewriter, a recent ac-
complishment by the way, and one of even more ancient vintage at the
office, writing on a variety of economic subjects. For this I studied
Shakespeare and Chaucer at Cambridge. Once in a while I dream of
pulling up stakes at some remote future date for the hinterland where J
can develop a good racket to bring in enough for the groceries and get
away, once and for all, from the daily struggle on the New York Cen-
tral and the subway. It’s a nice dream, anyway. At least I have one con-
solation, that the Central is heaven compared to the Long Island.

We have an old house of the mid-Victorian era, Gothic in shingles,
complete with everything except the tower. There, we were gypped.
An old house like this is an occupation in itself. But, its ten rooms are
none too ample for the six Wallaces for we are all collectors, second
cousins to pack rats.

It is not too easy for either Edith or me to realize that our elder son,
Bruce, is beginning to tower over us. Or that Betsy, our elder daughter,
is nearing the young lady stage. But, our second family keeps us feeling
young. After all, we stopped the diaper service only a short time ago.
At five and three, Kathy and little Richie will be with us for a long time
to come, God willing. I often realize when I look at our above-average-
sized family, that I am one of the richest men in the world.

And that brings me down to one of my firm beliefs. This country, this
world of ours, is haunted with insecurity and is off on a mad quest for
security that can never be attained. It took me almost forty-five years of
living to discover one simple truth. It ain’t what you got but what you is.
The only security that Man ever can have is the security that comes
from within, from his kinship with the Power greater than ourselves.
Some people call it God. In the Sermon on the Mount repose the great-
est truths and secrets of all time.

I see very little of my Harvard classmates but correspond, all too in-
frequently, with one thousands of miles away. To him, who showed me
the way to a new way of life and helped me on the road, I can never
fully express my gratitude. I think “softly” of Harvard. What loyal
son doesn’t?

BUCKNER ASHBY WALLINGFORD, JR.

Home Address: 2480 Grandin Rd., Cincinnati 8, Ohio.

Office Address: B. A. Wallingford Associates, 401 Ingalls Bldg., Cincinnati 2,
Ohio.

Born: Jan. 23, 1904, Cincinnati, Ohio. Parents: Buckner Ashby Wallingford,
Annie Rives Longworth.

[ 855 ]

Flarvard Class of 1926

Prepared at: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
Years tu College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.
Married: Hildegard Ault, Dec. 27, 1929, Cincinnati, Ohio (divorced 1936);
Helen Lape, April 18, 1938, Cincinnati, Ohio (died Sept. 10, 1944),
Harvard Brothers: Landon Longworth Wallingford, ’28; Nicholas Longworth
‘allingford, 732.
Occupation: Home building and developing; dealer for Peaseway Homes.
Military or Naval Record: Enlisted May 1, 1942, U.S. Naval Reserve ; instruc-
tor, gunnery school, Great Lakes Naval Training Station; gunner’s mate
on tst 1000 (Normandy landings, 1944); transferred to uss Okala
(Okinawa and Japanese occupation, 1945); discharged, gunner’s mate,
Ist class, Feb. 28, 1946, Great Lakes Naval ‘Training Station.
Member of : Army and Navy Club, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Looking back on the twenty-five years since our Class was gradu-
ated, I am forced to admit that my portrait resembles that of a more or
less rolling stone, when actually set down on paper. True to the proverb,
this stone is signally barren of that “green stuff” more euphemistically
known as moss.

There is one property, however, which attaches to a peripatetic stone
— often overlooked by some schools of philosophy — and that is its
smooth, rich patina. This is hardly the place to argue the merits of the
latter over the former, It is enough to say that while I may not be able
to point with pride, neither am I compelled to view with alarm. The
whole of a man’s life is a process of maturing, and if he steadily gains in
understanding he is as richly rewarded as if he were showered with

wealth and kudos. I am looking forward to the day when, full of years
and wisdom, I shall be able to sit back like a contented Buddha, exuding
benediction.

There is only this to be said of my life since I brushed the confetti
from my cap and gown on Soldiers Field in 1926, and that is, as already
indicated, its variety. I first “accepted employment” in the Mellon Na-
tional Bank in Pittsburgh where, after two years, I began to fancy my-
self a bird in a gilded cage. I escaped to the greener pastures of real
estate and the study of law at the University of Cincinnati. The next
year I transferred to the Harvard Law School, which I left to get mar-
ried and earn a living with Standard Brands in New York. After an
apprenticeship as route salesman and solicitor in the Bronx, I reached
the outer sanctum of the Bakery Merchandising Department, one floor
below the executive department in the home office, where I learned to
compose inter-office memos in a distinctive style not unworthy of the
language of the alphabetical agencies of Washington,

Towards the end of what we then called the Recession, I pulled up

[ 856 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

stakes to make a year’s trip around the world. This was cut short by
pneumonia in Peiping after a long stay in Honolulu and a journey
through Japan. On my return, I lived for a while in Cincinnati
through a period of adjustment following my divorce and of reorgani-
zation of my father’s business following his death.

I subsequently remarried and moved to San Francisco where I be-
came associated with a local soap company, whose plant was later
burned down. I next entered into a partnership in a general insurance
agency. Following Pearl Harbor, I gota job after office hours as a time-
checker on the swing shift in Henry Kaiser’s shipyards. Here I had an
opportunity to observe the marvels of cost accounting by IBM ma-
chines and shipbuilding by the assembly line method, while awaiting
action on my application for commission in the Navy. When this was
turned down — I was told I was too old for ensign or j.g. and did not
have enough experience for full lieutenant — I joined the Naval Re-
serve as an enlisted man.

The greater part of my service was with the Amphibious Forces as
gunner’s mate on an LsT which always managed to be close enough to
real action to make life interesting without actually being in it. We cov-
ered a satisfactory amount of territory from Normandy to Okinawa,
where we rode out a typhoon, and Japan, where I left for my discharge
back home. While I don’t claim that “TI never had it so good,” it was an
experience that I’m glad I didn’t miss.

Since my discharge in 1946, I have come full-circle, as Tume says,
back to Cincinnati, and am now engaged in real estate and building
pre-fabricated homes, for which there is a gratifying demand at present.

‘There are times when a consideration of recent and current phe-
nomena engenders a mighty dim outlook. The spectacle of assorted
Communists and. fellow-travellers making monkeys of our V.I.P.’s is
hardly edifying. While the deep-freezes form a backdrop for a chorus
of Five Percenters, we turn our backs on the “corrupt government” of
our staunchest ally against the Kremlin in Asia — an act which our
Secretary of State eschews in the case of a home-grown convicted
traitor and perjurer. Fearing to be left out of the act, a Senate Com-
mittee rushes forward brandishing white-wash brushes and crying
“McCarthyism,” which seems to be the modern equivalent of the
former high crime of dése majesté. Meanwhile we industriously bury
gold in Fort Knox, eggs in Kansas, and the Navy in mothballs, as we
continue politics as usual at the old stand, soliciting the sucker vote in a
New Look version of a Santa Claus suit. In the background sits Uncle
Joe smiling behind a cloud of dialectical materialism.

[ 857 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

The future at times seems dark and futile; but I have a feeling that,
like the British Empire whose leadership we have inherited, we shall
somehow muddle through, In spite of the buffoonery and venality on
all sides, there are signs of this country’s gradual coming of age.
Granted they are few and feeble at this writing, but if we look back to
the Jazz Age of our youth, there are few among us, I’m sure, who
cannot detect some improvement — some advancement towards ma-
turity, in spite of pundits, politics, and propaganda.

DAVID WILLIAM WALLWORK

Home Address: 219 Main St., North Andover, Mass.

Office Address: § Third St., North Andover, Mass.

Born: Oct. 1, 1905, North Andover, Mass. Parents: Frank Ernest Wallwork,
Margaret Belle Roberts.

Prepared at: Johnson High School, North Andover, Mass.

Years tn College: 1922-1926, Degrees: A.B, magna cum laude, 1926; M.D. cum
loude, 1930.

Married: C, Louise Bonney, June 28, 1926, North Andover, Mass. CA#ld:
Nancy Louise, Oct. 24, 1934.

Occupation: Surgeon; senior staff, Lawrence General Hospital, Lawrence,
Mass., and Bon Secours Hospital, Methuen, Mass.

Military or ‘Naval Record: Commissioned captain, Medical Corps, September,
1942; chief of surgery in station and regional hospital; major, 1943;
surgeon of station hospital, 1944-46; air transport command wing sur-
geon, China, 1945; lieutenant colonel, surgeon of India-China division,
ATC, 1946.

Offices Held: Vestry, St. Paul’s Church, North Andover, Mass.

Member of: Harvard Club of Andover; American College of Surgeons; local,
state, and American Medical Associations.

Publications: “Dissecting Aneurysm of the Aorta with Survival for Four Years,”
New England Medical Journal, September, 1942.

Graduation, wedding, honeymoon, a new job — all in the course of
two weeks. In the course of the summer, however, selling coal was dull
and slow, but an easy loan of ready cash popped up, medical school
opened and accepted the coal salesman, and I perforce settled down for
four years with only an occasional jaunt to Bangor or Bar Harbor to
be sure the wedding partner hadn’t forgotten that contract. Two years
on the surgical service at the Massachusetts General Hospital went
quickly enough and I then opened an office for the general practice of
medicine in the home town. General practice is the hardest work, the
most challenging task, the greatest opportunity for real service in the

[ 858 ]

Lwenty-fifth Anniversary Report

medical sphere. Remunerative enough, too, but still, in the eyes of
most, it is a lowly station in life. The one saving grace is the loyalty,
devotion, cheerfulness, infinite adaptability of the doctor’s wife. If jus-
tice were served, all doctors probably would be grass widowers. But
catch-as-catch-can becomes the watchword of the M.D.’s wife, and
her accomplishments on that basis are amazing.

But World War II changed all that — eight hours a day, five and
one-half days a week at Presque Isle, Memphis, Reno, and Home-
stead, Florida. Wonderful! We joined the Army and saw the US.,
just as the advertisements promised. A little later I girded the globe by
air and stayed long enough in China and India to know that life in
these United States still will not be too bad even if Oscar Ewing has
his way and socialized medicine becomes an ugly reality rather than an
alluring mirage. Perhaps the medical profession can take time out from
medicine, as Oscar has from the law, and socialize him and his brethren
in contract, tort, and criminal law — that would be serving justice in
a measure, at least.

After the war, the pace became too fast and all but the surgery was
left to younger, tougher night owls while I took time off occasionally
to learn the hard way that one who has to consider the expense of a
boat shouldn’t own one. But tuna fishing is the leaven of the loaf at the
moment, with an enthusiastic daughter as co-pilot, and it provides suf-

ficient opportunity for planning and dreaming in the early months of
the year and tale-telling and “it might have been” the rest of the year.

Every once in a while more serious and sober thoughts force them-

selves into even a doctor’s cluttered consciousness — taxation to the
point of annihilation of personal initiative; profligacy; waste; graft;
stupidity of such magnitude that payment of taxes seems, to one of
Scotch descent, simply a shameful, sinful diversion of one’s money from
other worth-while purposes; the utter absence of reason, the obtuseness
of conscience in man’s dealing with man, making anything but P. T.
Barnum’s philosophy of life ridiculous and unprofitable; atomic fission,
the long-sought-for tool for enormously heightened mastery over our
environment, possibly becoming the weapon for the ultimate destruction
of the civilization that made it possible.

Depressing — but it all loses its sting in the light of the early morning
sun coming over the ocean’s horizon, the blaze of a sailor’s sunset, or
the whining of the line as the tuna rises to find some other haven than
the Annisquam market!

[ 859 ]

.

Harvard Class of 1926

GORDON CHASE WARNER

Home Address: 46 Woodward Ave., New Haven, Conn.
Office Address: Roland T, Warner Co., 1 Grand Ave., New Haven, Conn,

Born: Dec. 25, 1899, New Haven, Conn. Parents: Roland Tredway Warner,
Agnes Day Henderson.

Prepared at: New Haven High School, New Haven, Conn.; Mt. Hermon
School, Mt. Hermon, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1927. Degree: S.B., 1926 (27).

Married: Dorothy Florence Launder, Jan. 1, 1922, Bridgeport, Conn. (died
April 30, 1930) ; Hazel Achsah Thorne, Dec. 20, 1930, St. John, N, B.,
Canada. C4ild: Lana Thorne, Feb. 21, 1937.

Occupation: Retail hardware merchant.
Military er Naval Record: World War 1: enlisted U.S. Army, Dec. 26, 19173

served with 838th Aero Squadron in England and Ireland; discharged
Dec. 20, 1918.

Offices Held: Representative, Boston Varnish Company, in Maine, 1928-45,
and also in New Brunswick and Nova Scotia.

Member of : Edgewood Club.

ROBERT AUSTIN WARNER

Home Address: 3718 Norbourne Blvd., Louisville, Ky.
Office Address: College of Arts and Sciences, University of Louisville, Louis-
ville, Ky.

Born: May 19, 1905, Fitchburg, Mass. Parents: Earl Henry Warner, Carrie F.
Billings.

Prepared at: Central High School, Springfield, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; Ep.M., 1928; Pux.D.
(Yale Univ.), 1935.

Married: Adela Gorska, March 29, 1934, New Haven, Conn. (died March,
1943) ; Beatrice Anne Webster, October, 1944, Louisville, Ky. Caildren:
Pamela, Dec. 8, 1945; Deborah, Dec. 3, 1947.

Occupation: Professor and chairman of Division of Social Sciences, College of
Arts and Sciences, University of Louisville.

Wartime Government Posts: (At present) Visiting Expert, Institute for Educa-
tional Leadership, Tokyo, Japan, U.S. Army (civilian).

Offices Held: Various local professional and semi-political offices,

Member of : American Historical Association; American Association of Univer-

sity Professors; American Federation of Teachers; Foreign Policy Asso-
ciation.

Publications: New Haven Negroes; a Social History, Yale University Press, 1940

After leaving Harvard, I taught three years in a high school in the
then bootlegging center of Connecticut. I taught all the history in the

[ 860 ]

seepage 8 ELIE OTS S

pe gE PREM BT
ppsnencen aC oeebeen ?

eprint
AE THEN ON

T wenty-fifth Annrversary Report

school to the kids of the Poles, Italians, Germans, Lithuanians, Irish,

and “swamp Yanks,” including the roughnecks from the bowling alleys.

I loved it and them (including the roughnecks from the bowling alleys).

I coached track, carted the team in my Model T. I helped coach dra-
matics; taught a course in appreciating poetry; started a poetry club.

I was a camp counselor during the summers. I started a Hi-Y, helped
to launch a Y.M.C.A. in town. I even consented to teach a class in the
Congregational Sunday School but soon decided it was better to be
scoutmaster of their troop where I might attract the kids of the Poles,
Italians, etc. (including the roughnecks from the bowling alleys). I
carted them in the Model T, and hiked the beautiful hills in all seasons.
When I left, the then roughnecks at the bowling alleys chipped in and
gave me three big silver dollars! The good dirt, the people, the need —
after Harvard, it was wonderful!

I saved nearly half my salary and got over 5% on it in the town sav-
ings bank (which was making a killing in the call-money market in
New York City: date 1927-30). Nope, didn’t lose a nickel; spent it for
graduate work in sociology, anthropology, and history at Yale where I
was aided by scholarships, fellowships, and even one prize. My thesis
was on ““The Southern New England Indians to 1725; a study in Cul-
ture Contrast.” It was an anthropological study carried out entirely with
historical materials although I did visit some Gay Head Indian descend-
ants at Martha’s Vineyard.

Then I worked myself into research at the Yale Institute of Human
Relations, codperated in an experimental local study, and finally pub-
lished New Haven Negroes; @ Soctal History. I wanted to study each
New Haven group, the Italians, the Poles, etc., in the same way, but no
bite. No longer interested in being merely an historian, I was becoming
a “social scientist.” I began to teach in college, one year at Yale, two at
Cornell (Iowa), and the rest at the University of Louisville. Have be-
come a “specialist” in the general social sciences, expert in none; taught
elementary courses in nearly all social sciences, especially taught “Prob-
lems of Modern Society” and “International Relations” which is the
biggest problem of all.

My interest in foreigners, apart from my experience in Southington
and my reading of the news, was enhanced by falling in love with and
marrying a Polish dancer and teacher of the dance. She taught me
beauty and art in body and gallantry in spirit. After nine years together,

she died in her first pregnancy. As she had wished, I scattered her Polish
ashes to the winds from a mountain top in the great Smokies and my
universe rocked and staggered under my feet,

[ 861 ]

CNTR TORTRPRIPERRIRR - Seu i sire me RNA on ESR RE

Harvard Class of 1926

Refer above and you shall see that I have recovered. I have a beautiful
wife (American), two charming daughters, and a mother-in-law, all
of whom I love. Furthermore I love peace, and sanity, and tolerance,
I love fine people of whatever race or culture. I admire the untamed
spirit of independence even in foreigners and enemies, and the disci-
plined spirit of the creative artist and leader. But especially I like people
and enquiring minds seeking honest answers to the dismaying problems
of war. That is my work. Since this is written in Japan where I am try-
ing to help retrain teachers for like work, I know how vast the under-
taking of seeking world freedom and the world commonwealth, but
“God must help us; we can do no other.”

HAMILTON WARREN

Home Address: Verde Valley School, Box 84, Sedona, Ariz.

Office Address: Verde Valley School, Sedona, Ariz.

Born: Nov. 3, 1903, Boston, Mass. Parents: Fiske Warren, Gretchen Osgood.

Prepared at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass. ; Evans School, Mesa, Ariz.

Years in College: 1922-1925, 1926-1928. Degrees: A.B., 1926 (28) ; M.B.A.,
1932.

Married: Barbara Koester, April 10, 1942, Washington, D. C. Children: Les
lie Barton, Nov. 24, 19433 Deryn Scott, March 26, 1945.

Occupation: Executive director (and founder), Verde Valley School.

Wartime Government Posts: Chief liaison section, Department of State; execu-

tive assistant to deputy director for European policy, Office of War In-
formation.

Immediately upon graduating, I became publicity director for the
Harvard University Film Foundation. It became clear to me in doing
this work that I needed a great deal of additional knowledge about busi-
ness so I resigned after a year to enter the Harvard Graduate School of
Business Administration. While there, I became deeply interested in the
case method of instruction and its possible application in the field of edu-
cation at all age levels.

On the basis of my experience in the Harvard Film Foundation, I
founded International Educational Pictures, Inc: This organization
published a quarterly catalogue that listed some 3,000 educational films
available in the hands of some three hundred dealers in the United
States. By referring to this catalogue, educators were able to find prac-
tically every educational film available in the United States and, thus,
could select the film most suited to their needs. We received countless
reports from the users of these films and we published ratings based on
these countrywide evaluations. One great attraction of this occupation

[ 862 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

for me was that I was free to travel when schools closed for the summer
and I went almost every year to Europe.

At the beginning of the second World War, the company was closed
and I went to Washington as chief of the liaison section of the Depart-
ment of State. This section was responsible on an operational plane for
the State Department’s interests in the overseas activities of the Office
of War Information. My colleagues and I soon realized that the State
Department officials had little understanding of the treatment of news
values and, conversely, the newsmen in the Office of War Information
did not realize the necessity of regionalizing overseas material. We made
a firm resolve to make our principal work the bringing together of the
two departments, We would assume that, as far as consistent with our
responsibility to our superiors, we were working for the United States
government asa whole and not just for one department.

In 1944 I transferred to the Office of War Information itself where
I worked as executive assistant to Wallace Carol, the deputy director
for European policy. I enjoyed this work very much and, like many of
the other O.WI. men, I felt a great concern about the unnecessary mis-

understandings which constantly develop between one country and an-
other, I have always felt distressed over intolerances among nationals
and races and creeds. Such feelings, together with my frequent and ex-
tensive travels in foreign countries and my chief field of college speciali-
zation, anthropology, were all factors in my decision to found a prepara-
tory boarding school which would make clear to students that they were
all part of one very big system, that they learn to appreciate the contri-
butions of their fellow-men everywhere, and to be ready to bear their
responsibilities as citizens, not only in local and national affairs, but in
world affairs.
I wrote a plan for the Verde Valley School in 1945 and for a year or
more [ visited educators in universities and in preparatory schools in
order to consult them about this project. In 1946 land was purchased in
Sedona, Arizona, and construction began. As I had not made a name
for myself in the field of education, the school was fortunate in having
the support of nine trustees well known in the fields of anthropology
and education, among them the following Harvard men: Clyde Kluck-
hohn, professor of anthropology at Harvard and director of the Russian
Institute; Rollo Walter Brown, Harvard ’05, and author of countless
books; Robert Ulich, professor of education in the Harvard Graduate
School of Education. The school travels some 4,000 miles annually on
a camping-out basis. It goes frequently to the Navajo and Hopi Indian
reservations to study intercultural problems and the problems of minor-

[ 863 ]

Flarvard Class of 1926

ity groups there. These trips afford our students the invaluable oppor-
tunity of mixing with people of vastly different cultural backgrounds,
They learn to make adjustments in their own conventions to those of
other peoples. Once a year the whole school goes for two or three weeks
to Mexico. While there they visit Mexican ranches, industries, churches,
etc., and they also mix frequently with the Mexican people. One device
that brings this about is an arrangement whereby they go for a day in
each town to the local Mexican schools and participate in academic and
sports activities,

Let me hastily say that the five weeks of the school year used for
these trips do not reduce the time that should be devoted to college prep-
aration. In order to gain time for the trips, the school does not observe
legal holidays and the time ordinarily taken by most schools for the
spring vacation is used for the trip to Mexico. The school is now entering
its third year. When it opened we had fifteen students and the second
year twenty-seven students and this year thirty-six, which augurs well
for the future.

We have an extraordinary faculty almost all of whom are very widely
travelled and have had a good proportion of their education in other
countries. Three out of the ten are foreign citizens, coming from Eng-
land, Egypt, and Switzerland. Among the important underlying forces
that unite people is the very general interest in the arts and music. These
are greatly stressed at Verde Valley.

+ HOWARD RUNYAN WARREN

Born: July 9, 1904, Cincinnati, Ohio. Parents: Harley William Warren, Bertie
Lulu Runyan.

Prepared at: Woodward High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Years in College: 1922-1923, 1924-1927. Degree: S.B., 1926 (27).

Married; Jane Chapman, Sept. 9, 1933, Rochester, N. Y. CAildren: Peter
Chapman, Dec. 11, 19343 Linda Ann, Aug. 3, 1938.

Died: Aug. 3, 1945, Binghamton, N. Y.

Howard Runyan Warren entered Harvard with our Class, then at-
tended Ohio State University for one-half year, but returned to Har-
vard and obtained the S.B. degree in 1927 as of our Class. As an under-
graduate he was a lacrosse star, captaining the freshman lacrosse team
and subsequently playing a year on the varsity. His special interest was
music, however, and he participated in the instrumental clubs and in the
Glee Club. He belonged also to Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity. Im-
mediately upon graduating, he joined the New York Telephone Com-

[ 864 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

pany and his work with the company took him to Syracuse, Albany,
Elmira, and Rochester. He served in various executive capacities and his
last assignment was as district traffic superintendent for the Binghamton
district where he had charge of twenty central offices employing ap-
proximately eight hundred persons.

Warren was survived by his wife and two children.

WALLACE GOLDSMITH WARREN

Home Address: Main Street, Acton Center, Mass.

Office Address: Cambridge School, Weston, Mass.

Born: Jan. 22, 1903, Ashburnham, Mass, Parents: Hobart E, Warren, Lucia
Goldsmith.

Prepared at: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.

Married: Constance Mumford, Sept. 2, 1928, Concord, Mass, (divorced
1948) ; Louise Aiken, 1948. Children: William, Jan. 21, 19353 Joseph,
April 29, 1936.

Occupation: Teacher of physics, shop, afternoon projects, Cambridge School.

It has been pretty much of a three-year kind of life until recently, i.e.,
three years with Estabrook & Company, three years as editor with the
Cambridge Associates doing financial writing, three years in the build-
ing business, three years with the Baird Associates in Cambridge, and
three with Polaroid Corporation as a department head during the war.
Teaching in the present environment has proved so creative and satis-
factory that I have already been at it for six years and see no reason to
change. Incidentally, Charley Platt, also ’26, is the new boss here and
members of other classes help to keep the atmosphere a mellow crim-
son hue.

My wife formerly taught at the Cambridge School as head of music
and head of dormitories. We share the hobby of music, play two pianos
and compose jointly, sometimes, One boy is thinking of M.I.T, and the
other may go there, too. My hobbies would fill the page so I'l] just men-
tion skiing, glass-blowing, woodwork, music, and building things like
swimming pools out of stone.

ISAAC WATKINS

Home and Office Address: Penwood, Fort White, Fla.

Born: July 6, 1904, Montgomery, Ala. Parents: Isaac Lafayette Watkins, Pe-
nelope Elizabeth Thigpen.

Prepared at: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N, J.

[ 865 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Years in College: 1922-1926, Degrees: A.B., 1926; A.M., 1928; PH.D., 1941.

Married; Victoria Endicott Lincoln, Jan. 27, 1927 (divorced 1933). Child:
Penelope Thayer, 1927 (m. Donald McKay, 1948).

Occupation: Farmer.

Military or Naval Record: Entered private, U.S. Army, October, 1942; ter-
minated PFC, November, 1943; Aircraft Warning Unit attached to 3rd
Fighter Command, Drew Field, Fla.; injured on maneuvers; medical
discharge; Signal Corps, in charge of technical publications on photo-
graphic subjects, 1944-45.

GEORGE ELDER WATSON, JR.

Home Address: 112 E. 74th St., New York, N. Y.

Office Address: Gude, Winmill & Co., 1 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

Born: Jan. 7, 1904, Garden City, Long Island, N. Y. Parents: George Elder
Watson, Rosalie Starr.

Prepared at: St, Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

Years tn College: 1922~1924.

Married: Forsyth Patterson, Oct. 4, 1930, Sewickley, Pa. Children: George
Elder, 3d, Aug. 13, 19313 Mary Forsyth, Jan. 28, 1934; Elisabeth
Starr, Aug. 23, 1935. .

Occupation: Member, New York Stock Exchange and Gude, Winmill & Com-
pany.

JOHN HAYES WATSON

Office Address: Central Purchasing Office, GHQ, FEC, APO 500, c/o Post-
master, San Francisco, Calif.

Bora: June 3, 1904, Beverly Farms, Mass. Parents: Lawrence Joseph Watson,
2d,’o1, Mary Adelaide Murnane.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Pauline Campbell Mason, April 26, 1931 (divorced 1948) ; Eleanor
Norris Maxwell, July 3, 1948, Shanghai, China. Child: John Hayes, Jr.,
Oct. 13, 1932.

Occupation: Purchasing agent, Central Purchasing Office, GHQ, FEC.

Military or Naval Record: Seventh Regiment, National Guard, New York,
1929-31; OCS, Camp Davis, N. C., 1942; instructor, Anti-Aircraft
Artillery School, 1942-46; Ordnance Officer with Tokyo Ordnance
Center, 1947-48; captain, Reserve Corps, 1948.

Member of : Cercle Sportif de Shanghai; American Club, Hong Kong; Jockev
Club, Hong Kong; Royal Hong Kong Golf Club; Harvard Club of
Japan; Veterans of the Seventh Regiment, N. Y.; Associates of the En-
gineer Corps & Co. K, 7th Regiment; GHQ Officers Club; Dai Iti Off-
cers Club; Washington Heights Club; Union Club (all of Tokyo).

[ 866 ]

_

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

In September of 1926, after a very pleasant vacation, I began work
with R. H. Macy & Company, New York. During some eight years
with Macy’s, I bought all manner of floor coverings, both in the United
States and Europe. In 1937 I became associated with James McCreery
& Company, and switched from the floor to the bed. What I didn’t find
out about mattresses and springs just isn’t worth knowing. In 1940 I
left McCreery’s and went into the wholesale floor covering business.

Upon our entrance into the war, I enlisted in the Army and went

through OCS. I was assigned as an instructor in the Anti-Aircraft

Artillery School, Camp Davis, North Carolina, and later at Fort Bliss,

Texas, where I was stationed at the time of our Twentieth Report. In

April, 1947, I was transferred to Japan and was stationed at the Tokyo

Ordnance Center as Anti-Aircraft Artillery Maintenance Officer.

In April, 1948, I took my discharge in Japan and accepted a position
as a buyer with the Central Purchasing Office, General Headquarters,
Far East Command. This office buys all of the oriental merchandise
which is sold in the Army Post Exchanges and Navy Ship Stores
throughout the Far East Command. Immediately upon accepting this
position, I was sent to Shanghai as a buyer for Chinese merchandise
(rugs, linens, carved furniture, curios, and such). I made frequent buy-
ing trips to Peiping and Tsientsin.

In November, 1948, after the fall of Peiping, it was decided to close
the Shanghai office, and I was transferred to Hong Kong to buy all
merchandise from China, Hong Kong, and Siam. I stayed in Hong
Kong until March, 1950, when I returned to the main office in Tokyo.
At present I am assistant purchasing and contracting officer, CPO,
Chief of the Textile Branch, in charge of procurement of all Hong
Kong and China merchandise, and I am also in charge of procurement
of Air Force uniforms for the Far East Command.

The foregoing sentences cannot begin to express the romance, ex-
citement, and pleasure of the past four years. First of all, I met Eleanor,
my wife, in the Far East. We were married July 3, 1948, in Shanghai.
The travelling I have done has fulfilled a lifetime desire. My work is
interesting; I have made firm friends with people of every race and na-
tionality; and the merchandising experience I have gained through
knowledge of the Far Eastern market is immeasurable.

I have run intoa great many Harvard men in my travels, but of class-
mates I have seen only Dave Rowsome in Hong Kong, and Larry
Bunker and Walt Taylor in Tokyo. We have a very active Harvard

Club in Tokyo, of which Walt Taylor was a prime mover. Dick May,
[ 867 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

18, is the present president, and the activities include a professorship at
Keio University in Japan, and scholarships to Harvard.

I am looking forward to June as I plan to be at the Reunion if al]
goes well, ‘Times are uncertain, however, and it may be that I am fated
to miss the Twenty-fifth as I did the Twentieth.

FRANK LESLIE WATTENDORF

Home Address; 3005 P St., N.W., Washington, D. C.
Office Address: Headquarters U.S.A.F., Washington, D. C. .

Born: May 23, 1906, Boston, Mass. Parents: Frank Mitchell Wattendorf,
Helen Ruth Hurley.

Prepared at: Sharon High School, Sharon, Mass.

Years in College: 1923-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; S.M. (Massachusetts Inst.
of Technology), 1928; Pu.D. (California Inst. of Technology), 1933.

Married: Glenn Roger, Jan. 11, 1941, Dayton, Ohio. CAild: Frank Roger,
Jan. 9, 1943. |

Occupation: Aeronautical engineer; Deputy Chief Scientific Adviser, Air En-

gineering Development Division, Headquarters, U.S,A.F., Washington,
D.C.

Wartime Gwerament Posts: Civilian director, Wind Tunnel Branch, Air Ma-
teriel Command, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio, 1939-46.

Member of: Institute of Aeronautical Sciences (fellow) ; Royal Aeronautical
Society (associate fellow) ; American Society of Mechanical Engineers.

Publications: About twenty papers on subjects of turbulent flow wind tunnel

design and axial compressors printed in various technical journals and
publications. |

After graduating from Harvard, I became interested in aeronautical
engineering and studied at M.I.T., receiving a Master’s degree in
1928. I then proceeded to Germany for two years of graduate study
under Professor Prandtl at the University of Gottingen and Dr. Theo-
dore von Karman at the Technische Hochschule, Aachen. I was well
on my way to a Ph.D. in Aachen when Dr. von Karman joined the
staff of the California Institute of Technology in 1930. Since my inter-
ests were in the man rather than in the school, I transferred also to the
California Institute of Technology and was assigned for one year to
Akron, Ohio, to participate in the design of the Guggenheim Airship
Institute. In 1932 I returned to Pasadena as Guggenheim Research
Fellow in Aeronautics, and obtained a Ph.D. in 1933. From 1933
through 1935, I was chief research engineer for the Metropolitan
Water District of Southern California, and was engaged in the develop-

[ 868 |

se jenn erp apg tra gt FD HE

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

ment and testing of pumps and hydraulic systems for the Colorado
River Aqueduct.

In January, 1936, I went to Peiping, China, as a visiting professor
of aeronautics in the National Tsing Hua University. To make the trip
more interesting I went from California to China by way of the At-
lantic Ocean, Europe, and the trans-Siberian railroad.

The year 1936 was spent teaching aeronautical engineering in
Peiping, and also designing a large wind tunnel to be built in Nanchang
which is south of the Yangtze River between Nanking and Hangkow,
China. During the latter part of this year and most of 1937 I was en-
gaged in supervising the detailed design and construction of this wind
tunnel which was finally bombed by Japanese planes.

War between China and Japan broke out in July of this year chang-
ing my plans considerably and beginning for me a series of unusual ex-
periences. I was in Peiping when that city was occupied by Japanese
troops, and left soon after for Nanking, arriving in that city during a
period of intensive air raids. I finally had the opportunity of leaving the
chaotic conditions in Nanking on a refugee boat proceeding up the
Yangtze River. During this time I became seriously ill with torula men-
ingitis and was removed to the Yale in China Hospital in Changsha.
About Christmas, 1937, I was removed by air to Hong Kong, and by
coincidence the airfield from which I had left was bombed and made
inoperable a very short time after our plane had taken off. The trip to
Hong Kong had an additional item of suspense in that it developed into
a game of “hide and seek” with Japanese planes in heavy cloud forma-
tions.

After arriving back in the United States, I lived with my parents in
Boston, and combined convalescence with consulting work for the
United States Navy and the Army Air Force.

In November, 1939, I accepted a position as civilian director of the
Wind Tunnel Branch, Air Materiel Command, at Wright Field, Day-
ton, Ohio, and supervised the design of four of the wind tunnels there;
then from 1946 to 1950, served as Research Adviser to the Engineer-
ing Division, Air Materiel Command at Wright Field. In 1944 I be-
came a member of General Arnold’s Scientific Advisory Group under
Dr. Theodore von Karman, and in 1945 was a member of a special
mission to Europe and the Far East.

In June, 1945, I made a proposal for a new Air Force Research and
Development Center with large supersonic wind tunnels and other
facilities for the new problems of supersonic aerodynamics and jet pro-
pulsion. This proposal was endorsed by the Scientific Advisory Board,

[ 869 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

accepted by the Air Force, and with modifications has now evolved into
the Arnold Engineering Development Center now under construction
at Tullahoma, Tennessee, I have been active in this project since its in-
ception and in August, 1950, was transferred to Washington, D.C., as
Deputy Chief Scientific Adviser to the Air Engineering Development
Division, Headquarters U.S.A.F., which is responsible for the planning
and erection of the Arnold Engineering Development Center.
Iam happily married and have one child, Frank Roger, who is now

eight years old. My activities have been professional rather than social
or political.

JOHN NICKERSON WATTERS

Home Address: 5 Aberdeen Rd., Weston, Mass.
Office Address: Jordan Marsh Co., Boston, Mass.

Born: July 29, 1903, Winchester, Mass. Parents: John William Watters, Ida
Florence Nickerson.

Prepared at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.

Married: Elizabeth Anne Green, Sept. 21, 1935, Rockford, Ill. Children:
John Nickerson, Jr., Feb. 4, 1937; Edward Anthony, Feb. 14, 1939;
David Langmaid, July 17, 1943.

Occupation: Mercantile manager, jewelry department, Jordan Marsh Com-

any.

M. mber of : Weston Golf Club; Harvard Varsity Club.

I have been working for Jordan Marsh Company since graduation.

WALTER WEBLING

Home Address: 1119 Walnut St., Newton Highlands, Mass.
Office Address: First National Bank of Boston, 67 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Jan. 15, 1905, Boston, Mass. Parents: Walter Webling, Edith Brigham.
Prepared at: Stone School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B., 1 9263 M.B.A., 1928.

Married: Nancy Hobbs Allison, Sept. 21, 1934, Boston, Mass. CAild: William
C. Allison, Jan. 16, 1929 (stepson).

Occupation: Investment officer, with supervision of investment portfolio, First
National Bank of Boston.

Offices Held: Former treasurer, Chapter American Red Cross, Bayville Village
Corporation ; at present, overseer, Bayville Village Corporation.

After graduation from Harvard Business School, I soon settled in
the banking business, some branch of which has been my occupation
ever since —— banking, investment banking, investment counselling —

[ 870 ]

se inymementptee spinnin tesa, oasis

Twenty-fifth Annrversary Report
anything to do with money and securities. Unfortunately, not much of
either of these two commodities has stuck with me, but one can derive
a slight vicarious pleasure from handling large sums of “other people’s
money.” At the present time I am concerned mainly with the bank’s
own portfolio and therefore am interested in U.S, Government securi-
ties to a degree which leaves little room for other forms of investment.

A serious illness in 1947 curtailed most of my activities outside of
work. However, my chief hobby is my summer home near Boothbay
Harbor, Maine, to which I commute weckends from May to October.
A woodworking shop and a not-too-arduous job as overseer of the
town keep me busy when I am there. Winters are largely devoted to
hibernating.

I am afraid that the quiet life I lead would be most boring to many
of my classmates, but it does have its compensations — what they are I
shall leave to my harassed and overworked friends to imagine.

JAMES GARDINER WEIGLE, JR.

Home Address: 1520 Stovall St., Augusta, Ga.

Office Address: Georgia Power Co., Augusta, Ga.

Born: Sept. 3, 1904, Augusta, Ga. Parents: James Gardiner Weigle, Kate
Louise Hill.

Prepared at: Academy of Richmond County, Augusta, Ga.

Years in College: 1922~—1926. Degree: §.B. (Emory Univ.), 1935.

Married: Annie B. Daniel, June 10, 1937, Augusta, Ga, Children: James
Gardiner, 3d, June 15, 1939; Roswell Daniel, March 3, 1944; John
Michael, Dec. 19, 1946.

Occupation: Field engineer, electric distribution.

+ EDWARD ALEXANDER WEISKOPF
Born: May 14, 1903, Cleveland, Ohio, Parents; Henry Weiskopf, Bertha Pol-

lock.

Prepared at: Cleveland Heights High School, Cleveland Heights, Ohio;
Massachusetts Military Academy.

Years in College: 1922-1925. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Unmarried.

Died: Feb. 3, 1937, at sea.

After one and a half years at Adelbert College, Western Reserve —
University, Edward Alexander Weiskopf transferred to Harvard. He
was an honor student at both preparatory school and Harvard, where he
made the Dean’s list. During his first year at Harvard he helped con-

[ 871 ]

Flarvard Class of 1926 .

duct boys’ classes at the Phillips Brooks House. He was intensely inter-
ested in music and during his junior and senior years he played with the
band. He displayed considerable skill as a pianist. He was a member of
Zeta Beta Tau Fraternity,

Weiskopf returned to Western Reserve University, where he com-
pleted a law course. He passed the Ohio State Bar examination but
did not practise law, using his knowledge instead to further his busi-
ness activities. He became sales manager for J. Weiskopf & Son, job-
bers of cotton goods and material. His scholastic and business careers
were marked by his unusual aggressiveness and sincere interest in his
work. Travelling was his hobby and he did a great deal of it, both on
business and on vacation. He was on one of his regular trips abroad
when he met an accidental death off the coast of South America.

ALFRED TURNER WELLS

Home Address: Eaton Place, Southbridge, Mass.

Office Address: International Optical Co. (USA) Inc., Southbridge, Mass.

Born: April 17, 1903, Southbridge, Mass. Parents: Channing McGregory
Wells, Irene Bert Kelley.

Prepared at: St, Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1925.

Married: Celia Stowe Kreis, June 29, 1927, Wheaton, Ill. CAildren: Alfred
Turner, Jr., Aug. 15,1928 (Yale 50) ; David Hardin, Nov, 10, 1932;
Janet McGregory, March 23, 1935.

Harvard Brother: Channing McGregory Wells, Jr.,’26 (deceased).

Occupation: Optical exporter; president, International Optical Company
(USA), Inc.

Military or Naval Record: Battery A, 10tst Field Artillery, Massachusetts Na-
tional Guard, 1922—25; captain, Medical Service Corps, Office of Sur-
geon General, Washington, D. C., 1942, U.S. Army Medical Procure-
ment Office, New York City, 1943-44; major, Optical Consultant, Of-
fice of the surgeon AFWESPAC, Manila and Yokohama, 1945-46;
lieutenant colonel, Medical Service Corps, USAR, since 1946.

Member of : Quinebaug Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Cornell Club of New York; Co-
hasset Country Club; Edgartown Yacht Clubs Chappaquidick Cruising
Club; Boston Camera Club; New York Camera Club; Admirals Club;
Williams After-Shave Club; Don McNeill’s Breakfast Club; Jerry
Lester’s Bean Bag.

I received the blank on which J am now writing about ten months

ago; my long hesitation in returning it to the editors has not been due
to modesty. “The Class wants to know ALL —” is a terrifyin g non-

[ 872 ]

Twenty-fifth Annrversary Report

appealing plea. However, a fifth or fifteenth request at this late January
date rates an hour of my valuable time (on active duty, at Fort Totten,
New York) but I won’t tell ALL, I'll tell damn little.

I left college after three years, too much to be done outside classes
was my downfall. With my brother Greg, I went to work in the family
mill at Southbridge, the American Optical Company, starting twelve
rungs below the bottom. I loved it and worked there and in numerous
branches in the United States and Canada. Early in this career I emu-
lated Bob Allen and married a Smith girl in June, twenty-four years
ago. Still together, we beam with mixed feclings on our three, the elder
boy, Yale ’50, an ensign in the Navy, another, eighteen, at Middlesex,
and a girl sixteen.

Following almost twenty years of grinding lenses and making spec-
tacles, I suggested that our company design a mobile spectacle repair
shop for the Army (1941) and these were adopted as standard equip-
ment. Because of these units which could repair and replace spectacles in
the field, many men with glasses were able to join the Armed Forces
and proceed to battle and many who assumed that glasses would enable
them to avoid the draft were whisked away. In fact, 18% of the Army
were fitted to glasses. Thereupon I offered my services as an optical
consultant, was accepted, and spent the next two years writing specifica-
tions for medical purchases of items like: litters, stretchers, arch supports,
first aid kits, plaster of paris, bandages, dish washing compounds, soap
dishes, alcohol fuel, athletic supporters, and many another. During this
period and following the design of another successful optical repair unit,
fame arrived in the guise of pictures and articles in American Magazine
under the heading “Interesting People” and “Bob Hope’s Double,” and
a valued award of the Legion of Merit from the Surgeon General, while
T was still a captain. (This medal later came to he known as “a colonel’s
good conduct badge.’’)

Late in’44 I applied for overseas assignment having been promised an
optical job at last “near London or Paris”; imagine my chagrin while a
plane winged me over the Pacific to New Guinea and Leyte. I spent
two years up and down the western Pacific looking after some twenty
optical repair units, ending up with nine delightful months in Japan, a
place I long to return to with my family.

I am now operating the International Optical Company, exporting
army surplus optical items making a nickel and losing a dime and hoping
that the Army may soon buy them back. In the last five years, I’ve built
and sold half a dozen homes on my suburban development, nice seven-
room places, copies of 1800 farmhouses of New England, gone to

[ 873 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

photography school up in the Vermont hills, and entered semi-profes-
sionally into the photo portrait business.

At present, I look with fear and trembling at the leaders or rather the
lack of leaders in city, state, and national governments and look forward
to some day when a successful business man may offer himself to the
electorate; there is much good material and right in our Class, why
must we suffer so?

t CHANNING McGREGORY WELLS, JR.

Born: Jan. 6, 1902, Southbridge, Mass. Parents: Channing McGregory Wells,
Irene Kelley.

Prepared at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1924.

Married: Mary Leslie Dana, Sept. 10, 1932, Wianno, Mass. CAildren: Chan-
ning McGregory, 3d, June 25, 19343 Leslie Dana, July 11, 1936.

Harvard Brother: Alfred Turner Wells, ’26.

Died: June 9, 1949, Boston, Mass.

During his two years at Harvard, Channing McGregory Wells, Jr.,
filled many undergraduate offices, serving as freshman class secretary-
treasurer, freshman football manager, chairman of the Sophomore En-
tertainment Committee, assistant football manager, and Student Coun-
cil member. He was also a member of Hasty Pudding-Institute of
1770, and of the A.D., Phoenix, Styx, and §.K. Clubs. In later years
he was selected to head the group organizing the Tenth Reunion of the
Class of 1926. After leaving college he was employed at the American
Optical Company, a business founded by his family. He served as trustee
for many years and at the time of his death was trustee and secretary of
the firm.

Wells became interested in state politics, and in 1940 he went to
Philadelphia as a delegate to the Republican National Convention. For
several years he was board member and president of the local 50-bed

hospital, in Southbridge, Massachusetts. His favorite hobby was sailing —

and he was commodore of the Wianno Yacht Club and president of the
210 Racing Association of Wianno where he was a summer resident.
He had been a member of the Harvard Clubs of New York and Bos-
ton, the Union Club of Boston, The Country Club, Brookline, the
Massachusetts Republican Club, the Rotary International, Wianno
Yacht Club, North American Yacht Racing Union, Cohasset Country
Club, National Rifle Association, Isaac Walton League of America,

[ 874 ]

 

t

oy

T wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Eastern Yacht Club, New Bedford Yacht Club, the Worcester Club,
and the Tatnuck Country Club of Worcester.
He was survived by his wife and two sons.

WILLIAM KADISH WELLS

Home Address: 31 Homer St., Newton Center, Mass.
Office Address: 1246 Washington St., Boston, Mass.
Born: May 6, 1905, Chelsea, Mass. Parents: James Leonard Wells, Julia

Bernstein.
Prepared at: B. M. C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass,
Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.
Married: Dorothy E. Lavine, May 27, 1929, Brookline, Mass, Children:
David Lawrence, Feb. 13, 1931; Clinton Cyrus, Oct. 4, 1932.
Harvard Son: David Lawrence Wells, ’52.
Occupation: Coin machine dealer.

After two years of furniture retailing with B. Altman & Company in
New York, I engaged in my own radio business in Providence and
Woonsocket, Rhode Island. However, the depression appeared less de-
pressing in Boston so we came and settled here permanently eighteen

years ago.
We summer in Portsmouth, Rhode Island, where I spend as much

time as possible sailing with my sons, who give me pretty stiff competi-
tion. During the long winter evenings my wife’s intense preoccupation

with the piano provides many happy listening hours.
In closing may I say that there is nothing like a pair of sons at college

to keep one young and well-informed.

THOMAS WILLIAM WELSH

Address: 20 Richards Rd., Watertown 72, Mass.
Born: Feb. 27, 1903, Jersey City, N. J. Parents: William Gregory Welsh,

Loretta Hickey.
Prepared at: McBurney School, New York, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: $.B., 1926.
Married: Ann C. Theurer, Sept. 1, 1934, Watertown, Mass, CAil¢: David

Steele, Aug. 21, 1938.
Occupation: State government service.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files, Welsh
did not return a questionnaire.

[ 875 ]

“TRE one rms Renan ——_$_ = —
. LCR Sr RN EL ee Fe ger itmetament en ae /o8 =

Flarvard Class of 1926

EDWARD WELTON

Home Address: 230 E. 731d St., New York, N. Y.

Office Address: Williams Furniture Co., Freeport, Long Island, N. Y.

Born: March 4, 1906, New York, N. Y. Parents: Henry Welton, Helen Mirski,
Prepared at: Evander Childs School, New York, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926.

Married: Velma Landauer, July, 1950, New York, N. Y.

Occupation: President and general manager, retail furniture chain.
Member of : Harvard Club of New York.

Publications: Periodic articles on merchandising and sales promotion for maga-
zines, trade publications, and business schools.

Someone, somewhere, once told me that the major objective of col-
lege training was exposure to various fields of endeavor in order to de-
termine where we fit. I must have believed it, because I kicked around
(or, more truthfully, was kicked around) over a painfully broad ex-
panse of terrain before rolling to a stop. Coming from a family in which
most other members were engaged in scientific, or near-scientific activ-
ity, from astronomy to zodlogy, I was steeped to the eyebrows all
through school and college, in test-tubes that always seemed to crack
over the Bunsen burner, futile attempts to measure the speed of light,
and a losing fight to focus a microscope without breaking the glass slide.
Along about my junior year in college, the slow but growing conviction
overtook me that I was in the wrong pew.

I was going, I then decided, to write the nation’s popular songs.
Accordingly, after graduation from Harvard, I enrolled at the Institute
of Musical Art in New York, and played in a dance band at night. As
the months wore on, the publishers of Tin Pan Alley showed a short-
sighted but cheerful tendency to be completely satisfied with Irving
Berlin, Cole Porter, and Jerome Kern. To rephrase a popular song
title, “They Got Along Without Me Very Well.”

Back to Harvard I went, this time to the Business School. Retail
merchandising then became my career. It had much less glamour, buta
greater probability of furnishing three meals a day. For many years I
worked in a metropolitan department store as assistant buyer, then
buyer, and finally merchandise manager, This wasn’t too bad, except
that one interesting phenomenon never failed to intrigue me, The store
owner, definitely a Big Shot, who flitted in once or twice a week long
enough to determine that the ash trays in his office had been emptied,
seemed to spend most of his time golfing, fishing, or picking the right
horse in the seventh at Belmont Park. This was nice work if you could
getit. The trick obviously was to he an owner.

[ 876 ]

| Twenty-fifth Anntversary Report

My search for a business began. I travelled the weary miles as far
west as Nebraska, as far south as Florida, looking at literally hundreds
of stores for sale. Most of them, after a brief inspection, would make
the purchase of the Brooklyn Bridge from a passing stranger seem like
a conservative investment, Finally, in my backyard, I found it—a
group of furniture stores on Long Island. The owner, full of years, was
ready to turn in his carnation. So here I am to stay, I hope. If any of
you intend to settle in Long Island, just drop in at Hempstead, or Free-
port, or Bay Shore and you're entitled to a discount if you can prove
you're a Harvard man — come to think of it even if you can’t prove it;
things are slow.

What about my songs, you ask? Well, I have the most wonderful
wife in the world, who thinks they’re masterpieces — she’s tone deaf.

PAUL ROBERT WENDT

Home Address: 323 Sixth Ave., S.E., Minneapolis 14, Minn.

Office Address: College of Education, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis
14, Minn.

Born: March 25, 1905, Davenport, Iowa. Parents: John Wendt, Dora Al-
brecht,

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1928, 1930-1931. Degrees: A.B., 1926 (31); A.M.
(Univ. of Minnesota), 19423 Pu.D. (ibid.), 1948.

Married: Rachel Clark, Aug. 15, 1935, Brookline, Mass.

Harvard Brothers: Gerald Louis Wendt, 13, A.M., ’14, Pu.D., ’16; Henry
Otto Wendt, 719.

Occupation: Associate professor of education, University of Minnesota.

Member of : N.E.A.; Educational Film Library Association ; Society of Motion
Picture and Television Engineers; Society for the Study of Education;
American Psychological Association.

After graduation I decided that the most interesting thing in life
was the making of educational motion pictures. After being on the staff
of the University Film Foundation at Harvard, I joined the St. Paul
Institute and then the film production division of the University of
Minnesota. I was production and research manager and taught courses
from 1935 to 1942. In 1935 I married Miss Rachel Clark of Boston.
In 1937 I enjoyed a fellowship from the Rockefeller General Educa-
tion Board to study film methods in Hollywood and New York. In 1942
I became director of the Audio-Visual Education Service at the Univer-
sity of Minnesota of which the film production unit was one division, In
1939 I began to squeeze in some studying and by 1942 received my

[ 877 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

A.M. in education and by 1948 my Ph.D. During the years I made
the usual climb up the academic ladder to my present position of associ-
ate professor of education. I recently resigned my administrative duties
to devote more time to writing and research.

My main interest in research has been in developing an eye camera
which employs motion picture film to record the eye movements of
subjects viewing motion pictures, This is one line of attack on the prob-
lem of how to design and produce motion picture scenes to teach effi-
ciently. Other research has been concerned with retesting Sherman
Hoyt’s method of teaching drawing by tachistoscopic techniques.

My wife and I have a wonderful hobby in camping and canoeing.
Minnesota offers plenty of opportunity for both. ‘The Border Lakes,
probably the best canoeing country in the U.S.A., provide several
weeks’ canoe travel in total wilderness. Minnesota is also close enough
to the Rockies so that we usually take a run out to Glacier Park each
year. We particularly enjoy the wilder parts of the Park, such as the
Belly River country. Of course a Minnesotan thinks nothing of driving
1200 miles to the mountains just for fun; it’s just a nice two-day trip
without hurrying, very different from the old days in Massachusetts
when a trip to Crawford Notch was an all-day trip.

My wife is a remedial reading tutor in the Minneapolis schools and,
by all accounts, one of the best. Working out of the Child Study Center,
she gets all the really tough cases of children who are so emotionally
disturbed that they can’t learn to read. Some of the horror stories she
brings home of the things these kids do have hastened the coming of
white hairs to my head. But she manages to corner them psychologically
so they want to learn to read. Some of her pupils proceed to end up in
Juvenile Court but with most of them she has the satisfaction of getting
them started towards a reasonably well-adjusted life.

My teaching is in the fields of audio-visual education and in educa-
tional psychology. Although the former is my specialty, the latter in its
application to motion pictures and how we learn from pictures is most
interesting to me. Communication by visual means might be said to be
my main interest in life. I am still curious as to how pictures are effec-
tive in certain situations and I should like to find out how and why they
accomplish some changes in situations where words fail us.

operon = "

Lepr arene

[ 878 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

+: DANIEL BERTSCH WENTZ, JR.

Born: June 10, 1903, Big Stone Gap, Va. Parents: Daniel Bertsch Wentz,
Louise Finlay.

Prepared at: Fay School, Southboro, Mass.; St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

Years in College: 1922-1924.

Married: Elizabeth Joyce Sewell, Oct. 1, 1927, Elkins Park, Pa.

Died: March 9, 1940, Philadelphia, Pa.

After leaving Harvard, Daniel Bertsch Wentz went to work for the
General Coal Company in Philadelphia. He spent several years in the
mines at Hazelton, Pennsylvania, and in Virginia. He returned to the
general offices of the company in Philadelphia and from that time his
rise in the organization was rapid. At the time of his death he was vice-
president of the company and an officer in many of its affiliates. He was
president of the Virginia~-Kentucky Coal Corporation, vice-president of
the Stonega Coke and Coal Company, the Virginia Coal and Iron
Company, the Wentz Corporation, the Westmoreland Coal Company
and Westmoreland, Inc. He held directorships in the Admiralty Coal
Corporation, the Crab Orchard Improvement Company, the Wentz
Company, and the Whitehall Cement Manufacturing Company.

Besides these business interests he participated in the activities of
many charities, and was president of the Travelers Aid Society of Phil-
adelphia and assistant treasurer and a member of the board of the Ab-
ington Memorial Hospital. His memberships included the Philadelphia
Club, the Pine Valley Country Club, and the Huntingdon Valley Coun-
try Club.

WINTHROP WETHERBEE

Home Address: 204 Walnut St., Brookline, Mass.

Office Address: 24 School St., Boston, Mass.

Born: April 6, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parents: Winthrop Wetherbee, ’87, Alice
Harding Clark.

Prepared at: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; M.D. (Columbia Univ.),
1931.

Married: Carolyn Hall, Sept. 11, 1937, Brookline, Mass. CAildrea: Winthrop,
3d, July 10, 1938; Helen, Feb. 12, 1942.

Occupation: Physician in general practice.

Military or Naval Record: Entered major August, 19423 terminated lieuten-
ant colonel, March, 1946; assistant chief of medicine, 7th General Hos-
pital, service in U.S.A. and in England; transferred to 116th General

[ 879 ]

EAE

‘

Harvard Class of 1926

Hospital in England, France, Germany. (The 116th GH was attached
to Third Army and operated a large hospital plant in Nuremberg at end
of war.)

Offices Held: Visiting staff (medical), Boston City Hospital, since 1934.

Member of : Massachusetts (Suffolk District) Medical Society; American Med-
ical Association; American College of Physicians (fellow) ; Union Club
of Boston; Lodge of Saint Andrew, A.F.& A.M.

Publications: Various medical papers in different journals; Medicine in a the Our
patient Department, Hoeber, New York, 1938; a bibliography of Donn
Byrne, New York Public Library, 1949.

Compared with those of many classmates, my own observations, ex-
periences, and accomplishments during the past two and a half decades
must be of so little general interest that I shall not attempt to write of
them in detail.

Graduation was followed by a year as a special student, a few unsat-
isfying months as a bank clerk in New York, and four happy and fruit-
ful years at medical school. After this followed an eighteen-month in-
ternship in medicine at the Boston City Hospital, a two-year convales-
cence from a particularly severe case of pneumonia and its sequelae, and
another two years as resident physician, also at the Boston City Hospital.
Then I entered private practice and marriage. Then came the necessity
of supporting a family. My Beacon Street office proving inadequate in
this respect, I took a step which in Boston was unconventional almost to
the point of being unique — I opened an office for the practice of gen-
eral medicine in the heart of the business district. It was a success from
the start, and I have continued there to the present time, the only inter-
ruption occurring during the four years of the war.

The temptation to enlarge upon Wetherbee and the Army, though
great, is one to which I shall not yield, having bored family, friends, and
patients with the subject for over five years. Suffice it to say that it
seems I was one of the few doctors who really enjoyed his tour of duty.

Hobbies and other extra-curricular activities in past years have
ranged from cactus-culture to bibliography, and now I seem to have
settled permanently on amateur photography. While I have yet to take
the Great Picture, hope dies hard, and in the meanwhile my office walls
are lined with many pictures with which I am pleased, and before which
I sit and daydream in intervals between patients. I am currently about
to depart for a month in Bavaria to add to the collection, and to assist
the Nurembergers in observing their nine hundredth anniversary.

I would not close this chronicle without saying that to my wife goes
all of the credit for a happy family life, and that as I look back over the
years, this has been the greatest of many satisfactions.

[ 880 ]

grmepne tion”

SOR, eR

Tp ema

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

FREDERICK PORTAS WEYMER

Home Address: 750 Euclid Ave., Syracuse 10, N. Y.

Office Address: A. F. Weymer Co., Inc., 306 W. Division St., Syracuse 4, N. Y.

Born: Nov. 1, 1903, Syracuse, N. Y. Parents: August Ferdinan Weymer,
Grace Louise Portas.

Prepared at: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

Years ia College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Unmarried.

Harvard Brother; Christian Henry Weymer, ’27, LL.B., ’30.

Occupation: President and treasurer, A. F. Weymer Co., Inc., manufacturers
of corn brooms and whisk brooms.

Wartime Government Posts: Member advisory committees, Broom Manufactur-
ing Industry, for WPB and OPA.

Offices Held: President, Harvard Club of Syracuse, 1928-40, National Broom
Manufacturers’ Association, 1939-45, Syracuse Association of Credit
Men, 1941-42, Episcopal Churchmen’s Association of Syracuse, 1950;
vestryman, 1930-46, treasurer, since 1941, junior warden, 1945-50;
senior warden, since 1950, All Saints’ Episcopal Church.

Member of: All Saints’ Episcopal Church; Diocesan Fiscal Corporation of the
Diocese of Central New York; Episcopal Churchmen’s Association;
Harvard Club of Syracuse; National Association of Manufacturers; Na-
tional Broom Manufacturers’ Association; Manufacturers’ Association of
Syracuse; Redfield Fish & Game Club; Syracuse Association of Credit
Men; Syracuse Chamber of Commerce; Syracuse Chapter, National As-
sociation of Cost Accountants.

ALAN WHITE

Home Address: 53143 N. Bay Rd., Miami Beach, Fla.

Office Address: Equitable Life Assurance Society, 420 Lincoln Rd., Miami
Beach, Fla.

Born: Feb. 4, 1905, New York, N. Y. Parents: Jesse M. Weissman, ’gt, Janet
Blumenstiel.

Prepared at: Townsend Harris Hall, New York, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: 8.B., 1926.

Married: Peggy Namm Baum, June 20, 1932, New York, N. Y. Children:
Peter Alan, April 27, 1934; Pamela, April 8, 1937; Patricia Jane, July
27, 1938.

Occupation: Agent, Equitable Life Assurance Society; realtor.

Member of : Harvard Club of Miami.

[ 881 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

KIRKE MARSHALL WHITE

Home Address: 176 E. Sixth St., Oswego, N. Y.
Office Address: 3 Grant Block, Oswego, N. Y.

Born: March 1, 1905, Oswego, N, Y. Parents: Kirk Henry White, Lulu May
Petrie.

Prepared at: Oswego High School, Oswego, N. Y.
Years wn College: 1922-1927. Degrees: A.B. magna cum laude, 1926 (27);
LL.B., 1931.

Married; Arneta C. Godkin, July 29, 1942, Harrisburg, Pa. CAild: Kirke
Jeremy, Dec. 21, 1946.

Harvard Brother: Neil Sprague White, ’40.

Occupation: Lawyer; general law practice in the city of Oswego.

Military or Naval Record: Army Air Corps; entered as 1st lieutenant, May 6,
1942; military schools, AAFOTS, Miami, Fla., Air Intelligence School,
Harrisburg, Pa., Command and General Staff School, Fort Leavenworth,
Kans., Air Staff Course, Washington, D. C.; combat intelligence with
heavy bombardment; awarded World War II Victory Medal, American
Theatre Ribbon, European-African Middle Eastern Service Medal,
Rome-Arno campaign; terminated as major, Dec. 28, 1945.

Offices Held: Counsel to Minority Leader, New York State Senate, 1937-38,

counsel to Majority Leader, 1939—May, 1942, New York State Senate;

city attorney, City of Oswego, 1948-51; trustee and attorney, Oswego
County Savings Bank.

Member of : Phi Beta Kappa; Harvard Club of New York.

I was forced to drop out of school due to an attack of flu in April,
1926, but was graduated in 1927 as a member of our Class. During
the following year I tried outdoor work, mainly tree surgery. My col-
lege classmates who went on to law school were all third-year men
when I entered in the fall of 1928.

From the time of my admission to the Bar in 1932 until the present
time, except for the war years, I have been engaged in general practice
in the city of Oswego. From 1937 until I entered the service I also
served as counsel successively to the Minority and Majority Leaders of
the New York State Senate.

Since 1948, in addition to my general practice, I have been City At-
torney (Corporation Counsel), This appointment grew out of a move-
ment initiated in 1947 for an independent administration. In the elec-
tions of 1947, and again in 1949, this “All Oswego” party carried
every election district in the city against both major parties. It was a
revolt without promises. I hope it has not been without achievement.

My life has generally centered around New York State with occa-
sional excursions into New England and Canada. However, during the

[ 882 ]

x

mae may ae eee TN
peat eA ELNINO TPT TI

reopen apnea pm eI ™

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

war years I covered the United States pretty thoroughly, dropped in on
Mexico, the Azores, Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, and saw quite a bit of
Italy.

My principal hobby is my son who came rather late but whom I now
seem to have known all my life.

As to my “social, political or religious convictions,” it is perhaps suffi-
cient to say, with Stendhal, that “the important thing in this dubious age
is to give proof of that sort of merit which alone cannot be accused of

hypocrisy.”
WALTER MUIR WHITEHILL

Home Address: Old Berry House, North Andover, Mass.

Office Address: Boston Athenzum, 1014 Beacon St., Boston 8, Mass.

Born: Sept. 28, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Walter Muir Whitehill, 03,
Florence Marion Williams.

Prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.; Wellesley High School,
Wellesley, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; A.M., 19293
Dr. Puit. (Univ. of London), 1934.

Married: Jane Revere Coolidge, June 5, 1930, Cambridge, Mass. Children:
Jane Coolidge, Dec. 2, 1931 (Radcliffe ’53) ; Diana, Aug. 1, 1934.

Occupation: Director and librarian, Boston Athenzum.

Military or Naval Record: U.S. Naval Reserve; entered lieutenant, Nov. 11,
1942; on duty in Office of Naval Records and Library, Navy Depart-
ment; separated commander, Aug. 26, 1946.

Offices Held: President, Old South Association in Boston; vice-president,
North Andover Historical Society; clerk, Club of Odd Volumes; secre-
tary of council of historians, Institute of Early American History and
Culture, Williamsburg, Va.; treasurer, North Andover Improvement
Society, Brick Store Company in Andover North Parish; cabinet keeper,
Massachusetts Historical Society; trustee, Peabody Museum of Salem,
Society for the Preservation of New England Antiquities, Fruitlands
and the Wayside Museums, John Greenleaf Whittier Homestead, Moses

Pierce Williams House Association ; member of corporation, Parish of the
Advent, Boston, Mass.; editor, Ze American Neptune, Colonial Society
of Massachusetts; member of editorial board, New England Quarterly,
William and Mary Quarterly.

Member of: Somerset Club; Club of Odd Volumes; Army and Navy Club,
Washington; American Antiquarian Society; Iconographic Society;
Mediaeval Academy; College Art Association; Essex Institute; Boston-
ian Society; Newcomen Society; Naval Historical Foundation; Royal
Archaeological Institute of Great Britain; Hispanic Society of America
(corresponding member) ; Society of Antiquaries of London (fellow).

Publications: Spanish Romanesque Architecture of the Eleventh Century, Oxford

[ 883 ]

en .

Harvard Class of 1926

University Press, 1941; Liber Sancti Jacobi, Codex Calixtinus, Santiago de
Compostela, 1945; The East India Marine Soctety and the Peabody Museum

of Salem, a sesquscentennial history, 1949; other books and articles on Span-
ish medieval and New England history.

The first ten years after my graduation from college were centered
on Spain and the middle ages. Two years as a tutor in fine arts at Har-
vard and Radcliffe were followed by eight years of graduate work,
travel and research, chiefly in Europe.

In 1936 we returned from Spain and settled in North Andover,

Massachusetts, and in the autumn of that year I became assistant direc-
tor of the Peabody Museum of Salem, a maritime and ethnological mu-
seum founded in 1799 by the East India Marine Society. ‘The Spanish
civil war made further work in Spain impossible for several years, but I
became so occupied with the maritime history of New England that
there was little time to regret earlier interests. In 1940 I had a hand in
founding The American Neptune, a quarterly journal of maritime his-
tory, and have completed ten years as its editor. I continued at Salem
until 1942 when I was commissioned in the Naval Reserve. In 1946,
after four years of active duty in the Office of Naval Records and Li-
brary, Navy Department, I was appointed librarian of the Boston
Athenzum. I resigned from the Peabody Museum and was given the
honorary title of historian, which I endeavored to justify by writing a
history of the museum for the 150th anniversary celebration in Octo-
ber, 1949. I was made a trustee of the museum in 1950.

To my wartime service I owe both the continued friendship of many
naval officers whom I greatly like and admire, and also a hearty dis-
taste for life in Washington, D. C. It was a singular pleasure to return
to northern Essex County in the summer of 1946, to begin to clear
away the garden debris, and to settle myself in the Athenzeum — de-
scribed by Barrett Wendell as “fa retreat for those who would enjoy the
humanity of books” — which is the pleasantest library that I know. My
interest in the Navy continues. During the past four years I have been
assisting Fleet Admiral Ernest J. King in the preparation of his me-
moirs, which will be published by W. W. Norton & Company — we
hope not later than 1952.

: 2 ace
epee snamepsgetnanpecnirysn 60H: SE SOECRIE ESI
enyogaven OE artes

TTR TEp TTT I”

7

HERBERT WHITING

Home Address: Chesterbrook Road, Falls Church, Va.; Scituate, Mass.
Office Address: Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, The Pentagon, Wash-
ington, D. C. (not a mailing address).

[ 884 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Born: May 2, 1905, Boston, Mass. Parents: Herbert Allison Whiting, Dorothy

Stanley.

Prepared ats Stone School, Boston, Mass.; Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926.

Married: Medora Thayer Roosevelt, Dec. 18, 1936, New York, N. Y. (died
Nov. 2, 1943).

Occupation: Research analyst, Office of the Chief of Naval Operations.

Military or Naval Record: Air Force, Staff Intelligence Officer, 1942-46.

Member of : Harvard Club of Boston.

Publications: The Listeners, published by Appleton-Century, 1943; approxi-
mately one hundred and fifty technical articles, including a technical
analysis of the Berlin Airlift, prepared during a six months’ assignment

in Germany, 194849.

Graduate study, a job with the Pope-Brooks Foundation, an extraor-
dinarily happy marriage: these were the quiet prewar years. The war
was less of an interruption to my plans than I had anticipated. A series
of research projects for the Air Force and the Navy interested me while
I was on active duty, and I hope to continue working on them until
recall.

As for the rest — the time of leisure — I confess to my predilection
for being in the sun. I garden a little, collect beaches, and retain an un-
diminished enthusiasm for blue water sailing. But when weather re-
minds me to keep indoors, my activity centers on reading and an ambu-
latory kind of squash.

The twenty-five years have also watched me taking off on a good
many travels, before, during, and since the war, and chiefly to the
Mediterranean countries. I embark on each one with a pleasure that is
equalled only by the pleasure of being home again. (One of these days,
however, I shall be faced with the necessity of facing myself sternly
and saying, ‘“‘Let it be clearly understood that, whatever you write, you

will not, repeat not, write a travelogue.” )

Unfinished business: a vagabondage by sail in the Adriatic and the
Aegean.

i SAMUEL WESTON WHITING

Born: Jan. 31, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parents: Walter Rodger Whiting, Ger-
trude Clark.

Prepared at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: §.B., 1926.

Married: Christine Lane, May 4, 1929, Hingham, Mass. Children: Samuel

[ 885 ]

Flarvard Class of 1926

Brooks, Oct. 21, 1932; Ernest Lane, Aug. 8, 1939; Daniel Emerson,
May 17, 1941; Harriet Ellen, March 21, 1945.
Died: May 13, 1946, at Hingham, Mass.

Samuel Whiting died suddenly on May 13, 1946, just before our
Twentieth Reunion. Born in Boston, he was raised and lived practically
all the rest of his life in Hingham. In college he was always calm, quiet,
unhurried. He carried on the rest of his life much the same way. His
interest was largely writing. His first job was in Beacon Hill real estate,
but he soon changed to his more natural pursuits. Having always been
a “spark” and volunteer fireman and at the same time literary, it wasa
toss-up which would get his major attention. At first, writing won out.
He joined the Lincoln & Smith Press, where he wrote various kinds of
advertising for many Boston firms and now and then an article for
magazines. After that came a period of dealing in fire prevention ma-
terials and apparatus — to such effect that National Fireworks, Inc.,
sought him out and, eventually, he became their chief fire marshal.
During the war, as a second lieutenant, he was called to active duty at
the First Service Command Headquarters, where he was soon pro-
moted to the rank of first lieutenant. Again on inactive duty, he went
back to advertising-printing, this time with the Barta Press, where he
was employed at the time of his death.

In May, 1929, he married Christine Lane, also of Hingham. She
survived him, as did their four children, Brooks, Lane, Daniel, and
Harriet Ellen. His family occupied most of his spare time — aside from
local fire-fighting and an occasional cruise. His life was still quiet and
unhurried, and to it he added an extraordinary artistic efficiency which
stood him in good stead in the hustling business of advertising.

THOMAS RANDOLPH WICKERSHAM

Home Address: 390 Wadsworth Ave., New York 33, N. Y.

Office Address: 2300 Empire State Bldg., New York, N. Y.

Born: Dec. 11, 1905, Steelton, Pa. Parents: Oscar Gardiner Wickersham,
Helen Opal Mumma.

Prepared at: Harrisburg Academy, Harrisburg, Pa.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B., 1926; LL.B., 1929.

Married: Mary McK. Browder, Feb. 2, 1937, Harrisburg, Pa.

Occupation: Attorney.

Military or Naval Record: Lieutenant commander, U.S. Naval Reserve; served
at Seattle, Wash., at Naval Air Station, Dunkeswell, England, and on
board uss Cadot.

Offices Held: Member, Pennsylvania Legislature, 1935—37.

[ 886 ]

Txenty- fifth Anniversary Re port
Member of : Racquet Club; Masons; Elks Club,

T engaged in the general practice of the law at Harrisburg, Pennsyl-
vania, from 1929 until 1942, when I entered the naval service. Upon
return to inactive duty in January, 1946, I accepted employment as a
trial attorney for the Bureau of Internal Revenue at New York City,
Up to the present time I have not had to appear against any member of
the Class of 1926.

FRITZ WIENER

Last Knoun Address: 18 Cedar Rd., Belmont, Mass.

Bors: March 9, 1906, Harvard, Mass, Parents; Leo Wiener, Bertha Kahn.
Prepared at: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

Years iw College: 1922-1924.

The information printed above is from the Secretary’s files, Wiener
has been ill for many years,

READ HAMILTON WIGHT

Home Address: Holly Lane, Rye, N. ¥.

Office Address: J. M. Mathes, Inc., 122 E. gand St., New York, N, Y.

Born: July 28, 1903, Waltham, Mass. Parents; Charles Aaron Wight, Jr., Lois
Read Patten.

Prepared at: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.; Cambridge Latin School,
Cambridge, Mass.

Years tx College: 1922-1926.

Married: Florence J. Williams, Oct. 10, 1931, Ontario, Canada, Children:
Judith Babson, Sept. 3, 1933; Anthony Read, Nov. 19, 1939.

Occupation: Advertising; director of radio, television and motion picture de-
partment, J. Ml. Mathes, Inc.

Member of: American Yacht Club, Rye, N. ¥.

Since 1926 I have had a wonderfully full life blessed with ample
returns in terms of what I have put into it. Today I find myself giving
thanks for a fine family, a fine business life, great friendships — and a
host of people I am proud to call my friends (and who are my friends).

There may be twenty-five years more to come. If there are, I'll do
it with the same pleasure. If there are not twenty-five years more on my
slate — Dve had it. And it’s great! Hope you all feel the same.

[ 887 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

ROSS WILKINS, JR.

Home Address: 85 Muskoka Rd., Grosse Pointe Farms 30, Mich.

Office Address: c/o Great Lakes Steel Corp., Tecumseh Road, Detroit 29,
Mich.

Bora: March 27, 1905, Detroit, Mich. Parents: Ross Wilkins, Mary Augusta
Ward.

Prepared at: Central High School, Detroit, Mich.

Years in College: 1922~-1926. Degree: S.B., 1926 (27).

Married: Evelyn Lawrence Moss, Sept. 26, 1931, Lynn, Mass. Children:
Ross, 3d, Dec. 2, 1937; Charles Christopher Trowbridge, Feb. 28,
1941.

Occupation: Assistant vice-president and general manager of sales, Great Lakes
Stee] Corporation.

Member of: Detroit Club; Detroit Philatelic Society; Farmington Country
Club, Charlottesville, Va.

Twenty-four and a half years of employment with the same com-
pany is probably proof of a cautious nature and also of a tolerant em-
ployer. In this interval the company has increased in size roughly forty-
fold in spite of my presence. My own growth has been more moderate
in every way.

During this quarter-century I can think of nothing I have accom-
plished to make Harvard proud of me and I hope that nothing has come
to light which might provoke an opposite reaction, The record would
probably be marked “‘Average”’ by any competent analyst.

We live the usual family life of the suburbs of a big city and, on the
whole, enjoy it. My elder son once asked me if a boy had to go to Har-
vard if his father went there. The question remains unanswered.

HENRY JUSTICE WILLIAMS

Home Address: 1924 Delancey Pl., Philadelphia 3, Pa.

Office Address: 123 S. Broad St., Philadelphia 9, Pa.

Born: May 12, 1905, Jenkintown, Pa, Parents: Thomas Stotesbury Williams,
’96, Lucretia Barnard Justice.

Prepared at; William Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; LL.B., 1929.

Unmarried.

Harvard Brothers: Ellis Tilton Williams, M.B.A., ’32; Arthur Stotesbury
Williams, ’40.

Occupation: Lawyer.

Offices Held: Secretary and director, Octavia Hill Association, Inc.; treasurer
and trustee, Thomas Skelton Harrison Foundation; overseer of the

[ 888 ]

Twenty- fifth Anntversary Report
Public School founded by Charter in the Town and County of Philadel-

phia in Pennsylvania; assistant special counsel on Housing, Pennsylvania
Postwar Planning Commission, 1945; chairman, Philadelphia Citizens
Political Action Committce, 1946; director, Americans for Democratic
Action, Philadelphia Chapter, 1947-50; member, Democratic Seventh
Ward Executive Committee, Boards of Managers at Pendle Hill and
Haverford College; exccutive board, American Friends Service Come
mittee, Friends Historical Association, Council of the Historical Society
of Pennsylvania; treasurer, Philadelphia Quarterly Meeting.

Member of : Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Harvard Club of New York; Rit-
tenhouse Club; National Beagle Club; Philadelphia Art Alliance; Soci-
ety of Architectural Historians,

Since 1943 I have been practising law with neither partner nor sub-
ordinates, and have consequently been able to serve on rather more
educational and other boards or committees than I found practicable
as amember of a firm. Not all of them are connected with the Society
of Friends, but anyone who is familiar with Quaker enterprises will
understand that these entail a considerable amount of work in smaller
groups, which can hardly be enumerated in even a twenty-fifth-year
Harvard Class Report. Several finance committees and trusteeships
also account for an increasing proportion of my time, while of course
a good many of us know something about collecting money.

For the last nine years, I have found it a great advantage to live
within walking distance of my office. In Philadelphia, where the Grand
Old Party has not yet been dislodged from City Hall, a Democrat can
also take an effective part in local politics that would be impossible in
suburbs which the Republicans still carry almost as easily as ever. If
my commuting is therefore limited to Saturdays and Sunday after-
noons, I like to think that my hours in the country are proportionately
more enjoyable. The Treweryn Beagles hunt regularly from the end
of August each year through the following March, and the national
field trials at Aldie, Virginia, provide four days’ undiluted beagling in
November. I own a stable without horses (not to mention an orchard
without fruit), which could theoretically occupy my weekends during
the rest of the year. But some time must be allowed for Ireland.

When I first landed at Cobh in 1928, it seemed in a curious way
that I had been there before, and after seven trips, I am beginning to
understand what an elderly Friend told me at Shanagarry on my next
visit, five years later. It seemed to her, I have never forgotten, that
much of Ireland’s attraction lay in the fact that on returning, after
however long an absence, one found things very little changed. The
Free State is now a Republic, and Dublin one of the capitals of the

[ 889 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

world, but it would take more than a few neon signs around Stephen’s
Green to impair the force of that sagacious comment. “Rest on a
bridge and you'll never be tired” puts it somewhat differently, and
there are, of course, a good many bridges in that beguiling country! |
might add, for the benefit of any classmates who have not heard about
the Irish freighters, that I know of no pleasanter way for an amateur
chess player to cross the Atlantic, if he has ten or twelve days for the
voyage.

+ BIRKBECK WILSON

Bora: Dec. 21, 1903, Yonkers, N. Y, Parents: John Harvard Wilson, Georgia
Johnson.

Prepared at: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; A.M., 1928. .

Unmarried.

Harvard Brother: Sturgis Starbuck Wilson, ’28.

Died: Nov. 1, 1946, New York, N. Y.

Brother: Sturgis S. Wilson, 78 Blackburn Rd., Summit, N. J.

Birkbeck Wilson went to the Harvard Graduate School of Arts and
Sciences for two years after receiving the A.B. degree with our Class.
He then went into the field of education and for seven years taught an-
thropology at Brooklyn College, Brooklyn, New York. For several
summers he did ethnological research among the Pomo Indians of Cali-
fornia. This work was carried on with the Social Science Field Labora-
tory, under the auspices of New York University.

BURR POLK WILSON

Home Address: 180 East End Ave., New York 28, N. Y.

Office Address: Standard & Poor’s Corp., 345 Hudson St., New York, N. Y.

Born: Sept. 25, 1905, Lincoln, Nebr. Parents: Burton Wilbur Wilson, Edna
Polk.

Prepared at: Scarborough School, Scarborough, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1924, 1925~1928.

Married: Leona Durkes, July 11, 1936, Briarcliff, N. Y.

Occupation: Security analyst; interviewing industrial executives on their com-
panies.

Military or Naval Record: Drafted, October, 19423 surgical technician, Medi-
cal Detachment, 407th Infantry, 102znd Division; discharged, October,
1945. |

A calm, prosaic existence. No serious shocks or upheavals even in the

[ 890 ]

Twenty fifth Annrversary Report

early 1930°s and no exhilarating flights of fortune or adventure. To
sum up bricfly — “no runs, some hits, and a few errors.”

WILLIAM BURTON WILSON

Heme Address: 298 Argyle Rd., Brooklyn 18, N.Y.

Office Address: Wilson Export & Import Corp., 35 Water St., New York 4,
N.Y.

Bora: March 14, 1906, New Orleans, La., Parents: Robert Lee Wilson, Kath-
arine Adams.

Prepared at: Portland High School, Portland, Maine,

Years mm College: 1922-1925. Degree: A.B., 1926 (25).

Married: Irmgard Hammel, March 29, 1933, Brooklyn, N. ¥. Children:
Emma Katharine, June 13, 1934; Anne Marie, July 2, 1937; William
Burton, Jr., April 5, 19443 Peter Andrew, April 29, 1950.

Occupation: Proprietor, expost and import business.

Member of: Chemists Club of New York; Sons of American Revolution;

American Asociation of Textile Chemists and Colorists,

When I left college I thought that within twenty-five years I would
be fat, bald, and financially independent — none of which has hap-
pened. For various reasons, mostly economic, I completed my college
course in three years, took my degree in 1925, and went out into the
cold, cruel world. A year’s work in a large New York bank taught mea
good deal about business and convinced me that I was not destined to be
a banker.

Foreign language study had always been my hobby, and in 1926 I
was fortunate to find an opening as a foreign salesman in the National
Aniline Division of the Allied Chemical & Dye Corporation. For most
of the following sixteen years I travelled and lived abroad. Our peace-
ful life in Belgium was rudely interrupted in 1939 by the outbreak of
the war. Returning to the U.S.A., I was chagrined to find that this
country had adopted a New Deal, a welfare state, and, worst of all,
high income taxes — all of which I had thought were European evils.

Learning that college graduates are committing race suicide, we
have done our best with four children to bring up the average of the
Class of 1926. For the benefit of interested classmates we can certify
that children cost more than the exemption allowed by the Bureau of
Internal Revenue; on the other hand, we are sure that they are a better
investment than dollars of uncertain value,

My hobby of language study has been of great value in the export
business, and I'll bet I am the only member of our Class who keeps in
his office a copy of Os Lusiadas and reads it for relaxation.

[ 891 ]

Flarvard Class of 1926

WILLIAM SCOTT WILSON

Home Address: 510 Park Ave., New York 22, N. Y.
Office Address: Scott Wilson & Fritz Foord, 16 E. 53rd St., New York 22,
N.Y.

Born: March 19, 1903, Vigan, Luzon, P. I. Parents: Frederick Lockhart
Wilson, Jennie Mastin.

Prepared at: Baguio School, Baguio, P. 1.; Virginia Episcopal School, Lynch-
burg, Va.

Years in College: 1922-1923, 1924-1927. Degree: A.B. cum laude, 1926 (27).

Unmarried,

Occupation: Partner, Scott Wilson & Fritz Foord, industrial design firm special-
izing in mass production design of home furnishings.

Military or Naval Record: Entered U.S. Army, Nov. 17, 1942; discharged
March 30, 1943.

Offices Held: Chairman, New York Chapter of American Designers’ Institute,

1942; member and fellow, National Board, American Designers’ In-
stitute.

Member of : Harvard Club of New York.

Publications: Ulustrator, Without Music, by Dwight Fisk, Chatham Press,
1933; co-author and illustrator of two children’s books, Tommy Tomato
and the Vegets, Tommy Tomato Saves the Garden, Oquaga Press, 1936;
various articles for trade publications.

By and large, the world has been very good to me this past quarter-
century — through error, no doubt, but I’m still very appreciative. I’ve
been lucky in most important things but one: I have never married, and
marriage, I feel, is essential to a complete life.

It was luck that drew me into one of the newest of the professions,
Industrial Design, which makes going to work a daily pleasure. ‘The
firm which I founded specializes in the design of home furnishings for
mass production — textiles, wallpaper, glassware, furniture, lamps, etc.
Intelligent designing in this field requires, in addition to the actual de-
signing, a knowledge of marketing, merchandising, chemistry, engi-
neering, and the various processes of production. ‘There is something
very satisfactory in the knowledge that articles you have created have
found their way into perhaps a million homes, and have given some
degree of pleasure there. For example, in the past ten years my firm has
had produced and distributed, among other things, almost eight thous-
and drapery and wallpaper designs. Since a design is considered by the
trade a failure if it sells less than ten thousand yards, and since a truly
successful design will hit a half-million yards, the eight thousand pat-
terns have covered a good many windows and walls, and have made
possible the mild indulgence of some of my innate sybaritic tastes.

[ 892 ]

Twenty- fifth Anntversary Report

Besides these blessings, I have been extremely lucky in my friends —
a diverse and faithful lot. Moreover, the years have spared my hair,
kept my waistline within somewhat decent bounds, and insisted on only
gentle optical prescriptions.

Even in the last war I was lucky. After a curt rejection by the Navy
and a subsequent brief and almost disastrous period of training in the
Army, most of which I spent in the hospital with a calcified knee, I was
discharged. It was impossible to sit at a drawing board with the whole
world at war, so I volunteered for overseas service with the American
Red Cross. Almost immediately followed an assignment to headquar-
ters of the Fifth Air Force in the southwest Pacific Theatre. Instead of
the dull desk job which would undoubtedly have been my fate had I re-
mained in the Army or the Navy, I saw two years of real action in New
Guinea, Biak and Owi,‘and the Philippines. It was a fascinating and
invaluable experience — one which I would not exchange and which
straightened out my attitude towards a great many important things.
It was then, belatedly, that I grew up. Most important, however, de-
spite the usual irritations and inefficiencies inherent in any suddenly
expanded body, was the deep satisfaction of being a part of the only
international organization dedicated solely to easing the lot of man.

It was during the Leyte landing that I was first under direct fire. Of
course, I had been in a lot of bombings, but there is something imper-
sonal about a bomb. Here, however, in this decapitated coconut grove,
there was an unpleasant little yellow man shooting directly at me —
very personally — and I found the situation unfamiliar and disturbing.
I was hugging my protecting coconut tree with considerable fervor
when behind an adjacent tree I saw an equally frightened Filipino
woman wearing a chemise-like garment made of a fabric which I had
designed for F. Schumaker & Company in New York eight years before.
Perhaps it was my — shall we say — nervous condition which brought
on what can only be described as a case of the school-girl giggles.
Hysterically, I laughed and laughed; and more than anything else in
the world at that moment I wanted to tell that Filipino woman I had
designed the cloth she was wearing. In view of the flying bullets this
seemed impractical, so I lost her in the subsequent battle. I shall always
lament that.

Luck again was mine in coming back to my same apartment, my
same office, my same friends, There were no difficult readjustments,
except wearing garters and a tie, and missing the tough camaraderie of
soldiers. I was very lucky, too, that skilled plastic surgery could restore
my face to something like its normal appearance after a severe automo-

[ 893 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

bile accident which occurred, ironically, ten days after my return from
overseas.

Since 1926 I have arrived independently and with naive surprise at
what seemed to be, to me, a number of profound general conclusions,
all of which have been exposed as triple bromides —— obvious to the point
of laughter: the total absurdity of all snobbisms, the eminent practicabil-
ity of kindness, and the deep need of giving all of one’s self to others if
happiness is to be found in this life.

DAVID LOUIS WINER

Home Address: 16 Pierce Rd., Lynn, Mass.

Ofwe Address: 7 Willow St., Lynn, Mass.

Born: Aug. 18, 1904, Lithuania. Parents: Chone Winer, Sarah Hershon.

Prepared at: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

Years in College: 1924-1926. Degrees: S.B., 1926; LL.B. (Boston Univ.),
1930.

Married: Cecelia Altman, Nov. 20, 1938, Boston, Mass. Children: Barbara
Rachel, June 10, 1940; Linda Ruth, July 17, 19435 Laurence Hirsh,
Oct. 30, 1946.

Occupation: Lawyer.

Offices Held: President, Jewish Community Center, Lynn, 1930-34; direc-
tor, Community Fund of Greater Lynn, 1932-47; clerk, Camp Bauer-
crest, since 1932; treasurer, Camp Naomi, 1935-37; chairman, Repub-
lican City Committee of Lynn, since 1940, Board of Library Trustees,
Lynn, 1945-48; vice-president, National Jewish Welfare Board, since
1950; director, Temple Isracl of Swampscott and Marblehead, Jewish
Social Service Agency.

Member of : 32° Masons; Aleppo Temple; Jewish Book Council of America;
American Jewish Historical Society; Jewish Publication Society of
America; Zionist Organization of America; Lynn Bar Association; Har-

vard Club of Lynn.

PASCAL WOLF WINER

Home Address: 13 Susquchanna Ave., Great Neck, Long Island, N. Y.

Office Address: 415 Lexington Ave., New York 17, N. Y.

Born: April 30, 1905, New York, N.Y. Parents: Elias Winer, Hannah Batha
Miller.

Prepared at: Stuyvesant High School, New York, N. Y.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degrees: S.B., 1926; LL.B., 1929.

Married: P’ninah Palley, June 30, 1931, Spring Valley, N. Y¥. Children:
Jacqueline Hope, March 28, 1941; Thomas Simon, May 1, 1943; Lucy
Margoa, Jan. 29, 1949.

[ 894 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

Harvard Brother: Nahum Jerachmiel Winer, 731.

Occupation: Assistant secretary and general counsel, Lakewood Cemetery As-
sociation; instructor in law, School of Business and Civic Administration,
City College of New York.

Offices Held: Assistant secretary, Lakewood Cemetery Association (Riverside
Cemetery), Rochelle Park, N. J., since 1948; president, P-T.A. Re-
ligious School, Temple Israel of Great Neck, 1948-49, 1950; financial

_ committee, American Academy for Jewish Research, New York City,
1950.

M ember of. New York County Lawyers Association; Nassau County Lawyers
Association; National Lawyers Guild; Temple Israel of Great Neck;
Men’s Garden Club, Great Neck; Harvard Law School Association.

With respect to my own self, it is easiest to begin where I left off.

My association with Gales, Bernays, Falk, Eisner & Nathan, Esqs.,

terminated much sooner than I had hoped and April, 1946, found me

back in private practice again. Never very extensive, my essay into
working for others had left me with practically no practice at all. Nev-
ertheless, having contrived during the three years I was away to hold
on to a little office, I returned there but in considerable doubt as to my
prospects. No sooner had I sat down at my old place in front of my old
desk, however, than I felt such a sensation of freedom and certainty as

I had not experienced for three years. A moment later, the phone rang.

T wish I might say that this phone call touched off a momentous career.

As you are aware, it did not. But it was a client! Since then I have had

some interesting matters and I shall no doubt enjoy talking about them

around some cracker barrel in the afterworld. In the meantime, I have
made a modest living. I have, incidentally, become general counsel to
the Lakewood Cemetery Association which operates the exclusively

Jewish cemetery known as Riverside Cemetery in Rochelle Park, New

Jersey, at the same time acquiring an esoteric and macabre knowledge

to which my legal colleagues may well remain happily indifferent.

A more interesting phase of my life began in 1946, when I was in-
vited to instruct in law in the School of Business and Civic Administra-
tion in the City College of New York. Besides the modest stipend in-
volved, this teaching has brought me several benefits which may be of
interest. I have experienced a thrill which must be lived to be under-
stood, learned far more than I taught, and been forgiven my Harvard
background by the City College graduates of my acquaintance. I have
even been invited to become a member of the alumni association,

Turning to the really important business of living, in 1946, we ac-
quired a home of our own in Thomaston (Great Neck), Long Island.
Of course, we were pushed into it but we are none the less happy with

[ 895 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

it. For me, I have always enjoyed gardening, and a place of one’s own
is a prerequisite. For the children, Jacqueline, nearly ten, and Tommy,
about eight, it is a place to romp and play and even for their mother,
there’s a place to put the baby. That’s Lucy, by the way, who arrived
in January, willy nilly. Mighty mite that she is, she promptly made us
add another room to our home — not to mention the shack in North-
port.

Considering everything, we have no cause for complaint and much to
be grateful for. In June, P’ninah and I shall have been married twenty
years. When we pause to think we were married in 1931 and consider
the period we have all lived through, we count our blessings one by one
and pray that the future will be no less kind.

ROBERT WINTHROP

Home Address: Westbury, Long Island, N. Y.

Office Address: Robert Winthrop & Co., 20 Exchange PI., New York, N. Y.

Born: Jan. 21, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parents: Frederic Winthrop, ’91, Dorothy
Amory.

Prepared at: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

Years in College: 1922~—1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Theodora Ayer, April 9, 1928, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1942);
Margaret Stone (Mann), April 25, 1942, Boston, Mass. CAildren: Theo-
dora, July 16, 1929 (7. Thomas Lee Higginson, Sept. 10, 1948);
Elizabeth Amory, Dec. 14, 19313 Cornelia Beekman, Dec. 31, 1934.
Grandchild: Thomas Lee Higginson, Jr., September, 1949.

Harvard Brothers: Frederic Winthrop, Jr.,’28; Nathaniel Thayer Winthrop,
?

Occupation: General partner, Robert Winthrop & Company, investments.

Military or Naval Record: U.S. Naval Reserve; entered lieutenant (s.g.), May,
1942; Caribbean area, 1942-43; 3rd Naval District, 1944-45; placed
on inactive duty, lieutenant commander, July, 1945; promoted com-
mander, inactive Reserve, November, 1945.

Offices Held: Trustee, Jericho Public School, 1934-39, Village of Old West-
bury, since 1945, New York Hospital, 1938-42; president of board of
trustees, Green Vale School, 1937-42, Nassau Hospital, since 1946;
trustee and treasurer, Foxcroft School, since 19473 trustee and secretary
to board, Seamans Bank for Savings, since 1939; director, National City

Bank of New York, since 1939, City Bank Farmers Trust Company,
since 1935, Eagle Fire Insurance Company, since 1945, Engineers Pub-
lic Service Company, 1934-35, Delaware Lackawanna & Western Rail-
road, 1940-44, Green Bay & Western Railroad, since 1932, U.S. & For-
eign Securities, since 1949, U.S, & International Securities, since 1949.

Member of: Downtown Association; Southside Sportsmen’s Club; Meadow

[ 896 ]

Twenty-fifth Annrversary Report

Brook Hunt Club; River Club; Piping Rock Club; Somerset Club, Bos-
ton, Mass.; The Brook, Racquet and Tennis Club, and Harvard Club
of New York.

My life since graduation twenty-five years ago has been fairly rou-
tine, and I am afraid that the story of it would not make as exciting
reading as the story of the lives of many of my classmates. I shall, there-
fore, make it brief.

After graduation, I spent a year at Trinity College, Cambridge,
England, and then a year at the Harvard Business School, following
which I was married and moved to New York. You may remember that
in the late nineteen twenties young men turned to New York rather
than to the West to make their fortunes.

The first year of my business life was spent as a clerk in the National
City Bank of New York. This seemed very dull for many of my class-
mates, who had started work two years earlier, were already amassing
fortunes from the stock market. However, in the autumn of 1929 I
joined my grand father’s firm of Robert Winthrop & Company, private
bankers and members of the New York Stock Exchange. I thought that
the great opportunity had arrived, but within a month of my joining the
firm, the market crashed and one of the greatest depressions of all time
was under way. Little did we then realize the repercussions that were
to follow.

The next three years were years of liquidation, and were grim years
in Wall Street. Then came recovery and at the same time the election of
Franklin D. Roosevelt as President of the United States. The New
Deal legislation that followed, much of it aimed at J. P. Morgan &
Company, cut private bankers down to size, The result was that our
firm gave up its private banking and also its investment banking busi-
ness, but retained a seat on the New York Stock Exchange. Its business
then became primarily that of brokers and advisers on investment prob-
lems. The pace of business had materially slowed down, and with the
impact of the very high graduated income tax, the incentive to branch
out was not great.

Asa result, I have had time for many extra-curricular activities. For
the five years before the war, in addition to many odd charitable jobs, I
was president of the board of the Green Vale School, a private school on
Long Island with an enrollment of about 300 children. Since the war,
I have been president of the board of the Nassau Hospital, a voluntary
hospital of 275 beds at Mineola, New York. This has been a very satis-
fying, although time-consuming, charitable job.

My extra-curricular activities have not been all altruistic, for I have

[ 897 ]

Flarvard Class of 1926

had time to indulge in my hobbies of shooting, fishing, and hunting.
Somehow I manage to get enough weeks off each year to do them all.

I have no regrets that things turned out as they did, for I have hada
most satisfying life so far.

AUSTEN WOOD

Home Address: 120 Hollywood Ave., Douglaston, Long Island, N. Y.

Office Address: Smillie & Griffin, Port Authority Bldg., 111 Eighth Ave., New
York, N.Y.

Born: May 25, 1903, Worcester, Mass, Parents: Ernest Henry Wood, ’93,
Adelaide Richards Wyman.

Prepared at: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.; Mesa Ranch School, Mesa,
Ariz.

Years ia Colleges 1922-1925. Degrees: A.B., 1926; S.B. 1n C.E., 1927.

Married: Dorothy Roller, Oct. 5, 1935, New York, N. Y.. Children: Sarah
Wyman, Aug. 13, 1941; William Henry, June 23, 1943.

Harvard Brothers: Cyrus Wyman Wood, ’23; Daniel Wood, ’26 (deceased).

Occupation: Civil engineer in firm of Smillie & Griffin, consulting engineers
on tunnel work.

Wartime Government Posts: Air Raid Warden.

After graduating, I came to New York to enter the engineering busi-
ness. I was intrigued with tunnel work, with its exciting hours under-
ground, with water above you, and only compressed air keeping it out
of the tunnel. After several years of inspection and survey work, I
graduated to the office where I prepared plans and specifications for
future tunnels, and I am now in the consulting business in connection
with tunnel work.

After eight years of blissful bachelorhood, I was trapped by a south-
ern girl (much to my delight). We lived in Greenwich Village for
about five years and then when the children came along moved out to
Long Island where there are trees and grass. As of this date I am
awakened daily at 5.30 a.M. by said children. My wife and I have
made various tours through New England, Canada, and the South.
After the children came, we spent summers and vacations at beaches in
Florida, North Carolina, and Southampton. |

My hobbies consist of tennis doubles and gardening; my chores,
cleaning out the attic and cellar and taking care of the dog and cat. I
am all against the cradle to the grave policy of Roosevelt and Truman

and believe that practically all politicians should be strung up by their
heels.

[ 898 ]

Twenty-fifth Anntversary Report

+ DANIEL WOOD

Born: Sept. 7, 1904, Worcester, Mass. Parents: Ernest Henry Wood, ’93,
Adelaide Richards Wyman.

Prepared at: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass,

Years 18 College: 1922-1927.

Hoareard Brothers: Cyrus Wyman Wood, ’23; Austen Wood, 26.

Died: Sept. 18, 1939, San Francisco, Calif.

Brother: Austen Wood, 120 Hollywood Ave., Douglaston, Long Island, N. Y.

Daniel Wood came to Harvard from the Berkshire School. As an
undergraduate he played on the Class golf team and this interest grew
in later life when he won several club tournaments. He was a member
of the Pi Eta Club. After college he travelled through the West. Then
for several years he worked for L. F. Harris, Inc., Chrysler and Plym-
outh distributors for Worcester County in Massachusetts, In 1937 he
again went west and became associated with the Harbor Plywood Com-
pany of Hoquiam, Washington, a town about forty miles from Seattle.
Wood had a great love of the outdoors, and in addition to golf he en-
joyed hunting and fishing. While he lived in Worcester, he belonged to
the Tatnuck Country Club.

DEAN EARL WOOD

Home Address: 4510 Jefferson St., Kansas City 2, Mo,

Office Address: 1115 Commerce Bldg., Kansas City 6, Mo.

Born: Jan. 3, 1905, Kansas City, Mo. Parents: Earl Henry Wood, Dorothy
Dean Smith.

Prepared at: Westport High School, Kansas City, Mo.

Years tn College: 1922-1926. Degrees: A.B. magna cum laude, 1926; LL.B.,
1930.

Unmarried.

Occupation: Attorney-at-law; associated with firm of Howell, Jacobs & Howell.

Wartime Government Posts: Special trial attorney, O.P.A. Enforcement, District
Office, Kansas City, Mo., spring of 19453 section chief, Air Raid War-
dens, Civilian Defense, in charge of four precincts, 1942.

Offices Held: President, Harvard Club of Kansas City, 1946, Phi Beta Kappa
of Kansas City, 1949—515 chairman, Essay Committee, Sons of the Rev-
olution, Kansas City Chapter, 1950; chairman of Committee to Locate
and Mark the Santa Fe Trail from the Missouri River to Westport as it
was in 1850, in time for the City Centennial Celebration in June, 1950,
American Pioneer Trails Association, Kansas City Chapter, 1950.

Member of : St. Paul’s Episcopal Church, Kansas City, Mo; Harvard Club of
Kansas City; Phi Beta Kappa Association; Kansas City Art Institute;

[ 899 ]

Flarvard Class of 1926

Sons of the Revolution; American Pioneer Trails Association; Kansas
City Figure Skating Club; Kansas City Bar Association; Lawyers’ Asso-

ciation of Kansas City; Missouri Bar Association; Harvard Law School
Association.

Padlications: “The Foreign Policy of the United States,” May, 1941; “The
Highway To Tomorrow,” an analysis of historical trends, February,

1944 (a copy of this pamphlet was requested by and sent to the War De-
partment, May, 1945).

Dunng the summer following graduation I had a vacation with my
mother which included visits to Boston, New York, by sea to New
Orleans, by rail to the Grand Canyon (where I met a professor from
the University of Arizona, and walked down across the Colorado
River and back up again after seeing him do it), by rail to California,
with six weeks on Catalina Island (where I received word that the
College had awarded me an A.B. magna cum laude and a Sheldon
Travelling Fellowship abroad for a year), and other points of interest
in California.

In the fall of 1926 I boarded the Comte Biancomano in New York
harbor bound for Gibraltar. My travels took me to two hundred and
eighty cities and towns in twenty-five countries, in Western and Central
Europe and all around the Mediterranean Sea except that part of
Africa west of Egypt. My field of concentration in college had been
French, German, and Spanish literatures in the original, which in-
volved considerable study of the various countries of Europe (I gradu-
ated first place in Romance literatures), so that this travel was much in
the nature of a field trip. It lasted eleven months; then I returned and
entered Harvard Law School. I collected a great deal of material on
this trip.

After completing the steeplechase through the Law School in 1930,
I entered the law firm of Lathrop, Crane, Reynolds, Sawyer & Mer-
sereau in Kansas City, Missouri, where I was born and grew up. As a
Santa Fe attorney for Missouri and Iowa from 193§ to 1945, I had
wide experience, including an argument before the United States Su-
preme Court in Lowden, et al. vs. Simonds Shields Lonsdale Grain
Company, 306 U.S. 516, in 1939, resulting in the unanimous reversal,
in our favor, of the adverse decision of the lower courts. (My associate
counsel opened and I closed the argument.) This decision meant that
$200,000 in freight charges were due the railroads in the Middle West
by all the grain firms. For the next three years, 1939-41, I travelled
all over the United States and a large part of Southwestern Canada
with a group of railroad attorneys, representing five railroads, in the

[ 900 ]

Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report

preparation of the defense of said companies in a suit for $1,300,000
brought by Sonken-Galamba Corporation in the federal court at Kan-
sas City. We won this case; see Sonken-Galamba Corporation ef al. vs.
the A.T. & S.F. Ry. Company, ef al. 106 Fed.2nd 899, 1942. It
involved the question of whether the scrap rate or steel plate rate applied
to millions of tons of dismantled oil tank plates being shipped to Japan
and to our mills and also used for a myriad of second-hand uses. As a
result of the railroad’s stand that the good plates took the higher rate,
only a few thousand tons went to Japan to be shot back at us a few
years later,

During the summers, while Santa Fe attorney, I used my passes
on the United Fruit Line and connecting railroads, to visit nearly
all the countries south of the Rio Grande as far south as the Panama
Canal.

When I returned to the law office from this Sonken-Galamba case,
I found that my sponsor there had suffered a heart attack and had
retired, and that there were better opportunities elsewhere. Therefore,
in March, 1945, I left, and after a few months as special trial attorney
for the O.P.A. here, my present position was ready for me. While with
the O.P.A., I had a case which the judge decided in favor of the
O.P.A., involving a conflict between the O.P.A. and the F.H.A. over
reducing rents for reduced services on F.H.A. insured properties. This
decision came out at just about the time I came to my present position.
The O.P.A. sent it out to every O.P.A. office in the United States be-
cause the same question was arising elsewhere. The case is Bowles,
O.P.A. administrator vs. Sec-Con Home Builders, et al. 62 Fed. Supp.
654 (U.S.D.C. Kansas, 1945).

Two weeks after taking my present position I was given an insur-
ance assessment suit to handle against 630 policyholders in western
Missouri of an insolvent mutual casualty insurance company. Two
weeks after that, on June 30, 1945, I filed a truck load of petitions,
each of them one and one-quarter inches thick, for each of the 630 de-
fendants in the state court. The petition was sustained against all
attacks. Service was had on 413 policyholders in forty counties. It was
the largest suit ever filed in Missouri in these respects, so far as I know,
and the first filed by truck. The trial of a test case with 117 defendants,
represented by a committee of counsel, resulted in judgment i in favor
of our client in August, 1947. As of the present writing, there remains
one count to try and about forty judgments, As a result of this case, a

dividend of fifteen per cent has been paid, and another five per cent will

[ gor ]

Flarvard Class of 1926

be paid, to Missouri policyholders and other creditors of this company
who otherwise would not have received a penny.

While president of the Harvard Club, I was fortunate in inducing
President Conant to kill two birds with one stone by addressing the
state convention of high school teachers in the afternoon and the Har.
vard Club in the evening. The teachers asked me to codperate with
them in bringing the gentleman here. He gave us a most interesting
evening. Present were U.S, Senator Kem, a member of our Club, and
the presidents of a number of universities in this vicinity, also vice-presi-
dent Akin and Secretary O’Reilly of the Associated Harvard Clubs for
this area. The date was November 8, 1946.

I prepared the first complete roster of the Harvard Club here, gather-
ing together the names of all the past presidents before they were lost;
some were not to be found on Harvard records in the early days.

While president of the Phi Beta Kappa of Kansas City, I have had
one meeting, last December, out at the University of Kansas City. Our
speaker was Dr. Laurence M. Gould, president of Carleton College,
Northfield, Minnesota, who spoke on the history and strategy of the
polar areas. He was second in command of the Byrd Antarctic Expedi-
tion of 1928-30.

Last month the president of the Kansas City chapter of the American
Pioneer Trails Association saw that I had obtained the promises of
fourteen members to pay a certain amount each to buy two dozen signs,
the official Santa Fe Trail Signs of the national association, for the pur-
pose of marking the Santa Fe Trail through the city from the Missouri
River as of 1850, in time for the Centennial Celebration of the City in
June, 1950. He saw that I had interested the city officials in putting up
the signs on the light poles along the route, and had made the arrange-
ments with the manufacturer of the signs to make them reinforced and
weather-proof, So he made me chairman of the committee composed
of those fine members who were putting up the money for the signs.
Then all I had to do was to locate the route of the Santa Fe Trail.

Believe me, it was one job!! I had to examine all the old plates and
books on the history of the city and county, newspaper articles back to
the early days, and maps, in a seemingly inexhaustible search. When I
started out, I had thought that it should not be too difficult to locate the
trail; but everybody had a different theory, the deadline was approach-
ing, and I had to be right, or I would never hear the last of it. There-
fore, I had to find out. I did find out and the signs were put up May
15th and 16th. The morning paper, the Kansas City Times of May 16,

1950, carried an article, on page three, describing the route and the

[ 902 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

signs. [f you want to wrestle with The Angel, you try this sometime; or
you may have had this kind of experience where you are, in effect,
putting your judgment of a matter one hundred years old up for public
trial, The signs have been up more than a month now without ques-
tion, Meanwhile, I have gathered together all the record references
which I have been able to find which support this route, notwithstand-
ing the fact that there is a stone marker put up in a public park by the
City Park Board years ago which is more than six blocks away from
the route marked, Maps show no road there in 1850.

It is a real pleasure to me to read about the doings of my Class of
1926, in the reports that have come out from time to time. I am looking
forward to our Twenty-fifth Reunion.

J. HARRY WOOD

Home Address: 1120 Lakeshore Drive, Chicago, III.

Office Address: Central Life Insurance Co, of Illinois, 211 W. Wacker Drive,
Chicago, I].

Born: Oct. 21, 1904, Gainesville, Ark. Parents: Moses A. Wood, Stella
Winder.

Prepared at: Nlammoth Spring High School, Mammoth Spring, Ark.

Years iw College: 1924-1926. Degrees: A.B. cum laude, 1926; A.M. (Colum-
bia Univ.), 1930.

Married: Catherine Fitzhugh, Nov. 27, 1930, Ridgewood, N. J. Children:
Cynthia F., March 12, 1933; Sarah Elizabeth, Sept. 19, 1937.

Occupation: President, Central Life Insurance Company of I]linois.

Offices Held: Vice-president, John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company,
Boston, Mass., 1936-44; executive vice-president and director, Paul
Revere Life Insurance Company and Massachusetts Protective Associa-
tion, Inc., Worcester, Mass., 1944, 19493 visiting professor of business
management, Washington University, St. Louis, February to June,
1950; president, Central Life Insurance Company of Illinois, since
September, 1950.

Member of: Worcester Club; University Club, Worcester, Mass.; Harvard
Club of New York.

Publications: Articles in business and professional publications.

JOSEPH WHEELER WOODS

Home Address: Pope Road, Concord, Mass.

Office Address: The Powder Horn, 1542 Independence Ct., Concord, Mass.

Born: July 9, 1902, Brookline, Mass. Parents: Joseph Fitz Woods, Harriette
Smith. "

Prepared at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.; Santa Barbara School, Carpin-
teria, Calif.

[ 903 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Years in College: 1922-1924.

Married: Priscilla Pollard, Oct. 12, 1925, Gloucester, Mass. (died 1929);
Elizabeth Barrell, March 28, 1931, Aiken, S. C. (divorced 1941),
Jessie Chace (Hogg), June 15, 1946, Providence, R. I. Children;
Priscilla P., Oct. 22, 1926 (2. Charles W. Pastorfield, Jr., April 24,
1948); Joseph Wheeler, Jr., July 22, 1929 (2. Sally Wood, Sept. 16,
1950); Frances Goodwin, June 3, 19323; James Appleton, March 1,
1934.

Occupation: Owner “The Powder Horn,” a shop specializing in all types of
reproductions of colonial times.

Wartime Government Posts: War Production Board, Washington, D.C.

At the end of our sophomore year I started in business with the Paul
F. Clark Agency of the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Com-
pany in Boston. At the end of eighteen months I accepted a position
with O’Brion Russell & Company, general insurance agents, as man-
ager of their life insurance department and was there for five years. I
became associated with the Boston office of VanderPoel, Pausner &
Webb, a New York insurance brokerage firm and eventually became
vice-president and director of the Boston firm. In 1940 I sold out my
interest and did some promotional work on my own. In November,
1941, I went to Washington with the War Production Board. I was
made chief of appeals of the Copper Conservation Order and later
liaison officer between the Appeals Branch and the Army and Navy
Munitions Board. After two and a half years in Washington, I was of-
fered by Sargent & Company, hardware manufacturers in New Haven,
Connecticut, a position as one of their sales managers. I was there for
almost seven years; couldn’t stand it any longer, so resigned. In Sep-
tember of this year | moved to North Andover, Massachusetts, and in
November finally did something I have always wanted to do; I opened
a small store in Concord, Massachusetts, called “The Powder Horn.”
My wife and IJ are running the business together.

_KENNARD WOODWORTH

Home Address: Strawberry Hill, Charles River, Mass.
Office Address: 24 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

Born: April 5, 1905, Boston, Mass. Parewts: Arthur Vernon Woodworth, ’91,
Margaret Kennard.

Prepared at: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

“Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926. .

Married: Adelaide Rice, Oct. 12, 1934, Milton, Mass. Children: Adelaide,
June 7, 1936; Kennard, Jr., July 9, 1938; Martha, Aug. 27, 1941.

[ 904 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Hareard Brothers: Alfred Skinner Woodworth, ’29, M.B.A., ’31; Arthur Ver-
non Woodworth, 33, M.B.A., 35.

Occupation; Investment counsel, investment trust; vice-president and director,
Eaton & Howard.

Miisery of Naval Recerd: Lieutenant, U.S. Naval Reserve; Naval Aviation
cadet training; recruited in Middle West, schooled in New England,
commissioned at Pensacola, Fla.; after the war, lieutenant commander.

Offices Held: Trustee, Massachusetts Savings Bank; treasurer and director,
1938-50, Lend A Hand Society; president, 1946—48, Boston Security
Analysts Society; president and director, 1947-49, vice-president and
director, 1950, National Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.

Member of ; Harvard Club of New York; The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.

Pudiicatsons: Articles in financial weeklies,

After reading the samples of the class histories that have been sup-
plied with a view to encouraging a prompt and readable report, I am
quite painfully aware that (1) I have little to report; and (2) I have
made little progress in literary skill since English A.

Showing little imagination and small initiative after college, I rode
with the financial tide through a year and a half of the Business School
and into the investment world in a Boston bank. My impatience with
progress in a bank in the halcyon 1929 days led to a very pleasant and
broadening year working for Stanley deJ. Osborne in New York. The
work ran out in 1931 and the lure of the unknown, west of the Hud-
son, proved less inviting than the familiar ways of Boston, so back I
went to a job buying investment securities for an insurance company
where I remained until the spring of 1942. Then the war and the Navy
carried me off. For me, this was a fortuitous circumstance. I learned in
the war years what a dull job I had had when I traded opportunity for
security and, in so doing, achieved neither and enjoyed little satisfac-
tion on the way.

After the war I gave serious thought to shaking myself free from
New England and striking out for Texas or Florida where I was told
the opportunities were greater and where I knew the weather was
better and more favorable to such pleasant outdoor activities as tennis,
golf, and flying. It didn’t take long to learn, since I had been tarred
with the financial brush for twenty years, that any move in the business
world outside the investment field would necessitate financial sacrifices
that I was unwilling to accept and risks that I felt I could not afford. So
back I went to the investment field and Boston. My association in the

last five years with Eaton & Howard, an investment counsel firm that
manages individual accounts, and the growing Eaton & Howard Funds,
has been very pleasant and mildly profitable.

[ 905 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Although not a great joiner, I felt for some time the need for a pro-
fessional trade group in the investment, analytical, and research field,
After the war, I promoted in Boston the Boston Security Analysts So-
ciety and served as its president for the first two years. I also helped to
found and organize the National Federation of Financial Analysts So-
cieties and served as president of that organization. This extra-curricu-
lar activity has been rewarding through the making of many new
friends as well as seeing those responsible for investment decisions
achieve an increased measure of public recognition and confidence.

One of my hobbies, which I cannot afford either in time or in ex-
pense, is travel. During the war I was able to indulge in this luxury toa
limited extent merely by boarding a Navy airplane and exploring dif-
ferent sections of the country, always on official business, of course.
Since the war I have expanded my own limited horizons and have
spent some time in all of the states east of the Rockies. Although my
travelling is not extensive, it has taken me to many cities and through
the countryside. Fortunately, my business requires that I inspect coal
mines in West Virginia, the Masabi Range in Minnesota, cotton-grow-
ing country in Carolina and Mississippi, the oil fields in Scurry County,
as well as the towers of Manhattan. I hope that some day, if I keep
working hard enough at this project, I shall make the Pacific coast.

Two summers ago we went on a vacation to a small town in north-
western Minnesota, called Bimidji, and we had the unique pleasure of
having hotel guests come to us and say, “Well, it is nice to know some-
one from Boston. We have always heard of people from Boston but we
never actually saw one before.” For a few moments we thought we
had made darkest Africa.

For a number of years after the war, my wife and I were enthusiastic
fliers but we finally abandoned this hobby as being impractical in New
England and extremely hard on the pocketbook. The whole family
now plays golf and tennis, probably with more enthusiasm than skill.

Several years ago we acquired a sound-movie projector. We don’t
take any movies but I have learned that there are many films covering
a great variety of subjects, from making steel or plastics to how to play
baseball or how to milk goats. For several years we have had free
movie shows for the family and the neighborhood on Sunday after-
noons and have mixed a little education with sociability, Through the
medium of these films, my children have visited many industries in
many states.

I have been kept busy in the evenings writing business articles or
preparing or giving lectures at the evening sessions of two of the colleges

[ 906 ]

T wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

here in Boston. In some of my free time and a lot that is not free, I have
been getting together with Joe Lund and talking about the Class
Reunions.

With two girls and a boy not yet arrived at the college age, the ques-
tion of what college they should go to has not yet arisen. It seems to
me that thirty years ago I, and all of my friends, went on to Harvard
with no particular reason for going there other than the fact that it was
the place where all Boston boys went and where my father had gone
before me. My strongest criticism of Harvard, at least at that time, was
its provincialism. It, or the undergraduate body that I knew, or perhaps
just I myself, did not appreciate or understand the rest of the country.
That was the day of Babbitt. I am inclined to feel that a boy born and
brought up in Boston should probably go to college in some other sec-
tion of the country. The more I know about other sections, whether it
is the South or the West, the more I realize that people from these areas
have a great deal to contribute socially and economically. Not that they
are necessarily better than New Englanders or have any more, but they
do have different ideas and different points of view, and in order to be a
successful citizen a comprehension of the other fellow’s point of view
is essential.

I never voted for Roosevelt, nor have I ever voted for Daniel. I
have not always voted the straight Republican ticket. I suspect that,
with advancing years, I may become more conservative. I am not very
favorably impressed with the Republican or the Democratic parties. I
should like to see a new party that would be a mixture of the Conserva-
tive South and North and a group that would be literate in the field of
economics. This group would certainly not be recruited in Wall Street
and obviously should not be the reincarnation of Calvin Coolidge.

REDMOND STEPHENS WRIGHT

Home and Office Address: 500 La Loma Rd., Pasadena, Calif.

Born: May 13, 1903, Chicago, Ill. Parents: William Van Doren Wright,
Louisa Stephens.

Prepared at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.; The Hill School, Pottstown,
Pa.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: S.B. cum laude, 1926.

Married: Glee Louise Viles, 1929, Chicago, Ill. Céild: Glee Doren, June 12,
1930.

Occupation: Artist.

Member of: Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club, Chicago; Jeu de Paume, Paris,
France; Princes Club, London, England; University Club, New York

[ 907 ]

Flarvard Class of 1926

City; Midwick Country Club, Pasadena, Calif.; Annandale Golf Club,
Pasadena, Calif.

After graduating, I studied at the Art Institute of Chicago for one
year, then went abroad where I studied and travelled for eight years,
through France, Italy, Switzerland, Holland, England, etc. In 1929
I returned to Chicago to be married and then returned to France
where I remained until 1934. I had one-man shows of etchings in Paris
and won the Gold Medal at the 1937 International Exhibition in
Paris. I returned to New York for the summer of 1934 on Long Island
and that winter in New York as base, I travelled to one-man shows in
Philadelphia, Providence, Chicago, Denver, Omaha, Cincinnati, St.
Louis, Cleveland, Boston, New York, Seattle, Portland, etc. In 19361
arrived in Pasadena and have resided here since then. I have done a
lot of travelling since my arrival in California, doing portrait painting
from Los Angeles to New York and Texas to Seattle, having com-
pleted over one hundred in some twenty cities.

Our daughter, Glee, having finished her education at Bennett at
Millbrook, took a grand tour of Europe last year and is now busy Junior
Leaguing. Since our marriage, my wife, Glee, has been very active in
civil and volunteer hospital work. Our life still includes plenty of golf,
tennis, fishing, hunting, etc.

ANDREWS WYMAN

Home Address: Bulrush Farm, North Scituate, Mass.

Office Address: Dewick & Flanders, Inc., 148 State St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Oct. 3, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Bruce Wyman, ’96, Mary
Ethel Andrews.

Prepared at: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.; Allen-Chalmers Military
Academy, Newton, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Elizabeth Stone Walker, Aug. 28, 1929, Stamford, Conn. Children:
Nancy E., May 13, 1930 (mm. Richard W. Crafts, June 18, 1950);
Bruce T., Feb. 11, 19333 Margaret Andrews, Jan. 3, 1941.

Occupation: Director and member, Dewick & Flanders, Inc., general insurance
agency,

Military or Naval Record: U.S. Coast Guard, served in Port Security Detail,
Feb. 22, 1942, to end of World War II; lieutenant, U.S. Coast Guard
Reserve (T). ;

Offices Held: Director, South Shore Hospital, Weymouth, Mass., since 19493

chairman, Parish Committee, First Parish Church (Unitarian), since
1949

Member of : Satuit Boat Club, Inc.; Scituate Dramateurs, Inc.

[ 908 ]

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

To value the past twenty-five years objectively, and then to put it
into writing, presents a task. Depending on the point of view, the sub-
ject matter can be made glamourous or prosaic, True, the Class Report
Committee tries to lay out tempting “bait” on such subjects as “your
career history, your family, your travels, hobbies, and your social, politi-
cal or religious convictions.”

There are only two people definitely interested in the fact that I have
had an excellent and varied career, always in the field of general insur-
ance; one person is the crafty competitor and the other is the satisfied
consumer. Statistical information above shows that my partnership in a
progressive general insurance agency has been the reward.

My pleasure and happiness with my family are of concern only to
my friends, To my acquaintances and the general run of my classmates,
they are again only statistics.

My travels and hobbies strike a wider note but one much more im-
personal. Those who have shared journeying through this country, and
foreign ones, can say, in an offhand manner, “Qh, yes, I, too, have
been to the Middle West, Florida, the Gaspé, Africa, the Mediterra-
nean, the Continent, England, and Scotland, etc.” Or, to turn to hob-
bies, they say, ‘Oh, yes, I, too, am interested in amateur dramatics,
sports, and coastwise cruising.” But unless we got together to make
such places and things come alive by “swapping yarns,” they too re-
main just words and places and things to do.

As for “social, political or religious convictions,” there again the
answers in words alone are of no particular meaning. Only by ex-
change of ideas, by the proper shading of words too commonly misunder-
stood, by the “‘warp and woof” of discussion, can such things be prop-
erly defined.

And so it is that the task cannot be done! My friends know the an-
swer, though with some of them my meetings are infrequent. The bal-
ance of my classmates have only the cold facts and figures and no
monologue of mine could ever make these come alive.

”

GEORGE MARTIN YAGHJIAN

Home Address: 1§9 Pine Ridge Rd., West Medford 55, Mass.

Born: Aug. 21, 1903, Malden, Mass. Parents: Sarkis Garabed Yaghjian, Anna
Manookian (also Sarkisian).

Prepared at: Malden High School, Malden, Mass,

Years #2 College: 1922-1925. Degrees: S.B., 1926 (25); LL.B., 1930 (31).

Married: Martha Boyajian, Aug. 22, 1943, Somerville, Mass.

Occupation: Lawyer.

[ 909 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

Wartime Government Posts: O.P.A, enforcement and price attorney,

Member of: Appalachian Mountain Club; American, Boston, Federal, and
Middlesex Bar Associations.

JOHN ELIOT YERXA

Home Address: 81 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.
Office Address: City Hall, Boston, Mass.

Born: April 23, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parents: Herbert E. Yerxa, Ethel B,
Remick.

Prepared at: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

Years in College: 1922-1926. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Married: Constance E. Gilpin, Nov. 28, 1928, Boston, Mass. (divorced
1949); Marjorie S. Carpenter, Feb. 8, 1950, Boston, Mass. Child:
Constance Elizabeth, Oct. 12, 1929 (a. Jay B. Mullen, Jr., Nov. 18,
1949).

Occupation: Municipal government service; Boston City Councillor — and
term.

Military or Naval Record: Wor\d War II: lieutenant colonel, Army Air Forces,
Air Transport Command, G-4 Azores Base Command.

Offices Held: President, Boston Stock Exchange, 1940-41; member, Repub-
lican Club, Ward Five Committee, 1940-42, since 1948; director,
Aeronautic Association of Boston, 1947-48, Robert Breck Brigham
Hospital, since 19483 division chairman, Red Cross, Boston, 1948.

Member of : Boston Chamber of Commerce (Aviation Committee) ; Crosscup-
Pishon Post #281 — American Legion; Wings Club of New York;
Tennis and Racquet Club; The Country Club, Brookline.

Immediately after graduation I proceeded to Denver to work for
the Moffet Tunnel Commission as a draftsman. The life was exciting
and my ambition then was to be a civil engineer. However, illness in the
family forced my return to Boston at the end of three months. My next
adventures were a year at Harvard Law School and becoming engaged.
The engagement led to marriage and the necessity to work. So I started
in the brokerage business with Kidder Peabody & Company. During
the “Golden Era” and afterwards I worked for various brokerage
firms, and in 1936 became a member of the Boston Stock Exchange.
This time I was in business for myself. Raising a daughter, sailing, and
skiing occupied my spare time.

In 1940 I was elected president of the Boston Stock Exchange. Dur-
ing the next two years I spent a great deal of time in Washington, where
I met many of the men who are now forming our government policies.
Then the war. With no previous experience in the Army except two
years in R.O.T.C., I found myself as a first lieutenant in Presque

[ 910 J

Twenty- fifth Anniversary Report

Isle, Maine. This was the headquarters for the North Atlantic Wing of
the old Ferry Command, which subsequently became the Air Trans-
port Command. My duty from that time until February, 1944, was
that of supply officer for the Command. From Presque Isle I was trans-
ferred to the Azores and was the G-4 for the Azores Base Command.
After thirteen months there, I finally found a regulation that would
sever me from active duty.

Upon my return to Boston in the spring of 1945 I joined Pan Amer-
ican World Airways as their regional manager for New England.
Once again a civilian. In the fall of 1947 I was elected a Boston City
Councillor and re-elected in 1949. It is fun to be one of two Republi-
cans among the twenty Democrats. When in 1949 Pan American
asked me to go to the Far East as their representative, I declined, since
my obligations were in Boston. The last twenty-five years have passed
rapidly; and to make a short story shorter, I am now happily remarried
and am looking forward to the next twenty-five years.

CHARLES RAYMOND YOKEN

Home Address: 403 Valentine St., Fall River, Mass.

Office Address: National Finance Co., Room 202, Granite Block, Fall River,
Mass.

Born: July 15, 1905, Fall River, Mass, Parents: Abraham Yoken, Lillian
Chavenson.

Prepared at: B.M.C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass,

Years in College: 1922-1923.

Married: Sylvia C. Marcus, Feb. 26, 1939, Brookline, Mass, Children: Phyllis

Elaine, April 22, 1941; Robert Alan, Aug. 6, 1946.
Occupation: President and treasurer, National Finance Company.
Member of: Temple Beth-El and its Men’s Club; Zionist Organization of

America.

You will note that my life to this point has lacked the society “touch.”
Despite the fact that I naturally like people, it has been unavoidable
and in a way deliberate. During the last ten or twelve years I made up
my mind that I would devote any spare time after business exclusively
to my family, and really be a companion to my wife and children. Soci-
eties and clubs do take up so much of one’s time, as you perhaps know.

It has been very hard work to build up my business to its present
rather substantial size. I personally manage the business with the assist-
ance of three efficient bookkeepers and two outside men. The most im-
portant thing one must have to operate a finance company with good
volume is the ability to borrow from banks in a substantial manner, be-

[ 911 ]

Harvard Class of 1926

cause our commodity is money; and because of the small turnover per
year, one must have excellent banking connections in order to be suc-
cessful. | _

Since 1948, when I took my family to Florida for a seven weeks’
vacation, I had planned to go there for an extended stay every year.
However, because of business pressure I have been unable to get away
since, although I make it a point to see a number of Red Sox and Braves
games, boxing matches, and hockey games in Boston, which is only
fifty miles away. I also play golf at least two afternoons a week, a game
I enjoy very much.

I am a member of Temple Beth-E] in Fall River. Even though I
would class myself as not being a fanatic on religion, I follow the
“golden rule’”’ very conscientiously.

In a word, I think I should consider myself a very lucky fellow to be
the owner of a very successful business, the father of two lovely chil-
dren (and good looking like their mama) and the husband of the
sweetest woman on earth.

+ SAMUEL ISIDORE ZISELMAN

Born: Aug. 25, 1903, Boston, Mass. Parents: Max Ziselman, Bertha Ratzkoff.
Prepared at: English High School, Boston, Mass.

Years it College: 1922-1925. Degree: A.B., 1926.

Died: Oct. 25,1948, New Rochelle, N. Y.

After graduating from Harvard, Samuel Isidore Ziselman was en-
gaged in manufacturing in Jackson Heights, New York. He then en-
tered the mercantile field in New Rochelle, and at the time of our
Fifteenth Anniversary Report he was secretary-treasurer of the Indi-
vidual Laundry Service Corporation.

[ 912 ]

IN MEMORIAM
Se

* Indicates men who have died since the last Report.

David Waller Bakeless, died Nov. 20, 1927, at Reading, Pa.
Robert Blaney, died Aug. 18, 1926, near Folkestone, England.
John DeWeese Blosser, died March 21, 1935, at Chillicothe, Ohio.
Leslie Englund Brevard, died Jan. 6, 1927, at Cambridge, Mass.
*David Whitehead Brooks, died May 28, 1947, at New York, N. Y.
Reginald Langhorne Brooks, died Oct. 30, 1944, at Miami Shores,
Fila.
*Victor Henry Brown, died Feb. 6, 1951, at Reno, Nev.
Carl Lawrence Carlson, died April 13, 1941, at Boston, Mass.
*Alexandre Pierre E. Chalufour, died July 8, 1948, at New York,
N.Y.
Whitney Cromwell, died Jan. 3, 1930, at Tunis, Africa.
John Francis Adams Davis, died March 13, 1929, at Salem, Mass.
Edward Hooker Dewey, died Jan. 1, 1945, at Boston, Mass.
William Butler Duncan, died April 11, 1944, at Jefferson City, Mo.
Walter FitzGerald, died Jan. 25, 1933, at New York, N. Y.
John Rison Fordyce, Jr., killed in an airplane accident May 23, 1943,
in North Africa.
*Bernard Jasper Gardener, died Jan. 25, 19§1, at Commack, Long
Island, N. Y.
Floyd Tomkins Gibson, died Aug. 7, 1932, at Philadelphia, Pa.
Bernard Anthony Gilfoy, died Oct. 11, 1923, at Cambridge, Mass.
*Gordon Cecil Hartley, died March 27, 1949, at Salerno, Italy.
Carl Rumsey Heussy, died April 6, 1943, at Port Angeles, Wash.
Charles Atwood Hicks, died Nov. 19, 1932, at North Chatham,
N.Y.
William James Isber, died Feb. 18, 1942, at Boston, Mass.
John Scott Keech, died Dec. 14, 1945, at Cedarhurst, Long Island,
N.Y.
Israel Klein, died Jan. 26, 1942, at New York, N. Y.
David Henry Leavitt, died Oct. 17, 1929, at Cambridge, Mass.
Eliot Stuart Enneking Long, died Oct. 22, 1933, at Princeton, N. J.
*Putnam McDowell, died May 27, 1950, at Chatham, Mass.
Walter Clifford McFerran, died July 26, 1930, at Louisville, Ky.

[ 913 ]

