*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

IARVARD CLASS
OF 1 927
venty-fifth Anniversary Report

 

CAMBRIDGE
Printed for the Class

1952

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1927
Records of the Class

+ JAMES PERCIVAL ABBOTT

BORN: May 3, 1905, Medford, Mass. PARENTS: Prentice Wheelock Abbott,
~ Melanie Alberta Whitehouse.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924.

piep: July 30, 1924, Eaton Center, N. H.

JAMES PERCIVAL ABBOTT died suddenly at Camp Wona-
lancet, Eaton Center, New Hampshire, in the summer following
his freshman year at Harvard. He prepared for college at Med-
ford High School and his home was in Medford.

EDWARD WILLIAM ABEND

HOME ADDRESS: 1816 Oakley St., Topeka, Kans.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Southwestern Bell Telephone Co., 823 Quincy St., Topeka,

Kans.
BORN: Nov. 20, 1905, Belleville, Il]. parents: Edward Abend, Margaret

E. Wess.
PREPARED AT: Belleville Township High School, Belleville, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cu laude, 1927.
MARRIED: Theo L. Johnston, Oct. 24, 1931, Fort Smith, Ark. CHILD:

Marilyn, April 6, 1935.
OCCUPATION: Traffic engineer for Kansas area, Southwestern Bell Telephone
Company.
MEMBER OF: Topeka Country Club,
I HAVE had a happy life. There have been times, particularly
under the pressure of taxes and government-inspired inflation
when I could have wished for a larger share of the world’s goods,
but upon reflection I cannot escape the final conclusion that I

[1]

|
|
|
Lid EAN Bee oe nn total neeeninetianes tt eh NESS i 2s ace emonsaanntr ee bs Al

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

have had more than my share of the things and experiences that
make life rich and full. 1 have been more than reasonably success-
ful in the business I entered following graduation and with which
I am still associated; I married the girl of my choice and I still
have her; we have one daughter, now sixteen and a constant
source of wonder, worry, and joy; the years have produced good
health, just a few gray hairs and not too many excess pounds.
Added up these do not produce a life of glamour and high
adventure, but I am not that type, and I am content.

Chronologically my life has been as follows:

I went to work August 1, 1927, with the traffic department of
the Southwestern Bell Telephone Company in St. Louis. In 1929
T was sent to Fort Smith, Arkansas, and, after two years there, I
returned to St, Louis with a little experience in the business, but
most important with a fiancee! We were married in October,
1931, in the face of the depression and all its uncertainties, and four
years later our daughter was born. We weathered the depression
and for twenty years I held various positions with my company
in St, Louis, and in May, 1951, was offered the position of traffic
engineer for the Kansas area of the company with headquarters
in Topeka. While this meant tearing up roots that had gone
pretty deep in twenty years, it was an opportunity that I could
not afford to turn down, With my family firmly behind me, we
left St, Louis only with regrets for friends left, We are delighted
with our new home and adopted city.

During the war I was classified as being in an essential occupa-
tion, and my contribution to the war effort consisted of using
my know ledge and experience in working with the armed services
on communications problems in the St. ‘Louis area.

In religion I have always been a Presbyterian, and in politics a
Republican, except for one serious mistake in 1932, when a com-
bination of poor judgment and a misconception that a Harvard
man must be the better choice, I cast a vote which I still regret.

My Harvard years are fast becoming a distant memory. I have
not returned to Cambridge since graduation and I do not intend

to be present for the Reunion. This I regret, particularly not
seeing the good friends from whom I have been separated too

long by distance, and partially from curiosity to see what time has
done to others, and to Harvard.

[2]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MAURICE IRVING ABRAMS

HOME AppRESS: 20 Clinton Rd., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 520 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 18, 1906, Hull, Mass. parents: Harris Abrams, Rebecca
Kodesch.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927(26);
M.D., 1930.

MarRiED: Shirley B. Zolloto, Oct. 15, 1929, Boston, Mass. cnitpren;
Marjorie Ann, Jan. 15, 1936; Linda Ellen, March 24, 1939; Barbara Joan,
March 2, 1945.

"18, LL.B., ’27.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Samuel Abrams, °23, LL.B. ’26; Joseph Bertram Abrams,

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor of medicine, Tufts Medical School;
associate visiting physician, chief of Arthritis Clinic, Beth Israel Hospital;
vice-president, Brookline Zionist District, 1939-45.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa, Phi Delta Epsilon, Massachusetts Medical
Society; American Medical Society; New England Rheumatism Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Several brief articles in various medical journals.

FROM the day that I matriculated at Harvard Medical to the
present writing, my life has been occupied in great measure with
the problems incident to the profession of medicine. They have
been mostly happy days, albeit no one studying anatomy or the
peculiar ways of helminths is ever really and truly contented with
his lot at the time; yet in retrospect even those days at Medical
School were not devoid of humor or of a full share of living.
The many trials of an active practitioner during the past eighteen
years have been most adequately repaid by the appreciation,
goodness and affection that I have constantly encountered. The
optimist concerning the true nature of man finds me in his camp,
and the many ills that man is heir to have found him possessed of
the humor and wisdom necessary to overcome them. My teaching
at Harvard Medical and Tufts Medical has been almost always
stimulating and pleasurable; and my inability in recent years to
devote more time to this activity has bothered me not a little, for
I believe firmly that devotion to the basic aspects of medicine is
of first importance. Specific exciting experiences through the
years do not come easily to mind, quite possibly because they are
SO ever-present in the routine of a physician’s life.

[3]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

My deepest happiness in these years has been found in the
companionship of my w ife, who has been ever faithful and
ever understanding, Without her comforting support many a day
would be very wearisome and many a load too heavy to bear.
About my three daughters I shall say no more than “Thank God,”
for if I were to express my feelings I would indeed be guilty of
hyperbolic verbosity.

GARRET G. ACKERSON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 3505 Fulton St, N. W., Washington 7, D. C.
OFFICE ADDRESS: American Embassy, Warsaw, Poland.

BORN: May 13, 1904, Hackensack, N. J. parents: Garret G. Ackerson,
Anna V. Beck.

PREPARED AT: Kelvin School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Rhodita Edwards, July 28, 1928, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Garret G., 3d, Dec. 16, 1929; Edmund Edwards, June 10, 1933; Rhoda
Lydia Anne, July 27, 1937; Edith Janet, Dec. 27, 1941 (died Dec. 27,
1941 ).

occu tnon: United States Foreign Service.

May 17, 1928 — Entered Foreign Service.

1928 — Vice-Consul, Cape Town, South Africa.

1930 — Secretary of Legation, Pretoria.

1931 — Secretary of Embassy, Lima, Peru.

1933 — Vice-Consul, Copenhagen, Denmark.

1935 — Secretary of Legation, Budapest, Hungary.

1941 — Secretary of Embassy, Bogota, Colombia.

1942 — Secretary of Embassy, Habana, Cuba.

1945 — Counselor of Embassy, Copenhagen, Denmark.

1947 — Chief of Foreign Service Personnel, Department of State,

Washington, D. C.
1949 — National War College, Washington, D. C.
1950 — Counselor of Embassy, Warsaw, Poland.

JOSEPH EARL ADAMS

HOME AppRESS: 738 River Rd., Teaneck, N. J.

OFFICE AppREss: American Telephone & Telegraph Co., 100 William St., New
York 38, N. Y.

BoRN: July 2, 1905, Wickford, R. I. parents: George Allen Adams, Florence
Bucklin Brown.

[4]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: North Kingstown High School, Wickford, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B. IN E.E., 1927.

MaRRigD: Freda Elizabeth Steele, April 11, 1936, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Joseph Warren, Feb. 6, 1937; Marsha Anne, June 27, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Cost engineer, New York Engineering Division, Long Lines
Department, American Telephone and Telegraph Company.

MEMBER oF: American Institute of Electrical Engineers, Harvard Engineer-
ing Society; Emerson Civic Society, Teaneck.

AFTER graduation from Harvard in June, 1927, I entered the
employ of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company,
Long Lines Department, and I have been with that company
continuously since that time. Upon completion of a preliminary
training course, I was assigned to the plant engineering group in
the district office in Boston. For about six years I handled plant
maintenance work and, during this same period, I conducted
training courses in communication engineering for new plant
employees. In October, 1933, I was transferred to the Division
Plant Engineer’s office in New York City to work in a group
handling inter-telephone company arrangements for the New
England-New York area. From 1939 to 1943 I was engaged in
preparing engineering specifications for the installation of tele-
phone equipment. From this assignment I was placed in charge
of the group I was assigned to previously. In 1946 this group was
expanded to include equipment inventory and cost analysis
work. As inventory and cost engineer, I was responsible for the
work of the group. Because of a reorganization in 1951 my group
was absorbed by the Engineering Department. My present duties
are about the same as before but with a title change to cost
engineer.

During the past twenty-five years it seems that, on account of
my job and family, I have had little time for other than minor
outside activities. These have been confined to participation
in Jocal affairs— Cub Scout committees, War Bond and local
charity drives, Air Raid Warden, and Auxiliary Police duties. As
to hobbies, coin and stamp collecting with my fifteen-year-old
son provides pleasant and relaxing evenings. I also try to make
the repairs in the house. This might be considered a hobby,
but in these times of high prices and Truman taxes, it really be-
comes a necessity.

[5]

sie RS ill

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

AFTER graduation I entered Yale Law School (which was quite
a come-down). During my first year there — just before mid-
year exams — my father died and it became imperative that
either my brother or I take over the management of the family
business. Since my brother was attending Brown University, we
tossed a coin to determine which of us was to leave school. I
won (or lost, depending upon the point of view) and have been
running the family shoe store ever since. (P.S. My brother
joined me after a couple of years at Brown and Yale Graduate
School.)

This uneventful occupation of mine was broken by only two
years, two months, and twenty-six days spent at Cape Cod (Camp
Edwards) in the Army. In 1943 I married Minnie Weisman of
Waterbury, and we have a very nice daughter who is all of seven
years old. Our small but happy family unit lives in Wallingford,
where we hope to remain for a long, long time.

ERMENEGILDO ALFANO

HOME ADDRESS: 32 Edward Ave., Milton, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Canning Corp., 17 Abattoir Ave., Brighton,

Mass.

BORN: May 5, 1907, Boston, Mass. ParENTs: Louis Alfano, Euridice
Zordan.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; M.B.A. 1929.

MaRRIED: Helen Frances D’Antuono, July 5, 1931, Dorchester, Mass.
CHILDREN: Gildo, Aug. 23, 1933; Judith Ann, Oct. 29, 1936; David,
Feb. 22, 1943.

occuPaTION: President, Massachusetts Canning Corporation, manufacturers
of canned pet foods.

OFFICES HELD: Member Advisory Board, Milton Youth Club.

MEMBER OF: Elks.

I GRADUATED from Harvard Business School in 1929 and
went with the Gilchrist Company in Boston, where I remained
for eighteen years running the gamut from salesman to divisional
merchandise manager. In 1947 I decided to go into business for
myself and thereupon organized the Massachusetts Canning Cor-
poration which manufactures and distributes pet foods. I still
enjoy an active interest in baseball, playing every Sunday morning
from early spring till Jate fall with the “Old Timers Club” at

[8]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Cunningham Park in Milton, During the winter months I take
my exercise in the form of bowling.

+ HAMILTON FORD ALLEN, JR.

BORN: Sept. 9, 1905, Swampscott, Mass. PARENTS: Hamilton Ford Allen, Grace
Dorothy Constantine.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; A.M., ED.M. (Univ. of New
Hampshire).

MARRIED: Helen R. Babson, 1932, Boston, Mass. cuitp: Hamilton Ford, 3d,
July 22, 1937.

pigD: Oct. 22, 1949, Boston, Mass.

FOLLOWING graduation Hamilton Ford Allen, Jr., studied for
two years at the School of Architecture at Harvard and was
engaged in architectural work from 1930 to 1934. Then he
taught for three years in West Boylston, Massachusetts, and two
years in Orange, Massachusetts. During 1939-40 he studied at the
University of New Hampshire, where he received an A.M. in
history and an Ed.M. Thereafter, he taught civics in the Dedham,
Massachusetts, High School, and was in charge of tennis, debat-
ing, and fencing in the local social service center.

JOSEPH ALLEN
(Generally known as Jay Allen)

HOME AppRESS: Saffer Ct. 2, Urbana, III.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 220 Smith Music Hall, University of [linois, Urbana, Ill. -

BORN: May 18, 1905, Waltham, Mass. parents: Joseph Allen ‘92, Annie
Ware Winsor.

PREPARED AT: Roger Ascham School, Scarsdale, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; A.M., 1929; Solfége Dipl.
(Longy School of Music), 1928; B.L.s. (Columbia Univ.), 1939.

MaRRIED: Lucile Esther Wright, Sept. 10, 1930, Newton Center, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Assistant professor of library science, music librarian and
choral conductor, University of Illinois.

OFFICES HELD: Member Executive Board, 1936-47; chairman, Classification
Committee, since 1947, nominee for president for 1951-53, Music
Library Association; president, University of Illinois Library Club,
1946-47; conductor of these choruses: Gilbert & Sullivan Society,
White Plains, N. Y., 1932-36, 1938-39; . Methodist Episcopal Choir,
North White Plains, 1934; White Plains Y. Af. C. A. Glee Club, 1934-
36; Tarrytown Unit of Westchester County, N. Y., Festival, 1935-36;

[9]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Peers & Peris (Gilbert & Sullivan club) at Queens College, Flushing,
N. Y., 1940-42; at the University of Illinois: A Cappella Choir, 1946-48;
spring Gilbert & Sullivan productions, 1943-48; Choristers, 1948-49;
University Chorus, 1950-51; member executive committee 1940-41,

and since 1951, editorial board, since 1940, Steamship Historical Society
of America.

MEMBER OF: Music Library Association, American Guild of Organists
(Colleague as choir director); National Association for American Com-
posers and Conductors; Librarians Association, Library Club, University
of Illinois; Steamship Historical Society of America (charter member) ;
Urbana Exchange Club; American Bowling Congress (University of ~
Illinois Faculty Bowling League).

pusLications: “The Steamer J. T. Morse; Her History and Adventures,”
Old-Time New England, January and April, 1937, and reprinted as a
separate, and in Courier-Gazette of Rockland, Maine, 1951, with
additions; “Illini Opera,” Opera News, Nov. 18, 1946; “The Music
Library at the University of Illinois,” Music Library Association’s Notes,
Supplement, March, 1949.

BEAUTIFUL living and its manifestation in beautiful choral
music seem to have been the two “leading motives” in the
“sonata of my life” during the past 25 years. The principal
development of the first motive, to continue in musical parlance,
came in 1930 when the occasion of my marriage enhanced it with
a perfect bit of counterpoint. And the principal development of
the second came in 1933 when I made my public debut as a choral
conductor in the Westchester (N. Y.) County Center, after
fifteen years’ experience as a choral singer.

The librarian in me balks at repeating here a circumstantial
account of my life since graduation, in as much as that can be
found in the preceding class reports and in such “Who’s Whoses”
as Who is Who in Music (1951), Who’s Who in Chicago and
Illinois (1950), and Who Knows —and What? (1949). So I
shall here hit only what are to me the significant highlights
among the categories suggested in the Class questionnaire.

My purpose in taking postgraduate work in music at Harvard
was to prepare myself for teaching music, presumably at the
secondary school level, for 1 was not interested in the pre-high
school problem, and I received no great encouragement to con-
sider college teaching, even though college choral work had been
my idea of a perfect occupation ever since I first heard The

Glee Club singing under “Doc” in Aeolian Hall, New York, on

[10]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

December 12, 1920. (I just dug that program out of my files
in order to furnish its date, and I note with interest that it was
then that I first heard four of the Brahms Liebeslieder, one of
which I later chose to conduct in my choral conducting exam for
“Woody” twelve years later!) I received my Master’s degree
in the fateful year of 1929 and spent the next ten years “finding
myself,” as I should say now. To me then I was merely trying to
find a permanent job, but I did gain “experience” in two full-
year jobs in schools and considerable substitute teaching in music.
The continuous thread running through this period, however, was
my choral conducting which started in the fall of 1932 when I
was conductor of the Gilbert & Sullivan Society of White Plains,
New York. This period also brought me experience with a
Y. M. C. A, Glee Club, a choir, and a community chorus, as
outlined above under “offices held.” .

My wife was the bread-winner for part of this period — in
fact she was always able to find a job. She was a librarian! So in
the fall of 1936 I entered the School of Library Service at
Columbia University, New York. It was in the middle of my
library studies that I taught school music for a year, but at the
- end of the year the school decided to reduce the music in an
effort to make ends meet, so I returned to Columbia. I worked in
the Music Library there under Richard Angell (Harvard ’32,
A.M. ’33) while completing my studies, so that I was qualified
to accept the post of music and serials library assistant at Queens
College, Flushing, New York, in February, 1940. I had continued
my conducting while at Library School; I picked it up again at
Queens College in the fall of 1940, with Gilbert & Sullivan and
with taking a rehearsal of the chorus now and then.

Three years later came an unsolicited offer from the University
of Illinois to become music librarian there, At first I refused, but
when part-time duties as choral conductor in the School of Music
were added to a slight rise in the salary offered, I could no longer
resist. As the first music librarian here at Illinois, I have had the
advantage and pleasure of being in charge of setting up the
library in the music building — Smith Music Hall. I am in charge
of the choral and orchestral performance collections and of the
phonograph disks, as well as the usual scores and books about
music. The collection is not large (42,000 volumes, plus per-

[11]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

spectacular. My work on the classification committee of the
MLA has been most interesting, including our codperation (in-
volving a trip to Washington) with the Dewey Decimal Classifica-
tion in the revision of the music schedule (780’s) for the Fifteenth
Edition, off the press in early 1951. My latest opus in this line
will have appeared in the December, 1951, Supplement to Notes
—a proposed combining of the Vassar-Columbia classification
for music scores with Dewey’s in an effort to get a more logical
schedule for music scores suitable for medium- and small-sized
collections. By the time you read this I either shall or shall not
have been elected president of MLA, for which I was nominated
last October.

Hobbies? I am continuing as an associate editor of Steamboat
Bill of Facts, which I founded in r940. The journal was taken
over in 1943 by the Steamship Historical Society of America as
their official organ. They have recently incorporated and have
affiliated with the Mystic (Connecticut) Marine Museum. I am
on the board of SSHSA and attend national and regional meetings
as time and the budget allow. Perhaps this should have been
mentioned with “travel” above, since travel is involved not only
in getting to the meetings, but in riding boats (not always steam,
as not many steamboats are left to ride on) after we get to the
meetings.

My hobby of bird-songs I indulge in a little in the springtime.
I miss the northern woods songsters in the summer, save for the
few days I can sometimes get to Maine during the song season.
Also, of course, there is not much small boat sailing or cruising
around here. Our vacation is only one month, during which the
lure of seeing old friends seems to be stronger than the yen to
settle down in any one place for a bit of boating and sun-tanning.

Convictions? I’ve never been convicted in a court of Jaw, but
I’m convinced a university needs an eight-day week. This would
give six full days for two full alternate-day sequences of classes,
rehearsals, and the like. There would then be two free days for
both students and faculty. I would use one for my own personal
hobbies and pursuits, including just resting, and the other for
church and other extra-curricular “good causes.” This brings
us to the matter of “beautiful living” again, The impact of the
contrast between the ruthlessness of many of man’s ways of life

[14]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

— climaxed by killing wars, of course — and my idea of beautiful
living led me to become a “convinced” Friend (Quaker) during
our stay in New York City.

With this return of the “principal motive” in accordance with
the dictates of true sonata form, I bring my recital to a close.
May we find at our Fiftieth Reunion that more and more men
and women the world over have learned and “developed” in
their own ways this theme of “beautiful living.”

BENEDICT SOLOMON ALPER

HOME ADDRESS: 10 Henderson Pl., New York 28, N. Y.

BORN: June 28, 1905, Revere, Mass. PARENTS: Morris Alper, Frederica Klatsch-
ken,

PREPARED AT: Candler College, Havana, Cuba; Public Latin School, Boston,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MaRRIED: Ethel Machanic, June 14, 1935, Boston, Mass. cuitp: Fredrika
Clara, July 4, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Abraham Theodore Alper, ’22, L1.B. ’26.

OCCUPATION: Research criminologist; writer and editor.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Major, CMP, 39 months, 27 of them overseas:
North Africa, Italy, Venezia Giulia, director of prisons, Trieste, chief,
Italian Prisoner of War Repatriation Section, Rome; chief, Italian Refu-
gee Section, Naples.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Special assistant to director, Federal Bureau of
Prisons, 1946; research and technical assistant to director, Federal Bureau
of Prisons, 1942-43.

MEMBER OF: Several professional organizations.

PuBLications: Helping Children out of Trouble (to be published, 1952);
Young People in the Courts of New York State, 1942; Criminal Youth
and the Borstal System (with Dr. William Healy), 1941; Juvenile De-
linquency in Massachusetts (with Herbert C. Parsons), 1939; frequent
contributions to professional journals,

FOR the first five years after graduation I was in business —

bonds, advertising, direct selling, merchandising, and export, here

and in Europe — but by 1932 I had discovered it was not for me.

Also, there was a depression on. I returned, on the advice of my

old tutor Sheldon Glueck—by now a professor at the Law

School — to do graduate work in 1932-33. I found that the idea

of a “gentleman’s grade” had evaporated with the depression,

and that graduate work was very satisfying. Thereafter I did

field work in the Massachusetts State Prison, Boston Juvenile

[315]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Court, for the Glueck studies and for the Departments of Welfare
in Massachusetts and Pennsylvania. For the next five years, 1935
to 1939, I served as research director for the Massachusetts Child
Council under Herbert C. Parsons whom Harvard honored with
an honorary degree, and whose name will never be forgotten for
what he did to contribute to social progress in Massachusetts.

A Rockefeller Grant in the summer of 1939 carried me to
England where, despite the outbreak of war, I was able to gather
_ the material for a book on their Borstal system of reformatories.
In 1941 I was appointed research director of a State Legislative
Committee in New York which was examining the problem of
juvenile and adolescent courts and learned as much in the process
about the attitude of legislators towards their jobs — and towards
us taxpayers — as I did about my special subject on which I wrote
the final report for the committee.

During the following year I toured the country as field secre-
tary of the American Parole Association making a survey of
parole, and left there when I was appointed statistician and re-
search chief for the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Commissioned in
the Army, I came back for a couple of months to Harvard to
study the Mediterranean and was suddenly shipped off to North
Africa to wander over the hills and streets of that amazing
country for four months before being air-lifted to Italy. There
I remained for over two years, learning Italian and to like Italy
and the Italian people, in the process. While still in uniform, I
served as liaison officer between the War Department and the
Bureau of Prisons, serving thereafter as special assistant to the
director of the Bureau of Prisons until the end of 1946.

T went then, with very high hopes, on the Secretariato of the
United Nations, where I was to remain for the next four and a
half years. I became interested and active in staff affairs: mem-
ber of the Codperative, charter member and later vice-president
of the Credit Union, staff-elected member of the Joint Appeals
Board, member of the Staff (executive) Committee of the Staff
Association, and finally presiding officer of the Staff Council,
the parliament of the staff. During 1950 to 1951 staff-administra-
tion relations became very tense as a result of differences between

the two groups on such fundamentals as salarics, working
conditions, discrimination in housing and segregation of blood for

[16]

' 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the blood bank, and independence of the Staff Association — as a
result of which my contract was not renewed. Two other staff
officers were fired at the same time. We put up a strong appeal,
carrying the matter to the highest UN court, the Administrative
Tribunal, which gave us a good legal decision but did not re-
instate us. As often happens, we got the law, but they got the
bodies. .

Since then I have been busy writing in my field and enjoying
the independence of it. My basic feeling is that this is the most
interesting time in the world’s history —the fact that I am alive
in it notwithstanding — and that the next few years will in the
most literal sense determine the fate of the world for centuries
to come. I am most hopeful as to the final outcome; I believe
there are no problems that arise as a result of human beings living
together in the world that human beings cannot solve. One of
these is war. Despite the hysteria, I believe that war will not
come, and that we shall be forced ultimately to admit that despite
the fact that we may not like the way in which almost a full
half of the world’s population chooses to live, we nevertheless
can and must live peaceably with them — or else see all of us
blown off the only planet that seems willing to have us.

ISRAEL BAILEN ALPERT

HOME ADDRESS: 266 Seaver St., Roxbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Alpert’s Furniture, 301 Centre St., Jamaica Plain, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 25, 1906, Boston, Mass. Parents: Abraham Alpert, Sarah
Bailen. ,

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: S.B., 1927; LL.B. (Boston Univ.),
1931.

MARRIED: Sara Green, Nov. 12, 1939, Lawrence, Mass. cumtpren: Arthur
Francis, Feb. 2, 1942; Marc Stephen, Dec. 13, 1944.

RICHARD EDWARD ALT

HOME ADDRESS: 343 Dodge St., Beverly, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss; 1 Monument Sq., Beverly, Mass.

BORN: July 4, 1906, New Washington, Ohio, parents: Edward Alt, Rose
Shell. . :

PREPARED AT: New Washington High School, New Washington, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.D. Cu laude, 1931.

[17]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

marriep: Deborah Johnson, Sept. 28, 1936, Essex, Mass. cuitpren: Eliza-
beth, Feb. 13, 1939; Mary, June 14, 1941.

occupation: Surgeon; visiting surgeon, Beverly Hospital.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enrolled in U.S.N.R., 1930, began active duty
as lieutenant in Navy, Dec. 29, 1941, and terminated service Feb. 3,
1946, with rank of commander; foreign duty in South Pacific with
Naval Advance Base Unit, participating in original landings in Bougain-
ville, B. S. I. and Leyte, P. 1; Bronze Star for caring for wounded in
campaign with the Third Marines,

OFFICES HELD: Member, since 1949, chairman, since 1951, Beverly School
Committee; president, Beverly Hospital Research Foundation.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
American College of Surgeons; American Urological Association, New
England Surgical Society; American Board of Surgery (diplomate).

FOUR years at the Harvard Medical School and five more in
assorted hospitals learning my profession, accounts for more than
one-third of these twenty-five years. Add on four years in
the Navy and the total is thirteen years. This leaves twelve
years or less than half of my life since graduation in 1927 which
I have been able to devote to the practice of surgery in Beverly. .
It has been a satisfying and often pleasant occupation.

I have acquired one splendid wife, two lively daughters, two
faithful dogs, a horse, two heifers, six sheep (four are obviously
pregnant, so there should be others), and adequate housing
facilities for all. What more could one ask for after only twenty-
five years? A guiding maxim of my life is that attributed to a
Vermont farmer: “The tendency of everything in this world
is to become more so.” Witness its truth in the following: taxes,
wars, Mr. Truman's government, and my sheep! My favorite

authors are Thoreau and Emerson, and in times of stress Marcus
Aurelius.

ALLAN JOSEPH ANAPOL

HomE AppREss: 37 Westmore Rd., Mattapan 26, Mass.
orFice appress: 151 Mount Vernon St. Dorchester, Mass.

BoRN: Feb. 28, 1906, Korzec, Poland, parents: Hyman Anapol, Lillian
Colker.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926, 1927-1929. DEGREFS:

AB, 1927(29); LLB.
(Boston Coll.), 1934.

[18 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MarRigp: Selma Shwartz, Aug. 27, 1939, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Carl
Paul, May 6, 1945; Barry Earl, May 16, 1949.

occuraTION: Chemist and metallurgist, Harry Butter & Company.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society.

I RETURNED to Harvard as an out-of-course student in 1928,
having had to leave college in my senior year because of illness.
I received my degree in June, 1929. After leaving college, I
entered the field of shoe merchandising, I was employed as a
salesman and buyer for the Arthur Wallace Shoe Company in
Boston. While working there, I decided to enroll as a student in
the evening division of the Boston College Law School, then
newly founded, Our classes were small and the instruction
intimate — my Classmates were a grand bunch of fellows. My
ambition was then to enter some day the field of patent law,
although I felt also that I would like to enter the field of chemistry.
I had majored in chemistry but found that during the depression
days scientific jobs were impossible to find. I stuck to merchandis-
ing until 1938, when my firm went out of business. I then decided
to try my luck in the field of insurance brokerage, received a
broker’s license, and became affiliated with the Douglas Lawson
Agency, 50 State Street, Boston. At this office I was associated
with many Harvard men. Building up an insurance business is a
slow, tedious process.

In 1939 I had the good fortune to marry a wonderful girl. My
marriage coincided with the outbreak of the European war.
When this country entered the war, I decided that now was an
opportune time to try to break into the field of chemistry. I
decided to take a few refresher courses in chemistry and was
fortunate in securing a position as chemist in the research depart-
ment of the Rexall Drug Company in Boston, where I remained
until 1948. I enjoyed the work and association with college-trained
scientists. In 1948 I accepted a position as research chemist in the
engineering department of the Sylvania Electric Company,
electronic division. I also served as production control supervisor
in the manufacturing division. At present I am chief chemist and
metallurgist for the Harry Butters Company, refiners of bronze
and brass.

[19]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Looking over the years, I find that together with many of my
classmates, I have had my ups and downs. I can’t call myself a
financial success, but, as they say, money is not everything. I
have a nice family and home, and I try to take life in stride. I am
an amateur photographer, enjoy good books and plays, and am
kept on the go all the time chasing after my two young sons. I
feel that Harvard has given me an opportunity to appreciate a
good sense of values. That alone is worth the price of a college
education. I haven’t had much opportunity to travel but hope
to as soon as my boys get a little older. I am looking forward to
meeting my old classmates and sharing some of their experiences.
Politically, I have always been a staunch Democrat. I follow the
progress of Harvard athletics, although in recent years there

2
hasn’t been much to cheer about. I hope my two sons will follow

me at Harvard.

KARL OSCAR EMANUEL ANDERSON

HOME ADDRESS: 44 Richmond Ave., Worcester, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Clark University, Worcester, Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 25, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Andrew Anderson,
Agnes Amalia Hedstrom.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927; A.M.
1928; PH.D. 1942.

MARRIED: Ruth Turton McCullough, Aug. 3, 1946, Brooklyn, N. Y. CHILD:
~~ Judith Turton, Oct. 10, 1947.

occupation: Associate professor of English and chairman of English
Department, Clark University.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Modern Language Association of America;

College English Association; Society for the Advancement of Scandi-
navian Studies.

IN JUNE, 1927, my vision of success and happiness in this world
took the form of being an English professor in a small college —
preferably in New England — surrounded by shaven lawns and
venerable elms, My attempts to set out on the road to this goal
the summer after graduation were not in the least encouraging,
for I found no one who would take a chance on me as a teacher —
not even the Sunday School superintendent in my church! Tlow-
ever, my faith in a Harvard education was not in the least bit
shaken, and the following year I returned for an A.M. in English.

[20]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

This extra training — plus the growth of a mustache to add years
to my appearance — bore results: I was offered a high school
position, not as a teacher of English but as an instructor in
American history, ancient history, and economics, and director
of the high school orchestra! Needless to say, 1 was not par-
ticularly happy in this alien réle, especially when I learned that if
I had waited a few weeks more, I could have come to
Harvard as an assistant to one of my old professors. I left the hich
school the following January to take another assistantship at
Harvard for the second semester. The following year I made
another important advance towards my objective when I received
an appointment as instructor in English at Smith College. My
experience at Smith convinced me that I could never be happy
doing anything but teaching and also encouraged me to believe
that I would be at least moderately successful in this profession;
and so in 1930 I decided to return to Harvard once again — where
else should I go? —to begin working for a Ph.D.

In 1933 Harvard granted me a fellowship for a year of study
in Europe. My Scandinavian background had led me to decide
to write my doctoral thesis on a Scandinavian subject, “The Old
Norse Elements in the Works of William Morris”; and so I spent
the first half of my year in Europe at the University of Uppsala,
Sweden, where, known as the “Gangster from America,” I
extended my acquaintance with the Scandinavian languages and
literatures and other forms of Scandinavian culture, and during the
second half, I travelled in England, seeking source material on
William Morris. I succeeded in picking up a fair amount of
material on Morris in spite of a certain lack of sympathy on the
part of some English librarians and curators, who, as one of them
put it, felt that most American graduate students in their research
were wasting their time digging a hole and filling it up again.
On my return to Harvard, I found that to do justice to the
information I had collected, I must spend much more time on my
thesis than I had intended. Fortunately, to help me eke out an
existence while I was finishing my thesis, I was given an oppor-
tunity to assist Professors Robinson and Lowes in the Chaucer
course; and this rewarding work — more rewarding intellectually
than financially —I continued for four years. I left Harvard in
1939 to become instructor in English at Cornell. While there, I

[21]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

completed my three-volume thesis (which is now gathering dust
in Widener — “sterile abundance,” Professor Babbitt would no
doubt have called it), passed my oral exam at Harvard, and
received my degree in 1942. The same year I took another exam,
which I flunked — my physical for the Army — but I managed
to contribute a tiny bit to the war effort by teaching in the V-12
program at Cornell.

In 1945 I left Cornell to become assistant professor of English at
Clark University, and I have been at Clark since then. I have been
very happy here, for I have had a chance to teach courses in my
special field and many other advanced courses also. At Clark I
have become very much interested in General Education. My
work on the committee appointed to set up our first General Edu-
cation course at Clark — Literature and the Nature of Man —
and my share in this course, which has been taught codperatively
by the members of the Modern Language Departments, have made
me more convinced than ever before of the importance of the
Humanities in education and in life as a whole. I am by no means
hostile to the natural and social sciences, but in my teaching these
last two or three years I have been finding myself more and more
militantly on the side of those who are trying to make students
see the limitations of the merely scientific approach, to encourage
them to develop a sense of values beyond the purely material, to
inculcate idealism, sensitivity, and imagination in them, and to
help them, through literature, to understand better the evolution
of western culture, its virtues and limitations, and the dangers
which this culture faces today. I have worked hard at Clark,
especially since I became chairman of the English Department,
but I have found the work most rewarding. Statistics show that
in the last ten years the cost of living index has risen eighty-six
per cent, the hourly wages of manufacturing workers have gone
up 138 per cent, but college faculty salaries have advanced only
forty to fifty per cent. But I have no regrets about going into
teaching, though I certainly would have no objections to a bigger
share in the rising wages—nor my wife either in balancing the
weekly budget.

My wife — yes, another reason why I have been happy since
coming to Clark is that I finally got married in 1946 and that in
1947 we were blessed with a little daughter, Judy. M y wife and

[22]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

little girl have helped me turn back the clock so that now as my
Twenty-fifth Reunion approaches, I feel younger in spirit (at
least) than I did at my earlier reunions. These last four years
Judy has been my chief recreation; in addition, I have sought re-
laxation in gardening on a very modest scale and in listening to
good music. On the whole, however, I have enjoyed my teaching
and reading so much that I have not felt a great need for recrea-
tion; that, I suppose, is the highest tribute one can pay to one’s
profession.

SOLOMON ANDREWS

HOME ADDRESS: 245 Woodruff Ave., Los Angeles 24, Calif.

OFFICE ADpREss: Andrews & Co., 211 S. Beverly Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.
BORN: Dec. 25, 1905, Krupke, Russia. PARENTS: Jacob Israel Andrews,
Mamie Levin.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927(28); LL.B. (Boston Univ.),

1930.

MARRIED: Sylvia Goodman, Feb. 9, 1932, Chicago, Ill. cumpren: Joyce
Lenore, Oct. 30, 1932; Richard Scott, May 13, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Attorney-at-law; insurance counsellor.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California; Beverly Hills Tennis
Club; B’nai B'rith Crestview Lodge.

TWENTY years of practice in law in Chicago’s fickle weather
found me casting an eye westward. Thus, without more prepara-
tion than I gave to Philosophy 2 (doggone it), I uprooted my
family and moved out here. We all blessed the decision for we
have been most happy. In one year’s time we choose to call our-
selves native Californians. This involved a change in business as
well. My older brother, whose namesake saved the human race
for posterity, furnished me with a sound ship to voyage in for
(presumably) the rest of my working days. I find that, having
been a trial lawyer (and enjoyed every minute of my successes),
putting what sales ability I have to use in my new profession has
been both enjoyable and profitable.

Having given up baseball long since, horseback riding being
too hard on my back(side), and golf being yet a bit remote to
suit my temperament, I have turned to tennis. Oh, for the days
when the body could do actually what it can in the mind’s eye!
But, really, it isn’t as bad as it sounds. I still beat my wife — at

[23]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

tennis; and should arguments ensue, I always have the last two
words — “Yes, dear.” My daughter (pardon the pride) is a
beautiful young lady nearing nineteen and has three years of col-
lege under her belt. Couldn't stand a life of idleness and so quit to
engage in a career as a model pro tem. My son might well be
called “Butch.” At the age of ten, he tips the scales at 118 Ibs.,
and I have hopes that some day he may attend Harvard and per-
haps help the football team. My wife is still the most charming
and deservedly stabilizing influence in our household. My hobbies
have narrowed down to the stereo realist camera, and fishing (un-
successfully for the most part) now and then.

Life has been good to us in these United States, and I still get
up daily, blessing our family, our country, and on occasion, Har-
vard, P.S. I really am developing thrills about the prospect of

attending my first Class Reunion—the Twenty-fifth. Until
then. ...

PRESCOTT NILES ARNOLD

HOME ADDRESS: 526 Maple Ridge Rd., Bethesda, Md.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Naval Research Laboratory, Washington 20, D. C.

BORN: July 19, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Henry Ward Beecher Arnold,
Anna Prescott Sherman.

PREPARED AT: Milton High School, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1927; A.M.,
1931.

MaRRIED: Marie Gorgas Wrightson Gabriel, Sept. 23, 1939, Chevy Chase,
Md. cxuitpren: William Gorgas, Oct. 4, 1943; Prescott Niles, Jr.. May

6, 1945; Julia Gayle, Aug. 3, 1947; Roger Price Gabriel, Nov. 23, 1935
(stepson).

occupaTion: Physicist, head, Transducer Branch, Sound Division, Naval
Research Laboratory.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Head, Special Research Section, Sound Divi-

sion, Naval Research Laboratory, 1940-45; meritorious Civilian Service
Award, U. S. Navy, 1946.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Scientific Research Society of America;
Philosophical Society of Washington; American Physical Society; Insti-

tute of Radio Engineers, Acoustical Socicty of America (fellow);
Harvard Club of Washington, D. C.

AWARDED a Sheldon (Prize) Fellowship, I spent the first year
after graduation studying and travelling in England and western
Europe. It was for me a happy, enlightening, and carefree year.

[24]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Liking the Continent and wishing to extend my visit, I sought
employment and worked gainfully (about ten dollars per week)
in the Paris branches of the Guaranty and Bankers Trusts. That
too was fun but, come late fall, I decided that I had had my share
of distribution and that it was time to get back to concentration.
After all, my field was physics, and I had given it little real
attention for many months.

Back home I accepted a research associateship in the Radio
Section of the National Bureau of Standards, where I assisted for
two years in an investigation of radio-wave-propagation phenom-
ena. Co-workers on the project were classmates Stephen
Buckingham and William Doherty. Recognizing a need for
specialized graduate study, I returned to Harvard and the Cruft
Laboratory in the fall of 1930. I had planned only one year in
Cambridge, but was invited to stay on as a full-time instructor of
physics and communication engineering — which I did, for four
good years.

It was the Navy which lured me from the comfortable and
satisfying academic life in Cambridge. The lure included better
pay but primarily the opportunity to do interesting and important
work on the development of underwater sound equipment for
our fighting ships. About the interest I had no personal doubts.
On the importance side I had the assurances of Professor G. W.
Pierce who, remembering World War I, saw clearly potential
costs of detection-equipment inadequacies if a powerful submarine
fleet should again be unleashed. So I joined the Sound Division
of the Naval Research Laboratory as a civilian scientist in 1935
and have been occupied there continuously since. My own
technical efforts have centered on the design of electro-acoustic
transducers for experimental sonar systems, and on means and
techniques for evaluating their absolute performance. I have had
increasing administrative responsibilities and am currently heading
a branch of thirty in a division of one hundred and fifty. There
is still interesting and important work to be done despite the
tremendous total effort expended through the tense and exciting
World War II years, and since on undersea warfare problems.

I was a little late in marrying (September, 1939), but Polly
helped on that by bringing with her an engaging youngster of
four years. Now a big lad of sixteen, Roger has a football

[25]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

scholarship at a small local private school and at home serves
efficiently as my “chief” in handling our beloved but unruly crew
of eight, six, and four years— William, Niles, and Julia, in that
order. I hope some of the boys will want to go to Harvard.
Roger seems unduly influenced just now by the gridiron successes
of the University of Maryland. Job, family, and home keep me
fully occupied and leave no time for hobbies, unless one so
classifies my sporadic efforts to rectify in house and yard the
ravages of time, kinder, and dogs. These help to keep my mind
from dwelling on the Communist and other threats.

GEORGE REID ARTHUR

HOME AppREss: 17 Webber Ave., Bedford, Mass.

OFFice appress: J. F. Fitzgerald Construction Co., Wood Street, Lexington,
Mass.

BORN: Oct. 7, 1906, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Charles William Arthur,
Ruby Etta Reid.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; LL.B. (Northeastern
Univ.), 1931.

MarrizD: Anna Barbara Clarke, 1926, Brighton, Mass. (died 1938); Ruth
A. Hartland, Feb. 4, 1939, Cambridge, Mass. cHmpren: Charles New-

man, Jan. 22, 1927, George Clarke, May 15, 1929; Richard Thomas and
Robert William (twins), March 10, 1935.

HARVARD sons: Charles Newman Arthur, ’47; George Clarke Arthur, ’52.
occupation: Attorney, construction business.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Advisory member, Draft Board, Phillips
Brooks House; auxiliary policeman,

OFFICES HELD: Cubmaster, committeeman, neighborhood commissioner, Boy

Scouts of America, since 1940; member, Massachusetts Bar, since 1931,
Federal Bar, since 1943.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Bar Association of .the City of
Boston.

AFTER receiving an A.B. in 1927 from Harvard, I attended the
evening sessions of the Northeastern University School of Law,
while employed during the day, and received an LL.B. in 1931.
I was admitted to the Massachusetts Bar in the same year and
to the Federal Bar in 1943. For twelve years 1 was associated
with the Harvard Law Library. Since 1931 I have practised

law, both full- and part-time. At present I am connected with
the J. F, Fitzgerald Construction Company.

[ 26]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I was married in 1926 to Anna Barbara Clarke and we had four
sons, the last two being twins. In 1938 she died. I married Ruth
Hartland in 1939. She has been a second mother to the children,
and to her must go the major credit for bringing them up. She
has been steadfastly by my side at all times. We have no children
of our own. My chief outside activity has been the Boy Scouts,
in which I have served as cubmaster, committeeman, and neigh-
borhood commissioner. During the war, I served as advisory
member of the Draft Board at Phillips Brooks House and as an
auxiliary policeman. I was unable to get into the service because
of poor eyesight. My chief interest has been in my family, and
my wife and I have always taken a great interest in our sons’
activities, hopes, aspirations, and ambitions.

My eldest son, Charles Newman Arthur, received his degree
in 1949 as of the Class of 1947. In the meantime he spent nearly
three years in the service. At seventeen he enlisted in the ASTP,
under whose auspices he attended the University of Connecticut,
the University of New Hampshire, the University of Minnesota,
and Yale University. He qualified as a Japanese interpreter, but
the ending of the war caused his transfer to Camp Campbell,
- Kentucky, where he ended up as company clerk with the rank
of corporal. He is now employed by the National Shawmut
Bank of Boston. :

My second son, George Clarke Arthur, is a member of the
Class of 1952 and expects to receive his degree in city planning
this June. In July he expects to fulfill a date with Uncle Sam. In
school he played football and was on the track team. At Harvard
he has been on his house team, both in football and touch football.
The twins, Richard Thomas and Robert William, are graduating
from Concord High School this June and expect to enter college
in the fall. They have both been regulars on the football team
for the past two years and were on the teams that went to the
Piedmont Bowl in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, the past two
years. They also played basketball and baseball. Both are mem-
bers of the National Honor Society and have been on the Honor
Roll throughout their school career. At present they are in the
throes of filling out college applications.

My wife and I travelled to Winston-Salem in 1950 and 1951.
That has been the extent of our travel except for two trips to

[27]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Washington and Virginia. We have been enthusiastic spectators
at the Concord games. The team has not lost a game for the
past six years. We have been pleased that the boys came under
the coaching of such a fine man as Bernie Megin, and we believe
that they have learned a great deal more than football from him.
The opportunity to travel and to meet people has broadened
them far beyond their years. My chief exercise is gardening,
doing odd jobs around the house, and playing basketball with the
kids. Recreation consists mostly of radio, television, an occasional
play, movie, or opera, and contract bridge. I look forward to the

Reunion in June and shall do my utmost to see to it that the whole
family attends.

ALLEN JOHN ASH

HOME ADDRESS: 405 Prospect St., Lawrence, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Colonial, 466 Essex St., Lawrence, Mass.

BorN: April 19, 1906, Lawrence, Mass. PARENTS: Samuel Ash, Rebecca Cohen.
PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; LL.B. 1930(31).

UNMARRIED,

occupaTION: Retail merchant and real estate operator; attorney-at-law (not
actively engaged in practice).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted in U.S. Army, Aug. 26, 1942; served in
Quartermaster Corps for few months; studied Japanese, 6 months; served
in Infantry, about a year, honorable discharge, Nov. 18, 1944.

MEMBER OF: Lawrence Bar Association; Massachusetts Bar Association, Low-
ell Harvard Club; Harvard Law School Association of Massachusetts;
Harvard Law School Alumni Association; Harvard Business School
Alumni Association, Lawrence Lodge No. 65, Elks; Tuscan Lodge,

AF. & A.M.
I OWN and operate two stores, one of which was originally -
founded by my father. In addition I have made a few lucky real
estate deals and own and operate the Alco Realty Corporation.
All these activities are in Lawrence, Massachusetts, my home
town. I am not, nor ever have been, married. This state of
bachelorhood may or may not be responsible for the fact that
I lead a perfectly happy and totally uneventful life.

ALEXANDER JOSEPH AUSTIN, JR.

HoME appress: 11A Foster Rd., Belmont, Mass.

BorN: March 19, 1905, East Cambridge, Mass. parents: Alexander Joseph
Austin, Mary Ellen Crowley.

[ 28]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT; Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; A-M. (Boston Coll.).

marriep: Frances C. Chandler, June 29, 1940, Somerville, Mass. CHILDREN:
Mary Frances, May 15, 1941; Alexander Joseph, 3d, Jan. 19, 1944;
Robert, March 28, 1949.

occupation: Teacher of English, Somerville High School.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Belmont.

DURING these years I have been engaged for the most part in
educational work and interests. Since this work provides time for
much other activity, I have taken advantage of this to the extent
that I, with my family, have travelled over much of this country.
In politics I am an independent and wish that I could vote for
MacArthur for President. I believe, however, that America in
spite of conditions at home and abroad, will certainly survive and
will attain an even greater place in history.

HARRIS AVERBUCH

HOME ADDRESS: 1142 River St., Hyde Park, Mass.

BORN: July 7, 1905, East Dedham, Mass. parents: Louis Averbuch, Rose
Baker.

PREPARED AT: Hyde Park High School, Hyde Park, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; LL.B., 1930.

CHARLES FRANCIS AVILA

HOME AppRESS: 75 Martin Rd., Milton 86, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Edison Co., 182 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 17, 1906, Taunton, Mass. parents: Charles Ignatio Avila,
Annie Vera.

PREPARED AT: Taunton High School, Taunton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1929. DEGREE: S.B. IN E.E. AND BUS. ADMIN., 1929.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Agnes McLean, Feb. 12, 1934, Milton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Donald Francis, March 16, 1935; Carolyn Louise, Dec. 24, 1938.

OccUPATION: Section head, Engineering and Construction Department, Bos-
ton Edison Company; supervision of divisions doing outside plant de-
signs, material specifications; estimating; survey and layout, Transmis-
sion line property transactions and engineering records.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Part-time research and design with Harvard
University Optical Research Laboratory (development of large high-
altitude military cameras).

OFFICES HELD! Member, Cable Engineering Section, Association of Edison
Mluminating Companies; member, Insulated Conductor Committee,
American Institute of Electrical Engineers.

[29]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Electrical Engineers, Harvard Engineer-
ing Society.

I HAVE been with Boston Edison since graduation, until this year
chiefly connected with various technical and economic phases
of transmission and distribution system operation, maintenance
and mechanical design. My specialty has been high voltage cable
engineering. In early 1942 I was made division head of the group
specializing in these activities for the Transmission and Distribu-
tion Department. Since June 1, 1951, I have been section head,
first in the T. E. D. Department, and since the first of this year
for the Engineering and Construction Department which took
over all engineering and construction functions in a broad com-

any reorganization at that time.

My hobbies have included optics and photography, the latter
quite consistently. I have enjoyed sailing, especially one-design
racing and some cruising, for many years. I built an eighteen-
foot, one-design class sailboat in 1947. She was specially equipped
and finished but not very suitable for a family boat, so with
some regret I sold her about a year ago so as not to spend most
of my dwindling spare time away from my family. Recent rapid
company expansion plans, new duties, and the shortage of skilled
personnel have forced me to forego some of the above, but I hope
in the not too distant future to be able to resume some of my
projects.

The intervening years since Commencement have all been
busy ones for me. The total time, however, has not seemed long.
I attribute no small part of this illusion to the five-year combination
Harvard Engineering-Business School course, which I believe in
1923 was a novel idea. At any rate it has furnished an ideal
foundation and interest for the work in which I have been
engaged.

ROBERT WELLS AYER

HOME appress: Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kenyon Instrument Co., Inc., Huntington Station, Long
Island, N. Y.

porn: Feb. 5, 1905, Winchester, Mass. parents: William Pitt Frye Ayer,
Marguerite Levening Woods.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREE: §.B, IN MECH, ENGIN. 1929.

[ 30 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Helen Douglas Benton, Dec. 14, 1931s Vergennes, Vt. CHILDREN;
William Benton, Nov. 28, 1934; Douglas Levening, May 28, 1937.

occupation: Aircraft equipment manufacturer; specialized camera (fast-
processing) manufacturer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Seaman, second class, U. S. Naval Reserve, 1926-
31 (student pilot); U. S. Army Reserve, 193 1-36.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Aeronautical Sciences; Society of Automotive
Engineers; Quiet Birdmen; New York and Boston Harvard Clubs;
Harvard Flying Club; Cold Spring Harbor Beach Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Several technical talks and papers on aeronautical and air-
borne radar subjects, also magazine articles.

MAIN claim to distinction: I’m the only person who was ever
able to finish a four-year course at Harvard in six years. Was
fired twice — mainly because I preferred learning flying to the
subjects offered. I learned to fly mostly in the Naval Reserve at
the Naval Air Station, Squantum, three years before final gradua-
tion from the Engineering School, and found I liked airplane de-
sign. My first product — during college (finished it on gradua-
tion day) — was a folding-wing amphibian flying boat. A now
great test pilot (Harvard ’30) got into an inverted spin and had
to leave it.

My graduating Class, after graduation, had good initial training
— DEPRESSION. I chose to design and manufacture airplanes —
the last thing a person wanted during that period was an air-
plane; so shortly after graduation, in company with Bob Hall
(present Grumman chief engineer) and the late “Granny” Gran-
ville, one of the greatest of great designers, I went to Springfield,
Massachusetts, where there was a little idle money left to build
airplanes. There, until 1931, we built Gee Bee’s — world speed
record, Thompson Trophy, and so forth. Always hoping in vain
for better days, we alternately built airplanes, cracked them up,
barnstormed, taught school, and ate rather leanly. I finally decided
to be a D.Y. — “Displaced Yankee,” and took off for Detroit to
join Stinson Aircraft Company. Shortly thereafter I married a
Vermont girl, Wellesley, ’29. (They say it’s true that if the U.S.
declares war, Vermont will soon follow.) I spent the next seven
years mostly as chief engineer and test pilot for Stinson — a long
time for a couple of homesick Yankees to live in the Detroit area.
The two boys were born in Ann Arbor two and one-half years
apart — both are now over six feet tall. Stinson managed to make

[31 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

money during the depression, building more private airplanes than
all the rest of the manufacturers. It was hard work, not much
money, but a lot of fun. In 1937 big money bought in. Most of
the original gang, built up over years of effort, was purged. A
familiar story.

I moved to Washington in 1937 as chief of the Flight Branch of
the Civil Aeronautics Administration for one and a half years;
then two years more as technical director of the aircraft manu-
facturers’ trade association —a very broadening experience, but
I found things moved more slowly in Washington. My wife and
kids loved it, but it’s no place for a person who is impatient and
likes productivity. Then the war. My first love, the Navy, would
not accord me active flight status even though three stripes were
in order, so I went back to building airplanes, including one of the
first “guided missiles” — remotely flown, expendable wooden air-
planes with a bomb tucked away inside them. Then we built a
dive bomber, lots of trainers, and thousands of wings, tails, and
so forth, for other people’s airplanes. As chief engineer of Fleet-
wings, I found that lots of people could design better airplanes
than I; but I could still fly them and criticize them, the latter not
always increasing my popularity with the designers. Nor was the
laugh always on them — we built a beautiful helicopter which I
succeeded in cracking up ignominiously.

Again big money bought us out— Henry J. Kaiser. Not the
same pattern this time, however. Excellent, sound management.
Only Henry J. did not want to build airplanes as badly as I did.
Having admired (and built airplanes for) American Airlines, I
joined that fine organization in 1945 to get some REAL operating
experience. The war not then being over, I had to get Navy bless-
ing for such a move. J went in as assistant director of flight engi-
neering and was shortly under Navy contract again for radar
flight research, I spent five happy and fascinating years doing
thunderstorm, hail, blind landing, navigation, radar, and miscel-
laneous flight research, first with a DC3, then with a brand new
Convair. I thought that our research had proved that airborne
radar was capable of stopping a large proportion of airline acci-
dents, since the majority were involved in hitting mountain tops.
Being perhaps a bit impatient about the progress towards getting
a satisfactory radar, I left American Airlines and shortly after

[ 32 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

joined Kenyon Instrument Company, Inc., as vice-president, en-
gineering. There I found myself immersed in the design and
manufacture of very specialized fast-processing Camera-projector
units to be used in conjunction with radar.

Feeling a little more settled than in the past, and being nostalgic
for New England, we built a Cape Cod house on the north shore
overlooking Cold Spring Harbor. We all are thoroughly en-
grossed in sailing. We compete in the Atlantic and Wood-Pussy
classes — managed to win the “Nationals” in the latter last year
and this year, but we are not doing as well in the Atlantic class,
Elder boy Bill is working for Grumman before going back to
Middlesex. Long Island is the greatest area in the country for in-
dustry — especially for a small one like ours. The only trouble is
that there is so much recreation available here that one wonders
whether we really get a full week’s work out of everyone during
the summer. But it’s still a bit rugged to be away from Maine in
the summer and Boston in the winter!

STUART FULLER AYERS

HOME apprEss: Five Mile River Road, Darien, Conn.

OFFICE AppRESS: U. S. Dept. of State, 250 W. 57th St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 13, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Raymond Fuller Ayers,
Minnie Maud Hanff.

PREPARED AT: Memorial High School, Pelham, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1023-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927(28).

MarRRIED: Mona Bracken, Feb. 8, 1932, Darien, Conn,

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Stansberry Ayers, 736.

OCCUPATION: Editor-in-chief, Inter American-Branch, Office of International
Broadcasting, U. S. Department of State.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Field representative, codrdinator of inter-
American affairs, September, 1942, to October, 1945; radio officer, De-
partment of State, to July, 1946; stationed in Peru and Bolivia.

MEMBER OF: Authors’ League, New York.

PuBLications: Radio Workers, Harpers, N. Y., 1940 (occupational guidance
textbook); Histri-ography, C. S. Hammond, N. Y., 1941 (school atlas);
numerous dramatic radio series, few motion pictures, various short
stories, articles, poems, and five songs.

THESE notes are penned on the veranda of the Tivoli Hotel,
where night has brought no end to the sticky Panama day, but
rather a sweltering of raucous music from a cantina beyond the

[33 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

park, At this moment I am detailed to the American Embassy
in Panama. By Monday, however, I am to be in Costa Rica —
then on to Nicaragua, Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala.
Later orders will read Colombia and Ecuador. My working title
is editor-in-chief, and I am attached to the Inter-American
Branch of the “Voice of America,” that part of the “Voice”
which broadcasts short wave in Spanish, Portuguese, and English
to the American Republics. My present mission is to work with
the United States Information Services of the Embassies in
observation of the tenth anniversary of the Institute of Inter-
American Affairs — the entity for “Point Four” in the Americas.

By graduation in 1927 1 had worked for two newspapers: The
Christian Science Monitor in Boston and the Paris edition of the
Chicago Tribune. \ spent approximately the first year after col-
lege on the New York Tintes, when a lucky meeting with a former
English A instructor, Burke Boyce, landed me as a script writer
at the National Broadcasting Company’s studios in New York.
Thus, from 1928 radio became my major job. These years have
included staff writing and free-lance writing and producing at
N.B.C,, C.B.S., and Mutual, the editorship of the “Teacher’s
Manual” and other classroom aids for the C.B.S. “American School
of the Air’; advertising —for a time I was partner in a small
agency and later ad manager for Latin America with the Vick
Chemical Company; and public relations, as associate of the New
York firm of Hal Leyshon Associates. One of the most enjoyable
periods was a seven-month stay with our growing babies in
Bermuda, from which paradise | airmailed to New York a daily
radio “soap opera.”

In 1938 I started graduate study at Columbia University in
international law and inter-American relations. In i939 the
Rockefeller Foundation granted me a travel fellowship for study
in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay. Following
this I joined the staff of the Columbia Broadcasting System as
author, commentator, and educational publications editor, to as-
sist in enlarging the School of the Air for use throughout the
hemisphere. With our entrance into the war I was brought into
Nelson Rockefeller’s newly formed Office of the Codrdinator of
Inter-American Affairs and sent to Peru with additional duties
in Bolivia and Ecuador. The Office of the Codrdinator was later

[ 34]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

absorbed into the Department of State. I dearly hope to join the
Class when Reunion time comes to Cambridge — but it looks
as though by spring we shall be crating pots, pans, and furniture
for a post in foreign service.

WILLIAM WARREN BABSON

HOME apprEss: Cambridge Ave., Annisquam, Gloucester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 79 Prospect St., Gloucester, Mass.

BoRN: April 18, 1905, Gloucester, Mass. PARENTS: Elmer Warren Babson,
M.D.V., '97, Emma Gustava Leveau.

PREPARED AT: Gloucester High School, Gloucester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926, DEGREE:. M.D, cum laude, 1930.

marRieD; Anne Odeneal Wilbon, Dec. 11, 1937, Richmond, Va. cHILDREN:
William Warren, Jr., and Anne Odeneal (twins), Dec. 10, 1939; David
Elmer, Oct. 21, 1943; Thomas Wilbon, July 15, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Leveau Babson, ’32.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered active service A.AF., A.U.S., June
15, 1942; separated, January, 1946, as lieutenant colonel, M.C.; Chief,
surgery, Station Hospital, Grenier Field, Manchester, N. H.; Chief,
surgery, Regional Hospital, Richmond A.A.B.; Chief, surgery, Regional
Hospital, Langley Field, Va.

OFFIcEs HELD: Chief, surgical service, Addison Gilbert Hospital, Gloucester;
consulting surgeon, Cable Memorial Hospital, Ipswich, Mass., Essex
Sanatorium, Middleton, Mass.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association (fellow); American College
of Surgeons (fellow); New England Surgical Society; American Board
of Surgery (diplomate).

PUBLICATIONS: Several surgical papers in surgical magazines.

AFTER three years in college, I entered Harvard Medical School,
and graduated in 1930. Intern years were spent at Beverly, Boston
City, and Boston Lying-In Hospitals. I then entered practice in
my home city of Gloucester. Warren Poland (Harvard Medical
School, 1935) became associated with me in 1939, taking over
medical practice and permitting me to spend all of my time in
surgery. Recently Robert Lundberg (Cornell Medical School,
1944) has joined me in the practice of surgery, A “must” each
year is a clinic tour to one of the various centers throughout the
country. |

My hobbies have been Atlantic salmon fishing, fly tying, and
duck shooting. Though my wife had never fished before our

[35]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

marriage, she has made me extremely happy by joining me on all
of our salmon trips since then. We have explored a number of
salmon rivers in New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, and Quebec —
and have had the usual experience of realizing that June bright
salmon are not easy to find. We have had lots of fun and good
luck, companionship, and friendly rivalry on the little rivers in
Washington County, Maine, Anne has taken a salmon each year
we have been there. We usually combine a few days on the
Narraguagus River with a trip to Canada. These journeys always
come in June when fishing fever, which is then overpowering,
supplants the desire to attend college reunions, Since the war
years, nearly all of our salmon have been taken on flies of our
making. Interestingly enough, fly tying has seemed to aid my
surgical dexterity.

Though my sons have not yet experienced their first formal
fishing trip, they jo me on the smelt, flounder, striped bass, and
pickerel expeditions. They also love to go to our duck camp on
the Essex marshes, just south of the Crane Estate and Castle Hill.
The salt marsh, black duck, and Canada goose appeal to us all very
much, and we have a wonderful time. In fact it inspired one of
the frequenters, H. H. Hamilton (Harvard Medical School, 1930),
to name the camp “Babsonium Relaxicus.”

DANA CONVERSE BACKUS

HOME appress: 1158 Fifth Ave., New York 29, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: White & Case, 14 Wall St, New York 5, N. Y.

BorN: Feb. 26, 1907, Bayonne, N. J. parents: Henry Meredith Backus,
Mary Elizabeth Nielson.

PREPARED AT: Flushing High School, Flushing, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; LL.B. cum laude,
1929.

sManniens Louise Burton Laidlaw, Sept. 16, 1933, Sands Point, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Mary Louise, July 6, 1934; Janet Graham, June 15, 1936;
Elizabeth Laidlaw, Oct. 12, 1939; Harriet Meredith, Sept. 2, 1942; Anne
Converse, Feb. 27, 1949.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. 5, Army, May, 1943, to July, 1946; discharged
as lieutenant colonel JAGC; member, Officers’ Reserve Corps; presently
assigned 356th Military Government Area Headquarters, Type B.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman of Committee on International Law (former vice-
chairman), former chairman, Municipal Court Committee, Junior Bar

[ 36]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Committee, former member, Foreign Law Committee, Superior Courts
Committee, Association of the Bar of the City of New York; director,
Standard & Poor’s Corporation, 1158 Fifth Avenue, Inc.; member, Com-
mittee to Study the Organization of Peace; vice-chairman and member,
Executive Committee of the Citizens’ Union of New York City; presi-
dent and director, Citizens’ Union Research Foundation, Inc.; vice-
president, Harvard Club of Long Island, Inc.; delegate of American
Association for the United Nations, Inc. to World Federation of
United Nations Associations, 1946-47.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of Long Island,
Inc.; Downtown Association; The Lunch Club; Mayflower Society;
Appalachian Mountain Club; Masons; Manhasset Bay Yacht Club.

puBLicaTions: “The Summer Camp on the Trail,” in New England Trail
Conference Pamphlet; various articles on local topics.

IN SURVEYING a portion of a busy lifetime, one may take
either a narrative or a long-term view. The long-term view results
in a look back to see how one’s activities have touched or affected,
however slightly, the great current of world events which began
to flow so rapidly a few years after we left college.

In order to save time, I finished in 1926 the requirements for
the A.B. degree. I did not take it until 1927, after a year in Har-
vard Law School. This got me out of Law School in 1929, just
before jobs were hard to come by, and I have been practising law
ever since except for a war interruption. An advantage of prac-
tising law is that it gets one into many businesses and varied prob-
lems. More and more these are tax problems.

In New York City the depression did what the Republicans
could not do and swept out of office the well-entrenched Tam-
many Democrats. This campaign led me by the Fusion route to
make stump speeches for Mayor LaGuardia. One thing about
making a stump speech on a stepladder out of doors in the lower
Fast Side of New York is that you have to learn to hold an audi-
ence, After that, any speaking within four walls is simple because
the auditors are captive.

By a natural progression, I devoted much extra-curricular time
to the Citizens’ Union of the City of New York which has spon-
sored reforms in good times and bad since its- founding at the
turn of the century. One of its achievements in which I had a part
was the successful campaign for the enactment of a new and
streamlined New York City charter which still prevails. Another
was the Proportional Representation experiment which, while it

[37]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

profits, pays dividends, all subject to income taxes in favor of the
government. I am the government.

HIRAM HEYWORTH BACKUS

HOME ADDRESS: Wequaquet Heights, Centerville, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Airport Motors, Inc, lyanough Road, Hyannis, Mass.

BORN: June 29, 1904, Peru, N. Y. parents: George Crocker Backus, Gail
White Heyworth.

PREPARED AT: Barnstable High School, Barnstable, Mass., Browne and
Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

MARRIED: Maida Elizabeth Libby, June 10, 1927, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Virginia Libby, February, 1928 (mm. Henry Doudican, Jr., June, 1947);
Heyworth George, August, 1933. GRrANDcHILD: Linda Elizabeth
Doudican, August, 1948.

occupation: Owner, DeSoto-Plymouth agency, County Commissioner,
County of Barnstable; Water Commissioner, local township.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Coast Guard Reserves, stationed at Sandwich,
Mass., on Cape Cod Canal, World War II.

OFFICES HELD: Master, Fraternal Lodge, A. F. & A. M., Hyannis, 1948;
president, Cape Cod Automobile Dealers Association; trustee, Pocasset
Sanatorium; commissioner, Barnstable County, since 1948.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Cape Cod. |

MY FIRST employment was at the State Street Trust Company
in Boston; however, after six months the lure of Cape Cod with
its excellent golf courses, beaches, and climate, along with good
hunting and fishing, beckoned and I returned to enter the whole-
sale grocery business with my father. A few years later I em-
barked on a career in wholesale confectionery which thrived until
1946, when I sprouted a duodenal ulcer and on the advice of a
physician sold the business and led a life of ease for the following
year. At the close of World War II, I built an establishment to
house a DeSoto-Plymouth agency and am engaged in that line
of business at present.

My principal hobbies are hunting and fishing, Tuna fishing off
Barnstable and Provincetown is excellent and in the past three
years I have boated about forty, ranging in weight from one
hundred and fifty to six hundred pounds. There is also a log cabin
on the Medway River in Nova Scotia, where I spend ten days
salmon fishing in the spring and ten days hunting deer and bear
in the fall.

[ 40 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD HOPKINS BAILEY

HOME AppRESS: 38 Sawyer Rd., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Hunnewell & Co., 136 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 22, 1905, Arlington, Mass. PARENTS: James Alderson Bailey,
"88, Helen Gage Hopkins.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MaRRIED: Joyce Colburn Haskell, May 5, 1932, Muskogee, Okla. CHILDREN:
Joyce Ware, Dec. 9, 1934; James Alderson, 2d, Feb. 21, 1936; | Edward
Hopkins, Jr., Nov. 10, 1939.

occuPpATION: Stock broker.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chief, Service Industries Price Section, O.P. A,

_ Boston Regional Office, March, 1942, to September, 1945.

OFFIcEs HELD: Director, since 1936, treasurer, Habit Clinic for Child
- Guidance; director, Menotomy Trust Company, Arlington, Mass.,
* 1928-34, Boston Elevated Railway Company, 1937-42; vice-chairman

and director, Districts Division, Boston Community Fund, 1936-42;
vice-chairman, Volunteer Service Bureau, Greater Boston Community
Council, 1940-42; chairman, Pack Committee, Pack 32, Norumbega
Council, 1949-51, secretary, Troop Committee, Troop 32, 1948-49,
Boy Scouts of America. o

SINCE graduation I have spent most of my business life trying to
advise people intelligently as to how to invest their money. I have
been associated with five different firms and the O.P.A. during this
period, All but Hunnewell & Company, by whom I am now em-
ployed, closed up or reorganized shortly after I left them —
accounting for my several changes. It has been an interesting
business life, although particularly subject to mental anguish and
great uncertainty because of the tremendous economic and social
changes which have occurred. I am now well aware of the fact
that investment of any sort carries more risk than most people
realize, and stock speculation carries much less risk than most
people realize. Further, I have learned that there is no business in
which the uninformed and untrained can be so right and vice
versa. :

‘My family are growing up fast — that is the children. We are
all interested in the athletic life and also Participate actively in the
social and religious life of our community. I have been active in
Boy Scout and Cub Scout work, chairman of the Religious Edu-
cation Committee of the Unitarian Sunday School in Wellesley
Hills, an annual participant in church and community fund raising

[41 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

for many years, and an active officer of several charitable organi-
zations.

Due to limitations of space and time, I shall touch on only a few
convictions — social, political, or religious. First, I believe that
the young people of today are better on the whole than their
parents — mentally, morally, and physically. Second, we need
better leadership in this country from our businessmen and our
labor leaders. We have left it to the political leaders and the reli-
gious leaders largely, and we have found that that is not good
enough. And lastly, we are living in a “fool’s paradise” economi-
cally. This is due to the war and the unsound “New Deal” finan- °
cial policies. The people who have brains in this country have a
great responsibility to lead us through the tremendous trials that
lie ahead. It will be possible only at the cost of giving up some of
the social pleasures which we so much enjoy, of making less
money, and of working harder than has been the custom in the

recent past.

OLIVER HAZARD PERRY BALDWIN

HOME AppRESS: 1002 Berkeley Rd., Westover Hills, Wilmington, Del.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Farmers Bank of the State of Delaware, Wilmington, Del.

BorN: Feb. 26, 1904, Lansdowne, Pa. parents: Charles Edward Baldwin,
’99, Marianne Moseley Perry.

PREPARED AT: Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.; Lawrenceville School,
Lawrenceville, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Flizabeth St. John Webb, Nov. 27, 1929, Montclair, N. J. CHILDREN:
Oliver Hazard Perry, Jr., Nov. 2, 1931; Roger Conant, Sept. 6, 19353
Jean, Nov. 20, 1937. |

HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Edward Baldwin, Jr. ’26, M.b.A., °28; Lawrence
Perry Baldwin, ’34.

occupation: Commercial banking; president and director, Farmers Bank of
the State of Delaware in Wilmington. |

OFFICES HELD: Supervisor, General Stevedores, T. Hogan & Sons, 1928-303
assistant cashier, National Shawmut Bank of Boston, 1939-44; vice-presi-
dent, First National Bank, Akron, Ohio, 1944-46; vice-president, di-
rector, president since 1946, Wilmington Bank, Farmers Bank of State
of Delaware; instructor, Northern Ohio Institute (Dale Carnegie),
1945-46; general chairman, 1951, member Executive Committee, since
1948, treasurer, 1948-51, United Community Fund of Northern Dela-
ware; president, 1952, director, since 1947, vice-president, 1950-52,
chairman Executive Committee, 1949-52, Wilmington General Hos-

L 42]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pital, director, American Institute of Banking, since 1950, Financial
Public Relations Association, since 1950, Westover Hills Corporation,
chairman Public Relations Committee, 1948-51, member Executive
-Committee, since 1951, Delaware Bankers Association; treasurer, Citi-
zens Committee for Hoover Report, since 1949; member Nominating
Committee, American Bankers Association, 1949; president, since 1950,
vice-president and member Executive Committee, 1948-50, member
Committee for Delaware, United Business Committee of the National
Association of Manufacturers, since 1949; alternate member, Third
District Commercial Banking Voluntary Credit Restraint Committee,
since 1951; member, various committees, Chamber of Commerce.

MEMBER OF: Wilmington Country Club; Wilmington Club; Harvard Club
of New York; Newcomen Society of England, Thursday Club of
Boston.

TWO and a half years in New York: after graduation were spent
in the stevedore business. I then married and returned to Cam-
bridge. The shipping business and particularly the stock market
had come to no good and a bank seemed like a good haven at that
moment, so IJ started with the Shawmut in Boston in what has
turned into a commercial banker’s career. Cambridge was a fine
place in which to live until the time our first child was born.
Then we began to cast our eyes towards the country, and Ded-
ham was our choice. Twelve very happy years followed. Our
family increased until in 1937 we were the proud parents of two
boys and a girl. Busy years those, but now that the two boys are
away at school and only one very self-sufficient daughter is at
home, we often wish we could live those days over again. During
the last five of those years in Boston I travelled extensively for the
bank, contacting customers over a wide area of the country. This
‘was most broadening but meant I was away from home too much.

In 1944 an opportunity presented itself to become an Ohio
banker, so we moved to Akron. It was a difficult decision to make
as we just never thought we could leave Boston and all our friends.
But economically it seemed the only thing to do, Fortunately we
discovered there could be happiness away from New England!
We thoroughly enjoyed the next two and a half years in Akron
and probably would still be there had it not been for another
banking opportunity in Wilmington, Delaware.

We have now been in Wilmington for over five years and are
very happy. In that time we have made many friends and have
entered into the life of the community. Delaware is a fine state in

[ 43 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

which to live and work, Banking still takes up the better part of
my time and particularly so at present. What with all the repula-
tions with which our industry is beset, together with personnel
problems caused by the emergency, there is little time left for
much else. For recreation | manage to play a little tennis and golf
during the summer. Although I’m no expert in either, the results
are fairly creditable. During the winter months, one or two games
of squash a week keep me in shape. I also still enjoy skiing and
manage to take a short winter vacation each year at one of the
winter resorts.

The twenty-five years since graduation have gone all too fast. I
have been very fortunate, though; because of my travels I have
been able to keep in touch with many classmates throughout the
country, The entire Baldwin family is now looking forward to
its return to Cambridge next June, with nostalgia for the old folks
and a sort of curious anticipation for the youngsters.

t

ARTHUR LAWRENCE BALL
HOME AppreEss: 45 Gilson Rd, Scituate, Mass.
OFFICE AppRESS: 153 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 21, 1902, Boston, Mass. parents: Edward John Ball, Ethel
Gertrude Carmichael.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926,

married: Dorothy L. Thompson, Aug. 3, 1948, Medford, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Insurance, office manager.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Air raid warden; volunteer at Boston In-
formation Center.

UPON leaving Harvard, I became associated with my late father
in the real estate business in which I continued until the death
of my father in February, 1942. I then obtained employment as 4
salesman in one of the major oil companies and it was during this
period that I became acquainted with the young lady who later
became my wife. In 1946 I left this position and became employed
in one of the branch offices of an insurance company at Boston.
This brings my employment up to date.
In August, 1948, I married Dorothy L. Thompson at Medford,
and a year or so later moved to Scituate, thus fulfilling a years -old
desire to live near the sea. I am fond of sailing and hound dogs

[44]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and my hobby is landscaping, for which my new home offers
endless possibilities.

DONALD NELSON BALL

HOME AND OFFICE ADDREss: 118 S. Cherry St. Winston-Salem, N. C,

BORN: Jan. 17, 1904, Gearhart Township, Pa. parents: John William Ball,
Filla Gertrude Landau.

prepareD AT: Sunbury High School, Sunbury, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREES: 8.8. (Penn. State Coll.), 1928; s.m.
(Cornell Univ.), 1930; Mp. Cibid.), 1936.

marrizp: Dr. Isabel Bittinger (Radcliffe ’31), March 17, 1942, New York,
N. Y. cHipren: Patricia, May 15, 1943; Jean, April 17, 1945; Eleanor,
Jan. 27, 1948; Penclope, Jan. 27, 1948.

OccuPATION: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned, Medical Corps, A.U.S., 1942;
Medical Field Training School, Carlisle Barracks, Pa.: Marshall and
Caroline Islands, Okinawa, Korea; ophthalmologist and otololaryngol-
ogist,; clinical study, therapeutic aid, endemic Trachoma eye infec-
tion in Korea; surgery clinics, observations at Keijo University Hospi-
tal; ophthalmologist, Letterman General Hospital, The Presidio, Calif.;
Inactive Reserve, 1946; awarded Asiatic-Pacific Area Ribbon (one battle
star).

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association, county and state medical soci-
eties; Masonic Order; Elks; Society of Alumni of Bellevue Hospital;
Harvard Club, Philadelphia.

OFFICES HFID: Staff of visiting surgeons, Eye Service, Bellevue Hospital, New
York; instructor in ophthalmology, New York University Medical
School; attending staff, New York University Medical Clinic.

pustications: “The Diagnosis of Unilateral Exophthalmos”; “Primary Max.
Sinus Malignancy & Orbital Extension,” (case report); “Unilateral
Retinitis Pigmentosa” (two case reports).

JAMES SMITH BALLANTYNE

HOME ADDRESS: 24 Newbury Park, Needham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 Post Office Sq., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: March 9, 1904, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: James Ballantyne, Annie
Currie Smith.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. miagna cum laude, 1927; LL.B.
1930.

MARRIED: Margaret Howard, Aug. 22, 1930, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Ann
and Sara (twins), May 30, 1935.

OCCUPATION: Attorney-at-law.

[45]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, member Executive Committee, Roxbury Charitable
Society; member Board of Managers, Roxbury Home for Aged Wo-
men; director, Joseph Warren Codperative Bank; trustee, Davis Fund,
Institution for Savings in Roxbury; member Executive Committee,

Massachusetts Conveyancers Association.

] HAVE been closely engaged with the major and minor problems
of my fellows in the general practice of law in Boston, about
half the time for and with the others and the other half on my
own. It is interesting and engrossing and has confirmed my
suspicion that many are men of good deeds as well as of good
will. During the war I returned to the University for three years
as manager of the Psycho-acoustic Laboratory, confirming several
old friendships and finding new ones, as well as doing a bit towards
the war effort. For part of the same time I served on the Needham
Rationing Board and finished as chairman of the Price Panel
and in complete confusion. I still kept my law practice and
remember several of those days as times when I defied physics
and metaphysics and was in at least two places at once.

Politically 1 have been a picker of virtually scratched horses
every time, but I have strong hopes of reporting a good win by
the time my wife and Russell's fourth goad have extracted my
report to our Fiftieth. Yet when you raise twins, neither war
nor politics impresses itself on your consciousness. It is obvious
at once that your wife can’t do it all alone, so you feed one —
while she feeds the other, and it becomes increasingly clear that
two of everything cost more than one and a hand-me-down!
To put it truthfully, they are our pride and joy, and it’s too
bad Harvard isn’t co-educational. I have some power tools in
my basement where I spend some time now and again and
occasionally produce things of some use. This and a love of music,
which is shared by the whole family, together with increasingly
rare tennis, keep me on a fairly even keel without too much effort.

EDWARD BROOKS BALLARD

HOME AppREsS: 2205 N. Fourth St., Harrisburg, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pennsylvania Dept. of Forests and Waters, Bureau of Parks,
404 North St., Harrisburg, Pa.

BoRN: Jan. 25, 1906, Lexington, Mass. parents: Walter Clark Ballard, Clara
Abbie Bigelow.

[ 46]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

prepareD AT: Lexington High School, Lexington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.L.A., 193}3-

MargieD: Mina L. McCormick, Dec. 20, 1947, Tallahassee, Fla, cutcp; Robert
Clark, Oct. 2, 1951.

occuPaTION: Principal landscape architect, Bureau of Parks, Pennsylvania
Department of Forests and Waters.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Appointed 1st lieutenant, A.A.F. A.U.S. May,
1942; attended A.AF. Camouflage School, Hamilton Field, Calif., went
overseas with Hq., South Pacific Area, September, 1942; served as as-
sistant and base engincer supply officer with successive area and base
commands in New Zealand, New Caledonia, the Philippine Islands, and
Japan; separated as captain, C.E., May, 1946, reccived Asiatic-Pacific,
Philippine Liberation, and Victory Ribbons.

OFFICES HELD; Secretary-treasurer, Landscape Architects Club of Washing-
ton, D. C., 1941-42, Association of Southeastern State Park Directors,
1947-48.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Park Executives (fellow); National Con-
ference on State Parks, National Parks Association; Delta Upsilon Fra-
ternity (life member).

PUBLICATIONS: “Winter Sports,” Ayerican Planning and Civic Annual, 1936,
reprinted in Recreation; “The Appalachian Trailway,” Proceedings of
the 1937 Appalachian Trail Conference, “Winter Sports Trends” and
“Eliking and Climbing,” 1937 Yearbook, Park and Recreation Progress,
National Park Service; articles and editorials in National Parks Bulletin,
National Parks “Association, 1940-42.

SOMETIMES it is not the vagaries of chance that determine a life-
time career. My interest in the natural landscape and how people
enjoy using it dates back to Boy Scout days. Perhaps that is why
my adult years have been devoted mainly to park and recreation
planning. After college graduation, I spent two and a half years at
the School of Landscape Architecture, then I worked for eight
months in 1930 as assistant to the editor of Horticulture. I divided
my time during the next three years among feature writing, sea-
sonal private landscape jobs, and completion of studies for my
Master’s degree.

In the Roosevelt recovery year of 1933, the practice of my pro-
fession was at low ebb. The Civilian Conservation Corps proved
a life-saver to many landscape architects, For six years I was em-
ployed by the National Park Service in various capacities, from
landscape foreman to associate field codrdinator under the Civilian
Conservation Corps program and worked in New England, Mis-
Sissippi, and Washington, D. C. With the curtailment of Civilian

[ 47 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Conservation Corps activities, I left federal employment and be-
came executive secretary of the National Parks Association early
in 1940. On behalf of public-spirited citizens, I managed the work
of this volunteer organization for the protection of national parks
against commercial encroachment and over-development until
May, 1942. That was the month when Uncle Sam took me out of
civilian circulation, I was occupied with Army Engineer supply
problems in the Pacific for thirty-nine months during and after
World War II. Following terminal leave from the Army in the
spring of 1946, I was special representative of the National Recrea-
tion Association for a year on field service to state government
agencies in the Southeast. Then I filled a couple of administrative
positions in state park work: first, as assistant director, Depart-
ment of State Forests and Parks in Annapolis, Maryland, and next,
as park superintendent of Cumberland Falls State Park near Cor-
bin, Kentucky. In April, 1949, I assumed my present state park
job as a principal landscape architect for the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.

Certain envious friends have remarked that my travels around
the country enabled me to combine pleasure with business. It has
occasionally been true that I could indulge in my hobbies of
hiking or skiing and of taking color still and motion pictures while
engaged in park work, If the financial returns have not been very
high, other less tangible rewards have come from visiting practi-
cally every state in the Union and making a wide acquaintance
with persons in many places, On one such trip to Florida in 1946,
I met “the girl of my dreams,” and —a year later — “robbed” the
State Park director (who had introduced us) of his secretary by
marrying her. After a Christmas honeymoon in Bermuda, we
spent a snowy winter in Annapolis, where the deciduous trees
“looked dead” to my southern helpmate. We both worked for
the Commonwealth of Kentucky and observed the natural scene
at Cumberland Falls. Now in Pennsylvania, we are still living
betwixt and between the states where we were born,

We are rather proud of our only offspring for obvious reasons,
and because he is the first boy to carry on the family name. Being
less than ten weeks old at this writing, Bobby still has a long way
to go before he is ready for college, Yours truly may even turn
out to be the newest first-time papa at the Twenty-fifth Reunion

[ 48 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

next June. Bread-winning now has a double significance. I have
been fortunate in obtaining positions since the war under both
Democratic and Republican state administrations, where profes-
sional rather than political qualifications were considered for a
pointment. I have always regarded myself as a Republican but
avoided active participation in partisan politics. After voting twice
for Franklin Delano Roosevelt, I became disillusioned with the
New Deal and voted for Willkie and Dewey in subsequent na-
tional elections. If Taft is the successful candidate, I shall vote for
him in 1952. Eisenhower commands my greatest respect, how-
ever, and I hope he is nominated and elected on the Republican
ticket. In order to halt the creeping paralysis of state socialism
and restore integrity to the federal government, it seems to’ me
that we must change to a dynamic Republican leadership.

GEORGE BANCROFT.

HOME Appress: Cedar Run Road, RD. 2, Allison Park, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bargee Farms, Allison Park, Pa.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1905, Ithaca, N. Y. PARENTS: Wilder Dwight Bancrot, 88,
Katharine Meech Bott.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, “Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927 (28): PH.D. ~ (Cornell Univ. ),
1930.

marrieD: Barbara Byers, Sept. 10, 1928, North Andover, Mass. CHILDREN:
Katharine Bott, Aug. 23, 1929; Pauline, Nov. 13, 1930; Susan Kunhardt,
May 5, 1932; Wilder Dwight, April 16, 1940; Barbara, July 11, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Chandler Bancroft, ’23, M.B.A., ’25.

OCCUPATION: Farmer.

AM STILL raising poultry and occasionally riding with the local
Hunt Club.

FENNER SMITH BARBOUR

HOME ADDRESS: 398 Highland Ave., Wollaston 70, Mass.

OFFICE appRESsS: Bethlehem Steel Co., Shipbuilding Division, Quincy, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 13, 1906, Natick, Mass. parents: Albert Leslie Barbour, Addie
Barnes Smith.

PREPARED AT: Haverhill High School, Haverhill, ‘Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH. ENG. magna cum laude,
1927.

MarRigp: Mary Harrison Bronson Wurts, Aug. 10, 1935, East Orange, N. J.
CHILDREN: Albert Owen and Henry Fenner (twins), June 21, 1936.

[ 49 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927
occupation: Mechanical engineer, engaged in the design of marine propul-
sion machinery.

oFFices HELD: Member Board of Governors, Harvard Engineering Society,
1935-36.

MEMBER OF: Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers; Harvard
Engineering Society; Harvard Club of Quincy.

puBLications: “Fresh Water By Distillation of Sea Water,” Society of Naval
Architects and Marine Engineers, New England Section, January, 1951.

FOLLOWING graduation I remained at the Harvard Engineer-
ing School for the academic year 1927-1928 as assistant in me-
chanical engineering. In September, 1928, I joined the New York
Telephone Company, Manhattan Area Engineering Department,
where I remained until January, 1940. During that time I held a
variety of positions both in engineering and commercial fields.

In 1940 I accepted a position in the Central Technical Depart-
ment of the Shipbuilding Division of Bethlehem Steel Company
and for the past dozen years have had an interesting experience in
research and design of marine propulsion equipment of all kinds.
A major field of interest has been the development of low pressure
marine distilling plants for making a vessel’s total fresh water
requirement by the distillation of sea water, Most vessels built in
this country in the last five years obtain their fresh water in this
manner. Under major hobbies I would include camping and hik-
ing in the mountains whenever I can steal the time.

NEAL HAYNES BARKER

HOME ADDRESS: 344 N. Louisiana Sct., Albuquerque, N. Mex.

OFFicE ADDRESS: Granite City Engineer Depot, Granite City, Ill.

BorN: Nov. 2, 1902, Lowell, Mass. parents: Perry Barker, Harriette Haynes.

PREPARED AT: Holderness School, Plymouth, N. H. Allen-Chalmers Military
School, West Newton, Mass., DeWitt Clinton Hebberd School, New-
ton, Mass.; Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: §.B., 1927.

Marriep: Nellie Ruth Beals, March 20, 1925, Providence, R. 1. ciitoren:
Nancy Ruth, April 5, 1926 (7. LeRoy Roberts, April 15, 1944, Belen,
N. Mex.); Ann, Dec. 23, 1927 (m. Thomas A. Holloway, Feb. 6, 1949,
Linz, Austria), Sara Jane, Jan, 8, 1936. GRANDCHILDREN: Sylvia Lee
Roberts, Aug. 1, 1945; Anita Roberts, July 25, 1948; Cheryl Ann Hol-
loway, May 6, 1950.

occupation: Major CE, U. S. Army, Operations and Training Officer,
597th Engineer Base Depot.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Joined A.A.C, Aug. 20, 1942, as Ese lieutenant;

[50]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

overseas Aug. 4, 1943; service in Northern Ireland (8th AF), England,
France, Belgium, Germany (oth AF); promoted captain Jan. 1, 1944;
returned to U. S. Oct. 14, 1945; service Patterson Field, Ohio, January—
July, 1946; detailed in Corps of Engineers July, 1946, with duty at Fort
Belvoir, Va.; overseas Oct. 8, 1946; duty with U. S. Forces in Austria
Oct. 20, 1946-May 19, 1950; duty at Granite City Engineer Depot,
Granite City, Ill, June 30, 1950, to present, promoted major Oct. 26,
1950.
FROM graduation until 1942 . was associated with my father,
Perry Barker, in the fuel engineering and analytical business in
Boston. During this period I lived in Cambridge and Winchester,
Massachusetts. It was an interesting life — complete with joys and
sorrows, booms and depressions, prohibition and repeal. There
were six of us in our house — including the cat — when the affair
at Pearl Harbor took place, and I had become rather set in my
ways. Or should I say rut? In any case, Pearl Harbor did some-
thing to me. As a result, shortly before my fortieth birthday, I
started to live a whole new life. Should anyone be interested,
the next five years are in the Twentieth Anniversary Report. That
account ends in the spring of 1947. From then until May, 1950, I
remained with the United States Forces in Austria. From the day
I arrived there in October, 1946, until the day I departed I was
the Engineer Purchasing and Contracting Officer. There was
plenty of work but still time for trips, with my family, to various
other European countries. And of course I didn’t pass up any
of those fine Austrian trout streams. We made many fine friends,
both American and European, and when our daughter, Ann, was
married in February, 1949, they turned out to fill the church. It
was a very gratifying expression of international best wishes for
the youngsters. We arrived back in New York on the first of June,
1950, and after visiting relatives and friends, arrived here in
Granite City just after the Korean attack.

We spent the first month in a basement apartment then got
quarters on the post where we now live. There is plenty of work
to be done —never a dull moment. Our social life is mainly
inside the reservation, so we have little reason to go outside, even
to St. Louis which is just across the Mississippi. We did venture
out twice last year — once to visit Albuquerque to see if our little
adobe home in the west was still there. It was. But the trees and
grass and shrubbery had disappeared. The second trip was to my

[51]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

wife’s old home town— Jamestown, North Dakota—and 4
swing through Minneapolis to drop in on Don Holmes. We
tried, but found that one night was not long enough to capture
all the loose ends of twenty-four years of no writing, no seeing,
Perhaps Cambridge, this June, will afford us the opportunity to
catch up. Whether we can be present or not depends upon what
Uncle S. decides between now and then. Hope we can make it
with the whole entourage — at least we shall bring our young-
est daughter, Sara Jane, who is interested to learn if the sons of

Harvard men all have the accent or if they must attend Harvard
to acquire it,

DONALD KING BARNES

HOME ApDpRESS: 8120 E. Jefferson Ave. Detroit 14, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 14-223 General Motors Bldg., Detroit 2, Mich. ,

BORN: June 22, 1908, Cedarhurst, Long Island, N. Y. parents: Edwin Allen
Barnes, Maude Harriet King.

PREPARED AT: Far Rockaway High School, New York, N. Y. |

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925, 1926-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927 (28);
m.B.A. (New York Univ.), 1931; 118. (Fordham Univ.), 1938; s.J.p. (St.
John’s Univ., Brooklyn), 1940.

marriep: Ruth Margaret Chadwick, June 27, 1936, Rockville Centre, N. Y.
HARVARD BROTHER: Edwin Allen Barnes, Jr., °37. .
OCCUPATION: Lawyer. |

.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Major, U. S. Army Air Corps, May, 1942, to

January, 1946, service entirely in US. principally at Wright’ Field,
Dayton, Ohio, in procurement.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of Eastern. Michi-
gan; Theta Xi Fraternity; Theta Xi Club of Detroit, Detroit. Bar As-
sociation; State Bar of Michigan; American Bar Association; golf club.

THE two most important events in my life since 1927 have been
meeting Ruth in 1930 and marrying her in 1936. We never have
understood why the two dates were so far apart, though perhaps
the depression had something to do with it.

_ Business and professional activities fall into easy categories:
fifteen years with Bankers Trust Company in New York, four
years with the Air Corps in Dayton, and six years as a member
of the staff of the General Counsel of General Motors Corpora-
tion, of which one year was spent in New York and five years in

Detroit. The professional education was added through several
years of night schooling. - :

[52]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Ruth, having no family responsibilities, is a working girl, hav-
ing been with General Motors for sixteen years except for a war
service leave of absence during which she joined me as a civilian
employee at Wright Field. Her duties there for a time included
supervising some of my work —a situation that I found cozy but

difficult.

JOSEPH FELS BARNES

HOME Appress: 430 VV. 22nd St., New York 11, N. Y.

orFice appress: Simon & Schuster, Inc. 1230 Sixth Ave., New York, N. Y.

BORN: July 21, 1907, Montclair, N. J. parents: Earl Barnes, Anna Kohler.

PREPARED AT: Friends Central School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.

MarrigD: Kathleen Middleton, 1928, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1935);
Elizabeth Brown, Nov. 1, 1935, New York, N. Y. cHipren: Ann,
Sept. 18, 1932; Andrew, May 15, 1938, Nancy, Dec. 2, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Bernard Barnes, ’30.

OCCUPATION: Editor, Simon & Schuster, Inc., Publishers.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Deputy director, Overseas Branch, Office of
War Information, 1941-44.

OFFICES HELD: Member Board of Directors, Joseph Fels Foundation, Institute
of Current World Affairs.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Century Association,

PuBLIcATIONS: Editor, Empire in the East, 1934; translator, Days and Nights,
by Konstantin Simonov, 1945; translator, Company of Men, by Romain

Gary, 1950.

MY LIFE since 1927 has been that of a reporter and editor, special-
izing in foreign news and foreign writing. I have left newspaper
work three times: in 1928 to work briefly for the old Equitable
Trust Company; in 1931 to do research on Siberia and Manchuria
for the Institute of Pacific Relations; and in 1941 to organize a
propaganda service to Europe for the Office of War Information.
Except for these breaks, I worked steadily for newspapers, chiefly
the New York Herald Tribune, in New York, Moscow, Berlin,
Poland, London, and Normandy. For some years I was that
paper’s foreign editor. In 1948, with a group of other newspaper-
men, I started the New York Star as a successor to PM. In seven
months it had too short a run for its money, and when it folded,
the newspaper business left me. Since then, I have done a good
deal of editing and translating for many publishers, broadcasting

[53]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

for BBC, part-time teaching at Sarah Lawrence, New York Uni-
versity, and Dartmouth, and I am now an editor of Simon &
Schuster, Inc.
This way of living has given me working control of three
foreign languages, a reporter’s knowledge of a good many areas
and people in this country and abroad, and the curiosity which is
the housemaid’s knee of foreign correspondents. In a generation
which has lived through the depression, the anti-Fascist move-
ment, a world war, and the present struggle for human freedom
everywhere, it has also given me a feeling + of having been part of
my own times, and this is a feeling I now believe I should miss
badly if I could not keep it. It has probably deprived me of some
of the peace of mind and the simple convictions which I believe
T should also value if I had them. A reporter inevitably grows to
be too much a spectator; the late Wendell Willkie, with whom I
flew around the world on the trip in 1942 which led to his writing
One World, was the only political leader I have found for whom
I could work with only minor reservations.

The Sub-committee on Internal Security of the Committee on
the Judiciary of the United States Senate, popularly known as
the McCarran Committee, has recently honored me with a review
of my post-college life much louder and funnier than anything a
citizen could contrive for himself. Stripped of the adornments —
invented by Communists, ex-Communists, and ambitious politi-
cians, the story is less readable. It has left me still restless to see
and learn a good deal more before I can begin to define the com-

plicated, frustrating, and exciting business of being an American in
the second half of the twentieth century,

DWIGHT BARNUM

HOME ADDRESS: 1120 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 19, 1904, Worcester, Mass. parents: Dana Dwight Barnum,
Caroline Munroe.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927.
UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Munroe Barnum, ’30 (deceased).

1928-1933: G. L. Ohrstom & Company, Investments — New
York, Boston, Atlanta.

[54]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1933-1937: A. G. Tomasello & Son, Boston Road Building Con-
tractors.

1937-1940: Koppers Coal Company, Mt. Hope, West Virginia.

1940-1945: Watertown Arsenal, Watertown, Massachusetts;
EF. B. Badger & Sons, Coppersmiths, Cambridge, Mass.

1945-1949: Store and office window lettering — contractor.

Since 1949: Hospitalized.

EUGENE. PATRICK BARRY

HOME aAppREss: 47 Brewster Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 44 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 31, 1903, Beacon, N. Y. paRENTS: Joseph Eugene Barry, Ellen
Farrell.

PREPARED AT: Beacon High School, Beacon, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Margaret Murphy, Oct. 16, 1933, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Fugene P., July 24, 1934; Margo, March 28, 1939; Carol, Dec. 25, 1941;
Douglas, Feb. 12, 1944; Faith Ellen, June 8, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Investment banking; partner, Shields & Company, New York.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Metropolitan Club, New York;
Broad Street, New York; Scarsdale Golf Club; Racquet Club, St. Louis.

PUBLICATIONS: “Common Stock Financing with Preemptive Rights”; “New
Trends in Common Stock Distribution”; “Underwriting I Index”; “Sec-
ondaries and Specials.”

I HAVE been with Shields & Company since 1927. I was made
a partner in 1933 and have been active in investment banking
work. I am a director of the McQuay Norris Manufacturing
Company, St. Louis, a director and member of the executive
committee of Interstate Motor Freight System; former director
of Maryland Dry Dock Company; governor of the Association
of the New York Stock Exchange firms and of the New York
Curb Exchange; chairman of various committees in the Invest-
ment Banking Association.

I live in Scarsdale, New York. I have five active children
ranging from six to seventeen years — all doing different things
at different times in different ways. My hobbies are golf, read-
ing, and travel. I have travelled throughout the North Ameri-
can Continent with my family and am ‘particularly interested in
Mexico. Formerly I was a director of La Consolidada Steel
Company, located in Mexico City.

[55]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

JOHN REARDON BARRY

HOME AppREsS: 169 Corey St, West Roxbury, Mass.
OFFICE AppREss: 81 Corey St. West Roxbury, Mass.

BORN: June 16, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Joseph Aloysius Barry; Mary
Gertrude Garrigan.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.D. 1931.
marriepD: Ruth Elizabeth Keleher, Jan. 25, 1936, WWoburn, Mass. CHILDREN:

John Reardon, Jr., Oct. 28, 1936; Ruth Elizabeth, Jan. 27, 1939; Philip
Lane, July 10, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Joseph Aloysius Barry, Jr., 32, Philip Barry, 736.

OccUPATION: Physician — surgery and general practice.

OFFICES HELD: Councillor, Massachusetts Medical Society, 1938-40; president,
West Roxbury Medical Association, 1945-46, director, West Roxbury-
Roslindale Kiwanis Club, 1936-41, 1948-50; assistant in surgery, Boston
City Hospital, 1934-45, Tufts Medical School, 1939-45, Boston Univer-
sity Medical School, 1936-45; assistant to visiting surgeon, Boston City
Hospital, 1942-47.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
Norfolk District Medical Society, West Roxbury Medical Association;
International College of Surgeons; New England Society of Examining
Physicians; West Roxbury-Roslindale Kiwanis Club; St. Vincent de Paul
Society; St. Luke’s Guild; several hospital staffs.

I SPENT the four years from 1927 to 1931 at Harvard Medical
School. From 1931 to 1933 1 served a surgical internship at
the Boston City Hospital. Following this I spent six months in
obstetrics at the Boston Lying-In Hospital. These hospital years
were strenuous but extremely interesting and stimulating. In
1933 I opened an office in West Roxbury, where I am still prac-
tising, doing surgery and some general practice. For ten years I
did out-patient work and taught surgery to medical students at
the Boston City Hospital and for five years, during the war, was
a visiting surgeon. Since then I have been forced to confine all
my energy to a busy practice. It has been hard work but never
dull, and I am sure I could not be persuaded to swap it for another
job.

! The practice of medicine does not leave much time for the
enjoyment of one’s family, and since I have the best wife and
best children that anyone ever had, I often wish that my profes-
sion were less demanding. However, we have managed some

[56]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

travelling — to Bermuda, Sea Island, Maine, Vermont, Cape Cod,
Canada in the summers, and some of the convention cities in the
winters. I haven’t found time to develop hobbies, unless occa-
sional golf, fishing, and the piano can qualify. I am a registered
Democrat but an independent when it comes to election time. My
religion is Roman Catholic.

_ JOHN WILSON BARRY

HOME ADDRESS: Lurgan Green, RFD. 1, New Hope, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cresap, McCormick & Paget, 342 Madison Ave., New York
N. Y.

BORN: June 20, 1905, Aldan Pa. parents: Edward Earl Barry, Bertha Wright.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Swarthmore College, Swarthmore, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927(28).

MarRieD: Elizabeth Hopkinson Stetson, June 28, 1941, Philadelphia, Pa.

OCCUPATION: Senior consultant, management engineering firm.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Unit Chief, Paper Branch, Price Section, O.P.A.
January, 1942, to November, 1943.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Mione Manufacturing Company, Collingdale, Pa,
since 1950.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; American Marketing Association;
American Statistical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in trade journals and professional journals.

9

PAUL SHERMAN BAUER

HOME AppRESsS: Monroe Road, Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE ADpRESsS: 78 Mt. Vernon St., Lynn, Mass.

BoRN: March 20, 1904, Lynn, Mass. PARENTS: Ralph S. Bauer, Fannie
Miller.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass. |

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923—1927. DEGREES: s.B. cum laude, 19273 S.M., 1928.

OCCUPATION: Commander, U. S. Navy; president, North Shore News
Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: In service February, 1942-September, 1945; re-
called to active duty Sept. 10, 1951.

EDWARD BAUR

HOME Appress: R.R. 2, Allendale, Terre Haute, Ind.
OFFIcE ApprEsS: Terre Haute Brewing Co., Inc., 440 S. Ninth Street, Terre
Haute, Ind.

[57]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Born: May 8, 1906, Chicago, Ill. parents: Oscar Baur, Lilith Diehl,

PREPARED AT: Boys Preparatory School, Indianapolis, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1927; M.B.A., 19209.

marrieD: Mary Elisabeth Naylor, October, 1933, Rye, N. Y. cHmpren:
Mary Elisabeth, Oct. 16, 1935; Edward Oscar, Dec. 27, 1940.

OCCUPATION: President, Terre Haute Brewing Company, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Member Board of Directors, ‘Terre Haute Y.M.C.A., since
1943; director, Terre Haute Country Club, 1945-47, Terre Haute Boys
Club, since 1945, Terre Haute Chapter, American Red Cross, since
1951, Merchants National Bank of Terre Haute; president, Terre Haute
Y.M.C.A., since 1949, Indiana Brewers Association, 1951-52; co-chair-
man, 1950, chairman, 1951, Terre Haute Community Chest Campaign,

member Board of Governors and Executive Committee, Rose Polytech-
nic Institute, Terre Haute.

MEMBER OF: Country Club of Terre Haute; Aero Club; 826 Club.

AT Business School graduation time in the spring of 1929 the
securities markets looked to me, as to many people at that moment
in history, like “The Promised Land,” so I ended up in the securi-
tics business with the firm of Graham, Parsons & Company in
Philadelphia. The unpleasant action of the securities markets in
the fall of 1929 removed a large part of the gilt and glamour
from the picture, but in those days a job was a job, and so we
stayed in the securities business trading corporate and later
municipal bonds, playing squash in the winter, tennis in the
summer, and occasionally doing some trout fishing in the spring.

After being married in the fall of 1933, we gave up the securi-
ties business and Philadelphia and in the spring of 1934 moved to
Terre Haute and the brewing business, in which we have been
ever since. In the intervening years business has been good,
business has been bad, but in any event the brewing business is
never dull nor static and has kept me very much with my nose
to the grindstone for the past eighteen years. In the meantime
we have accumulated a couple of youngsters, a daughter now
sixteen and getting to be quite a young lady, and a son of eleven
who is getting old enough now to take his old man on a fishing
trip in the summer. My hobbies are playing golf, fishing when
the opportunity offers, sitting in the sun on the terrace, and when
possible taking vacations in the Southwest, in Mexico, or among
the Caribbean Islands. All in all it is a quiet, small-town life,
but lots of fun and we enjoy it.

[58]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES HOLLAND BEAL

HOME AppREsS: 115 High Sc. Taunton, Mass.

oFFice Appress: St. Thomas Church, Taunton, Mass.

BORN: June 2, 1904, Nahant, Mass. parents: William Fields Beal, ’93, Lillian
Sprague Darrow.

prepared AT: Alohonk School, Mohonk Lake, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; Gr. (Virginia Theol. Semi-
nary), 1934.

mMarrirp: Georgette Appleton Binney, Oct. 30, 1934, Boston, Mass. cHitpreN:
Boylston Adams, 2d, Oct. 19, 1935; Nina Appleton, Oct. 5, 1937; James
Holland, Jr, Sept. 14, 1939; Joanna Darrow, May 26, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Willis Paine Beal, ’25.

occuPaTION: Rector, St. Thomas Church.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, Chaplains’ Corps, World War IL.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chaplain, post chapel, Camp Lee, Va.

OFFICES HELD: Chaplain, King David Lodge and American Legion; president,
Bristol Co. S.P.C.C., vice-president, Taunton Cooperative Churches;
director, Taunton Family Service and Camp William Lawrence.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club; Union Boat Club; New Bedford Yacht Club,
B.P.O.E.; Kiwanis.

WHAT with one thing and another, and life being what it is, I
left college to be a banker and chased the almighty dollar from
1927 to 1931. The crash changed my point of view and took all
but my pants. It would have had those, too, if the law allowed.
Then, through psychology and social service, I dabbled in the
church until I found it so absorbing I closed my desk at Kidder,
Peabody & Company, and retired to the Virginia Seminary for
three years to become one of those individuals invisible six days a
week and incomprehensible on the seventh.

In 1934 I went as curate to the Grace Church at New Bedford,
and became minister-in-charge on the resignation of the rector.
Then I went as Rector to Emmanuel Church at Braintree, Massa-
chusetts, where I stayed until 1940, when I became rector of St.
Thomas Church at Taunton. I’ve been there ever since, except
for a year’s leave of absence in the Army. Life continues most
pleasantly, trying to live on air and dew like an orchid, doing a
spot of sailing in summer and a spill or two of skiing in the winter,
plus coping with the viscissitudes of a large family and parish.

[ 59 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

ROBERT VERNON BEALS

HOME appreEss: Albany, via Conway, N. H.

BORN: May 2, 1906, Cambridge, Mass. parents; Charles Edward Beals,
Nellie Vernon Drake.

PREPARED AT: Manchester High School, Manchester, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: AB. 1927; A.M. (New Hampshire
Univ.), 1930.

marrieD: Dorothy Caldwell Clark, June 21, 1940, Keene, N. H. (divorced

1946). CHILDREN: Constance, May 20, 1932; Ruth Emma, April 8, 1934;
Robert Vernon, Jr. Oct. 31, 1938.

occupation: General builder; land clearance, road building, landscaping,

foundations, complete building, plumbing, painting, land surveying.
lumbering operations.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II: Inducted A.S., U.S.N.L, Oct. 19,
1943; honorable discharge as CM 2/c, 118th U.S.N.C.B.’s— D-2z, Nov.
28, 1945; Overseas service with 118th Seabees, at Milne Bay, New
Guinea, April, 1944-March, 1945; with 118th Detachment A, March-

October, 1945, in full charge of the lumber yard at U. S. Naval Base,
Gamadodo, Milne Bay.

OFFICES HELD: Member of School Board, Albany, N. H., since March, 1951;
member, Civil Air Patrol, Conway, N. H., 1952.
MEMBER OF: Fryeburg, Maine, Lodge 148, 10.0F.

IN THE twenties I would have been considered a liberal, or per-
haps a radical, as I expected government to be on a professional,
humanitarian, and honest basis. Considering the welfare of our
country and its people of paramount importance, and political
parties (useful as the organized vehicles of the people’s will), as
of secondary importance and not as ends in themselves, has left
me —like the Old Testament prophets —a voice crying in the
wilderness. Holding to my basic earlier politico-social tenets, I
now in these times appear to many to be a rockbound conserva-
tive, or even a reactionary. I suppose now it is rank heresy to
expect and demand that our government be carried on in an hon-
est and efficient professional manner, as it is supposed to be.

In recent years I have been most effectively active in a bitterly
fought contest — getting this town on a completely professional
basis, from assessments right through administration, for the first
time in its history. So I am still a fighting idealist. Present party

preference: Republican; religious denomination: Congregation-
alist. ;

[ 60 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE BURNHAM BEAMAN, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE apprEss: Swift Lane, Noroton, Conn.

BORN: Aug. 13, 1905, Waltham, Mass. PARENTS: George Burnham Beaman,
Mary Burnham.

PREPARED AT: Waltham High School, Waltham, Mass.; Stone School, Bos-
ton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: S.B. CU7/1 loude, 1927; M.D. 1934.

marRiED: Elizabeth Worcester, May 22, 1928, Cambridge, Mass. curpren:
George Burnham, 3d, April 9, 1929 (7. Meredith Ackerman, Dec. 15,
1951); Constance, April 8, 1931; Barbara Elizabeth, May 18, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Bancroft, ’26, LL.B., ’29.

OCCUPATION: Psychiatric medicine.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned captain, AUS Air Force, June
II, 1942; assistant, then chief, N-P Service, Jefferson Barracks, March,
1942—April, 1944; assistant chief N-P Service, Santa Ana AAB, Calif,

’  April-November, 1944; chief, N-P Service, Bowman Field Convalescent
Hospital, Louisville, Ky., November, 1944-June, 1945; chief, N-P Serv-
ice, Regional Hospital, Buckley Field, Denver, Colo., June-December,
1945; promoted major, November, 1943.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Psychiatric Associ-
ation; Harvard Club of Boston; National Board of Medical Examiners
(diplomate); American Board of Neurology and Psychiatry (certified
in psychiatry).

PUBLICATIONS: “Psychiatry in General Practice—Some Aspects of Fear,”
New England Journal of Medicine, Dec. 14, 1950.

OBSERVING the air of indifference which pervaded Harvard
Yard to such psychopathic degree that the football team didn’t
know whether to walk to the nearest exit or to run (so they got
trampled), and wondering if some of my classmates had not
become so lost in indifference they couldn’t or wouldn’t recog-
nize their own faces in the mirror, I too became befoozled — but
not indifferent. I like to claim I was the only graduate ever both
to flunk out and wind up with honors! After a look-see at Denni-
son Manufacturing Company in Framingham, I went back to
college for a year’s pre-med grind and thence to Harvard Medi-
cal School, where indifference to practical matters of medical
training was rife; for example, the person who happened to have
an ailing liver was totally ignored, but his gizzard —what a
beautiful pathological specimen, gentlemen!

So after this psychopathic Harvardiana I figured it was time
something got ripe — maybe psychiatry. After a year’s surgi-
cal internship at Lowell General Hospital, I spent a couple at

[ 61 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

McLean Mental Hospital, Waverley, Massachusetts, thence to
London for neurology and back to Riggs Sanitarium in Stock-
bridge, Massachusetts. Then having learned not too much
(maybe the indifference did get me), I practised psychiatry in
Boston from 1938 to 1942. During the war I acted chiefly as a
sort of dispatching clerk to 10,000 men not all of Harvard — you
go home, you stay in. It was fun trying to figure who was
crazier — those who wrote cockeyed orders, the brass that was
left in the U.S.A., the doctors, the psychiatrists, or their patients.
At least a lot of the patients seemed to know how to get home.
Boy, were the docs burned up!

Since the war we've been poking around Stamford, Connecti-
cut, doing our stint, observing the confusion high and wide, and
wondering why management and labor don’t get honestly
together so we all can buy a nickel’s worth of candy for five —
what was it they used to call em — pennies? — and wondering too
why folks are so afraid to get honest with themselves. If they but
would, there wouldn’t be so much need for psychiatry, and
psychiatric treatment would be a darned sight more successful.
Family? Why they weren’t all nuts beats me. Guess it was the
wife’s Radcliffe aplomb saved the day. After a sojourn at Col-
orado College, the boy got an invitation from Uncle Sam. So
he’s fighting a paper battle at Aberdeen and has a beautiful wife
keeping secrets in the next office. Connie is beautiful and in
music at Westminster College. She ain’t dumb either. Little
Robin is also beautiful and full of hell, What’s more the wife is
still beautiful — even if she did go to Radcliffe.

Me and my boat had an argument with a submarine in Long
Island Sound. I don’t recommend it. But having cruised the New
England coast, and toured widely through the United States, J
do recommend that New Englanders and New Yorkers take a
trip west of the Hudson — they'll never be the same again. It is
worth more to a rock-ribbed soul in some ways than a European
gander. I know —I've skied the Alps. I believe in God — have
since I was a wee boy and still hope to learn what this means
before I die. But I don’t believe in machine politics such as Tru-
man et al.—that’s your fault and mine, brother. I am encour-
aged about one thing, however: at the Yale game last fall the
only drunks in sight were classmates. That’s routine for the

[ 62]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

indifferently trained. But the present crop of kids had no
bottles. They were pink-cheeked, eager, happy, and cheering as
though they meant it. Looks like Harvard is convalescing. Good

sign.
JULES BEAN

HOME AbpRESS: 400 E. sgth St.. New York 22, N. Y.
OFFIce ADpREss: Singer, Bean & Mackie, Inc. go Exchange Pl., New York,

N. Y.
BoRN: Oct. 12, 1906, Newburyport, Mass. parents: Louis Bean, Agnes Ad-
noff.

PREPARED AT: Manning High School, Ipswich, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928, DEGREE: A.B., 1927 (28).

MARRIED: Leona Gloria Neyman, Oct. 3, 1931, Montreal, P. Q., Canada
(divorced 1947). criLp: Julienne Phyllis, July 6, 1932.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Louis Bean, Jr., °24, L.B., ’27 (deceased); Georges Wash-
ington Bean, °28.

OCCUPATION: Securities, secretary, director, and trading department man-
ager, Singer, Bean & Mackie, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman, Jewish Big Brothers of New York; member,
Jewish Board of Guardians.

MEMBER OF: New York Securities Traders Association; New York Securi-
ties Dealers Association, National Securities Traders Association.

AFTER sitting for the last twenty-two years at a securities trad-
ing desk, where time is of the essence and decisions must be made
in split seconds, where there is no time for leisurely thinking or
writing, I find it difficult to slow down the mental processes to
the point of remembering and writing what has happened to me
in the past twenty-four years.

During my years at college I had wanted to enter the diplomatic
service as a career man and so majored in international Jaw. I was
dissuaded from this in my last year for several reasons and so I
took the first job that came along after graduation, selling insur-
ance for the New York Life. I didn’t like this after a year’s try
and migrated to New York and got a job as a glorified assistant to
the assistant manager of the export department of Libby, McNeil
& Libby, figuring that this might eventually lead to work in for-
eign countries. After a few months I realized that it would be a
good many years before this would happen, and I quit in April,
1929. In 1929 the newspapers were headlining the rise of the
stock market. That was the place for me. I got my first job in

[ 63 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

May, 1929, and have been in the securities business ever since. It
has been a fascinating business as well as a very lucrative one.
Although we have had several lean periods in the past twenty-two
years, the “feasts” more than take care of the “famines.” I have
been associated with my two present business partners for the past
twelve years as co-workers and co-officers of another firm. In
May, 1950, we decided to strike out for ourselves and I am happy
to say it was a fortuitous move.

My daughter, who is now nineteen, spent two years at Syracuse,
but then decided to live at home and concentrate on her dramatic
and musical studies, hoping some day to be a musical comedy star.
She has helped to keep me young. I still enjoy all sports and play
tennis throughout the summer, although I must admit that I’m
not as fast as I used to be, and my muscles take too long a time to
get into condition. I have spent a great deal of time during the
past several years working with the Jewish Big Brothers, helping
under-privileged boys. This has given me a great deal of spiritual

satisfaction. The need for this help is great and there are too few
of us who recognize it.

So, to sum it all up, I can say that I have had quite a full life up
to now. I am very happy in my work and doubly so because of
my two partners. I have managed to have time to expand the
cultural side of my life by going to concerts and the theatre a
great deal. 1 am looking forward to our Twenty-fifth.

LUCIUS MORRIS BEEBE

HOME AND OFFICE Appress: Virginia City, Nev.

BorN: Dec. 9, 1902, Wakefield, Mass. pareNTs: Junius Beebe, Eleanor
Harriet Merrick.
PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927(28).
UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Journalist.

MEMBER OF: Confrerie des Chevaliers du Tastevin; The Players (club);
Chi Delta Theta (Yale literary society); Princeton Triangle Club
(honorary).

pusiications: Cable Car Carnival; Mixed Train Daily; U. S. West, the
Saga of Wells Fargo; Legends of the Comstock Lode: Virginia &
Truckee (co-authored with Charles Clegg); Boston and the Boston
Legend; The Stork Club Bar Book; Snoot If You Must; High Iron;
Highball; Trains in Transition; High Liners,

[ 64]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER one year in the Graduate School working with Pro-
fessor J. L. Lowes in the poetry of E. A. Robinson, I went to
work on the editorial staff of the New York Herald Tribune
where I remained twenty years variously as city staff reporter,
feature writer, editorial writer, assistant in drama, and author of
a syndicated column called “This New York.” While my edito-
rial and magazine work were largely concerned for various aspects
of the texture of urban life and my name became most closely
associated with New York theatres, restaurants, and what passes
for sophistication, my interests were increasingly in the Ameri-
can West. Book assignments took me to California, Nevada, and
other western states with increasing frequency. I acquired prop-
erty in Virginia City, Nevada, scene of the once opulent Com-
stock Lode and, in 1950, after more than twenty years with the
Tribune, 1 resigned my desk there and assumed residence and
citizenship in Storey County, Nevada. I have book and maga-
zine assignments to last me for some time and hope it may never
be necessary for me to live again in the East for which I have
acquired an ever-increasing dislike for reasons geographic, social,
economic, and political. The trouble with the East is it has peo-
ple. We have one resident to the square mile in Nevada which
I incline to regard as over-populated, but it is still possible to
drive all day and not encounter a Communist, a Congressman, or
any important functionary of the federal government. I don’t
see a newspaper more than once a fortnight, I own no wireless,
and I want nothing to do with any of the things reported via
these agencies for mystification, confusion, and terror.

My concern as an historian of the American West is all with
the past. In a world where there is no future and where the pres-
ent is a street accident, the past is the only field left to a man of
intelligence.

WILBUR JOSEPH BENDER

HOME AppRESS: 32 Highland St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 4 University Hall, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 15, 1903, Elkhart, Ind. PARENTS: George Louis Bender, Elsie Kolb.

PREPARED AT: Elkhart High School, Elkhart, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927; A.M,
1930; LL.D. (Cedar Crest Coll.), 1951.

[ 65 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

marriep: Laura Bradshaw Fay, June 2, 1934, Cambridge, Mass. cHtupren:

Sarah Fay, Aug. 25, 1937; Barbara Fay, Oct. 12, 1939; David Bowman,
Aug. 7, 1042.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Leighton Bender, M.p., °37.

occupation: Lecturer on history, Harvard University; Dean of Harvard
College.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RecorD: Lieutenant, U.S.N.R. March, 1943-September,
1944; Officer-in-charge, V-12 Unit, Tufts College.

OFFICES HELD: President, Board of Overseers, Shady Hill School, Cambridge,
1948-51, Phillips Club, Andover, Mass.; trustee, Charles and Julia Henry
Fund, since 1947, Charity of Edward Hopkins, since 1948, member
Advisory Committee to Board of Examiners for Foreign Service, De-
partment of State, since 1938; member Advisory Board, Experiment in
International Living, since 1947; member Personnel and Policy Com-
mittee, Japanese International Christian University, since 1949; director,

Andover Evening Study Groups, Andover Consumers Cooperative
Society, Andover Summer Session.

MEMBER OF: American Association of University Professors, American His-

torical Association; Phi Beta Kappa (honorary, Harvard); Cum Laude
Society (honorary, Exeter).

PUBLICATIONS: Nonresistance in Colonial Pennsylvania, 1934.

SINCE graduation I have lived the uneventful and rewarding life
of an academic person. I began teaching at nineteen, in fact, two
years before I came to Harvard, and I’ve been teaching ever since
except for graduate study and a brief period of unheroic desk-
bound service in the Navy. From 1927 to 1929 I taught at a now
defunct school in Williamstown, Massachusetts. This was fol-
lowed by five years at Harvard as instructor and tutor in history
and assistant dean, and eight years as instructor in history at
Phillips Academy, Andover. I can imagine no more satisfying life
than that of a classroom teacher, if you like it.

Nevertheless I returned to Harvard in 1945 primarily to do ad-
ministrative work, After two hectic years as counsellor for vet-
erans I became, in the spring of 1947, the sixth and last dean of
Harvard College. This office will be abolished on July 1, 1952, as
part of a far-reaching reorganization of the administration of the
College which I have been urging ever since my second year as
dean. On July t, I shall become dean of admissions and scholar-
ships, with certain additional responsibilities in the field of gencral
College policy and raising money for the College.

I shall resist the temptation to expound here my views about
education and Harvard in particular, If any of us are still around

[ 66 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in 1977 I can make a speech then. I can say, however, that my
five years as dean have taught me at least a few things, notably a
greater humility in the face of the subtle and difficult business of
education, a greater awareness of the variety of human qualities,
good and bad, and the complexity of human institutions, and a
clearer appreciation of the greatness of this extraordinary institu-
tion, Harvard, which has left its imprint on all of us.

GORDON MARSH BENEDICT

HOME ADDRESS: 54 Glendale Rd., Needham, Mass.

MAILING ADDRESS: P.O. Box 54, Babson Park, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 77 Franklin St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 14, 1900, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: William Marsh Benedict,
Jane Matilda Reid.

PREPARED AT: Brooklyn Friends School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; A.M., 1929; PH.D., 1933.

MARRIED: Katherine Eliza Kneeland Henry, Aug. 15, 1927, Lincoln, N. H.

_ (divorced 1944); Ruth Buttner, May 8, 1948, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:

John Gordon, July 24, 1932; Joan Ide and Ellen Ann (twins), July 22,
1934; Holly Ann, Dec. 17, 1948.

HARVARD SON: John Gordon Benedict, ’54.

occuPATION: Analysis of securities; manager of Statistical Department, F. L.
Putnam & Company.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Special Agent, Office of Strategic Services.

OFFICES HELD: Sales manager, 1933-36, president and treasurer, 1936-44, Pro-
file Cotton Mulls, Jacksonville, Ala.; lecturer, Middlebury College, Vt.,
1943-44; master, Fountain Valley School, Colorado Springs, Colo., 1944-
45; assistant professor, Amherst College, 1945-48, Arizona State College,
1948-49; analyst, Proctor Cook & Company, Boston, 1950-51; secretary,
Century Shares Trust, Boston, 1951; statistician, F. L. Putnam & Com-
pany, since 1951.

A SELF-PORTRAIT, an autobiography, an “account of your life
‘since graduation,” on reflection, might easily resolve into an ex-
piation of the past twenty-five years or perhaps an apologia there-
fore. It might even seem to the reader to be a spilling open of a
grab-bag of dusty recollections. Be that as it may, I think the past
quarter-century has to me a usable meaning, and with some quali-
fication undoubtedly, mind and body have remained intact. Per-
haps I have erred in emphasizing which was more important. The
lyres of Hermes and Apollo are both seductive. A glance at “the
record” proves that to me at least. Graduate work and European

[ 67 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

travel in the late twenties were very enjoyable, but by 1932, with
the degree within reach, Ph.D.’s and textile spindles were both
idle. As it seemed likely that the spindles would get to work
first, the choice was made. The advent of John, Joannie, and
Ellen confirmed its wisdom. Furthermore, as the thirties advanced
and Fascism flourished in Europe, one could be self-congratulatory
that, as an inactive Versailles revisionist, one had not contributed
to its growth, especially when it became evident that it was either
they” or “we.” To me at least, 1939 did not then spell disaster.
We were all too busy with “orders.” But after 1941 one’s own
world began to mirror more and more the world at large. As per-
haps with others, the colors reflected therein were mostly dark.
Too much had been taken for granted not only within but with-
out. Colorado in 1944, however, offered perspective in more ways
than one. And when Ares quit the field in 1945, it was good to
return to New England and shepherd the “battle-weary young”
through courses basic and otherwise. John, Joannie, and Ellen
were here too, and Ruth was in Boston. In 1948 we were married
and went to Phoenix. I would not press the analogy to the
mythological bird except to observe that Phoenix can be hot.
Besides, Holly is a Phoenician.

As to my convictions on matters social and otherwise, I cannot
be too categorical. As someone has observed, in an age of anxiety
more and more men are nibbling at the tempting cheese of abso-
lutes and certainties. This is not to say that I do not cherish value |
or quality. In a democracy, where I am and wish to be, that places
me in a rather assailable position, for values today are in low
esteem. I am an optimist, however, and more often than not the

morning air still has its old sweetness despite the presence of
radiological dust.

GEORGE EDWARD BENNETT
HOME appress: Amen Hall, Exeter, N. H.

porn: Aug. 9, 1905, Exeter, N. H. parents: Samuel Bennett, Mary Ann
Howorth.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: a.B. cum laude, 1927 (28),

marriep: Violette Blackmore, July 1, 1935, Bath, Maine. cutrp: Coburn,
March 28, 1942.

occupaTION: Instructor in English, Phillips Exeter Academy,

[ 68 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I LIVE in an elm-shaded New England town. Every visitor
says: (the woman) What a heavenly spot; (the man) I envy you.
You should see where we have to live. Unfortunately I live not
under the elms but in a dormitory housing half a hundred boys.
For over twenty years I have endured on a wholesale scale the
wrestling, the pushing, the yelling, and the other secondary sex
manifestations of the growing boy. (Don’t misunderstand me;
if you must send your son to prep school, send him to Exeter.)

I was born in Exeter and am still here. But after going to Har-
vard, I climbed one of the elms and saw horizons — even beyond
Harvard. Since then I have travelled a good deal in Europe. In
1938 my wife and I travelled in the Far East, spending most of
our time in Bali. My wife is a native of Algeria (half-French,
half-English, no native blood). From her I have begun to learn
to live with aesthetic pleasure in living and have acquired a zest
for Balinese cooking (mastered by her in the kitchen or our
hotel in Den Pasar). I have seen enough of parents to swear
that I shall have nothing to do with my son’s education. (But I
hope that he will not concentrate in English — rather in a tech-
nical field, and then rise above it.)

In the 1920’s I had Communist tendencies (theoretical: all
papers please copy). Before Pearl Harbor I was pro-Japanese
(safe statement, momentarily). In the coming war I can at pres-
ent see little difference from past historical wars, in spite of the
talk and the weapons, they are wars. I shall have a bad effect on
the Class of 1927 statistics. I have published nothing, I had no
war record, and I belong to no clubs or organizations. I haven’t
even any hobbies. I have had little interest in politics and pol-
iticians — except an enthusiasm for Willkie. I can only hope
that wherever I have been, with whatever people I have associ-
ated, I may have won rather than lost respect for the American.

As a teacher I cannot live entirely for myself: my life extends
into the lives of students. Trying to steer clear of Mr. Chips: I
would hope that with every student I had increased, not
decreased tolerance, enthusiasm, honest thinking. For the future
I tend to dream of real quiet somewhere —and perhaps not
under these elms. Autobiography has always been a form of fic-
tion.

[ 69 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

LAWRENCE BENNETT

HOME ADDRESS: 157 Kilsyth Rd. Brookline 46, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1658 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.

BoRN: July 9, 1905, Maplewood, Mass. parents: David Howard Bennett
Rebecca Greenglass. ,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.
MARRIED: Irene E. Goldbarg, Aug. 12, 1932, Boston, Mass. cHILpRen:

Richard Bruce, Sept. 27, 1935; Judith Diane, April 28, 1941; Deborah
Elinor, July 6, 1945.

occuPATION: Owner, Bennett Oil Burner-Fuel Company; distribution and

sales and service of oil burners, automatic oil heating equipment and
combined storm windows.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Office of Price Administration, Real Estate
Division.
OFFICES HELD: Member executive board, Brookline-Brighton-Newton Zion-
ists; member Temple Israel Brotherhood Glee Club.

AS MATTERS stand right now, the wealthiest man in the world

could wish for no more than I possess. It has been my good for-
tune to have weathered the past twenty-five years, its ups and

downs, in good health. My family is growing, vigorous, noisy,
and healthy. My home is in a good healthy environment. My
business is bursting (for more business) with good health (credit).

The most important factor in my life today centers around
my family. My wife is still the practising attorney that she was
when I married her twenty years ago, is president of the Brighton
group of Hadassah and director of other worthy organizations.
My son, Richard, interested me in the Boy Scout movement and
gave me one of my greatest thrills when I pinned him an Eagle
Scout. He is a Boston Latin scholar, and a hopeful Harvard as-
pirant. My middle daughter, Judith, is an All-American. lass,
who could ice-skate at the age of three, loves tennis, roller-
skating, bicycling, swimming, dancing, and with her auburn
hair, brown eyes, freckles, and fair skin is as shy as she is bold in
sports. My prize package, my youngest daughter Debby, is what
every parent prays for, and there is no question in my mind that
she will fulfill all my expectations,
I did my most extensive travelling right after graduation, a

year's tour through the good old U.S.A. Some day I hope I
can relax and write a book on this, my postgraduate course with

[70 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the honorary degree, H.K. (hard knocks). I am courting an-
other dream and that is to take a summer off, in the near future,
and with my family intact, travel in good style the very same.
route I floated through on air twenty-five years ago.

My business consumes most of my time, but I still manage to
thank God morning and night for my good fortune. Whatever
spare time I have I spend as a member of the Temple Israel
Brotherhood Glee Club and on the executive board of the Brook-
line-Brighton-Newton Zionist organization.

Right now my favorite hobby is writing lyrics and poetry. I
hope you like this. I wrote it for my children.

Life is worth livin’ so give it a

Be like the kid, his balloon sky high

Seek out a goal, and be on the level

Shoot for the jack-pot, but don’t be a devil.

Life ain’t no joke, but it’s lots of fun
That’s why the kid smiles at the sun
Life ain’t worth livin’ in ignorance
Live and let live with tolerance. .

ROBERT BENNINK

HOME AppRESS: 16 Garden Rd., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.

OFFICE ADpRESS: J. R. Poole Co., 148 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 28, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Arthur Samuel Bennink,
Ethel Louise Powers.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 19273 M.B.Ay 1932.

MaRRIED: Augusta Hallett, March 7, 1942, Boston, Mass. cH1LDREN: Robert,
Jr., Oct. 8, 1943; Elizabeth Augusta, Dec. 12, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Ellis Bennink, 738.

OCCUPATION: Sales manager, specialty foods and chemicals.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant U.S.N.R., Dec. 21,
1941; active duty Jan. 26, 1942—Nov. 23, 1945; procurement officer,
BuOrd, for major calibre turret power equipment; RINM, Waterbury
Tool Division of Vickers, Inc., for electric hydraulic gun elevating and
training gear; procurement officer BuOrd, for all major calibre turrets;
maintenance officer for all major calibre turrets; inactivated as lieutenant
commander.

MEMBER OF: Manchester (N. H.) Country Club; Naval Reserve Unit VOU

I-I.

- C7]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

her Friday Symphony. A few times a winter it’s fun to put ona
dinner jacket and go to a Cambridge dinner dance, a waltz party,
or a country club dance —and hear Ruby Newman play tunes
that still are tops, and just once in a while flash back memories of

the Somerset and Copley during those “Bright College Years.”
That does it!

ALAN BERNSTEIN
HOME ADoRESS: 205 Sudbrook Lane, Pikesville, Baltimore 8, Md.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1109 N. Calvert St, Baltimore 2, Md.

BORN: Sept. 30, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Max Bernstein, Gertrude
Heidelberger.

PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1927; M.D. (Johns
Hopkins Univ.), 1931.

Marriep: Margaret Kohn, May 23, 1937, Baltimore, Md. c#ttoren: Carol,
March 14, 1938, Alan, Jr, Jan. 26, 1942.

occuPaTION: Physician.
WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Draft Board examining physician,

oFFices HELD: Assistant professor of medicine, Johns Hopkins Medical
School, since 1942.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Baltimore City Medical Society;
Medical and Chirurgical Faculty of Maryland; American College of

Physicians (fellow); Harvard Club of Maryland; Alpha Omega Alpha;
Surburban Club.

puBLications: A number of articles dealing with various phases of internal
medicine, especially hematology.
AFTER graduating in medicine at Johns Hopkins Medical School,
I was fortunate enough to be appointed intern in medicine at Johns
Hopkins Hospital. Through happy circumstances, the following
year, when one of the medical assistant residents decided that he
had had enough of academic life and moved on to another city, I
was selected assistant resident in medicine. Approximately a year
and a half later, a medical associate of one of Baltimore’s foremost
internists decided that he had been an associate long enough, and
moved on to greener pastures. I slipped into his position, where I
remained for some six years. Since the fall of 1939, I have been
practising internal medicine independently in Baltimore. Medi-
cine is a very engrossing subject, and I am afraid that I have not
distributed my interests as broadly as 1 might have liked. However,
I have derived a tremendous amount of pleasure and satisfaction
from my professional work, so have no real apologics to offer

[74]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

otherwise. I have maintained my teaching connections with the
Johns Hopkins Hospital and Medical School, spending a reasonable
amount of time there, supervising the work of the medical stu-
dents, as well as graduate fellows. As time goes on, I find that I
learn more and more from the younger men, which is one of the
reasons that medicine is a fascinating field.

So far as my family is concerned, my wife is a charming person,
codperative beyond all belief, excusing readily the various frail-
ties, pardonable or not, of a practising physician. She tells people
I am not at home when I want a few minutes’ peace, sometimes
prescribes for minor ailments over the phone, so that some of our
friends prefer her advice to mine, and shows no signs of annoy-
ance when IJ get home an hour late for dinner. Two happy
youngsters, aged fourteen and ten, are progressing normally, but
have thus far demonstrated no outstanding talents.

One of the happiest experiences I had at Harvard was singing
in the Harvard Glee Club. During the early years in Baltimore,
when free time was not at a premium, I joined several local
choruses, finding that membership in the Glee Club served as an
entrée to musical organizations in general. More recently my
musical activities have unfortunately been mostly passive.

My wife and I try to get out of town at least once a year for
a reasonable vacation. In the last two years we have managed to
reach Jamaica and Cuba.

In looking back over the twenty-five years since I graduated
from college, I am impressed by the large rdle that fortune plays
in our lives. Obviously one has considerable control over one’s
affairs, but a slightly faster twist of the wheel may produce untold
changes. The sound training that four years at Harvard provided
has served as a firm foundation for subsequent activities, I hope
that Alan, Jr., will choose to go to Harvard. At the moment he
contemplates being a pilot.

JAMES HERBERT BERNSTEIN

HOME ADDRESS: 1239 Fairfield Ave., Shreveport, La.

BORN: Aug. 4, 1909, Shreveport, La. Parents: Frnest Ralph Bernstein,
Fannie Hirsch.

PREPARED AT: St. John’s High School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1925-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927(28),

[75]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MELVIN IRVING BERNSTEIN

HOME AppREsS: 12 Grapevine Rd., Gloucester, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 195 Main St., Gloucester, Mass.
BorN: Dec. 13, 1906, Gloucester, Mass. parents: Harry Bernstein, Jeannette
F, Levenson.
preParED AT: Gloucester High School, Gloucester, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: S.B., 1927; LL.B., 1930.
MarrieD: Evelyn Lowenstein, Oct. 3, 1937, South Orange, N. J. cHitpren:
Hilda Isa, Aug. 21, 1938; John Andrew, March 25, 1944.
OccUPATION: Lawyer.
WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Legal adviser to local draft board.
OFFICES HELD: Secretary and counsel for Gloucester Fishing Vessel Owners’
Association, 1940-51; president, Gloucester Jewish Congregation, 1937-
40; chairman, local United Jewish Appeal, 1941-44, treasurer, local
United Jewish Appeal, 1951-52; trustee, Addison-Gilbert Hospital,
1947-51; member, special committee for new grammar school of P.T.A.,
1948.
MEMBER OF: Gloucester, Essex County, and Massachusetts Bar Associations.
AFTER graduating from college, I entered Harvard Law School.
That seemed the easiest way of postponing, temporarily, the in-
evitable struggle with the cold, cruel world. During the three
years in law school I often wondered if I had chosen wisely. As
the years have gone by, however, I have become satisfied with
my lot. After six months in a New York law office, I was very
happy to return to Gloucester, and for the last twenty years have
maintained my own office in the city of my birth.

Living in a small city has been pleasant, particularly in its
friendly day-to-day association with local lawyers. I enjoy the
fact that my home is only five minutes away from my office, and
so no time is wasted in commuting. The beaches are just around
the corner, and as a result, there is an influx of summer vacationers
into this territory. This has been pleasant, particularly because it
has often meant a reunion with some of the Class of 1927. Then,
too, the summer brings a modern art group to Fast Gloucester
and to Rockport, and we have there formed many close and last-
ing friendships. Naturally, we have collected a few nice paintings;
it has been a source of much esthetic pleasure.

‘In my Jaw practice, I have had the usual small town lawyer's
mixed type of work, with all kinds of cases. A good part of it has
been maritime in nature, stemming from the local fishing industry,

[ 74 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

It has been interesting, and I guess I would do it all over again if
I had my choice.

My wife and I have spent some time in local civic and religious
projects and have followed the usual pattern in this work. It has
been gratifying, but also time-consuming. I suppose we shall con-
tinue along the same lines in the years to come.

Our two children are growing up in accordance with the cus-
tomary laws of nature. I have found that after a quarter of a
century, the dim, albeit pleasant, memories of Physics C and
Astronomy A can no longer cope with the problems of General
Science, eighth-grade style, and so I have only one suggestion as
we approach our T'wenty-fifth Reunion: a refresher course for a
year, or maybe two, should be compulsory for all of us. Speaking
for myself, I certainly need it, and as I look back to those four
happy years, I would certainly enjoy it.

“THOMAS SENIOR BERRY

HOME ADDRESS: 2514 Staples Mill Rd., Richmond 26, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 900 N. Lombardy St., Richmond 20, Va.

BORN: Nov. 21, 1906, Holyoke, Mass. PARENTS: James Berry, Mary Elizabeth
Senior.

PREPARED AT: Northampton High School, Northampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1927; A.M, 19323
PH.D., 1938.

MARRIED: Hazel Marsh, June 23, 1930, Arnolds Mills, R. I. (died Nov. 26,
1948); Mary Ellen Palmer, March 2, 1951. CHILDREN: John Paul, May
2, 1935; George Robert, July 11, 1937 (died July 18, 1937); Margaret
Elizabeth, Dec. 4, 1938.

occuPATION: Field office economist, Richmond Field Office, Public Housing
Administration.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chief, Food and Services Price Analysis, At-
lanta, Regional Office, Office of Price Administration, Adanta, Ga.

MEMBER OF: A.A.U.P.; American Economists Association; American Guild
of Organists,; National Association of Housing Officials.

PUBLICATIONS: Contributor and co-editor, Economie Literature of Latin
America, (two vols.); Western Prices Before 1861, 1943; On Measuring
the Cost of Life lasurance, 1940; Business Conditions and Restraint of
Trade, 1950.

IT SEEMS I’ve rolled around in a clockwise fashion — Massa-
chusetts from 1927 to 1935, North Carolina from 1935 to 1943,
Georgia from 1943 to 1947, Mississippi from 1947 to 1949, then

[77]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

back to Massachusetts and down to Virginia in 1949. The pro-
gressively shorter stays used to make me wonder at times whether
I would get down to a few weeks or months in each place. It
seems as though all the college teachers want to get to New Eng-
land, and many New Englanders have to go out and take their
places. We frequently get homesick for New England, especially
in the summer and autumn, and the accounts of blizzards are the
best antidote.

Eighteen of the twenty-five years have been spent in college
study, research, or teaching, at Harvard, Duke, and Millsaps
(Jackson, Mississippi). The Harvard work, aside from formal
graduate work in economic history, got into research In price
history under Gay and Cole, and Latin American economics under
Gay, Haring, and the celebrated Normano. Normano was one of
the most stimulating individuals I ever have worked with. ‘The
Duke work was largely routine, and a struggle to make ends meet.
The Jackson experience was a high-water mark, Jackson is a
cultural island in that part of the Deep South. My charges ac-
quitted themselves nobly, but several of them never could shed
their distrust of Yankee education. Teaching Negroes at Tougaloo
College two afternoons a week was itself quite an experience —
this instirution was founded, and is still fostered by, New England
Congregationals.

My hobbies have been choral music, acting, and photography.
The music and acting flourished best in Jackson, where the Opera
Guild and the Little Theatre stage performances of a quality
which is difficult to believe at first sight. My slot in World War I
was in price control, particularly food price control, The Navy,
“ever suspicious of anything civilian” (Time magazine), was quite
suspicious as to my eyes. Anyhow, we helped the Army and
Navy get their milk at a fair price. Remembering the housing jam
after World War I, which fractured my own family for several
months, I got into public housing late in 1945. So it appears that
my efforts have turned from the high-income groups to the low-
income groups.

As a veteran of the diploma mill, I’m getting a little uncasy
about American higher education, And I've been uneasy about
Russia for many years. It appears that the tremendous increase in
man-hour productivity enables us now to keep all youngsters and
oldsters out of the competition for jobs. We're going to require

[78]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

degrees for all sorts of vocations, and the ambitious youth without
money has to marry well, or at least marry a working wife with
little prospect of raising a normal family. Half the wives under
thirty-five in Richmond are working full-time.

The same gigantic productivity also makes it possible for us
(and other nations) to support a military establishment of colossal
dimensions, This is certainly an invitation to war, and will prob-
ably go on until the civilian standard of living catches up with
productivity, or military destruction abolishes the source of the
productivity. Nobody doubts, of course, that preparation dis-
courages attacks. It’s my job to gauge the market for public
housing in various communities, which usually is according to the
number of families doomed to sub-standard quarters. This, like
price control, is highly controversial, reminding me of the fight
over public education about a century ago. Housing appears to
have been America’s short suit, and the automobile does not appear
to have improved the situation. Perhaps television has started the
trend to restore the home and the family to the positions they
were on the point of deserting.

RALPH FREDERICK BEST

HOME AppREss: 94 Winter St., Whitman, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 21, 1905, Dorchester, Mass. parents: Theodore Harding Best,
Emma Palmer Saunders.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.

MARRIED: Helen Lou Farr, June 30, 1936, Fitchburg, Mlass. cHiLpREN: Janet
Ruth, Sept. 17, 1939; Richard Kenneth, Dec. 29, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Government service. _

JOSEPH CHOATE BICKFORD

HOME ADDRESS: 329 Elderwood Ave., Pelham 65, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bankers Trust Co., 16 Wall St., New York 15, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 6, 1905, New Brighton, Staten Island, N. Y. parents: Herbert
John Bickford, Elizabeth Judson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927,

MARRIED: Deborah Tappan, Aug. 30, 1930, West Newton, Mass. cHILDREN:
Deborah Ann, Nov. 10, 1933; Joseph Choate, Jr., (Peter), Sept. 28, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Albert Conde Bickford, ’24, LL.B., ’27.

OCCUPATION: Assistant vice-president, Investment Information Division,
Bankers Trust Company of New York.

[79]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

OFFICES HELD: Former secretary, treasurer, vice-president, captain, president,

Pelham Hose Company #2, 1940-46; Fire Chiefs’ Emergency Plan of

Westchester County, since 1941; second deputy chief, 1946-47, com-
missioner, since 1949, First Fire District, Pelham, N. Y.; vice-president,
1948-49, president, since 1950, Pelham Firemen’s Association; member,
Cub Scouts, Pelham Committee, 1947-49, Boy Scouts of America, Pelham
Committee, 1950-51; assistant vice-president, Bankers Trust Company.
MEMBER OF: Pelham Country Club; Gourmet Club of Cleveland; Men’s
Club, Town of Pelham, New York Society of Security Analysts.

A FEW days after graduation, June 27, 1927, to be exact, I
entered a bond salesman class at Bankers Trust Company by
whom I have been employed ever since. In a way it was a comedy
of errors for a time. Actually, I was under the impression that I
had been employed by an investment banking firm, one of the
partners of which had interviewed me during the previous Easter
vacation, had told me to report as soon as college was out, had
forgotten to notify anyone else in the organization of its good
fortune, and then proceeded to leave on a European vacation of
some duration; in fact, he had not returned when I reported for
duty. Consequently, I found no one interested in even interview-
ing their prospective senior partner on said June 27th. The sales
manager was agile, however, first selling me on the idea of becom-
ing a salesman, then telling me he never hired one without previ-
ous training. He sent me to Bankers Trust Company to be trained
and presumably return to his firm. Picture my surprise to learn
Jong after that he let Bankers Trust Company hold the bag, never
paid my salary, etc.

At any rate I thought I had become a bond salesman. I soon
had it on excellent authority that I was not. I was transferred to
the statistical department — another activity which I had prom-
ised myself would never interest me, The name has changed and
my activities have broadened, but, since early 1929, I have con-
tinued in these general activities of statistical or securities research
and advisory work, with some smattering of loans, credits, and
personnel problems.

At present I am in charge of the investment information divi-
sion of our Personal Trust Department. Most of my time is spent
in the office, but I do travel some, and expect to do more this year.
My work and correspondence, customer visits, etc,, have brought

[ bo

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

me in contact with some of the grandest fellows there are, through-
out the world, and surprisingly few of the other kind.

Aside from business, my life has revolved very closely around
family, both my own and those of my brother, cousins, etc, Our
social activities have been average. A completely full and satisfy-
ing home life, with an attempt to care for some civic responsibili-
ties has seemed to leave little time, or need, for anything else.

Cub and Boy Scout committee work, some fund collecting,
P.T.A., etc., have each claimed some hours, but my principal
activity for some years has been in connection with our Volunteer
Fire Department.

As time goes on, we hope we see even more of our friends and
we are looking forward to the Twenty-fifth Reunion and prelimi-
naries to revive some of the best of those friendships.

ALEXANDER SIMON BING

HOME ADDRESS: 1155 Park Ave., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 18 E. 48th St., New York 17, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 19, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Alexander M. Bing, Florence
E. Ertheiler.

PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925.

marrieD: Mathilda Samstag, Feb, 10, 1930, New York, N. Y. cup: Alex-
ander Simon, 3d, Aug. 18, 1931.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Gresham Realty Company.

RUSSELL CLARKE BIRGE

OFFICE AppREss: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

BORN: Aug. 7, 1905, Cleveland, Ohio. PArents: Russell Hall Birge, Edith
Clarke.

PREPARED AT: University School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cu27 laude, 1927; A.M. 1928.

OCCUPATION: _ Education.

HOWARD LESTER BIRNBAUM

HOME ADDRESS: 170 Jewett Ave., Jersey City, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 24 Commerce St., Newark, N. J.

BoRN: April 7, 1906, West Hoboken, N. J. parents: Adolph Birnbaum,
Betty Taube.

PREPARED AT: Dickinson High School, Jersey City, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGRFE: A.B., 1927.

MaRRIED: Judith Eleanor Siegel, Nov. 11, 1945, Jersey City, N. J.

[81 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927
occupation: Buyer of silks; general manager and owner of men’s neck.
wear store.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Drafted U.S. Army, February, 1943; honor-
ably discharged November, 1945.
MEMBER OF: Pi Lambda Phi Fraternity.

UPON graduation I went to Wall Street and entered the bank-
ing business, more specifically in the field of trading unlisted
securities, including bank and insurance stocks. In 1936 I left to
join my father in the neckwear business. From 1943 until 1945 I
was in the Army. In 1945 I got married at the late age of thirty-
nine, but ’'m extremely glad it was late rather than never. I re-
turned to the neckwear business where I am now engaged.

My career, I fear, is a dull one, being concerned primarily with
the necessity of making a livelihood and discharging responsibili-
ties some of us are called upon to meet. The more interesting
part of my “family” is my wife who is with Newsweek maga-
zine and who is a wonderful adviser and guide in both business
and other matters in general.

Together with my wife I have a keen interest in modern art
as it pertains to interior decorating in the contemporary manner
in general and in the fields of ceramics and sculpture more spe-
cifically.

Social, political, and religious convictions? Just call me a lib-
eral.

GEORGE KIRTLAND BISHOP

HOME AppreEss: Poland, Ohio.

BORN: Sept. 17, 1904, Poland, Ohio. parents: George Stuart Bishop, Isabel
Kirtland.

PREPARED AT: Poland Seminary, Poland, Ohio.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DPGREE: A.B. 1927.

THIS shattering insistence on the lapse of twenty-five years has

inspired me to compose a legal last will and testament; which is
more to the point than anything I could write here.

MYRON BLACK

orrice ADDRESS: C/o Foreign Service Mail Room, Dept. of State,

Washing-

ton 25, D.C. B
Born: Sept, 24, 1906, Rochester, N. Y. paxents: Abram William Black
Anna Lea Liberman. ’

[ 82]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

marrieD: Theresa Nayhouse, May 29, 1930, New York, N. Y¥. (divorced).

HARVARD BROTHER: Louis William Black, ’26, A.M., ’27, LL.B., 30.

OccUPATION: Foreign Service officer; first secretary, American Embassy,
Colombo, Ceylon.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: June-September, 1942, member State Depart-
ment, War Shipping Administration mission to South America, Septem-
ber, 1942-September, 1944, field director, Foreign Service, W.S.A.;
October, 1942-January, 1943, member Anglo-American Shipping and
Ports Mission to Africa and Middle East; September, 1944—October,
1945, director, Field Operations Staff, Foreign Economics Administra-
tion; May, 1945-September, 1945, F.E.A. special representative to Den-
mark and special assistant to American minister to Denmark; October,
1945-October, 1950, shipping adviser, U. S. Department of State, head-
quarters American Embassy, Rome.

‘THEODORE RUSSELL BLACK

HOME ADDRESS: 600 W, 111th St., New York 25, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Republic Pictures Corp., 1740 Broadway, New York 19,
N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 11, 1906, Hoboken, N. J. parents: Morris L. Schwartz, Lena
Rosenbaum.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Bridgeport, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927; LL.B.
1930.

MARRIED: Zelma Carmel, June 4, 1942, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1950).
cHILD: Stephen Franklin, Nov. 28, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; associate general counsel, Republic Pictures Corpo-
ration.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Ethical Culture Society of New York; member
Board of Directors, Motion Picture Association of America, Inc.; mem-
ber, Copyright Committee (formerly), Foreign Law Committee (now),
Association of Bar of City of New York; member, National Panel of
American Arbitration Association.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of City of New York; Ethical Culture
Society of New York.

BY REASON of the death in the year of the Depression, 1936,
of the elderly attorney of whose staff I was then a member, it
appeared as though the event had occurred which was to launch
me, on an enviable scale, upon the career of independent prac-
tice to which most of my fellow-members of the Bar aspire, albeit
with an eagerness tempered by a due modicum of anxiety.
Assured by the officers of the surety corporation which had

[ 83]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

been the mainstay of the practice of our recently deceased senior
attorney that they desired me and one of my colleagues to con.
tinue to represent them in the like capacity of “outside coun-
sel,” we formed a partnership and leased ample quarters high in
the tower of a downtown office building. I gazed out of my
eyrie upon a rosier-looking world than I had been able to
observe at any time subsequent to my graduation from Harvard
Law School six years before. But those were days when one
could not rely on the assurance of companies whose business it
was to grant assurance! In a mere matter of months the horizon
darkened with the bankruptcy of our prime client, the super-
sedure of its old officers by court-appointed trustees, followed
in regular course with the clipping of our newly-budded part-
nership by another set of attorneys.

Rosy-fingered dawn reached out for me again, when in 1937 I
was offered and accepted a position on the legal staff of a cor-
poration engaged in the production, distribution, and processing
of motion picture films, I have remained in that post ever since,
in more recent years as associate general counsel. There is no
longer any concern as to where the next case is coming from, for
the easiest task in the world is to keep a lawyer busy, particularly
when he is not paid on a per case basis, and even more pattic-
ularly, when his problems derive from an industry whose princi-
pal assets are not represented by tangible property, but exist
rather in the form of “rights” as determined for the most part
by what lawyers have put down on paper. My work keeps me
in contact with attorneys and government officials all over the
world, pleasantly interrupted by occasional trips abroad, when
even the liberal use of international telephones and cables fails
to take the place of direct personal contact. In the light of the
past fifteen years’ experience, had I been given free choice as to
what type of law practice I should prefer in this age of special-

ization, I should still have chosen to become what I am, a motion
picture lawyer.

One other event of the year 1937 should be noted. Induced by
the hope that a change of name might bring about a change of
luck, I utilized my German A to translate my surname into its
English equivalent. To do a thorough job of it, and in the hope
of avoiding confusion with other Ted Blacks, I paid homage

to
[84]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

an eminent living English philosopher, then and now the object
of my great admiration, by adopting his surname as my middle
name. I must confess that the use of the middle initial “R.” has
not, in the City of New York, spared me from receiving mail and
telephone calls from strangers who were looking for a photog-
rapher, a real estate broker, or an automobile dealer of the same
name.

Of profound satisfaction to me has been the discovery that
there exists, on an organized basis, a society founded upon the
views as to religion which have been my own ever since I truly
digested and assimilated those fruits of the Tree of Knowledge
of which I partook in such abundance while crossing the paths
of the Harvard Yard a quarter of a century ago. I commend to
those who have been searching for a religion for modern man the
book Ethics as a Religion, recently published by David Saville
Muzzey, a leader emeritus of the Ethical Culture Society of New
York.

Although my marriage did not turn out to be a success, it has
nonetheless been the source of the greatest joy of my life, a young
son who, at the age of seven, already goes to college — what he
elliptically refers to as Hunter College, but what is really of
course Hunter College Elementary School. His mother and I are
hopeful that by putting into practice some of the knowledge of
child (and adult) psychology that has come to light in recent
years, Stephen, when he matriculates as a member of the Class
of 1965, will as a well-integrated personality be able to reap to
the maximum the treasures in the way of intellect and friend-
ship that I am confident he will find at Harvard in an even
greater degree than was afforded his father four decades earlier.

VICTOR GRAF BLOOM

HOME ADDRESS: 139 Woodmere Blvd., Woodmere, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE Appress: The Gallagher Agency, 257 Beach 116th St., Rockaway
Park, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 23, 1905, New York, N. Y. Parents: Ralph Bloom, Claudia
Graf.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

marrieD: Dorothy Gordon, Oct. 2, 1928, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Nancy, April 21, 1930; Doris, Aug. 30, 1932.

[85 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

occupation: General insurance and life, accident and health insurance:
’

broker and special agent for the Columbian National Life Insurance
Company of Boston.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Connected with Republic Aviation Corpora-
tion as assistant to the comptroller.

MEMBER OF: Zeta Beta Tau Fraternity.

IT’S hard to realize that twenty-five years have passed since
that day in June of 1927 when we got our degrees in that
impressive ceremony in the Yard! Corny, isn’t it, but tempus
fugit. A lot of water has passed under the bridge, and I’m still
seeking my first million! But, as the years have rolled by, I’ve
come to appreciate that the material things in life are not the
most important. Fortunately I've been blessed with a most
happy marriage and a healthy, happy family. No sons, unfor-
tunately, for Harvard, but two daughters both of whom have

made my wife and me exceedingly proud by

their various
accomplishments.

I myself have had a varied career. Upon getting out of college,
I first went to work in Wall Street and figuratively lost my shirt
along with a lot of my customers in the debacle of ’29. Along
about 1930, after salvaging some funds, I went into the retail dry
cleaning business with classmate Ned Eisner. Our plan was to
open a chain of dry cleaning stores in and throughout suburban
New York where all the work was to be done right on the prem-
ises. We started off by equipping completely two stores with
the idea of expanding from this modest nucleus. But the initial
costs were too high, and that old Depression set in on us, so we
never did get much further with our original idea. After about
three years of frantically trying to make both ends meet, we
fortunately sold the stores and were happy to get out from
under.

I then went into business with my Dad, who had been in semi-
retirement. We opened a selling agency to represent several
manufacturers, specializing in onyx novelties and onyx lamps.
But unfortunately we were still plagued by that old debble,
Depression, and our line of luxury items was not too readily sale-
able during that depression period. We didn’t do too badly, how-
ever, but after about five years, decided to give up and liquidated
the business. Then I went to work for a large chain of retail

| 86 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

furniture stores in Brooklyn as assistant to the credit and collec-
tion manager. The war then broke out. I offered my services
to both the Army and Navy, but was turned down — not for
any physical reasons but because my qualifications and past
experiences were not what the big brass were looking for. Then,
with the help of the Harvard Club of New York, I sought a
government post in Washington but again was turned down. So
I finally compromised and took a position with Republic Avia-
tion Corporation in Farmingdale, New York, as an assistant to the
comptroller, in charge of the reimbursement auditing division of
the cost plus fixed fee government contracts. While thus
employed during almost all of the war period, I proudly con-
tributed towards the building and financing of over ten thou-
sand P-47 Thunderbolts which were used so successfully by our
armed forces. After the end of the war, I took another fling at
going into business for myself and became associated with a
retail sporting goods firm which had two stores in New York
City. But after a few years of this, I sold out my interests and
then went into the insurance business, which is what I am doing
today.

I am now associated with the Gallagher Agency, one of the
largest general agencies on Long Island. I am a licensed broker
and handle all kinds of general insurance and as a special agent
also represent the Columbian National Life Insurance Company
of Boston. I’ve been at this now for the past three years and find
that slowly but surely I’m building up a nice little clientele that
eventually, with an investment of only time and perseverance,
will bring back dividends and afford me a very comfortable liv-
ing. You can see from the above that I haven’t had too much
time or the wherewithal for many extended vacations. I did
manage, however, to get to Florida occasionally for a winter
vacation. And I also spent a few short summer vacations with
classmate Ned Eisner and his wife who had “migrated” to
Uxbridge, Massachusetts.

As for hobbies, I have always been interested in sports and
photography. I was an avid tennis enthusiast for many, many
years, but advanced age necessitated my retirement from active
participation about five years ago. I then switched my allegiance
to golf and am now a dyed-in-the-wool golf addict, still trying

[ 87 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

desperately to shoot consistently in the eighties, which seems to
be just beyond my grasp. My file of snapshots is a complete
record of married life from the honeymoon, through bringing
up the children, right up to the present time. Classmate Nate
Newbury and his wife might be interested in some pictures I
have of them which were taken on our honeymoons, part of
which we spent together in Bermuda. I haven’t dabbled at all
in politics and have little interest or feelings on the subject other
than to see good, capable men in office, and efficiently run gov-
ernment; and Peace on Earth.

I have been told by most everyone that I haven’t changed too
much in physical appearance. I still have a good healthy crop of
hair which is just beginning to show a few strands of gray. Nat-
urally my avoirdupois has increased materially, and I now have
what is commonly known as a “pot belly,” but other than that
I think 1 would be readily recognized by any of my classmates.
Well, here’s hoping I can say the same for the Fiftieth, and that
most of you fellows will be around to read it! ,

BENJAMIN CLARK BOECKELER

HOME aApprEss: 25440 E. River Rd., Grosse Ile, Mich. .
oFFice appress: Hydrojet Corp., 300 W. Jefferson Ave., Trenton, Mich.

BORN: Sept. 11, 1905, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Henry Adolph Boeckeler,
Elizabeth H. Clark.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; 8.M. (Massachusetts Inst.
of Technology), 1929.

marrieD: Barbara Elliott Smyth, June 11, 1936, New York, N. Y. CHIL-
DREN: William Clark, Aug. 6, 1937; John Clark, Dec. 12, 1939; Peter
Somers, May 1, 1944 (died May 15, 1944).

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Adolph Boeckeler, ’29.

occupation: President, The Hydrojet Corporation, research and manu-

facturing company specializing in jet products, treasurer, Taylor Tubes,
Inc., Chicago, manufacturers of electronic tubes.

MEMBER OF: Chemists Club, New York; American Institute of Chemical
Engineers; Grosse Ile Golf and Country Club.
PUBLICATIONS: Numerous patents.

I WENT to M.LT. upon graduating from Harvard and since
then have followed the profession of chemical engineering. My
first jobs were with large companies, but at the start of the war
I formed my own company, Bocckeler Associates, and manu-

[ 88 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

factured alcohol and other chemical products used in the war
effort. At present I am active as treasurer of Taylor Tubes,
Inc., of Chicago in the manufacturing of special electronic tubes
and in the development of a number of jet products by The
Hydrojet Corporation, of which I am president.

My home is in a small community on the Detroit River south
of Detroit, and, although I have to do a great deal of travelling,
I do manage to spend some time on the golf course and enjoy
part of the summers in New Hampshire.

CHARLES EUSTIS BOHLEN

HOME ADDRESS: 2811 Dumbarton Ave., Washington, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Office of the Counselor, Department of State, Washington,
D. C.

BORN: Aug. 30, 1904, Clayton, N. Y. parents: Charles Bohlen, Celestine
Eustis.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

marRieD: Avis H. Thayer, Aug. 29, 1935, Villa Nova, Pa. cuitp: Avis
Thayer, April 20, 1940.

occuPATION: Counselor of Department of State.

IN BOHLEN’S absence overseas the following was sent in by his
secretary:

“A career diplomat, he entered the Foreign Service in 1929,
and was sent as a vice-consul to Prague until 1931, when he was
transferred to Paris as vice-consul and language officer. In 1934
he began his first tour of duty at Moscow and was appointed
third secretary there. After serving for a year in the department,
he returned to Moscow in 1937 as second secretary and in 1938
was appointed consul. Next he spent a short time in the Far East
as second secretary at Tokyo before coming into the Department
in 1942.

“Mr. Bohlen then served as assistant chief of the Division of
European Affairs, accompanied Secretary of State Cordell Hull to
the Moscow Conference in 1943, and attended the Teheran Con-
ference in the same year. Then he was sent again to Moscow as
first secretary. On his return to the Department in 1944, he be-
came chief of the Division of Eastern European Affairs.

“Mr. Bohlen served as area adviser to the U, S. Group at the

[ 89 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Dumbarton Oaks Conversations on International Organization at
Washington in 1944, and for a time was assistant to Secretary of
State Cordell Hull for White House liaison. He accompanied
President Roosevelt to the Crimea Conference in 1945; was politi-
cal and liaison officer and delegate to the United Nations Confer-
ence on International Organization at San Francisco in 1945; was
political adviser and delegate to the Berlin Conference in 1945;
was assistant to the U.S, Delegation at the Meeting of the Council
of Foreign Ministers at London in 1945; was detailed to the Meet-
ing of Foreign Secretaries in Moscow in 1945; was political ad-
viser to the United States Delegation at the second Session of the
Council of Foreign Ministers at Paris in 1946; was political adviser
to the Delegation at the Paris Conference in 1946. Appointed
Special Assistant to Secretary of State James F. Byrnes in 1946, he
was appointed Counselor of the Department of State in 1947,
which post he held for two years, He attended the fourth Session
of the Council of Foreign Ministers at Moscow in 1947, and of
the Council at London the same year, as well as being adviser to
the General Assembly of the United Nations at New York in
1947 and at Paris in 1948. He left in June, 1949, to become Amer-
ican Minister in Paris and Deputy to Ambassador David K. E.
Bruce.
“Mr, Bohlen was nominated by President Truman on February
19 to be Counselor of the Department of State.”

HENRY STEEL BOKHOF

HOME appreEss: 1011 Glenview Rd., Glenview, Ill.

oFFice appress: Foote, Cone & Belding, 155 E. Superior Ave., Chicago, Ill.

BORN: Nov, 22, 1905, Dixon, Ill. parents: Clayton Herman Bokhof, Anne
Steel.

PREPARED AT: Dixon High School, Dixon, IIL.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924, 1925-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.
MarRieD: Edlyn Marie Blettner, May 13, 1936, Chicago, I], cHiLpReN: Henry

Steel, Jr, May 26, 1937; Edward Frederick and Richard Clayton (twins),
Sept. 28, 1939.

occuPATION: Advertising copy supervisor, Foote, Cone & Belding.
OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Foote, Cone & Belding.

I'D DO it all over again. Maybe that’s a complacent way to feel
about all the things I’ve done and not done in twenty-five years.

[ 90 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

But I, at least, have enjoyed the sort of life that’s turned out to be
mine.

Some experiences I've missed — any part in the late war, any
daughters, any appreciable part of a million dollars. Other things
I’ve had in full measure — the happiest of marriages, three boys,
including two at a time, work I’ve liked, good friends, even an oil
well or two that didn’t gush very much.

I was lucky enough to start right off in my first job doing what
I've been doing ever since — writing copy for an advertising
agency. And lucky enough to have had a contract that outlasted
the Depression! I worked for the McJunkin Advertising Com-
pany in Chicago for eight years — for Beaumont & Hohman in
Cleveland for another eight. I’ve tried my level best to sell you
fountain pens and drinking fountains, trips by plane and train and
bus and boat, cheap suits and mink coats, beer and bread, hot dogs
and dog food, washers, whiskey, and wedgies, even space in a
mausoleum.

Since 1944 I have been with Foote, Cone & Belding in Chicago.
I am a vice-president and copy supervisor of the Armour & Com-
pany and American Bakers Association accounts,

My eldest son, Steel, is a freshman at New Tricr High School
and the twins, Ted and Dick, go to Glenview Junior High School.
No one of them is currently convinced that Harvard is the place
for him — but time will tell.

As for travel, trips through the years have included one to
Europe, several through the West Indies, and a pretty thorough
coverage of all of the United States — Arkansas hasn’t made the
grade yet. We’ve particularly enjoyed Sea Island, Georgia, and
ranches in the West for vacations, Bridge, books, and the theatre
are my most consistent forms of diversion — and less frequently,
a decidedly unorthodox game of golf.

To sum it all up, I like living in Chicago — in spite of the New
Yorker's current Profile on the subject. I like the advertising
business — in spite of The Hucksters. I like my wife and children
— in spite of the fact that such a situation is most old-fashioned,
according to almost any modern novel, play, or survey. Of course,
there are a few things here and there I don’t like but they’re prob-
ably not too important. Anyway —as a good advertising man
should, I repeat “I'd do it all over again!”

[or ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

GRANVILLE MacCARD BOND

HOME apprEss: 44 Woodcliff Rd. Wellesley Hills, Mass,

OFFICE appress: Charles M. Cox Co., 177 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: April 1, 1901, Bangor, Maine. parents: Charles Rogers Bond, Mary
MacCard.

prepared AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924.

marrieD: Helen F. Bragg, May 15, 1926, Bangor, Maine. CHILDREN: Norris
Bragg, Feb. 18, 1927; Mary Bond Haigh, Sept. 29, 1929. GRANDCHILD;
“Billie” Haigh.

occupation: Feed manufacturer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

AFTER leaving college I entered the feed manufacturing busi-
ness and have been there ever since. I hold a position of vice-
president of Charles Mf. Cox Company and also am an officer and
director in various other affiliated companies, Three years ago I
had the rare pleasure of returning to college and taking the “Ad-
vanced Management Course” at the Business School.

Since then my daughter has been married and presented us with
a grandson. Aly son, a veteran of the last war, is now engaged and
expects to be married soon.

GERMAIN ROGERS BONNEAU

HOME AppREss: 42 Mcadow Woods Rd., Lake Success, Great Neck, Long
Island, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREsS: J. J. Bonneau Co., 36-21 Steinway St., Long Island City 1,
N. Y. |

noRN: Aug 21, 1906, New York, N.Y. parents: Lincoln Bonneau, Madeline
Frances St. Germain,

preparep AT: Flushing High School, Flushing, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1923-1927. DEGREE: §.B., 1927.

marriED: Gladys Rose Pinckney, April 10, 1936, Bayside, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Ann Pinckney, Jan. 14, 1937; Germain Rogers, 2d, Oct. 17, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lincoln White Bonneau, ’31.

occupation: Treasurer and director, J. J. Bonneau Company, importers of
mahogany and other fine woods. |

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned second lieutenant, Field Artillery
Reserve, 1927; reappointments 1932, 1937; honorable discharge, physical
disqualification, June 16, 1942.

orFices HELD: Treasurer, J. J. Bonneau Company; director (alternate),
Mahogany Association; former clerk of vestry, former associate vestry-
man, All Saints’ Episcopal Church, Bayside, N. Y.; former vice-presi-

[ 92 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

dent, Lake Success Civic Association; secretary and member Com-
mittee of Management, Armed Service Y.M.C.A., Fort Totten, N. Y.;
comnuttceman, Cub Scout Pack 143, Great Neck, Boy Scouts of Amer-
ica, chairman, Hortcultural Committee, Lake Success Garden Club.

mesiuer oF: Harvard Club of Long Island; Men’s Garden Club of Great
Neck.

IT 1S certainly a paradox that these last twenty-five years, in turn
so full of boom, depression, war, and peace should now in total
scem so very brief. To me, it seems almost like yesterday when
the Class of 1902 (miraculously free of wheel-chairs, crutches,
and canes) came back to Cambridge at our Commencement, just
as we are doing now.

My life’s w ‘ork started immediately after Commencement —
June, 1927, was scarcely ended when I was on my way to tropical
West Africa, via freighter, the only direct route in those days, fo
learn the mahogany and fine timber trade “from the ground up.”
Many interesting places lav along the way — the Azores, Madcira,
Grand Canary, Dakar, Sierra Leone, the Guinea Coast, and
Liberia, and the vessel was ob ligingly indolent, making every port.
How many strange and wonde rful places the modern air traveller
misses in his hurried pace — although he can compress our five
wecks’ voyage into a single day!

The Ivory Coast (F rench) and Gold Coast (British) were our
goal, being principal mahogany producing territorics, and at that
time were very little dev eloped. Forts, established along the coast
every twenty miles or so by the Dutch in the sixteenth and seven-
teenth centuries to tap the hinterland of its gold, ivory, slaves, and
other produce remain in thick-walled solidity as the nuclei of
small towns. Here there are no harbors; vessels lie a respectful
couple of miles offshore, and surf-boats, manned by a score of
sweating black paddlers, ply between ship and beach. Reasonably
enough, these natives seem almost more familiar to an American
than do the odd assortment of European whites; except for their
pure-blooded inky blackness, they are identical to our American
negroes who originated i in this region.

The few whites, government officials, local branch manager,
local representatives of huge trading companies that deal in every-
thing, plus a few people of specific interests like myself, of
necessity maintain a close circle. Life had to be full of conces-

[93 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

sions to climate including an overpowering sun, limitations of
food and drink (except Johnnie Walker) and most all normal
comforts; ever-present, violent, and unpredictable diseases, and
general preservation of “face” in a black man’s country.

Logging was then just beginning to emerge from its centuries-
old tradition of sheer manual labor; with no draft animals able to

survive, every movement of these giant logs, weighing up to ten
tons, from stump to nearest waterway, was powered by natives
by the hundred, tugging and prying over rough country. Logs
not promptly got out were riddled by voracious insects. Floods
in the rainy season provided transportation to the sea, but if too
violent, would disperse the logs into the ocean beyond possible
recovery.

After some schooling in this phase of the timber trade, I re-
turned here, and continue to the present in general supervision of
converting these huge forest gems into useful products, princi-
pally veneers and lumber. Occasional trips to tropical areas in
America have been interesting breaks in the routine.

By 1936, the carnage of the Depression had cleared enough to
make matrimony something aside from complete fantasy, and
having had my eye on the Right Girl for many a day, I signed her
up and we went off to Bermuda, the Bahamas, and Cuba. We
have two youngsters, Ann, now rapidly growing up, noticing
boys (and vice versa), and Pete, a husky eleven-year-old, who, I
hope, will reach Harvard one of these years.

We live in a pleasant suburban village, Lake Success, which has
had much publicity as the site of United Nations meetings. This
would be a much better world if the U.N. could run its affairs as
effectively as our village does, but for that matter, so would the
nation. No doubt many classmates join with me in having found
little to praise in that interminable administration of F.D.R. (much
as we would have liked to take pride in the accomplishment of any
fellow-alumnus). To my way of thinking, his successor continues
to preside over an unprincipled regime riddled with political cor-
ruption, where true patriotism is replaced by venal self- or party-
interests, and a total disregard for economy and efficiency in gov-
ernment. May 1952 bring the country its sorely needed change
of administration!

In my spare time there has been some local civic work; commit-

[94 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tee of management service in Armed Service Y.M.C.A. at Fort

Totten, New York, and participation in Cub and Boy Scout activi-
ties in my son’s troop. Perhaps my preferred hobby is in horticul-
ture; growing almost anything, whether edible, beautiful, or
merely useful has always interested me, and more recently flowers
have had increasing attention. My wife, by happy combination of
natural talent and interest, has had considerable success as an
arranger of flowers, so I grow ’em, she arranges ’em, and between
the two of us a pretty fair end product results.

ROY HUBERT BOOTH, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 176 Marlborough St., Boston 16, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 14 Court Sq., Boston, Mass.
BORN: June 29, 1904, Memphis, Tenn. parents: Roy Hubert Booth, Esther
Holmstead. |
PREPARED AT: Staunton Military Academy, Staunton, Va.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.
marrieD: Katharyn Butman, Oct. 9, 1929, Brookline, Mass. cHILpREN:
Charlotte Esther, Nov. 4, 1930; Patricia, May 2, 1932 (mm. E. Dane Nicolle,
Oct. 14, 1950).

ICCUPATION: Assistant vice-president, National Shawmut Bank of Boston
(now on leave with U. S. Air Force).

AILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered Air Corps, April 1942; overseas duty
in England, 1943-44; relieved from active duty with rank of major,
December, 1945; recalled to Air Force, June 12, 1951, with rank of
lieutenant colonel.

EMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Quinnipiack Club of New Haven;
Hartford Club, Hartford, Conn.; Beacon Society, Boston.

IFE since graduation i in 1927 has been quite pleasing, with a few
ilestones which are soon listed. On October 9, 1929, Katharyn
itman, whom I had pursued since grammar-school days, and I
sre married in Brookline, Massachusetts. We have always made
r home in Boston and environs. On November 4, 1930, we
re blessed by the birth of our daughter, Charlotte, and on May
1932, Patricia joined the family. Pat was married last year, to
Dane Nicolle, and Charlotte is planning to be married in
uary, 1952.

Ay business career has been with the National Shawmut Bank
3oston, and at the present writing I am on leave of absence from
institution. On April 13, 1942, I entered the Air Corps as

[95 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

first lieutenant, and after serving with the Eighth Fighter Com-
mand in England, was relieved from active duty in December,
1945, with the rank of major. The next five years I spent in the
bank. Then came a call to active duty again with the Air Force,
on June 12, 1951, with the rank of lieutenant colonel. At the
present time I am on active duty with the “Boys in Blue” in
Boston, Like millions of others, 1 am looking forward to the time
when I can again be back at the bank in civilian garb. The only
other milestone which I contemplate at the present time is the
Twenty-fifth Reunion, when with my family I look forward to

meeting my classmates.

CHRISTIAN BOTERO-MEJIA

HOME ADDRESS: Junin 53-15, Medellin, Colombia, S. A.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Edificio Mercedes, Parque de Berrio, Medellin, Colombia,
5. A.

BorN: March 17, 1905, Medellin, Colombia, S. A. PARENTS: Ricardo Botero,
Amelia Mejia.

PREPARED AT: Carlton Academy, Summit, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B, 1927; LL.D. (Univ. de Antioquia),
1937:

marriep: Ana Restrepo, Dec. 27, 1933, Medellin, Colombia, S. A. CHILD:
Ana Camila Claudia Charcon Gonzala, July 27, 1936.

occupation; Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Professor of tax law, Escuela de Sciencias Economicas,

Universidad de Antioquia; president, Compania del Hotel Nutibara.
MEMBER OF: Club Camprestre of Medellin,

HORACE BOWKER, JR.

HOME appRESS: Monument Street, Concord, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: % Estabrook & Co., 15 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 16, 1904, Haverford, Pa. parents: Horace Bowker, 98,
Adelaide Kent Greene.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.
UNMARRIED.

occupation: Bonds and stocks broker.

MY FIRST two years out of college were spent in the trust depart-
ment of a bank in Boston, along with two or three of my class-
mates. I then went to New York (Long Island with my family),
and worked for two years with Chase Securities Corporation,

[96 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

during the Big Crash. Having a yen for music and singing, I took
a year off and went to the Institute of Musical Art in New York,
taking music in general, singing in particular. I then spent about
three years on a CWA project in New York, at the conclusion of
which I went to Episcopal Theological Seminary in Alexandria,
Virginia. Things went wrong for me there, so that, upon com-
pletion of the three-year course, I did not continue on to ordina-
tion. I finished Seminary in 1938. For five years I did various
jobs, for a short time with a metal manufacturing firm in Cam-
bridge, and with a cotton broker in Boston for about two and a
half years. I started my present job as clerk in the Investment
Supervision Department of Estabrook & Company, Boston, in
1943. This is not a very impressive history, but I am still trying
and hoping. During the last three years I have been living with
an uncle on a farm in Concord, Massachusetts. Some day I may
be back in the ministry, which, of course, is a great calling.

DONALD HENDERSON BOWLES

HOME AppRESS: Peacock Lane, Locust Valley, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE AppRESsS: Ralph H. Miller, Inc., 505 Eighth Ave., New York, N. Y.

BORN: June 19, .1905, Exeter, N. H. parents: Ralph Hartt Bowles, ’93,
Namee Clopton Henderson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

marrieD: Geraldine Wykes, Dec. 6, 1930, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Joan, June 5, 1936; Peter Eliot, Jan. 25, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ralph Hartt Bowles, ’24.

occupation: Director of personnel, retail chain store.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Air Raid Warden.

OFFICES HELD: Republican Election District captain, New York, 1931-33;
vice-president, Nathan Hale Republican Club, New York, 1932-34;
chairman committee, Troop 16, Boy Scouts of America, Millburn, N. J.,
1939-42, Pack 135, Boy Scouts of America, Locust Valley, N. Y., 1950-
§2.

MEMBER OF: New Jersey Educational Association; National Educational
Association; Office Management Association of New York; Harvard
Club of New York.

THE most difficult thing at this time is to recall the events sig-
nificant or otherwise during the past twenty-five years, Thinking
back to 1927, however, I remember my decision not to sign up in’
the Business School and my impatience to go after some of the

[97]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

reportedly limitless amounts of lucre available to all comers in
the oft-referred-to “new era.” So, armed with my major in
French literature, I started to learn the insurance business in New
York City, managing for several years to corral some of that
lucre and lose some like many other people. I have never forgotten
the lesson nor the saying “the bulls make money and the bears
make money, but the hogs never do.” During this hectic period
(or weren't you influenced by the market?) I began the evening
study of law intended to be an adjunct to my insurance work,
but a year later both insurance and law had lost their appeal.

Like the proverbial postman on holiday, I could be found
evenings and weekends in good weather dodging driftwood on the
Harlem River in a single as a member of the Nonpareil Rowing
Club on once famous Boat Club Row. So went the roaring
twenties.

Then my most profitable venture — marriage — and ironically,
immediately thereafter, the depression. Finally, four years after
Grays 4, influenced strongly by several shining examples from
the Class of 1927, I was launched into retailing as a minute cog
in the mechanism of one of the world’s largest stores. What better
way to learn about people than to listen to their complaints all
day and dodge articles thrown by unhappy customers?

About this time I became interested in New York City politics
on the bottom level, ran for the post of Election District Captain,
and took part in forming a new district political club. Several
years taught me that being a Republican in New York City was
not very exciting.

It is significant that I found retailing fascinating enough to keep
me involved therein for twenty years at various times with several
different department stores and two chains of stores. These
changes took me for several years to Washington, and Richmond,
Virginia, then back to New York. During one three-year interval
I switched into the field of vocational education where, as a
County School Supervisor, I organized training programs for
retailers. To fulfill the requirements of my position at this time
I went back to school by way of New York University, studying
evenings towards a Master’s degree for which I almost but not
quite qualified before returning to the retail field. I still hope
my business will allow me to remain in the city often enough to

[ 98 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

attend enough classes for completion of my degree requirements.
During the past ten years the chain store business has absorbed
my time with considerable travel an unhappy necessity.

Raising a family has certainly been my major hobby and as a
result of being a long-time home owner, I can safely say I am a
pretty good carpenter but only a fair plumber (I am reminded
by my family that I tried to replace a shower valve and had to
paint the living room ceiling as a result). Leisure time remaining
after three hours a day commuting is given to hunting birds,
ducks, rabbits, etc, plus fishing. Our local Toonerville railroad
has forced a hobby of self-preservation. Adding to these my long
interest in the Boy Scouts of America will show my hours to be
well accounted for. Looking back forces me to look ahead with
the hope that our younger generation and particularly my share
of it will be better prepared than were their predecessors to
assist in solving satisfactorily the many national problems facing
them.

CHARLES JACOB BOYAJIAN

HOME ADDRESS: 332 Tremont St., Boston 16, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 311 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 5, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: John Boyajian, Esgoohi
Arzomanian.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1927; M.D. cum
laude (Boston Univ.), 1931.

MARRIED: Margaret D. Gavan, Feb. 21, 1941, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Margaret Marilyn, March 24, 1942; Charles John, June 20, 1943.

occupation: Practice of general surgery.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in surgery, Boston University School of Medicine,
1933-49; assistant to visiting surgeons, Boston City Hospital, 1933-52.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association, Massachusetts Medical Society;
Massachusetts Society of Examining Physicians.

FOLLOWING my graduation from Boston University School
of Medicine, I served a two-year surgical house officership in
Boston City Hospital. In 1934 I had a fellowship in surgery at
the Boston University School of Medicine and a surgical resi-
dency at the Boston City Hospital. Up until three years ago I
was connected with the Department of Surgery, Boston Univer-
sity School of Medicine, a capacity in which I helped in the
instruction of future medical officers during the war years. I am

[99 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

still engaged in the private practice of general surgery and am
also connected with the Boston Home Office Industrial Clinic of
the Liberty~ Mutual Insurance Company.

Little Margaret, now nine, is our pride and joy with her Gir
Scout activities and piano playing. Her brother, Charles, now
eight, is quite busy Cub-Scouting and in the Boys’ Y. M. C. A.
activities such as the Tumbling Team. If my enthusiasm for
Charles seems less, it may be because the tumbling all too often is
practised in our living room rather than the gym. Private prac-
tice and leisure to enjoy a hobby of photography have not mixed
well. I find myself a collector of cameras.

FREDERICK FITZHERBERT BOYCE

HOME AppREss: 500 Audubon St. New Orleans 18, La.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1413 Richards Bldg, 837 Gavier St.. New Orleans 12, La.

BORN: Sept. 22, 1903, Barbados, B. W. L. parents: Clifford Clement Agard
Boyce, Mathilda Louise Hinkson.

prePaRED AT: Harrison College Preparatory School, Bridgetown, Barbados,
B. W.1.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926, DEGREES: $.B., 1927; M.D. (Yale Univ.), 1930.

marrieD: Helena Marion McFetridge, July 3, 1936, New Orleans, La.
(died June 18, 1940); Gladys Thelma Shepherd, Nov. 3, 1941, New
York, N. Y. cumpren: Hazell Ann, March 28, 1944; Richard Frederick,
Feb. 16, 1947; Michael Clifford Packer, July 1, 1951.

occupation: Surgeon, associate professor of clinical surgery, Tulane
University of Louisiana School of Medicine.

MEMBER OF: Orleans Parish Medical Society; Louisiana State Medical
Society; American Medical Association; Southern Medical Association,
New Orleans Graduate Medical Assembly; American College of Sur-
geons,; Southeastern Surgical Congress, Mississippi Valley Medical
Society (honorary); Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine;
American Association for the Advancement of Science; American
Diabetes Association; American College of Chest Physicians, Southern
Surgical Association, American Board of Surgery (diplomate), 1938;
Nu Sigma Nu; Foreign Policy Association; Metairie Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Seventy-odd publications on surgical subjects in Annals of
Surgery, Archives of Surgery, Surgery, Gynecology and Obstetrics,
Surgery, Southern Surgeon, and various other national and local journals;
“The Abdomen,” in Pullen, R. La Medical Diagnosis; Applied
Physical Diagnosis, W. B. Saunders Company, Philadelphia and London,
1950; books: The Réle of the Liver in Surgery (Gross Prize Award),
Charles C. Thomas, Springfield, 1941, Acute Appendicitis and Its
Complications, Oxford University Press, New York, 1949.

[100]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALTHOUGH I completed my Harvard work in three years, for
reasons of sentiment I preferred not to receive my degree until
1927, with the class with which I entered. During summer vaca-
tions, for reasons of finance, I worked for the United States Indus-
trial Chemical Company and the United States Industrial Alcohol
Company, in their research departments. During this time, too,
my first publications appeared (they were very brief), one in the
Chemical Engineering Journal and one in the Yale Journal of
Biology and Medicine. 1 went to Yale for my medical work for
two reasons. The first was that I thought —and still think — it
a good plan to change from one university to another for graduate
work. The second was that I was very much interested in the
new system being inaugurated at Yale with the entering medical
class of 1930; the basis of the plan was that the students would
be absolutely on their own responsibility. Only one examination
would be given during the pre-clinical years, at the very end,
and only one other would be given in the clinical years, at the
end of the course. The school reserved the right either to give
students who failed either of these examinations an opportunity
to take it over again, or to dismiss them with no credit at all for
the courses they had taken. The mortality in our class was a
good deal lighter than might have been expected, though I have
been told that it was considerably higher in some of the later
classes, I still think it a good plan to teach medical students in
this adult fashion.

In line with students’ determining their own methods of pro-
cedure, I served a substitute internship at the New Haven General
Hospital during part of my senior year at Yale. ‘Then, continuing
the policy of changing one’s perspective, I served my internship
and surgical residency at the Union Memorial Hospital in Balti-
more. Here I had the stimulating and rewarding experience of
working under Doctors Bennett and Baer in orthopedics, under
Doctors TeLinde and Richardson in gynecology; under Doctors
Walker and Hunner, and occasionally Dr. Hugh Young, in
genito-urinary surgery; and under Doctors William T. Rienhoff,
Harvey Stone, and J. M. T. Finney in surgery. I could ask no
better experience than this for my sons if they should decide to
go into medicine. Incidentally, at that time Dr. Rienhoff was
doing the experimental work on cadavers and animals on the

[ ror |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

anterior approach to pneumonectomy, which has since done go
much to make chest surgery practical and safe. Towards the
end of my term of service, when I was discussing with Dr. J. M. T,
Finney whether to apply for an appointment with the late Dr,
Elliott Cutler at Harvard or to put in an application at the newly
opened School of Medicine at Louisiana State University in New
Orleans, Dr. Dandy happened along, and on his advice I came to
New Orleans, where I have been ever since. It was as simple as
that.

In the seven years I stayed at Louisiana State University School

of Medicine, I did full-time teaching, research work, and clinical
work in the wards of Charity Hospital of Louisiana at New
Orleans. I entered the school as instructor in surgery and left
as an assistant professor. In 19371 became a fellow of the American
College of Surgeons and the following year became the first
surgeon in Louisiana to be certified by examination by the
American Board of Surgery which, curiously, was almost the
last of the certifying boards to be set up. During this same
period I developed an increasing interest in chest surgery; it
will be remembered that it was not until 1933 that Dr. Evarts
Graham performed the first successful pneumonectomy, and this
was still an infant specialty. When I entered private practice in
1939, I limited my practice to surgery (as certification by the
American Board of Surgery requires), but continued my interest
in chest surgery, which has always made up a large portion of
my practice. The first year 1 was in practice, I had two pieces
of extremely good luck. I won the Mississippi Valley Medical
Society Essay Award for a contribution on thyroid disease in
1939, and in 1940 I was awarded the Gross Prize for original
research in surgery, which is given every five years by the
Philadelphia Academy of Surgery. As the latter prize is $1500 in
cash, I need not say that this was a grateful assist to a young
surgeon in his first year of practice, The monograph for which
I was given the prize was later published under the title of “The
Réle of the Liver in Surgery.”

In 1947 I was appointed assistant professor of clinical surgery
at the Tulane University of Louisiana School of Medicine. My
rank here has just been raised to associate professor. As I have
always believed that a practising physician practises better

[ 102 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

medicine if he also teaches and continues his academic association,
I am particularly happy to have the opportunity which the
Tulane position affords me. Since 1933 I have had something over
seventy publications in the periodical medical literature, on a
variety of surgical subjects. In addition to the Gross monograph
just mentioned, | have published a book on acute appendicitis, and
am at present working on two other monographs for the American
Lecture Series (Charles C. Thomas), one on carcinoma of the
stomach and the other on the acute abdomen.

My only hobby, for which I now have very little time, is golf.
Once a year, now that I have become established in practice, I try
to get back to Barbados, where I was born (I was naturalized in
1935), to my plantation, Sturges, where my mother lives and
where a manager raises for us cattle, sugarcane, yams, potatoes,
cabbage, breadfruit, and other crops. I have got back to Harvard
only once since I left, for a summer visit in 1938. I hope to go
back for the Twenty-fifth Reunion of the Class of 1927, for I
have seen few of its members since I left for Yale in 1926. My
only daughter must go elsewhere, but I shall be contributing two
sons to the Harvard ranks sometime in the future. Michael
Clifford Packer should be for the Class of 1972 and Richard
Frederick, who says at intervals he intends to be a doctor but
who is presently just a noisy small boy, should be for the Class
of 1969. |

JOHN FREEMAN BRADLEY

HOME ADDRESS: 76 Robbins St., Milton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bradley & Hibbard, 76 Robbins St., Milton, Mass.

Born: July 7, 1904, Evanston, Ill. parenrs: Luther Daniels Bradley,
Agnes Floyd Smith.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928.

MarRieD: Barbara Greenough, Oct. 22, 1932, Concord, Mass. (divorced
1939); Junia Tenney Mason, June 8, 1940, Marion, Mass. CHILDREN:
Anne Greenough, Oct. 8, 1933; Emery (daughter), Nov. 10, 1934:
Philip Burr, April 23, 1941; David Mason, March 31, 1944.

occupation: Architect; partner in own firm.

OFFIcEs HELD; Member Executive Committee, Boston Chapter, American
Institute of Architects, 1937-38; member Board of Directors, Trinity
Neighborhood House, 1946; treasurer, Boston Society of Architects, since
1951; vestry, St. Michacl’s Church, Milton, since 1951.

[ 103 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MEMBER OF: Milton-Hoosic Club, Hingham Yacht Club, Boston Society of
Architects; American Institute of Architects.

I THINK it sporting of the Class of ’27 to consider me a member
as I am on “indefinite leave of absence” from the College and
when last registered was technically in ’28. This was caused by
a lapse from grace during sophomore year and a misunderstanding
of the requirements for readmission to ’27 resulting in a half-year’s
delay in getting back.

So, after the Class had graduated, here I was taking a few
philosophy courses and expecting to take divisionals, etc, At this
point a providential attack of jaundice changed my plans and
ambitions. Hence, the leave of absence and my entering M. I. T.
Architectural School in February, 1928. By working summers
in a Boston firm of architects, I was able, in the fall of ’32, to
begin my own firm which has continued, except for the war
years, till now. We began as Bradley & Church, 1932-41, and in
October, 1945, Charles L. Hibbard, Jr., and I joined forces as
Bradley & Hibbard, which, in spite of restrictions, etc., we hope
will continue to prosper long.

I should interrupt here (as they did) for the war years. June,
1949, was a wonderful time for a honeymoon — there seemed a
sort of lull in events (possibly this was subjective) but we returned
to the sense that maybe things really would start falling to pieces
after all. My partner, Kingsley Church, left about then to go into
other work more closely related to the war effort and this left
me with half a dozen commissions to complete. I was the only
one who could carry them through and it resulted in a few months
of having work for only about four or five hours a day —an
arrangement I could recommend in happier world conditions.
When this work was cleaned up, the Navy looked like the thing,
but after I had hounded the Causeway Street bunch for three
weeks, they didn’t think I looked like the thing at all. I never
was told whether this was due to my impressive lack of degrees
or the slight effects of a mild childhood bout with polio. How-
ever, I had a chance at this time to help lay out a building for
the Hadley Special Tool Company which made machine gun
parts and I didn’t get away from them until 45. This work was
extremely interesting and varied. I was in charge of the physical
plant, the plant maintenance, and also designed and constructed

[ 104 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

additions, set up special equipment, and was sometimes involved
in unrelated subjects, such as purchasing and personnel work.

At home we burned coal in the fireplaces, took air-spotting
courses, and rode bicycles. My wife also stood in line.

After V-E Day I got a job with Perry, Shaw & Hepburn and
began to get my hand in again for architecture. Since *45 with
our own office we have been fortunate in the amount and variety
of commissions that have come. We do not carry the torch for
any particular “brand” of architecture — we are not crusaders
against eclecticism, but we enjoy very much designing buildings
that fit the owners’ program and budget. This brings us more
work.

For recreation, my wife and I indulge a little in amateur
dramatics, music, and trying to take care of a place a little too
big for us, including garden, and sailing. The last we do in a
seventeen-foot Thistle large enough to take the gang on a picnic,
fast enough to get us there and back, light enough to trail to
Maine or the Cape for vacations and to launch on a beach, and
sporty enough to enter the series at Marblehead during race-week.
(Plug.) We don’t race much, for lack of time, and have never
made headlines; but one year in a couple of races, we got a
second and third — gratifying. If a cruising boat didn’t cost as
much as a small house to buy and as much as a debutante to main-
tain, we would own one. Well, it’s still wonderful fun to plan
for things that seem impossible — like a three months’ vacation
abroad!

As the Twenty-fifth approaches, I am thankful for many good
things — and I don’t mean only my hair and my weight (165).
If the passing of time continues to accelerate as it has during the
last twenty-five years, our Fiftieth is just around the corner.

JOSEPH HOLMES BRANSON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 4554 Klingle St., N.W., Washington 16, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Division 9, U. S. Patent Office, Washington, D. C.

BORN: Jan. 14, 1904, Washington, D. C. parents: Joseph Holmes Branson,
Ellen Marcia Robinson,

PREPARED AT: Sidwell’s Friends School, Washington, D. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; LL.B. (National Univ.
Law School), 1932.

[ 105 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

marrieD: Phoebe Waight Fuller, Oct. 19, 1938, Washington, D. C. cin.

pren: Joseph Holmes, 34, Dec. 3, 1940, Elizabeth Egerton, Nov. 24, 1943
(died Nov. 30, 1943). |

occupation: United States patent examining; primary examiner, chief of
Division 9, United States Patent Office.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: United States patent examiner, Richmond,
Va.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, D, C.; Wesley Heights Com-
munity Club; Patent Office Society.

MY LIFE since leaving college has not been as colorful as some
of those in the Class Report books but, in retrospect, has been a
very happy one. On returning to Washington, I got a position
in the United States Patent Office as an examiner and studied law
at night. After receiving my LL.B. degree, I passed the District
of Columbia Bar examinations and settled down to a govern-
ment career expecting to remain in Washington for the rest of
my life. After marriage in 1938 and a wedding trip to Charles-
ton, South Carolina, Phoebe and I returned to Washington and
bought a home in Wesley Heights, a very nice suburb of the
District of Columbia.

We were very much amazed in 1941 when the Examining
Corps of the Patent Office was uprooted and sent to Richmond,
Virginia, for the duration of World War II. We learned to
like Richmond very much, however, finding it a very pleasant
place to live, where everyone has time for the almost lost art of
good manners. Upon returning to Washington in 1946 we
relocated in Wesley Heights and moved to a larger home in the
same suburb last year. Our summer vacations have been spent
with our young son (now eleven years old) either on the coast
of Maine or on or around Chesapeake Bay in Maryland where
we have enjoyed swimming, boating, and fishing —also visit-
ing historical eighteenth-century homes and towns of historical
interest.

From time to time I have received offers to leave the Patent
Office and become associated with a patent law firm as a patent
attorney, but I have found it more to my liking to remain with
my chosen career in the government service. I was very grati-
fied this year to receive an appointment as a primary examiner of
the Patent Office as chief of Division Nine which examines appli-
cations for patents on pumps, fans, compressors, and turbines.

[ 106 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

All in all, as I said before, my life while not so colorful has been

a very happy one.

RICHARD BRANSTEN

HOME ADDRESS: 1356 Madison Ave, New York, N. Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Rinehart & Co., 232 Madison Ave. New York, N. Y.

BorN: Feb. 24, 1906, San Francisco, Calif. PareENTs: Charles Bransten,
Edith Miriam Mack.

PrepareD at: WVilliam Warren School, Menlo Park, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Louise Rosenberg, June 1, 1929, San Francisco, Calif. (divorced
1937); Ruth M. McKenney, August, 1937, New Milford, Conn. cuivpren;
Thomas R., Aug. 20, 1931; Patrick M., Jan. 29, 1937 (adopted); Eileen
Edith-Celia, Dec. 11, 1942.

occupation: Publishing.

pustications: Men Who Lead Labor (with John Swart), 1937; The Fat
Years and the Lean (with John Stuart), 1940; Here’s England (with
Ruth McKenney), 1950.

A DECENT regard for the temper and opinion of the Class of
1927 makes me hesitate to offend my former classmates with
even a brief account of a personal history so untidy and bare of
laurel wreaths. Indeed, I should allow the Class Book to pass me
by in amiable silence, except that it seems a pity to cheat the
statistical surveys by obliterating the minus factor on the graph.
My “career” had a sufficiently wholesome beginning. I was
the contented son of a respectable California family. My years
at Harvard were without incident, though I was shocked when a
campus agitator claimed that Sacco and Vanzetti were innocent.
I myself stood foursquare behind President Lowell, President
Coolidge, the Republican party, and Judge Fuller. After gradua-
tion, I spent a year in Europe — acquiring “culture.” On my
return to San Francisco, I entered my father’s business, and when
I presently became engaged to a pretty young lady, I transferred
to her father’s business. My wedding was a social event. After a
wedding trip to Hawaii, I settled down to “learn the business,”
while my wife gave suitable dinner parties. I joined two or three
clubs, played bridge, tennis, and dabbled in plans for a modern
house. Until I was twenty-five years old, I could reasonably
claim to be a model member of the Harvard Class of 1927.
But such a model existence was dull. I was bored, so much so

[ 107 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

I came down with a slight case of tuberculosis. I spent three
months in bed, reading all the books I might have (but did not)
read at Harvard; and when the doctors pronounced me cured, |
left San Francisco and respectability. |
I am not sure that the rest of my “career” — a pompus word —
does not look quixotic. But at least I have lived to the limit of my
nervous energy, worked, and learned what I could of politics,
history, literature, and the civilization to which our Class of 1927
was born. It does not distress me (although many people think
it should) that what I believed in 1936 when I was an editor of
New Masses, 1 no longer take to be true for today. Since |
abandoned the cozy world which I inherited, I have successively:
written novels (fortunately unpublished), turned Communist
(very publicly); written a great deal of journalism from all over
our nation; published two books of history (I used the pen name
Bruce Minton); been a Washington correspondent (during the
war); served as a free-lance writer in Hollywood (eleven months
of unprecedented and unbelievable prosperity) with my second
wife, Ruth McKenney, a writer whose seven books, and magazine
stories, articles, criticisms, etc., I deeply admire; and now and
then took up gardening passionately as a Connecticut householder.

Then (1946) I became, quite suddenly, an ex-Communist, a
delicate occupation, though I have written no “confessions” and
embroidered no horrendous “exposes.” My wife and I decided to
spend the period of our political convalescence abroad. In April,
1947, we settled in Brussels with our three children, a feat easy
enough to put in writing, but sufficiently heroic in practice.
Even Harvard men by and large do not readily conduct life,
private and public, in a foreign language. After two years, I
made out a tax return in French, probably the high-water mark
of my intellectual development.

Exhausted by such triumphs, our family moved to England,
where I started a new profession—as editor for a publishing
house. While in England, my wife wrote the book, Love Story,
and I experienced the peculiar reactions of reading about myself,
an amazing and often grim business even though I was treated
with undeserved kindness. Then my wife and I — mostly my
wife — wrote a book which gave us pleasure to do and brought
a most pleasant reception here, and surprisingly in England,

[ 108 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

utled, Here’s England. In 1950 we returned to New York City.
At the moment I am an editor ina publishing firm, and my wife
writes industriously,; we have plans for books, for many various
projects which, if we maintain a good pace, we shall finish in the
next seventy or eighty years.

These are the facts of this Minus Factor of the Class of 1927.
Staustically, [am negative in most senses of the word, I belong to
no club, believe in no religion, deplore television, advertising,
and progressive education. My wife and I hope we can live
togerher — if fate is kind—to be, a minimum, one hundred
years old. For we have found life, however frustrating at times,
to be intensely exciting.

JACOB BREM

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 796 Pleasant St., Worcester, Mass.

BoRN: Oct. 18, 1904, Russia. parents: Benjamin David Brem, Esther
Mofsovitz.

preparepD At: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: $.B, cum laude, 1927; M.D., 1931.

MARRIED: Afartha Louise Herwitz, July 10, 1938, Swampscott, Mass.
CHILDREN: Peter Michacl, May 12, 1941; Jerome Barnett, Aug. 17,
1944; Andrew Samuel, Nov. 7, 1948.

occuPATION: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: First lieutenant, Medical Corps, ORC, June 18,
193t; ordered to active duty as captain, July 1, 1941; duties ranged
from Ward Officer to Medical Inspector, Executive Officer, and Com-
manding Officer of Station Hospital, served overseas as Executive
Officer of several General Hospitals and Hospital Center; discharged
Jan. 21, 1946, with rank of colonel.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Maddox Society, 1947, 1948; secretary,
Belmont Hospital Staff, since 1950; councilor, Massachusetts Medical
Society, since 1949.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Society; Massachusetts Medical Society;
New England Pediatric Society; American Academy of Pediatrics;
Maddox Society; Harvard Club of Worcester; American Board of
Pediatrics (licentiate); National Board of Medical Examiners, Temple
Emanuel, Worcester.

PuBLications: Eight papers in medical journals dealing primarily with
pediatrics and allergy.

AFTER graduation from Harvard Medical School, I had a two-
year internship at Lenox Hill Hospital, New York City. There
I became interested in pediatrics and decided to specialize in that

[ 109 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

field. In order to complete my training, I took two additional

residencies; in pediatrics, at Mount Sinai Hospital and in com.

municable diseases at Willard Parker Hospital, both in New

York City. Due to the depression, I was in no great hurry to

enter private practice.

Starting as a specialist in 1936, I did not encounter any remark-

able success. However, I got along fairly well and was married
in 1938. My practice was just beginning to show meager progress
when I was called into the Army Air Force. All of my service in
the States was spent at Maxwell Field, Alabama, and except for
the heat, I must say that | was quite happy with my work, which
was partly administrative and partly professional. Because what
we were fighting for seemed so important, I endeavored to carry
more than my share of work, and for a time early in the war I
was commandant of a school which indoctrinated newly-com-
missioned medical officers. My promotions were slow in coming,
but when they did arrive, came in rapid succession.

After thirty-two months at Maxwell Field, I was transferred
to the Ground Forces, and within about two months I found
myself overseas in the European Theatre of Operations, serving
as Executive Officer of a General Hospital. Although I did not
experience any privations while overseas, I did not particularly
care for that tour of duty, because my work was all administrative
and because the friendliness and spirit of codperation of the Air
Corps were lacking.

Upon my release from the armed forces in 1946, I returned to
Worcester to resume practice. Office space was practically
unobtainable, and apartments were at a premium. To add to my
troubles, that winter was very severe. I solved the rental problem
by buying a-large house and establishing my office in a separate
wing of this building. I am on the staff of the Belmont, Saint
Vincent, and Worcester City Hospitals, In addition, I am one of
the school physicians of the City of Worcester. I have been
interested in the Officers Reserve Corps and am at present Com-
manding Officer of the 1177th Station Hospital, in training. I
am also one of the associate editors of our local medical magazine
and a councilor of the Massachusetts Medical Society.

In looking back over these twenty-five years, the greatest
thrill I have experienced, outside of raising my family, has been

[ 110 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to watch the panorama of medical progress. Much as medicine had
to offer during my student and internship days, it has advanced
further during this period than during any similar epoch of the
world’s history. It has been a rare privilege and thrill to be given
the opportunity of seeing some infants and children, who pre-
viously were doomed to die, now recover with the new methods
of therapy. However, many discoveries remain to be revealed,
many problems solved, and I hope to continue watching and
utilizing these advances in medicine in the years to come.

WILLIAM BREWSTER, JR.

HOME AppRESS: Box 9:K, Route 2, 830 N. Garficld Ave., DeLand, Fla.

OFFICE ADpREss: Stetson University, Box 487, DeLand, Fla.

BorRN: Sept. 18, 1905, Plymouth, Mass. parents: William Brewster, Mary
Southgate.

PREPARED AT: Hiempstead High School, Hempstead, N. Y.: Greenbrier
Military Academy, Lewisburg, W. Va.; San Diego High School, San
Diego, Calif.; Staunton Military Academy, Staunton, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; LL.B. (Stetson Univ.),
1949; A.M. (ibid.), 1950.

MARRIED: Josephine Martha Smith, Nov. 21, 1930, Cambridge, Mass.
(divorced 1945); Mildred Gladys Ratliff, May 31, 1947, Sanford, Fla.
CHILDREN: William Ratliff, Oct. 7, 1948; Patricia Suzanne, Dec. 23, 1949;
Lauren Eileen, May 20, 1951.

OccUPATION: Assistant professor of economics and business administration,
School of Business, John B. Stetson University; independent real estate
and insurance broker; notary public, attorney-at-law.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Member, First Corps Cadets, Massachusetts
National Guard until World War 1; naval aviator and ensign, U.S.N.R.,
attached to Squantum, Mass., Rockaway Beach, N. Y., and Pensacola,
Fla., Naval Air Stations, for training; resigned commission as ensign
due to pressure of business, 1933; commissioned lieutenant, U.S.N.R.,
February, 1942; 60 days indoctrination waining at N.A.S., Quonset
Point, R. 1.; officer in charge of military drill, formations, and discipline
for one year; duty at Hollywood Beach Hotel, Hollywood, Fla., Naval
Air Station, Los Angeles, Calif., and Aleutians; appointed commanding
officer, Naval Air Facility, Otter Point, Alaska; served there and at
Naval Air Station, Dutch Harbor, Alaska, one year; Naval Air Station,
Kaneohe Bay, Oahu, Hawaii, until end of war; honorably discharged,
Oct. 12, 1945.

MEMBER OF: Junior Chamber of Commerce, Boston, (charter member);
Lions Club, Brookline, Mass.; Kiwanis Club, Brighton, Mass.,; Curtiss-
Wright Flying Club, Boston; American Legion; Veterans of Foreign

[xr ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

apparently holding our own. Incidentally, this is a fine, high.

principled, and excellent-spirited, as well as academically superior

little college (enrollment 2000), and I am proud and happy to be

associated with it, and trying to do credit to my Harvard educa-

tion, which still ranks #1 everywhere.

Prior to World War I, which was a turning point in my life,

I was employed by the New York Telephone Company, where

also were George Payne and Howard Moody. I received a leave

of absence to take a tour of aviation training with the U. S. Naval

Reserve, and on my return, I found that the leave was permanent.

So, with my wings, and my ensign commission, U.S.N.R., A-F,

I found myself in the army of the unemployed in New York City

in the spring of 1928, after flight training at Rockaway Beach,
New York, and Pensacola, Florida. I spent some time at the
Harvard Club of New York, which helped me to make connec-
tions, and I obtained employment with Aviation Business Bureau,
72 Wall Street, New York, selling aviation investment services.
This was no living, so I joined Curtiss-Wright Flying Service as
a salesman-pilot, instructor, etc., at the East Boston Airport,
when it was organized there. This organization survived the 1929
crash, but there was nothing much left for me, so after sticking
it through the winter, I obtained employment with International
Business Machines Corporation, at the Tabulating Machine Com-
pany, Boston office, in June, 1930, through the recommendations
of Donald Murchie.

This employment, as tabulating machine salesman and service
assistant, lasted until 1933, when I was again out of employment,
due to my inability to keep up with the pressure of the depression
years. I was hired by the New England Telephone Company as a
salesman of telephone service on commission. Some job! Anyway,
I worked up to be assistant traffic supervisor in Boston in 1938
and during that time lived in Portland, Maine, Fitchburg,
Worcester, New Bedford, Brockton, and Boston.

I was let out by the New England Telephone Company during
the “Recession” of 1938, and started selling insurance for the
Travelers Insurance Company in Boston in June of that year,
because an employment agency official told me that no one who
went into the insurance business and stayed for two years ever
came back to him for employment. I was determined to last for

[114]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

two years, at least. The first year I made the national convention
at Quebec, and I stuck it out, until Pearl Harbor, December 7,
1941, when I knew there was nothing else to do but get into
the fight, which I tried to do.

Now, I am very happy as the father of three beautiful and
lively children, living the life of a college professor, in the lovely
little town of DeLand, Florida, with an unusually attractive wife
who is foolish enough to love me and make me a comfortable and
happy home. We are just twenty miles west of Daytona Beach,
and we hope that if any of our classmates are down this way at
any time, that they will take the trouble to drop in to sce us.

WILLIAM LEDYARD BREWSTER

HOME ADoREss: 315 E. 48th St. New York 17, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRFSS: 433 Main St., Sarasota, Fla.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1906, Boston, Mass. parENtTs: George Washington Wales
Brewster, 89, Ellen Mackenzie Hodge.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School for Boys, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREFS: A.B., 19273 LL.B., 1930.

MarrieD: Mrs. Adelaide (Lancey) Finch, April 25, 1941, New York, N. Y.
(divorced 1946).

HARVARD BROTHERS: George Washington Wales Brewster, Jr., ’29, M.ARCH., °36;
Henry Hodge Brewster, ’35, M.D., "38.

occupation: Lawyer; president, William Brewster Health Foods, Inc.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Horse Cavalry, Jan. 19, 1942—March 16, 19433
promoted from private to staff sergeant; AGR, March 17, 1943-April
15, 1946, promoted from lieutenant to major.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Ex-Members Association of
Squadron A.

I EIAVE survived. I have passed through the Republican party,
the New Deal, marriage, the Army (thank God, not the junior
service), and seem to be still committed to the law. I have no
social convictions, I feel politically at a loss, and I am an Episco-
palian — as I find it a religion in which to wander and wonder.
I have travelled in Europe and North Africa speaking an elegant
French understood only by the natives of tours, being under-
standing, I trust, of the vagaries of continental living, and relax-
ing, I know, in the American bars. I should like to preserve those
elements that have made America great but at the moment have no
formula. I hope this is an interim, not a final, Report.

[115]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

CLARENCE ARTHUR BRODEUR

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 25 Lyon St. New Haven 11, Conn.

Born: Oct. 18, 1905, Westfield, Mass. PARENTS: Clarence Arthur Brodeur,
87, Mary Cornelia Latta.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; M.F.A. (Yale
Univ.), 1943.

marriep: Anne Marie Neubeiser, Nov. 15, 1928, Paris, France.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Arthur Gilchrist Brodeur, ‘og; Harold Hills Brodeur,
16.

OCCUPATION: Artist.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, The Fontainebleau Fine Arts and Music Schools
Association (New York), 1948.

MEMBER OF: Silvermine (Conn.) Guild of Artists; Connecticut Water
Color Society; New Hampshire Art Association, Boston Society of
Independent Artists; Yale Associates in Fine Arts; Alliance Frangaise of
New Haven; Harvard Club of New Haven.

pusLicaTions: “Casein,” Design, February, 1951; “Artist and Layman,” “The
Cow that Jumps Over the Moon,” The Freeman, Feb. 12 and Sept. 24,
1951.

THE improvidence of Bohemians is legendary. My wife and

I often say we have no property but we’ve bought a lot of steam-

ships, and we’re glad. Since our student days in Paris, we have

travelled many times to Europe, she for concert and recital work

(she is a pianist), and I for painting. France and Poland especially

have been deep reservoirs for me; I still draw on their images

and experiences from memory, although we have not been
abroad since 1939. That is not to say that | am a mental expatriate,
since visual images, like ideas, are international.

A large portion of my career has been given to teaching; and
although I am deeply interested in education, I have now for a
second time withdrawn from pedagogy in order to give my entire
energy to painting. Portrait commissions remain a principal
source of bread and butter. While they are on the fire, other
creative production has to take a back seat; so I need all the time
possible for the latter. Unlike most Bohemians, I rise early (6:30),
and also work late. When I paint a portrait, I give the client a
likeness, My other work has swung all the way to complete
abstraction, and part-way back, non-objectivity can be great
fun, but it is too narrow. Every one of my pictures has a specific
subject and an emotional-spiritual viewpoint, and I aim to com-

[116]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

municate that viewpoint to anyone who will give the picture a
little attention. I’m not out to pull anyone’s leg, nor to waste
effort making doodles.

Spare time for the past four years has gone into the writing
of a book, intended to clarify the artist’s proper function for the
layman and for the would-be artist. It still needs more work,
and its birth-date is unpredictable, although two of its chapters
have appeared as magazine articles. My wife and I both devote
much time to an international cultural project, the Schools of
Music and Fine Arts in the Palace of Fontainebleau, France —
established by the French government in 1921 for American
students. ‘T'wice a year she edits their Alumni Bulletin, an eight-
page tabloid, and I am her editorial staff. We both serve on the
Schools’ boards of trustees in New York, and I am chairman of
their Fine Arts admissions committee.

Like all artists, I find that my work is really my hobby as
well as my job, though I sing for the fun of it, and occasionally
get mixed up in an amateur show. But my secret ambition is to
write a cook-book. Fine and unusual food has always been our
passion. We met over a chafing-dish in the Latin Quarter of
Paris, and promptly formed a society so exclusive that it still has
only six members: L’Association Internationale de Jeunes Ama-
teurs d’Art et d’Alimentation. We have collected the most
succulent dishes wherever we went, and have simplified their
preparation so that the busiest American home-and-career ex-
ecutive (my wife) can turn them out for family or guests. We
ought to share them with all men and women of discrimination,
and by the ghosts of the gourmets, we intend to do it. |

As to weightier matters, the times are as troubled in education
as in politics. I am sorely concerned over the anti-religious,
secularist, and collectivist eye-wash that is being meted out to our
young people, all the way from kindergarten through the Ph.D.
As a nine-year resident of New Haven, well acquainted with
members of the Yale faculty, I can unfortunately confirm the
truth and fairness of William F. Buckley’s recently published
report on his alma mater (God and Man at Yale, 1951). A similar
situation prevailed at Vassar when I taught there; and ir is hardly
to be hoped that a more wholesome tone would be found in any
American college today. For years, John Dewey and his disciples

[117]

HARVARD CLASS OF” 1927,

have effectively spread the materialist doctrine of Instrumentalism
throughout our educational system. These influences are all too
evident on the political and diplomatic levels, and have gravely
weakened the legal safeguards of our Constitution. State socialism
is a fraud and a menace, whether it be labeled Nazism, Fascism, or
Communism; or New Deal or Fair Deal. For at last it becomes a
Raw Deal, Just now we are mainly occupied with the threat of
Russian Communism. But when we have stopped the imperialist
drive of Russia, we shall still have a fratricidal war of ideologies
going on here at home. If any of my classmates still have a
desire to preserve their political freedom — which means ulti-
mately all their freedom—I suggest that it is time for them to
stand up on their hind legs and be counted among those “black
reactionaries” (now called radicals) who still believe in God, and

in their constitutional rights. ‘They will find themselves a minority.
And it behooves a minority to fight.

JOSHUA LORING BROOKS, JR.
HOME AppREsS: “Brookmont,” Wilbraham, Mass.

OFFice appREss: Brooks Bank Note Co., 140 Wilbraham Ave., Springfield,
Mass.

BORN: May 29, 1906, Springfield, Mass. PARENTS: Joshua Loring Brooks,
Margaret Lilian Robinson.

PREPARED aT: Central High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925.

MARRIED: Barbara Evelyn Tait, Oct. 10, 1930, Springfield, Mass. cHILD:
Grace Chapin, Nov. 28, 1931.

occupation: President and treasurer, Brooks Bank Note Company, executive
vice-president and treasurer, Newagen Inn, Newagen, Maine.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Board of Selectmen, Wilbraham; president, Hill-
crest Corporation and Hillcrest Park Cemetery Association; vice-
president and member Executive Committee, Eastern States Exposition,
West Springfield; vice-president and member Executive Committee,
Wesson Memorial Hospital; director, Third National Bank & Trust
Company of Springfield, trustee, American International College,
Springfield; treasurer and member Executive Committee, Massachusetts
Horse Show Council, director and member Executive Committee,
American Horse Show Association, New York; incorporator, Spring-
field Institution for Savings; Finance Committee, Wilbraham United
Church; past vice-president, Massachusetts Selectmen’s Association; past
president, Hampden County Selectmen’s Association; chairman Fx-
ecutive Committee, and member, Massachusetts Republican State Com-
mittee, 1947-51.

[118]

25TH ANNIVERSARY - REPORT

MEMBER OF: Connecticut Valley Harvard Club; Harvard Club of Boston,
Colony Club, Springfield, Rotary Club, Springfield.

I HIAD planned to study law, but an unexpected incident changed
all that. My father had let himself be maneuvered into setting an
exact 1926 date for a long-promised and oft-postponed tour of
Europe with my mother. We all thought he was hooked, but at the
last minute he schemed up an emergency to interfere and averted
a family crisis by offering me the opportunity to substitute for
him as my mother’s escort provided I could sccure a year’s leave
of absence from Harvard. I finished out the year working in the
family business and have been there ever since. Hence, no degree
and no Bar exam. I probably would have become less bald as a
lawyer than as a manufacturing lithographer.

By 1928 I was quite the executive. After a serics of unexpected
developments, I found myself managing the company and for that
year the enterprise rang up the largest net profit of its forty-year
history. I had arrived. I schemed great schemes of plowing most
of the net back into advertising and expansion. I was going to
town. However, I was saved from myself by incurring the com-
pany’s greatest loss in the very next year. It was a lucky lesson to
have received in time for the battle with the great depression.

I encountered some early, albeit bitter, experiences in politics
as director of a Republican campaign for Congress in 1932 — the
year that F.D.R. took over. I'll never forget the desolate experi-
ence of clearing the files and debris from our headquarters the
day after election. No one else could face the place. Ever since,
I’ve tried to do my bit for the Republican party — obviously with
little better success — until last year, after serving four years on
the Massachusetts Republican Committee and as chairman of its
Executive Committee, I reluctantly concluded that the Republi-
can party might have a better chance to regain responsibility for
the destinies of our democracy if I were to withdraw from any
key role.

My greatest error during the past twenty-five years has been to
keep trying to do too many thing at the same time — most of
them civic in nature. ’ve worked at or led so many canvasses for
worthy causes that my friends and acquaintances, if they see me
first, will cross the street when I hove into sight. However, a wide
Variety of extra-curricular activities has prevented monotony and

[119 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

has resulted in many valued friendships. In business, I have divided
my time between operating a summer hotel in Maine and a litho-
graphic factory making multicolor folding boxes, labels, and
greeting cards.

My family today consists of Barbara Tait Brooks, partner,
Grace Chapin Brooks, twenty-year-old Mount Holyoke junior,
and eight American saddle bred horses, ranging in age from less
than one year to ten years (the latter being the brood mare who
is again “expecting” this June). I’d known and greatly admired
Barbara from a distance during high school days. She claims to-
day that at the time it was quite the reverse, but my anxious eyes
then caught no signs of any response. We finally became really
acquainted after meeting on horseback in 1929 and there were no -
dates with others thereafter. We were married a year later.
About the time of our meeting we were each separately interested
in purchasing the same horse. However, with the help of her
father, she outbid me. Today I like to remind her of my shrewd-
ness in biding my time and securing the animal without cost by
marrying her. Barbara likes to question my statement about there
having been no cost involved. Daughter Grace has shared her
mother’s enthusiasm and aptitude for equestrian activities. She,
like her mother, has succeeded to national horse show ring honors.
Both are showing our Brookmont Farm horses. In fact, Barbara
has yet to be defeated driving the fine harness mare, “Ottawa
Empress.” Daughter Grace is bringing along a junior harness
mare, undefeated in the junior division at this writing. She plans
one day to challenge her mother in the open classes, but is quite
wisely awaiting the most propitious time and place. Who will

envy my lot on the day she succeeds in her goal?

CHARLES EDWARD BROWN

HOME ADDRESS: 2109 Alabama St., Bellingham, Wash.

BORN: Sept. 3, 1906, Meadville, Pa. parents: Lemuel Ransom Brown,
Grace Elizabeth James.

prePARED AT: Glenville High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: $.B., 1927.

marrieD: Dorothy Leah Hubbell, Oct. 24, 1935, Cleveland, Ohio. cui-

preN: Barbara Gail, Feb. 19, 1937; Thalia Leah, April 2, roqr.
occupation: Inspector, steel rolling mill,

[ 120 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANKLIN QUIMBY BROWN, JR.

HOME aporeEss: 6805 Bradley Blvd. Bethesda, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Central Intelligence Agency, Washington, D. C.

BoRN: Feb. 9, 1906, Dobbs Ferry, N. Y. parents: Franklin Quimby
Brown, Ida Prescott Bigelow Eldredge.

praepareD AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1927(28); M.B.A,, 1930.

MarRiED: Beatrice Hope Elutchinson, Sept. 6, 1941, Cloverdale, Columbus,
N. J. cntpren: Alice Hutchinson, Nov. 30, 1942; Thomas Emery,
April 17, 1944; Randall Blackshaw, Oct. 19, 1945; James Eldredge, Aug,
19, 1948; Charles Townsend, Jan. 25, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Dudley Bradstreet Williams Brown, °32.

occupation; Intelligence.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Office, Under Secretary of War, 1942; Hcad-
quarters, Army Air Forces, 1942-46.

offices HELD: Director, Brunswick Site Company, New York City, director,
Dobbs Ferry Bank, Dobbs Ferry, N. Y.; director, Independent Chemical
Company, New York City.

MEMBER OF: Efarvard Club, Union Club; Pilgrims Society; Colonial Order
of the Acorn, all of New York City.

AFTER graduating from the Business School, I started out to try

my luck in the financial world of Manhattan. That was in the

autumn of 1930 and I was not short of the market. No further
elaboration of the next two and one-half years is necessary. In

1933 things improved a little, but opportunity in New York

seemed meagre and I responded to an invitation to assist in the

Public Works Administration in Washington. This program

lasted three years, and during that time I took part in the rehabili-

tation of the railroads. As the end approached, I received an offer
to return to New York with a prominent investment trust, and
accepted. From there on history repeated itself. No sooner had

I started seriously to work than business, responding to miscalcu-

lations in Washington, again took a plunge. For three years I

travelled about and made reports on various industries, most of

them doing their utmost to navigate a successful course between
the sheriff and the unions. Then the war started in Poland, and
my trust decided to cut its staff way down. I became a temporary
casualty.

There were other opportunities in “the street,” but I had been
too long “fenced in,” was fatigued, and sensed a strong smell of
gunpowder. The Army Reserve instructors kept after me, and

[x21 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

for a while I assisted in a training school. I spruced up on the
military courses then offered and tried to remember my Mil. Sci. |
through IV. But in the summer of 1941 these were laid aside for
something far more important and late though it was, my course
was altered from that of perennial bachelorhood to a plunge
into the maelstrom of matrimony. This apparently was no mis-
take. The world has looked rosier ever since. It would be pic-
turesque if the story could end there. But we live in a changing
world, and one has not long to doze in the restful assurance that
all is going to be forever serene. |

We were comfortably ensconced in New York City when the
bombs began falling at Pearl Harbor. That started the next vol-
ume. It was not two weeks before I received an order to report
for active duty in Washington. When I arrived people were
practically sleeping on the sidewalks. No one could put us up. So
we lived a rooming-house-and-commuter existence until rescued
by friends. For a while the tables were turned and we had apart-
ments in both New York and Washington. This is a fine arrange-
ment and I strongly recommend it or even its extension to other
cities. Without concerning oneself with the principal fly in the
ointment, one always is glad to arrive and nostalgic upon leaving
— which gets one back to Chateaubriand, his feeling about the
vast expanses of America, the Noble Savage, Professor Louis
Allard, and so forth. Needless to say, upon the expiration of our
New York lease we did not continue the practice. In mid-1942 I
was switched from the Army to the Air Force. As the war pro-
gressed, I kept knocking into old Harvard ’27 men. They seemed
to cover the world. On more than one occasion I found myself
back at Harvard at a military gathering or giving a lecture or two
to officer trainees.

After all had ended, the great question was what bent to pursue
next. A fairly long tour of military duty in one’s late thirties has
a disconcerting and disconnecting effect on former ambitions. I
trotted back to New York, found no living accommodations for
a small family, worked on miscellaneous management jobs, read a
few books, dropped in frequently at the Harvard Club, and com-
muted weekends to Washington. That about paid the food bills
and no more. Eventually I drifted up to Cambridge to attend our
Twentieth Reunion. Not a bad show for old men. Was nearly

[122 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

brained by a slung baseball bat but survived for our Twenty-
fifth. Afterward I repaired to “Ma” Murgatroyd at the Business
School, who told me to report to the CIA back in Washington.
I did and have been with the boys in the round tower since then.

Of course no more can be said. I spend much effort avoiding
the Alsops and Drew Pearson and trying not to get arrested.
Once in a while I slip up to New York; more rarely down to
Florida. On weekends I try to train the children in making
widgets, selling apples, and cutting lawns. If they ever master a
few of these noble arts, mayhap they will some day be numbered
among the students of Smith or Harvard, regardless of the fate of
their immediate progenitor.

JOHN WESLEY BROWN, JR.

HOME aAporess: 18165 Clifton Rd., Lakewood, Ohio.

OFFICE AporEss: Brown Fintube Co., Elyria, Ohio.

BORN: June 9, 1905, Boston, Mass. pareNTS: John Wesley Brown, Julia Trask
Terry.

PREPARED AT: Lakewood High School, Lakewood, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.

MARRIED: Dorothy Grace Mason, April 3, 1929, Akron, Ohio. cHILDREN:
John Wesley, 3d (Tad), May 26, 1931, Terry Mason, Feb. 25, 1933.

HARVARD SON: John Wesley Brown, 3d, '53.

OCCUPATION: President, Brown Fintube Company, manufacturers of fincube
heat transfer surface and special heat transfer equipment for petroleum
and chemical processes.

OFFICES HELD: Member, State Finance Committee of the Republican Party,
Ohio, 1950; chairman, Lorain County (Ohio), Republican Finance
Committee.

MEMBER OF: American Petroleum Institute; American Society for Mechani-
cal Engineers; National Aeronautic Association; Society of American
Military Engineers; Elyria Chamber of Commerce; Harvard Club of
New York; Harvard Club of Cleveland; Engineers’ Club, New York
City, Cleveland Engineering Society, Harvard Engineering Society;
Westwood Country Club, Cleveland; Elyria Country Club; Clifton Club,
Cleveland; Cleveland Athletic Club, Sun Valley Ski Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Twenty-four patents on various heat transfer surfaces and
heat transfer process equipment.

Business:
1927: Day laborer, seven days a week, twelve hours a day, pay
was $100.00 per month. Cleveland Electro Metals Company.
1928-1929: Superintendent of smelter, same company.

[ 123 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Sept. 1929-1933: Sales manager, director, same company. __
1933-1935: Detroit salesman, Warren Tool Company, Warren,
Ohio.

1935-1938: President and owner, Production Alloys Corpora-
tion, Cleveland — aluminum smelter.

1938-1950: President and part owner, Brown Fintube Com-
pany.
1950-1952: President and owner, same company.

Domestic Relations:

1905-1929: Bachelor —“period of indoctrination.”

April, 1929: Married Dorothy Mason (Wellesley, ’27), Akron,
Ohio. Resultant corporation starts first “five-year plan.”

1929-1931: Period set aside in “plan” for establishment (or not)
of compatibility between Dorothy and self. Reasonably success-
ful — so — |

May, 1931: Second phase of five-year plan accomplished on
birth of John W,, 3d, better known as Tad. Corporation quite
proud of its effort. Financial situation still not too bad.

February, 1933: Third phase of five-year plan accomplished.
Second child, daughter Terry Mason Brown, born. This radical
change in model was entirely by chance though it did conform to
the original pro forma of our five-year plan. Like mother, so the
daughter — red-head with freckles. Corporation delighted with
its ability to stay on schedule and elated with new product. Coin-
cidence of “bank holiday” with this issue and the following de-
pression proved very embarrassing to the corporation financially.
Required a complete revision of remainder of first five-year plan
as well as cutting out thoughts of future production two units
short of intended goal.

1935: Out of a job! Had to start Production Alloys to get eat-
ing money. A rough go, but educational. Did manage to keep
bodies and souls together, however.

1938: Dissolved Production Alloys to form Brown Fintube to
develop and promote a new method for fabricating finned tubing.
Dorothy’s help here cannot be measured adequately in normal
units — much too understanding,

1941-1946: Dorothy once suggested that I join the Army so
she would see more of me. Work with Air Corps Maritime Com-

[124]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mission, Navy, A.E.C., and petroleum-chemical expansion kept
me away from home three weeks out of four.

1946-1951: With many false starts and downright errors, still
managed to change both self and company from war to peacetime
economy. This was rugged, too.

1949: Tad entered Harvard to study engineering sciences.

1951: Terry entered University of Colorado, Boulder, Colo-
rado, but has not yet decided in what field she will concentrate.
Tad hanging on the ropes at Harvard but still in good spirits and
trying hard.

1951: The old dog returns to Harvard to expose himself to the
Advanced Management Program of the Business School. The
merit of this move is open to question. The A.M.P. program is
no place for a small entrepreneur or “reactionary.” Somchow, I
can't accommodate myself to the utter complacency of “Planned
Economy.” I wish there were a course at the Business School for
fellows like myself who feel certain that the planners are going to
fail in their efforts. Such a course should teach the student how
to protect himself against this failure and how to live in the re-
sulting debacle. One result: a deep sympathy for the big com-
pany executive.

June, 1952: Hi! You-all!

MORTON GOODWIN BROWN

HOME ADDRESS: 27 Alexander Rd., Newton Highlands, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cushing Veterans Administration Hospital, Framingham,
Mass.

BORN: Dec. 31, 1906, Malden, Mass. parents: Jacob Brown, Bertha Kaufman.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. Cu laude, 1927; M.D., 1931.

MARRIED: Helen Constance Appleton, June 17, 1937, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Paul Appleton, April 1, 1938; Jessica, Feb. 4, 1943.

occUPATION: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served four years (1942-46) as chief of medical
service in hospitals in this country and India; discharged with rank of
colonel.

OFFICES HELD: Chief of General Medical Division, Veterans Administration
Area I, 1946-49; assistant chief of Medical Service, Cushing Veterans
Administration Hospital, since 1949; instructor in medicine, Harvard
Medical School, since 1946.

[125]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927
MEMBER OF: American College of Physicians (fellow); American Board of

Internal Medicine and Cardio Vascular Disease (diplomate).
PUBLICATIONS: About 24 papers on various aspects of heart disease.

FOLLOWING military service 1 did not return to the private
practice of medicine. I joined the Veterans Administration and
spent several years helping to reorganize the hospitals in the New
England area so that they would meet accepted standards of prac-
tice. When this job was essentially completed, I returned to the
direct care of patients—supervising and teaching at Cushing
Hospital. I am busier than ever with my research activities, and 1
still teach at Harvard Medical School. As I look back on the years
of private practice, I wonder how I stood it.
In preparation for retirement, I spend my spare winter hours

reading flower catalogues, my spare summer hours trying to
imitate the pictures.

GEORGE MORGAN BROWNE

HOME ApprEss: 26 Highfield Rd, Glen Cove, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREsS: Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 33 Liberty St., New
York, N. Y.

BORN: May 23, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: George Morgan Browne,
87, Bertha Vanderbilt LaBau.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MarrieD: Frances G. Tenney, May 28, 1928, New York, N. Y. (divorced
1945); Jessica Wayne Ryan, Nov. 30, 1946, Glen Cove, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Marguerite LaBau, Dec, 2, 1932; George Morgan, Jr., March 16, 19353

Frances Gleason, Oct. 17, 1939; Sedgwick, Feb. 6, 1942; Nicholas Cabot,
Aug. 9, 1949.

occupation: Administrative assistant, Federal Reserve Bank of New York.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: New York State Guard, 1940-44; rank at ex-
piration of enlistment, staff sergeant.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Financial Enrollment Committee, First Presbyterian
Church, Glen Cove, N. Y.

MEMBER OF: Sea Cliff Yacht Club; Robert Morris Associates, New York;
Association of Ex-Members of Squadron A, New York,

MY BUSINESS career started right after graduation, when I

began working for the Bank of the Manhattan Company in New

York. After the usual interim training period I was engaged in

credit work principally concerned with commercial and brokers’

[ 126 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

loans. After nine years here, I decided to try the securities busi-
ness, and from 1936 until mid-1942 I was a partner in the firm of
Charles A. Frank & Company, members of the New York Stock
Exchange. With the advent of World War II we decided to
liquidate our business, and I joined the staff of the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York. For the next four years I was
connected with the V Loan program, which involved the financ-
ing of companies holding war contracts whose loans from com-
mercial banks were guarantced by one of the several armed
forces. This work was intenscly interesting. At the conclusion
of the war this particular function ended and I was transferred
to bank and public relations. For the next five years I was a
travelling representative for the bank in the State of New York
calling on a great number of banks. This work was quite stim-
ulating. I made many friendships with bankers and their fam-
ilies throughout the state, helped to iron out operational prob-
lems between individual banks and the Federal Reserve, and felt
that I had made some contribution to a better understanding
between commercial banks and the central banking system.
Shortly after the start of hostilities in Korea, the former V
Loan program was reactivated, and I was assigned to help in set-
ting it up. Then, early in 1951, as a means of trying to combat
inflationary influences, the Federal Reserve Board in Washing-
ton tried a unique experiment in setting up the program for
Voluntary Credit Restraint. It issued a Statement of Principles
and a number of amplifying bulletins with which it asked all
lenders or financing institutions to codperate. To help in this
endeavor and to give advice when needed, it established a num-
ber of Voluntary Credit Restraint Committees which operate
out of the various Federal Reserve banks, I have been appointed
secretary to five such committees in this district and have had
Most interesting experiences working with representatives of
commercial banks, life insurance companies, investment bankers,
savings banks, and savings and loan associations. I believe that to
date the program has been a marked success, I am firmly of the
Opinion that the central banking system should play an important
réle in the economy of this country and that it has a definite
mission to fulfill. I find the work most absorbing, I have had to
give numerous talks in connection with my various assignments

[127]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

at the bank, and although a Dale Carnegie course helped some,
{ can still think of many things I'd rather do! |
My greatest hobby (living on Long Island Sound) is small
boating and fishing. At the moment my yacht is a Lyman skiff
powered by a fourteen-horse-power outboard motor on which
my wife and I spend every available moment. We hope one day
to own a small cabin cruiser. I like to drive and on vacations we
have covered most of the country between Virginia and Maine
and all of eastern Canada. I spent many boyhood summers in
Murray Bay, and somehow we always gravitate to the Province
of Quebec. As for the children: Marguerite, the eldest, is at
Bennett Junior College; Morgan, Jr., is in his fifth form at
Choate; and Glee and Seddy are in school in New York. Nicky,
almost three, will—I hope—try for St. George’s School and
Harvard. I am a Presbyterian and a Republican.

HAYS RITTENHOUSE BROWNING

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Naval Air Station, New York, N. Y.

porw: April 26, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: John Scott Browning,
Elizabeth Hays.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.

MarrieD: Katherine Murchison, Sept. 24, 1932, Ridgefield, Conn. crip: Hays
Rittenhouse, Jr., Jan. 14, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Scott Browning, Jr., 718.
occupation: Commander, U. S$. Navy.

MEMBER OF: Racquet & Tennis Club, New York, Harvard Club of New
York; Metropolitan Club, Washington, D. C.

I ATTENDED Browning School in New York during most of
my early years until, after a display of deviltry, my father took
me by the hand one morning and escorted me to Concord, Massa-
chusetts, depositing me in Middlesex School. As it was the start
of the spring term, I have never been sure whether the headmaster
was particularly glad to see me. 1 managed to stay in Middlesex
and graduated, albeit near the bottom of the class. With the help
of the “Widow” Nolan, the following summer I turned up in
Cambridge to register in the fall with the Class of 1927. Need-
less to say, for the next few years at Harvard I enjoyed myself
tremendously, though an academic proficiency cannot be claimed
as my forte. I remained in college until November, 1926, when I

{ 128]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

resigned in order to enter the family business of Browning, King
& Company. The firm as such later became defunct, but the
name still lingers on in various places. I might throw in for the
record that during my college years, and a few before, I managed
to travel throughout the United States, Canada, Alaska, Hawaii,
and Europe, which provided me with a large stock of photographs
and many pleasant memories. In the spring of 1928, I took time
out from my business career to enlist in the Naval Reserve and
take flight training that summer with the Navy. After complet-
ing my training as a pilot in September of that year, I was com-
missioned ensign in the Naval Reserve in October. Returning to
civilian business, I remained in the family firm until 1932, when I
resigned from my duties as assistant treasurer and assistant secre-
tary. On September 24, 1932, I gave up the freedom of a bachelor
and married Katherine Murchison, and this pleasant condition
continues.

In July, 1933, I purchased a seat on the New York Commodity
Exchange and operated as a floor broker until October, 1939. At
this time, the war having started in Europe and foreseeing our
probable entry, I requested active duty and was ordered to the
Naval Reserve Aviation Base, Floyd Bennett Field, Brooklyn, New
York, as lieutenant, junior grade, eventually becoming command-
ing officer with the rank of lieutenant commander. On January
14, 1940, a son, Hays, Jr., was born. He, at present writing, aims
to attend Harvard eventually in pursuit of his higher education.
In August, 1942, I was ordered to Norman, Oklahoma, where we
arrived prepared to stay, but at the end of three months orders
sent me to Florida, where I became executive officer of the Naval
Air Station, DeLand. After enjoying the winter sunshine, I was
again on the move in May, 1943, having been ordered to sea duty
as assistant air officer of the U.S.S. Guadalcanal (CVE 60), an
escort carrier being commissioned at Astoria, Oregon.

After commissioning, the ship was ordered to the Atlantic, and
we joined other escort carriers in the hunt for U-boats. In May,
1944, orders arrived, along with a promotion to commander, for
me to return to Bremerton, Washington, for duty as executive
officer of the U.S.S. Attu (CVE 102), another escort carrier. The
Attu remained in the Pacific, taking part in attacks on Iwo Jima,
Okinawa, Japan, and further added to her distinction by going

[129 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927
occupation: Physician; professor of public health nutrition, School of Public
Health, University of North Carolina.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned surgeon, U. S. Public Health

Service, October, 1943; assigned to United Nations Relief and Rehabili-
tation Organization as (1) chief, Nutrition Section, Health Division, and

(2) Deputy Director of Health, separated October, 1946, as senior
surgeon.

MEMBER OF: American Public Health Association; Central Society for Clini-

cal Research; Biometric Society; Society for Experimental Biology and
Medicine.

PUBLICATIONS: Research papers.

COMMENCEMENT Day, 1927, found my thoughts dwelling
largely upon my wedding which would take place in Chicago a
few days later and upon my impending entrance into Harvard
Medical School after a brief summer vacation. Again, in 1931,
graduation from medical school was quickly followed by an in-
ternship and then’a residency in medicine at the Royal Victoria
Hospital in Montreal. In my case this whole lengthy process of
getting an education lasted until the first of July, 1933, six years
after Commencement, 1927. This auspicious event, the final com-
mencement, was celebrated informally but nonetheless sincerely

in company with other interns and residents completing their
hospital services.

I chose to stay in academic medicine and spent the next year
in research at Harvard Medical School and the following nine
years in teaching, clinical practice, and research at the University
of Chicago. This brings us to the war years, 1943-46, when, as
an officer in the U. S. Public Health Service, I fought the battle of
Washington in various administrative posts in an international
organization. After this not unwelcome diversion from my usual
way of life, I slipped back into the groove and became head of a
new department of nutrition at the School of Public Health of
the University of North Carolina. Here I found myself once more
in the laboratory and classroom. Nor do | expect again to emerge.

Looking back, it is easy to see some continuity in my scientific
interests. In college, it was chemistry and biology; in medical
school, biochemistry and endocrinology; and at the University of
Chicago, metabolism and nutrition. During the last five years in
North Carolina I have been studying problems centering around
the growth of children and employing not only previously learned

[ 132]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

biochemical and medical technics but also more recently acquired
statistical methods. The search goes on and on, and never ceases
to be engrossing.

To complete the picture, I was fortunate to marry early a
patient and sweet wife who has shared with me all the many and
diverse happenings of the last twenty-five years. During these
years, we have enjoyed living in many communities, Boston,
Montreal, Chicago, and now Chapel Elill which we like, perhaps,
the best. Our son, Hugh, now aged ten, completes the family
circle and contributes much with his lively enthusiasm and inter-
ests. For recreation we all enjoy motor trips and family vacations
at the beach.

STEPHEN ALVORD BUCKINGHAM

HOME AppRESS: 8722 Second Ave., Silver Spring, Md.

OFFICE ApprEss: Applicd Physics Laboratory, Johns Hopkins University,
8621 Georgia Ave., Silver Spring, Md.

BorN: March 18, 1905, \Washington, D. C. parents: Edgar Buckingham,
’89, Elizabeth Branton Holstein.

PREPARED AT: Sidwell's Friends School, Washington, D. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cunt laude, 1927; A.M., 1930;
PH.D. 1934.

mMarrirp: Margaret Wilson Hussey, July 5, 1932, Cambridge, Mass. cuit-
prREN: Christopher Hussey, April 18, 1936, Anthony Wayne, March 4,
1941.

occuPATION: Engineer; research and development in connection with
weapons for the armed services.

MEMBER OF: American Physical Society; Acoustical Society of America;
Institute of Radio Engineers; Philosophical Society of Washington,
D. C.; National Rifle Association; Green Belt Gun Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles in technical publications.

Goad after Goad to make me unload
Hath had the desired effect,

And I hasten to add

Though your life P’'ve made sad,

I'm repentant of all my neglect.

THAT little bit of atrocious doggerel composed itself in my
mind weeks ago when I first sat down to try to compose my life
history. It has kept running through my so-called mind ever since

whenever I have tried to compose something that would be

[ 133 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

interesting and amusing to other members of our Class. Having

failed utterly, I have finally just written it out in my usual prosaic

style and typed it in my usual sloppy fashion.

I went to work within a month after Commencement as 4
junior physicist in the Radio Section of the United States Bureau
of Standards and probably set some sort of record by getting into
a rut within the first year. When I awoke to this incredible
realization, 1 took two months off from the job for a tour to the
west Coast to try to get a little perspective. As a result, I decided
that I was just too ignorant for my own good and spent the next

year pinching pennies furiously so that 1 could return to Harvard

in the fall of 1929 to work for a doctorate in physics. A job as

proctor of Conant Hall, together with several fellowships and

instructorships, kept starvation comfortably at bay for the next

five years. In the fall of 1930 I returned to Cruft Laboratory

from a two-week vacation and found a new secretary installed
there. Said wench caught my eye immediately, and I set about
trying to sell her a bill of goods. Eventually she fell for my
blandishments, and we were married on the fifth of July, 1932.
I finally finished my thesis and got my Ph.D. in 1934, sheathed my
whip, let Margaret give up her job, and became self-supporting by
going to work for this S. D. Warren Company at the laboratory
in Cumberland Mills, Maine. They were very fine people but at
that time were not financially able to use any of the results that
a physicist could get for them, so we parted friends two years
later, just after the birth of Chris, our first son.

We then moved to Garwood, New Jersey, and I went to
work for the Western Electric Company. About a year later a
second depression hit the company and, though I managed to
survive several lay-offs, the last one got me in April, 1938. I had
the good fortune a month later to find a job with one of the fin-
est companies in these United States from the point of view of
the employee, the General Radio Company of Cambridge. In
February, 1941, just before Tony was born, I was sent to Wash-
ington to work on the development of the Proximity Fuze at
the Department of Terrestrial Magnetism of the Carnegie Insti-
tution of Washington, The work was transferred to the Applied
Physics Laboratory of the Johns Hopkins University at Silver
Spring, Maryland, in May, 1942, and I transferred with it and

[ 134]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
have been here ever since, helping in the development of weapons
for our armed services.

The war years meant a great deal of travelling and very long
hours and a lot of experiences that seemed pretty foul at the
time and frequently scared the daylights out of me but were, of
course, pretty cushy by comparison with the lot of the G.I.

Through the years my main hobby, to the annoyance and
frustration of my spouse who prefers professional workmanship,
has been making things for our various abodes and keeping said

abodes in a passable state of repair. Margaret and I developed the
very fine mutual hobby of square-dancing about ten years ago
and have had a great deal of fun out of it, even going to the
length, frequently, of having a square at a time in our own house.
The Cub Scouts entered my life in 1950 through Tony, who
wanted to join. None of the mothers of the boys would stick
her neck out far enough to take over the Den and so another
man and I became joint Den Mothers to ten very lively small
boys, to the great amusement of the rest of the pack. My part-
ner dropped out after six months and I carricd on alone until
this fall when one of the mothers got up nerve to relieve me. In
the fall of 1950 I took up target rifle shooting along with Chris,
and this led to a lot of amateur gunsmithing. We have been
practising hard ever since and going to tournaments all over the
East. We both improve gradually, but Chris has outstripped his
old man and is well on the way to becoming a master shot. My
ife may seem drab in the telling, but it has been pretty satis-
actory in the living.

+ JAMES RICHARD BUNKER

aN: March 7, 1907, South Bend, Ind. parents: Sam Graham Bunker,
Ethel Maude Ireland.

EPARED AT: South Bend High School, South Bend, Ind.

ARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-19265.

‘Dp: Dec. 3, 1926, Detroit, Mich.

.MES RICHARD BUNKER prepared for college at the High
hool in South Bend, Indiana, where he made his home. He
t college at the end of our sophomore year and died the fol-
ving year in Detroit, where he had gone for treatment.

[135]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

WILLIAM ARMISTEAD MOALE BURDEN

HOME ADDRESS: 1224 30th St, N. W., Washington, D. C.

OFFicE AppREss: William A. M. Burden & Co., 630 Fifth Ave., New York,
N. Y.; Pentagon Bldg., Washington, D. C.

BorN: April 9, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: William Armistead Moale
Burden, Florence Vanderbilt Twombly.

PREPARED AT: Browning School, New York, N. Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.
marriep: Margaret Livingston Partridge, Feb. 16, 1931, New York, N. Y,
CHILDREN: William Armistead Moale, 3d (7. Leslie G. Hamilton, June,
1951), Dec. 14, 1931; Robert Livingston, Jan. 18, 1934; Hamilton Twom-
bly, May 17, 1937; Ordway Partridge, Nov. 20, 1944.
HARVARD SONS: Robert Livingston Burden, *55; William Armistead Moale
Burden, 34, ’53.

occupATION: Finance and government service; senior partner, William A. M,
Burden & Company, venture capital firm engaged in investing its own
capital; special assistant to Secretary of Air Force for Research and
Development.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Vice-president, Defense Supplies Corporation,
1941-425 Special Aviation Assistant to Secretary of Commerce, 1942-43;
Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Air, 1943-47.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, National Aviation Corporation,
Aviation Investment Trust, New York, 1939-41; vice-president, Defense
Supplies Corporation, Washington, D. C. (in charge of Division of
American Republic Aviation); special aviation assistant to Secretary of
Commerce (supervision of Civil Aeronautics Administration, Weather
Bureau, Coast and Geodetic Survey), 1942-43; Assistant Secretary of
Commerce, 1943-47; U. S. delegate to International Civil Aviation Con-
ference, 1944; chairman, U. S. Delegation, First Interim Assembly, Pro-
visional International Civil Aviation Organization, 1946, Aviation Re-

search Advisory Committee, Harvard School of Business Administra-
tion; aviation consultant, Smith, Barney & Company, Inc., since 1947;
director, Cerro de Pasco Corporation, American Metal Company, Ltd.,
Union Sulphur & Oil Corporation, Council on Foreign Relations, Amer-
ican Eugenics Society; trustee, Hanover Bank, Museum of Modern Art,
French Institute in United States, Foreign Service Educational Founda-
tion; governor, Society of the New York Hospital; honorary curator of
Aviation Literature, Baker Library, Harvard University; member of
council, past president, Institute of Aeronautical Sciences; member Board
of Managers, National Air Council,

MEMBER OF: Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences; Visiting Committee, Uni-
versity Library, Harvard University; Institute of Aeronautical Sciences
(honorary fellow); Royal Aeronautical Society; Society of Automotive
Engincers, American Rocket Society; Harvard Club of New York; The
Brook, New York; Century Association, New York; Grolier Club, New

[ 136 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

York; Links Club, New York, Racquet & Tennis Club, New York,
River Club, New York; Metropolitan Club, Washington, D. C.; Cosmos
Club, Washington, D. C.; Chevy Chase Club, Washington, D. C.;
Somerset Club, Boston, Bucks Club, London, Royal Aero Club, London,
St. Cloud Country Club, Paris.
PUBLICATIONS: The Struggle For Airways in Latin America, Council on For-
eign Relations, 1943; magazine articles on aviation subjects,
A LIFELONG interest in aviation, family business responsibili-
ties which have brought me in active contact with industry, sev-
eral opportunities for worth-while service in government, a lik-
ing for travel, and above all a happy marriage with a wonderful
and understanding wife, resulting in four very lively but very
different sons, have all contributed to make the last twenty-five
years busy and fruitful ones.

The last war and our present effort to avoid another even worse
cataclysm have resulted in so much of my life being spent in gov-
ernment that it is a little difficult to say whether my so-called
career has been in finance or public service. Certainly aviation,
commercial and military, has provided the central core of my
work in both fields. My interest in airplanes stemmed from an
early enthusiasm for things mechanical in general, and fast auto-
mobiles in particular. This latter penchant is still with me. My
family business responsibilities dictated a certain amount of finan-
cial training. I have often regretted that I did not begin that
training by taking a degree at the Harvard Business Schoo] — an
institution with which I have been in intimate contact for the last
decade. However, the atmosphere of the late twenties was not
conducive to extensive postgraduate study, and I followed the
more conventional path to a New York bank.

After a pleasant and stimulating fourteen-month trip around
the world with F. M. Davies, ’27, I began my first job with
Brown Brothers & Company. There I first learned the funda-
mentals of banking and security analysis, subsequently specializ-
ing in the financial aspects of the aviation industry. I continued
this same type of work in New York with Scudder, Stevens &
Clark, an investment counsel firm with which I spent four years.
Carrying my interest in aviation still further, in 1940 I became
vice-president of National Aviation Corporation, a New York
aviation investment trust. During these years I also joined the
boards of directors of a number of mining, oil, and banking com-

[137]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

My family has been a constantly increasing satisfaction through
the years, even though the pangs of adolescence occasionally throw
our happy home into a bit of a turmoil. My wife shares almost
all my interests, and we have come to a very satisfactory working
arrangement about the only two things we both don’t like —
flying, in her own case, and riding on trains, in mine. We have
two Harvard sons already. The elder, Bill, Jr., is married to a
charming girl he met at Milton and, as a junior, is thinking about
an ultimate career in government. Bob, the second, is a freshman
this year. Two boys are still at home — Hamilton at the excellent
St. Albans School in Washington and Ordway the youngest, only
seven, will keep us busy until the grandchildren take over.

Besides travel, my recreations include tennis, which my wife
and I play with enthusiasm, a little mild squash in winter, and
climbing in the hills of Mt. Desert Island, Maine, where we have
a summer home. I fish avidly for marlin, sailfish, tarpon, bonefish,
and tuna whenever the opportunity offers. If I can ever learn to
cast properly at this late date, I hope to tackle salmon and trout
with equal intensity. As for hobbies, I have collected a large
aviation library over the years. The bulk of the newer works
has been given to the Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences.
The early books dating back to the seventeenth century or before,
I am still adding to— perhaps one day they will go to Harvard.
Modern art has given me much pleasure during the last fifteen
years. We are adding to our small collection, and when in New
York, I act as chairman of the Collections Committee of the Mu-
seum of Modern Art. Gardening and particularly orchid raising
are also keen interests.

In the black thirties I was not sufficiently sophisticated in eco-
nomics to recognize the full significance of the Roosevelt New
Deal program. However, I was more open-minded as to its aims
than some of my more conservative colleagues. We have gone a
long way in the socialist direction since then, and it seems to me
the time has come to slow up a bit. My experience in Washington
has convinced me that those who hope to reduce the size of the
federal organization greatly are embarking on a hopeless task.
Perhaps the growth can be slowed, but above all government
must, in my opinion, be made more efficient. This worthy task
would be furthered greatly if more qualified businessmen would

[ 140 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

make themselves available for two- or three-year tours of duty in
important government jobs. If enough of them did, the burden on
each individual would not be too great, and the work of our im-
portant agencies might become a little more imaginative and
effective. |

In politics I have remained a Republican, although I have served
in several Democratic administrations. Like most of us, I have
come to appreciate the importance of the spiritual side of life far
more than I did as a brash undergraduate.

I couldn’t close without a word about what I think of Harvard.
It gave me a magnificent education even though my choice of
courses left something to be desired. Over the last decade I have
come to know the wide scope of its activities and the great breadth
of its influence quite well as anyone active in public affairs must,
and I am increasingly impressed with the intelligence with which
the University is run and the alert manner in which it anticipates
national needs through the orientation of its courses and through
lending its services and key personnel to public service. My two
oldest sons find it equally admirable as Harvard students, and I
shall not be disappointed if the two younger ones also choose
Harvard when the time comes.

ALLEN JEFFERS BURDOIN

HOME ADDRESS: 85 Washington St., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Metcalf & Eddy, 1300 Statler Bldg., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: May 23, 1906, Cleveland, Ohio. Parents: Alfred Franklin Burdoin,
Annie Juliet Howson.

PREPARED AT: West High School, Minneapolis, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: 8.B. IN C. ENG. summa cum laude,
1927; S.M. IN ENGIN,, 1934.

MARRIED: Bessie Louise Valentine, Sept. 2, 1927, Chicago, Ill. CHILDREN:
Nancy Valentine, Nov. 19, 1928; Elizabeth Valentine, June 5, 1932;
Allen David, Feb. 2, 1940; Thomas Charles Jeffers, Nov. 8, 1944.

occupation: Consulting sanitary and hydraulic engineering — project engi-
neer with Metcalf & Eddy.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Hydraulic Section, 1944-45, Sanitary Section, 1948-
48, director, 1950-52, Boston Society of Civil Engineers, chairman,
Library Committee, 1943-46, president, since 1949, W ellesley School

_ Music Sponsors.

MEMBER oF: American Society of Mechanical Engineers; Boston Society of
Civil Engineers; New England Water Works Association, New Eng-

[ 141 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

land Sewage Works Association; Harvard Engineering Society; Tau
Beta Pi; Delta Upsilon.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Flood Hydrograph,” co-author with Howard M. Turner,
“Gas Engine Power for Sewage Treatment Plants,” Journal of the Boston
Society of Civil Engineers, “Design and Construction of the New
Sewage Treatment Plant for Meriden, Conn.” The American City;
discussion and book reviews for Journal of the Boston Society of Civil
Engineers.

IMMEDIATELY after graduation I went to work for the Sani-

tary District of Chicago as a junior engineer. On September 2,

1927, I married my Radcliffe sweetheart, Bess Valentine, in Chi-

cago. Nancy was born on November 19, 1928, and we settled

down to raise a family. Meanwhile I was learning how to design
large sewers and operate sewage treatment plants. In February,

1932, the depression caught up with us and we headed back east.

Elizabeth was born in June, 1932, while we were still minus a job.

Harvard, through the good offices of Professors Fair and Haert-

lein, came to our rescue and made me half-time assistant in civil

engineering for 1932-33 and followed it up with a scholarship for

1933-34, with the result that I got my S.M. in Sanitary Engineer-

ing in January, 1934, and got a job with Howard M. Turner and

Samuel M. Ellsworth, consulting engineers of Boston. Here I

stayed until the middle of 1938, except for six months with

Metcalf & Eddy and three months with Frank Barbour. During

this period I spent three months in the Berkshires tuning up the

new sewage treatment plant for Pittsfield, Massachusetts, two
beautiful summers with my family in the White Mountains super-
vising the construction of a couple of dams and other engineering
works, and became familiar with the design of dams and sewage
treatment plants. As we followed the work from office to field
and back again, Nancy was in four different schools in one year.
I also became familiar with engineering valuation and the prepara-
tion of expert testimony as my employers, along with most of the
consulting hydraulic and sanitary engineers of Boston, were called
as experts in the Diversion Cases arising out of the taking of the
flood waters of the Ware and Swift rivers for Boston’s water
supply. In 1938 I joined the staff of Metcalf & Eddy, consulting
engineers of Boston, where I have been ever since, specializing in
the design of sewage treatment plants, pumping stations, power
generation from sewage gas, and industrial wastes, with occa-

[142]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sional work on dams or water supply, including water treatment.
This has included works for Washington, D. C., New York City,
Miami, Los Angeles, Pittsburgh, Honolulu, and the Army. I de-
signed many plants for the treatment by evaporation and inciner-
ation of wastes from the manufacture of T.N.T. during the last
war, and have just seen to completion and successful operation a
unique plant for the treatment of strong chemical wastes pro-
duced by the metal working operations of Pratt and Whitney
Aircraft in East Hartford.

David was born in 1940 and Tommy in 1944. The four chil-
dren have kept us busy. One family is almost raised, but another
and tougher job still has to be done since we are finding out that
boys are more strenuous than girls. Just the same they are worth
it and they keep us young in spirit even if they do add to our
gray hairs. All four children are different. Nancy is a promising
young artist, just finishing six years of work at the Boston Museum
School, presided over by Russell Smith. Her grandmother, well
known in Gloucester and Dayton for her flower paintings, feels
that she has real genius. Nancy does not do flowers; she prefers
the human form and hopes to be an illustrator. Elizabeth has a
great deal of musical talent. Her favorite instrument is the piano,
but she played the string bass in the high school orchestra, and
the organ for Sunday School, and during the past year has been
organist for two churches in Natick. She is now studying at
Hickox Secretarial School, where she is something of a “whiz” at
shorthand, which she is teaching two nights a week. As soon as
she finishes and gets a job, we hope she will continue with her
music in her spare time.

We shall be pleased if the boys’ talents are more practical and
less artistic, leading them into one of the professions, but right
now their main interest is in sports. David plans to bolster up the
Harvard football teams of 1959-61, and Tommy has a real wing on
him which might help out the baseball teams of 1964-66, if prop-
erly developed.

My wife and I have continued, when we could, to play the
same kind of tennis we used to play on the Radcliffe courts before
breakfast. In Chicago we used to park the baby carriage beside
the courts, now we take on the girls in doubles. Singles is too
strenuous.

[ 143 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Hobbies! I guess my hobby has been study. An engineer, if he
is to be worthy of his opportunities, must know an awful lot
about a lot of things. Perhaps a man can become a specialist in a
narrow field without a great deal of study at home, but I have
chosen to make my field as broad as possible and still be an expert.
George Swain taught me the value of home study, and beginning
with his books I have kept at it more or less continuously, and
thoroughly enjoy it. But the more one studies, the more one
finds one doesn’t know. Sometimes I think I'd like to have lived
when a man could learn all there was to know, but then, they
knew so little and so much that wasn’t so!) What would Caesar
have given for the Buick in our garage, and the roads to drive it

on — both triumphs of modern engineering? Along with study
has gone the collection of an engineering library. Although far
from complete, it far surpasses those of my associates, and is of
immeasurable help to me.

Kittredge, Chase, Edgell, Birkhoff, Osgood —I thank God for
all of them. Where, but at Harvard, could an engineer get such a
fine preparation for the game of life? These last twenty-five
years have been full ones; we are looking forward to the next
twenty-five with hope and confidence.

LEO BENJAMIN BURGIN

HOME ADDRESS: 153 Kent St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1093 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.

BorN: April 27, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Eli Burgin, Amelia Wolk.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 19273 M.D. 1931.

MaRRIED: Mildred Moses, Jan. 1, 1933, Roxbury, Mass. CHILDREN: James
Matthew, Sept. 8, 1940; Eugene Jacob, March 23, 1943.

occuPATION: Pediatrician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active duty as captain, Medical Corps, rst U. S.
Infantry Division, July 1, 1941; promoted major, April, 1943, executive
officer, 1st Medical Battalion, rst U. S. Infantry Division, Algeria French
Morocco, Tunisia, Sicily, Normandy, northern France, Ardennes,
Rhineland, and Central Europe campaigns; received Bronze Star, and
Croix de Guerre with Silver Star, discharged November, 1945.

orricrs HELD: Board of Directors, Hecht Neighborhood House, 1948-50;
associate physician, Children’s Medical Service, Massachusetts Gencral
Hospital, consulting pediatrician, Massachusetts Eye & Ear Infirmary;
instructor in pediatrics, Harvard Medical School.

MEMBER OF: New England Pediatric Society; American Academy of Pedia-

[144]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

trics, American Board of Pediatrics; Massachusetts Medical Society,
American Veterans’ Committee.

PUBLICATIONS: ‘““The Comparative Value of the Scratch and Intradermal
Methods of Skin Testing in Asthma and Hay Fever of Children,”
(collaborated with Edward Scott O’Keefe, M.D.), N.E. Journal of
Medicine, vol. 208, No. 11, March 16, 1933; “The Occurrence of the
Streptococcus Hemolyticus in the Throats of Children on the Hospital
Wards” (collaborated with Harold L. Higgins, M.D.), The Journal of
Pediatrics, vol. 5, No. 2, August, 1934; “Phlyctenulosis” (collaborated
with Harold L. Higgins, M.D.), American Journal of Diseases of Chil-
dren, vol. 56, August, 1938.

VIRTUALLY, I have spent the quarter-century since Harvard
took me into the company of gentlemen and scholars, under the
Harvard banner. Four years at “The” Medical School and four
and a half years in internships and residencies at the Massachu-
setts General Hospital and Kingston Avenue Hospital in New
York City prepared me for the practice of pediatrics. In 1934 I
was appointed instructor in the department of pediatrics at Hat- |
vard Medical School, a post I still hold.

During my fourth year of private practice, when I began. to
finance butter for my bread, the pre-Pearl Harbor military activ-
ity converted my reserve status as Army captain in the Medical
Corps to an active one. On July 1, 1941, I left my wife and son
for Fort Devens on what was scheduled to be a year of active
duty. Four years and one month later I did return home, I
served with the Medical Battalion of the First U. S. Infantry
Division. General Bradley has celebrated this division’s progress
from Oran to Nuremburg in his epic “Soldier’s Story.” I was one
of 4000 men of 16,000 who originally left New York on July 23,
1942, who were still in the Division on V-E Day. About 28,000
men came through our medical establishments in 444 days of ac-
tive combat.

Harvard was with me in the most unexpected places. In the
library of Dr. Sabotta (famous for his Atlas of Anatomy) at the
University of Bonn, where we had set up our officers’ mess, after
dinner I chanced to pull a book from a shelf behind me. It was
Dr. Frank Mallory’s Histology. On the flyleaf there was stamped
the notation, “Presented to the University of Bonn by the U. S.
Army of Occupation — 1920.” Dr. Mallory had been one of my
teachers at the Medical School!

[145 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

It was with great happiness that I resumed civilian life, reéstab-
lished my family and my practice. I became acquainted with my
second son, born six months after I left for overseas. Jimmy and
Sandy (Eugene) are huskies like their father and they have made
a baseball fan of their mother.

Woodworking continues to delight me as my favorite hobby,
adaptable as it is to the emergency comings and goings of a pedia-
trician. Once I nearly lost a finger carving a horse, and gave up
thereafter that fine-arts aspect of woodworking for less hazardous
contriving of home interior carpentry.

For the literary pastime during my eventual retirement, I am
storing up a reservoir of testimonials by American mothers to
their children. The title of this opus will be “Mothers are Such
Liars.”

My associations across two continents within the last decade
have convinced me that, without regard to the particular achieve-
ments of any particular individual from Harvard, The Harvard
identification represents to the world a distinction which I hope
will be shared by my sons.

JOHN RANDOLPH BURKE

HOME ADDRESS: 122 E. 82nd St., New York 28, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Chase National Bank, 18 Pine St.. New York 5, N. Y.

porn: April 19, 1906, Alexandria, Va. parents: Nicholas Philip Trist Burke,
Jane Revere Reynolds.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

marRieD: Phyllis Brewster, March 22, 1941, New York, N. Y. (divorced
1948). cHiLD: Nicholas Randolph, Oct. 6, 1942.

occupation: Commercial banking, chiefly concerned with customers’ invest-
ments.

MILITARY OB NAVAL RECORD: U.S, Naval Reserve, World War II, May, 1941-
December, 1945; ranks from ensign to lieutenant commander; CO,
USS. Tamaque, USS. Hazel, and USS. LS.T. 664.

MEMBER OF: Tavern Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New York.

SHORTLY after college, 1 went to work for the old investment
banking house of Lee, Higginson & Company. In one way or
another — in investment banking, investment counscl, investment
trust, and now in a commercial bank —1 have been concerned
ever since with the care of the invested property of other people.

[ 146 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

This is a worth-while job and a challenging one. It has two chief
disadvantages, as I see it. First, you never reach a stopping place
from which you can look back at a finished job. The problem is
continuous. One is accordingly denied the satisfaction available to
those who can occasionally stand aside and admire a completed
piece of their own work. Second, when measured against theoret-
ical perfection — that is, buying at the bottom and selling at the
top — one’s performance is always disappointing. Although I
know that seemingly modest successes often represent truly ex-
cellent performance, I personally have never become a sufficiently
good philosopher not to feel vaguely frustrated by this aspect of
the work. As in most jobs, I suppose that common sense is the
most important attribute. Hard work naturally counts. In the
final analysis, however, the management of investments is more an
art than a science. Major success is due to a subtle sense of timing
which no one gets from books. None of us can look back at our
working lives without thinking of the depression and the war.
The former was for me by far the more trying. It was a harder
time to see what was right to do. I tasted unemployment and, for
more than six months in 1932, the terrifying experience of being
unable to find anybody who was willing to pay me for doing
anything. That is something one doesn’t forget. As to the war, I
had over four and a half years in the Navy. There were unpleas-
ant moments, of course, but I was generally lucky in my duty,
usually having my own small ship. I am surprised by the increas-
ing degree of satisfaction with which I look back on those years.
As I try to analyze it, the explanation seems to be this: of what-
ever abilities I possess, in intellect or human relations or whatever
else, I used, day in and day out, a larger proportion in the Navy
than I have ever been called upon to use in any other job. To me
this seems significant, and I raise the point when occasionally I
hear people who are inclined to belittle the professional services.
Until the war, I lived mostly in New England and have always
been a Republican. In a small Massachusetts town, I was inter-
ested in local government and served on the Warrant Committee.
In national affairs, I never voted for Roosevelt, but I missed the
ballot altogether in 1944. I haven’t been keen about any candidate
since Willkie. Greatly though I want a change, I shall be distressed
if the Republicans put up one of the old guard. I am suspicious

[ 147 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

that the Hawley-Smoot tariff school of economics is not altogether
dead. In the matter of religion, I am an Episcopalian and have
served at various times as Vestryman, Clerk of a Parish, etc. My
faith and conviction have increased with the years. I feel certain
that most of us are suffering measurelessly, even if unconsciously,
from our inadequate recognition of mystical realities and of our
own spiritual needs. When it comes to hobbies, the trouble is of
course that one has too many and too little time. I like to prune
trees and to plant things, but one doesn’t get much of that in a
New York apartment. My greatest interest in town is The Boys’
Club of New York. There I spend a cheerful evening each week,
helping out in the carpentry shop. You revive the hobbies of
long ago when you are lucky enough to have a son — running
trains, watching birds, making and sailing small boats. We get
some real sailing too, and hope for more. And one day I hope to
fish for salmon again, something I haven’t done since the war. I
do so sometimes in imagination. So doing, surprisingly enough, I
never lose a fish!

+ JAMES HIRAM BURNAP

BorN: May 27, 1905, Toledo, Ohio. parents: James David Burnap, Minnie
Sophia Bremer.

PREPARED AT: Scott High School, Toledo, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

piED: July 11, 1946, Toledo, Ohio,

JAMES HIRAM BURNAP entered Harvard after completing
preparatory studies at Scott High School in Toledo. Following
graduation he took special courses in engineering at the Mas-
sachusetts Institute of Technology, and then returned to Toledo,
where he became associated with the Creamery Package Manu-
facturing Company. He worked as technician with the com-
pany for fourteen years and became manager of its engineering
department in 1934. He never married.

ROYAL BRUCE BURNETT

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 411 Pajaro St., Salinas, Calif.

BORN: Dec. 13, 1904, Temple, Texas. parents: Royal Bruce Burnett, Mary
Adelaide Jones.

preparen At: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. HH,

[ 148 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924, 1925-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1927(28); MBA,

1930.
‘MARRIED: Alice Louise Hill, June 22, 1929, San Francisco, Calif. cHILpREN:

Jennifer, July 2, 1930; Beatrice, July 21, 1932 (7. Leland D. Foster,
Sept. 8, 1951); Thomas F. Bush, July 25, 1937.
occupation: Agriculture: growing vegetables, barley, and alfalfa.
MEMBER OF: Lodge No. 614, Elks; Monterey Peninsula-Country Club.

AFTER graduation I battled my way through Business School
and I have been profiting ever since from that intensive two-year
struggle. For me the early thirties were years of geographic and
professional wandering; from Texas to California it was cus-
tomers’ man, accountant, banking, and motor finance until I hit _
upon growing iceberg lettuce in California and Arizona. I
started with the Salinas Valley Vegetable Exchange. ‘They actu-
ally paid me to summer in cool Salinas, California, and to win-
ter in sunny Phoenix, Arizona. Lettuce shipping season followed
the sun and so did we. During fourteen years of these spring
and fall migrations, my wife has put up with many house hunts
and changes of schools for our three children. Now Jennifer is
a senior at the University of California, in Berkeley, and looking
forward to a summer term at the University of Hawaii. Because
of matrimony, Beatrice gave up college for the life of a rancher’s
wife in permanently sunny Imperial Valley. Tom Bush is man-
fully struggling with eighth grade arithmetic, and we hope to
introduce him to Harvard in June, so that he will understand
better the necessity of his present efforts.

With four fine golf courses on the Monterey Peninsula only
twenty miles away, it is easy to understand why golf has been
my most persistent hobby. When I break eighty on the Country
Club course too often, all I need to do is try Pebble Beach for a
day to make me realize that I still belong in the second flight.
Duck hunting in the San Joaquin Valley is only ninety minutes
away, and I never missed a shooting day until gas rationing hit
us, and now I am back at it again and had the pleasure of taking
Tom Bush on his first hunt this last Christmas. Yosemite Park’s
Badger Pass ski runs have been a challenge to all the family, so_
that we all are enthusiastic if not always adept skiers. We gen-
erally manage one week there a winter.

Religion is an active part of our life, and St. Paul’s Episcopal

[ 149 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Church has given me the opportunity to serve as vestryman
three terms and hold the offices of treasurer and clerk at various
times. My children have been well exposed to this influence and
I hope that it “takes.” As for my political views, I might just as
well never have had any, for they have been out of favor for so
Jong that actually I have never voted for a winning president. I
have hopes, however, that this year is going to change my losing
streak. By June we shall know more about candidates, and I

look forward to hearing some hot political discussions at the
Reunion.

ROBERT HORATIO BURNS

HOME AND OFFICE Appress: P, O. Box 697, Big Timber, Mont.

BORN: Jan. 2, 1903, Sheridan, Wyo. Parents: Horatio Burns, Clara Cubbison.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928.

marriep: Harriet Esther Winspear, Sept. 6, 1930, Newark, N. Y. (died
June 4, 1935); Edythe Louisa Burcham, June 23, 1943, Sheridan, Wyo.

cHiLpREN: Horatio Winspear, June 4, 1931; Janet Calhoun, March 25,
1944; Barbara Sanders, Jan. 3, 1947.

HARVARD SON: Horatio Winspear Burns, ’53.

OCCUPATION: Sheep and cattle ranching.

MEMBER OF: Masonic Orders; Country Club.

MY twenty-five years have been spent in the ranching business in
Wyoming and Montana and in enjoying my family. My son,
Horatio, is in the Class of 1953. He has been on the Dean’s List
both years and has made the freshman and varsity 150-pound
crews. The younger children, Janet and Barbara, are seven and
four. The two little beauties see that we never have a quiet mo-
ment. We live on the ranch near Big Timber, in Billings, Mon-
tana.

Life on a ranch is healthy, active, and independent. My health
has been excellent except for a few broken bones, including a
broken leg last summer. I have had an independence on my own
land that cannot be found in many other businesses, The extremes
of the weather are the disagreeable features. 1 must say that I
have enjoyed the life. My first stare disappeared completely in
1931. My second start was much slower but more permanent.
My home address was Sheridan, Wyoming, until this year when
I disposed of the last of my land there. 1 summered sheep in the

[150]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Big Horn mountains and had cattle and sheep in the Tongue
River and Powder River area. My ranches in Montana are on the
Yellowstone, north of Big Timber and Livingston. To be brief
politically, I would say that I do not like the waste, corruption,
high taxes, and radical tendencies in Washington. |

STANLEY MERCER BYSSHE

HOME ADDRESS: 372 W. 250th St.,. New York 71, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 180 Fort Washington Ave., New York 32, N. Y.

BORN: July 5, 1905, Geneva, N. Y. parents: Ernest Thomas Bysshe, Eliza-
beth Long.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923~1927. DEGREES: » 1927; M.D. 1931.

marRieD: Mildred Cook Prosser, June ”, vat. New York, N. Y. cHIpREN:
Sara Elizabeth, July 18, 1944; Susan Prosser, July 18, 1945; Stanley
Mercer, Jr., Dec. 8, 1948.

occuPATION: Physician, specializing in obstetrics and gynecology.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant clinical professor of obstetrics and gynecology,
College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University; assistant at-
tending physician, Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, New York.

MEMBER OF: University Club of New York; Riverdale Yacht Club; Amer-
ican Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology (diplomate); New York
Academy of Medicine (fellow); American College of Surgeons; Amer-
ican Academy of Obstetrics and Gynecology; Harvard Medical Alumni
Society of New York; Sociedade Brasileira de Ginecologia; Society of
the Alumni of the Sloane Hospital for Women (vice-president, 1951);
New York Clinical Society; New York Obstetrical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Few scientific papers written for various medical journals
on topics in field of obstetrics and gynecology.

UPON graduation from college I set out on four arduous years
of study at the Harvard Medical School. Following graduation
in medicine in 1931, I was appointed surgical intern at the Peter
Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston and later served briefly as a
substitute resident surgeon at the Free Hospital for Women in
Brookline. In 1933 I turned to New York City to round out my
training in my chosen specialty of obstetrics and gynecology.
In 1937 I had completed an internship and residency at the Sloane
Hospital for Women. Thus after ten long years I was ready to
start practice and proceed to the problem ‘of earning a living. In
the ensuing years my time has been devoted to private practice
in New York City. While being a staff member of the Columbia-

[sr ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Presbyterian Medical Center, I have also served part-time as a
teacher of the Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons. At
present I am an assistant clinical professor at this medical school.
I have been appointed recently to the Special Committee on
Maternal Welfare of the Medical Society of the County of New
York.

The life of an obstetrician allows very little time for outside
activities and too little time for his family. I do feel that my
rather late marriage with the delayed rearing of a family has had
its reward in keeping me young in spirit. I find I must now
renew my youth to keep up with the children. My political
convictions have been along a single track. While always hope-
ful, I have as yet never been able to help elect a successful pres-
idential candidate. My present feeling is to vote for any party
that favors free enterprise and against one that sponsors govern-
mental control of medicine or the socialization of any profession.
Vacations have been enjoyed at Lake George or in New Eng-
land and Canada. In 1951 1 did manage a brief holiday in Europe
in conjunction with attending an international medical congress.
I do find that I must constantly be at or near home lest the stork
should need a helping hand.

BLAKE CABOT

HOME ADDRESS: Woodstock, N. Y.

BorN: May 31, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Follen Cabot, Edith
Blake.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926, 1927-1928. DEGREE: $.B., 1927(28).

Marriep: Petra (Mearns) Jordan, July 2, 1937.

GUERNSEY CAMP, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 215 Grove St. Auburndale, Mass.

OFFICE ADpRESs: Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., Inc., 648 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

porn: April 27, 1905, Buffalo, N. Y. paKkenrts: Guernsey Camp, Lillian
Bates.

prepareD AT: Nichols Preparatory School, Buffalo, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DecRER: A.B. cton laude, 1927.

maknigp: Ilona C. McLeod, June 30, 1934, Buffalo, N. Y. ctito: Deborah,
Oct. 30, 1943-

OCCUPATION: Transportation engineer, New England Division Lfeadquar-
ters, Socony-Vacuum Oil Company, Inc.

[152]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned rst lieutenant, Army Transporta-
tion Corps, December, 1942; stationed at Boston Port of Embarkation,
serving successively in Fiscal, Planning, and Overseas Supply Divisions
—with temporary duties in North Atlantic and European theatres;
separated as major, April, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Former secretary, treasurer, delegate of Harvard Club of
Buffalo to Harvard’s Tercentenary Celebration; member School Com-
mittee, Newton, Mass., since 1949.

TWENTY-SEVEN years ago I took a job, just for the summer.
During the following summer and the twenty-five years since
graduation I’ve worked for the same company. We seem to have
got along well together — although their stock may have gone
up a bit more rapidly than mine.

My list of outside activities is brief —and the additional time
I am thereby permitted to enjoy with my wife and daughter,
while extremely pleasant, provides no dramatic highlights for a
report such as this. I feel that I have assumed at least a reasonable
share of the usual civic responsibilities and am currently serving
as a member of the Newton School Committee. Still on my
agenda is an item which was there twenty-five years ago —
travel. Bermuda and the Gaspé have been pleasant samples. My
brief stays in Baffinland, Greenland, and Iceland, helping to solve
the Army’s transportation and supply problems in these areas,
were not exactly what I had in mind. The result is a substantial
amount of unfinished business under the general heading of
travel. As to hobbies, I’m still gardening, despite the lack of
codperation on the part of my small rock-ribbed bit of New
England soil. And I continue to have an active interest in good
music in general, and choral music in particular, inspired by
“Doc” Davison during my Harvard Glee Club days.

Looking ahead a bit, it may be that as a member of the Army
Transportation Corps Organized Reserve I shall again be called
to switch from peacetime to wartime transportation efforts. I
hope not. Twenty-five years ago we were all optimists — and a
brief two years later, many wondered why. Today pessimism
seems to be the attitude of the day, and the arguments for such
an attitude are many. But perhaps a turning-point in world
affairs may not be as far off as we think. We could be wrong
again!

[153]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

WILLIAM CHARLES CAMPBELL

HOME ADDRESS: Stow Road, Harvard, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Lexicographic Board, 200 W. 57th St.. New York,
N. Y.

Born: Dec. 8, 1905, Cambridge, Ohio. PARENTS: Morton Carlisle Campbell,
Mary Margaret McFarland.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926, 1927-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1927(28); LL.B., 1932.

marrigD: Lillian Louise Crosscup, Aug. 5, 1933, Newburyport, Mass. cutt-
DREN: Susan Louise, April 16, 1935; Mary Morton, Oct. 18, 1936; Eliza-
beth Ainsley, Sept. 27, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Morton Campbell, ’34, LL.B, °37.

occupaTion: Lexicographer (editor).

I HAVE nothing spectacular, or even important, to report. Mine
has been, briefly, a life spotted with a little law, a number of
well-wasted years in the mail-order business, and finally a peace-
ful old age dedicated to the editing of dictionaries. I can, how-
ever, recommend this editing business heartily. Any time you
can make a living by sitting in your shorts beside the old swim-
ming pool, with nothing but a few dogs, a few daughters, a beau-
tiful wife, and a bottle of beer to interfere with high-powered
production — any time you find such a job, my friends, take
it. Life in the country can be very, very beautiful.

FRANCIS HENRY CANNON

HOME ADDRESS: 19 Prospect St., Belmont, Mass.

BoRN: June 1, 1904, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Michael Thomas Cannon,
Frances Ann Donovan.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: AB., 1927.

markieD: Doris Arleta Shippee, Sept. 24, 1938, Bennington, N. H.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered active service in May, 1942, aS Ist

lieutenant, Air Corps; separated from service in November, 1946, with
rank of major.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.
PUBLICATIONS: War anecdote in Saturday Evening Post, November, 1947.

FROM graduation until the time I was called to active duty, I

was engaged in the insurance business, Following my discharge
from the Air Force, a service-connected disability hospitalized me

L154]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

for nearly three years and has kept me more or less inactive since
my release from the hospital.

KARLIN MENZIES CAPPER-JOHNSON

LAST KNOWN aAppreEss: 1 Barleycroft Green, Weyleyan Gardens, London,
England.

BORN: June 26, 1903, Leeds, England. parents: ‘Lionel Capper-Johnson,
Mary Menzies.

PREPARED AT: Sidcot School, Winscomke, Somerset, England, Queen’s Col-
lege, Oxford, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.

KARLIN MENZIES CAPPER-JOHNSON has been carried as
a “lost” man on our records since May, 1942.

DYAS WEBER CARDEN

HOME aApprEss: 8 River Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREss: American Oil Co., American Bldg., Baltimore, Md.

BORN: March 6, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Godfrey Lynet Carden,
Elisabeth Weber.

PREPARED AT: Riverdale Country School, Riverdale-on-Hudson, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B. IN E. ENG 1927.

MarrieD: Mary Adeline Powers, Oct. 7, 1930, Milwaukee, Wis. CHILDREN:
John Godfrey Dyas, Sept. 8, 1935; Jennifer Dyas, Dec. 12, 1940; Patience
Dyas, Oct. 2, 1944.

OccUPATION: Supervisor of training activities, American Oil Company.
OFFICES HELD: President, Riverdale Alumni Association (four terms); member
Post-War Planning Committee, Town of Greenburgh, N. Y., 1944.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Scarsdale Town Club; Scarsdale

Democratic Club; Harvard Club of Westchester.

THE summer after graduation I spent in France. Accompanied
by my mother, I toured Brittany and the chateau country around
Tours. It was a delightful vacation. At the end of it I packed my
luggage and came home to start working for Westinghouse Elec-
tric in their East Pittsburgh works. The transition was about as
thorough as can be imagined. I had gone with Westinghouse
thinking that I would continue on with engineering. I found that
at that time engineers were a dime a dozen, so I decided that mv
talents would be better suited to the sales end of the business.

[iss ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Accordingly I transferred to the Westinghouse International
Company.

I stayed with Westinghouse until 1932 when the depression
caught up with me. I weathered the depression by getting a job
as purchasing agent of a small factory in New Jersey, and in 1934
I joined the American Oil Company in New York as a lubrication
sales engineer. I have been with the American Oil Company ever
since. Being in the oil business is like being in the Navy. You
spend most of your time moving. In my first three years I lived
in Connecticut, Massachusetts, and up-state New York succes-
sively, acquiring one child en route. However, since returning to
New York in 1936, I have lived in Westchester County, such un-
interrupted residence establishing something of a record in our
business.

During this time my two daughters were born. Bringing up
three children has proved to be a lot of fun and a job that pretty
well takes up my leisure time. However, I have maintained an
active interest in the affairs of the Riverdale Country School and
served four terms as president of its Alumni Association, helped
to found the Riverdale Advisory Committee, and worked on
fund-raising campaigns for new school buildings.

In my home town of Scarsdale no one escapes taking part in
Civic activities. One of these activities is the Scarsdale Football
League, operated on a voluntary basis by a group of fathers for
boys from fourth grade to ninth grade age. During the season
about 4oo boys from the Junior High School and the five elemen-
tary schools play in organized leagues, with all coaching and
administration handled by interested fathers. This father and son
relationship has a great deal to recommend it. Much to my sur-
prise my teams ended up first in their league each year but one.
Maybe I have missed my vocation. At any rate, I found my
hobby. |

When my boy was a high school freshman he had to write his
autobiography as an exercise in composition. In it he stated “My
parents were typical products of the Jazz Age.” This observation
somewhat startled my wife and me since we had always thought
we were atypical of the John Held, Jr., prototype. But perhaps

he had a point. From what I can observe, the college graduates of
1927 had a somewhat different outlook on life from that of to-

[156]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

day’s young people. For one thing, it was an age of lively curi-
osity, marked by a healthy skepticism of any pre-fabricated be-
liefs they had not proved for themselves. Perhaps the college
students of today have the same attitude. Perhaps Harvard pro-
fessors still tell their classes not to believe what they read in print
just because it is in print — to find out what is true and right and
then hold fast to their belief in it. Perhaps they do; I hope so, for
such freedom of mind is the surest defense against the Police State.

ELTON BROWN CARMER

HOME ADDRESS: 65 Fairdale Drive, Williamsville 21, N. Y.

BorN: April 1, 1900, Clarence Center, N. Y. parents: Grant Delvan Carmer,
Eva Brown.

PREPARED AT: Tonawanda High School, Tonawanda, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921~I922, 1923-1924.

MARRIED: Eugenia Haloise Landgren, June 16, 1927, Detroit, Mich. CHILDREN:
Gene Brown, Oct. 31, 1928 (died July 9, 1948); Edith Marchal, March 5,
1931; Samuel Grant, Dec. 19, 1932.

OCCUPATION: Staff accountant for New York Public Service Commission.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served with qth U. S. Field Artillery in 1918.

MEMBER OF: Calvary Episcopal Church, Williamsville, N. Y.

4 JACOB CARP

BORN: Oct. 5, 1905, Malden, Mass. parents: Abraham Carp, Rachel Bloom.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.; English High School,
Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

piep: April 20, 1932, Mattapan, Mass.

JACOB CARP prepared for college at the Malden High School
and English High School. In 1923-24 he held the Cobb Scholar-
ship at Harvard. He won a Normal School Scholarship in 1924-
25, and a Kirkland Scholarship the following year. He left college
at the end of his junior year and, until his death, was with Carp
Brothers, wholesale fruit merchants in Boston.

JOSEPH CEPHAS CARPENTER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 4012 Enright Ave., St. Louis 8, Mo.
OFFICE apprEss: Sumner High School, 4248 W. Cottage Ave., St. Louis 13,
Mo.

[157]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

BORN: Jan. 7, 1904, Newport, R. I. Parents: Joseph Cephas Carpenter,
Nannie Elizabeth Welch.

PREPARED AT: Dunbar High School, Washington, D. C,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: $.B., 1927; A.M. (Univ. of Chicago),
1936.

MARRIED: Oleona Pegram Atkins, Aug. 29, 1929, Winston-Salem, N. C.

occupation: Art and drawing teacher in public schools of St. Louis.

MILITARY OR Naval rEcorD: Work in Red Cross.

OFFICES HELD: Board member, The Old Folks’ Home, People’s Art Center,
alt groups.

MEMBER OF: Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity; ¥.M.C.A.; Leyendecker Fan Club,
Y.M.H.A. Forum.

pusLications: Column in St. Louis American, “Stop Me If . . .”; letters to
St. Louis Post-Dispatch.

I GUESS because I am essentially a would-be painter still, even
after studying it at Harvard, I represent a frustrated Negro who
probably went to the wrong school. There I sat in classes with
the Gates Brothers, Crosscup. Once my short story was read as
the best in the class. I don’t want to live in the past, even to capi-
talize on it. Here in St. Louis I can’t even get into the Artists’
Guild. Maybe my pictures are still bad, but I have never been
welcomed. I flatter myself that I think I am personable and not
an unwelcome pusher. .. What I am trying to say is that the
lives of my classmates and mine have been very different since
graduation.

I have become a Great Books leader and my idea is that I have
been fairly successful. As far as 1 know there is no connection
here between members of the Harvard Club, unless they are white.
Practically everything I was taught at Harvard, I was led to be-
lieve, was to work towards a cohesive democratic society. Al-
most nowhere since have I seen such a society in operation. Yet
we are supposed to have a Reunion. For what, and with whom,
and why? These are questions that 1 must ask, and no one seems
to be able to answer them. |

And yet I am a Harvard man, and I am proud of it. I know that
Harvard stands, as she must always stand, for the ideals that rep-
resent living as it should be, the eternal search for truth — and
truth is no man’s province; it belongs to all men who will search
for it. This search is hard and long — it will never belong ex-
clusively to Harvard, of that I am certain, In fact, except in the
wonderful days of Thoreau and Emerson, when has it ever truly

[ 158 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

been there? I must not forget Agassiz, Copeland, Bliss Perry, and
Ralph Barton Perry; I must not forget Professor Eastlake who in
the Old and New Testament course would and could make all of
us hard-boiled guys cry at will. |

What has been my life? How can one write of it, like the war,
without seeming to be an utter and silly ass . . . unless, of course,
one is a writer.

Well, I am a teacher of art in the high schools. I am married.
I think my married life is as reasonably happy as lives go, in spite
of what I have said. We belong to a couples’ club and entertain
each other once a month. We travel to places like Canada and
Mexico but can never quite make Europe. My friends are all,
without exception, teachers, principals, doctors. We represent the
best in our society, but still it is not the best. Yet we are expected
‘ to be content with it. We have fine television sets, homes, and
cars. I name them in that order, because what is life in America
for us except what is imposed on us? We have to send to New
York and Chicago to get books to find where we can be admitted
to hotels at the end of the day, including New England, if we
want to go without let or hindrance and really relax when we
travel. That is America for us! |

- Now we are supposed to come back to our Alma Mater and

celebrate it! A great war is going on in Korea. What will it solve
for those such as we . . . really and truly? Congress is still con-
trolled by the South. I well remember when I was in my French
Class at Harvard, and we were reading “Tamango.” By the way,
do you remember “Tamango”? It tells about a Negro slave who,
escaping from Africa, was able to seize the command of the slave
ship. This was a famous story by Prosper Mérimée. Came the
time for a southern lad to read his translation (I think we were
in Sever Hall then, on the first floor). This is the way he read it,
“Then the head of a big, black Nigger appeared over the rail of
the ship!” I can never forget that. In justice to the teacher, he
mildly changed the translation to “Negro.” The young southerner
was unimpressed. I was the only Negro in the class. Bitterly, I
was struggling with French. I had failed twice to pass the reading
exam. Can you who read these words know and understand how
that incident then determined me to do everything until I had
passed that examination. Pass it I did. But there is what the

[159]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

average Negro had to strugcle with to get through a university
that he loved and with such sacrifice. America, the land of the
free and the home of the brave!

ALEXANDER JOHNSTON CASSATT

HOME ADpress: Radnor, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: gor Walnut St. Philadelphia 6, Pa.

Born: Nov. 5, 1904, Rosemont, Pa. parents: Robert Kelso Cassatt, ’95,
Amanda Drexel Fell.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cu?" laude, 1927.

marriepD: Cassandra Morris Stewart, June 6, 1928, Eccleston, Md. cHILDREN:
Robert Kelso, 2d, March 3, 1929; Alexander Johnston, Jr., May 17, 1933;
Cassandra Stewart, June 30, 1938.

HARVARD SON: Robert Kelso Cassatt, 2d, ’51.

HARVARD BROTHER: Anthony Drexel Cassatt, ’29.

OCCUPATION: Farmer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve,
March, 1942; separated commander, Oct. 1, 1945; administrative assistant
to chief of staff, Fourth Naval District.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Western Saving Fund Society, Philadelphia
1935-50; director, Pennroad Corporation, 1940-47; Pennsylvania Com-
pany for Banking & Trusts, since 1935; Western Saving Fund Society of
Philadelphia, since 1943; Electric Storage Battery Company, since 1941;
Pennsylvania Salt Manufacturing Company, since 1946; American
Briquet Company, since 1946; Fire Association of Philadelphia, since
1935; Mutual Assurance Company, since 1947; North Pennsylvania R. R.
Company, since 1947; trustee, Drexel Institute of Technology, since
1939; National Association for Mental Health, since 1949; Corporation
for the Relief of the Widows and Children of Clergymen in the Com-
munion of the Protestant Fpiscopal Church in the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, since 1937; vice-president, Y.M.C.A., Philadelphia, 1945-49.

MEMBER OF: Philadelphia Club; Racquet Club; Gulph Mills Golf Club;
Rabbit Club.

THE combination of a rather uneventful life and a rapidly failing
memory makes it difficult for me to think back over the past
twenty-five years and discover anything of interest to relate. Like
many others who graduated in the late twentics, I found myself
in the brokerage business shortly after graduation, convinced that
I was a young “Napolcon of finance” and confident that I would
make a large fortune in a few years. The great depression dis-
pelled any such hopes and I quickly concluded that a steady job
with a salary check once each month was preferable to the

{ 160 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

hazards of the stock market. Accordingly, I became, on January
I, 1935, Vice-president of a mutual savings bank, a position which
I held, except for three and one-half years in the Navy, until I
resigned in the spring of 1950. Perhaps I had grown tired of the
security which had seemed so attractive fifteen years earlier, or
maybe I was just tired of the monotony. At any rate, at the age
of forty-five, I found myself without steady employment.

' After toying with several offers of jobs, I yielded to a desire
which had grown stronger year by year, and decided to become
a farmer. Having arrived at that decision without too much diffi-
culty, I bought a farm on the eastern shore of Maryland and,
after one year of operation, I am still of the opinion that it was
the wisest step I ever took. Aside from being relieved of the
necessity of punching a clock, there are other compensations
which need not be elaborated on here. The combination, how-
ever, of trying to operate the farm profitably and retaining certain
business connections in Philadelphia, has been a satisfactory one in
all respects.

At this writing my children are practically grown up. My
elder boy is an aviation cadet in the U. S. Air Force, and the
younger has just enlisted in the Marine Corps. Only my thirteen-
year-old daughter is left at home and she is growing up at an
alarming rate of speed. As to my politics, I suppose I would be
considered an unreconstructed reactionary by certain starry-eyed
lads. If I am, it is only because I have a deep and abiding dislike
for the political philosophy of Franklin Delano Roosevelt and his
successor, and a deeper distrust of their motives. In my opinion
such good as may have been brought about by their so-called
social reforms is far out-weighed by the disastrous effect of their
cynical theories on the character of the American people.

As a final bit of information, I might add that my devotion to
Harvard is undiminished and that I am still sufficiently sophomoric
to hope that the greatest university in the country may once
again be represented by adequate athletic teams. Under present
conditions that will never be, unless the university makes a far
greater effort than in the past to attract its fair share of the
country’s best young men. Despite certain recent policy changes,
I believe that the problem has not been approached realistically
and that the answer has not been found,

[ 161 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

BENJAMIN IRVING CASSIN

HOME ADDRESS: 102 Congress Ave. Chelsea, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 117 Washington Ave., Chelsea, Mass.
BORN: March 1, 1906, East Boston, Mass. parents: Morris Cassin, Dora
Popitz.
PREPARED AT: East Boston High School, East Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1923~1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1931.
MARRIED: Dorothy Freedman, Sept. 2, 1928, Revere, Mass. CHILDREN: Carl
Michel, March 13, 1932; Claire Madeline, July 24, 1933.
HARVARD SON: Carl Michel Cassin, 754.
occuPpaTioN: Physician.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Ninth Air Force Medical Corps with A.F.CS, in
Normandy, France, Belgium, and Germany.
MEMBER OF: American Medical Association, Massachusetts Medical Society;
Association of Military Surgeons of U. S.; K. of P.; Masonic Order;
VF.W.; Amvets; Y.M.H.A.; B’nai B'rith.

PUBLICATIONS: “Endemic Goiter.”

AFTER four years at Tufts Medical School, and one year rotat-
ing internship at Long Island Hospital, I began general practice
in the little town of Andover, Maine, on April 1, 1932. This was
a good way to start because I was broke, and the town gave me
$1200 a year besides what I collected. The experiences and self-
reliance one gains as the only physician in a twenty-two-mile
radius, with farms, lumber camps, thirty below zero weather, and
other elements, cannot be duplicated in large medical centers.
Many pleasant trout and salmon catches, deer hunting and pheas-
ant, made up for tiresome tote road hikes up a mountain, or rides
with a horse-sled over a frozen lake. |

With six years of rustic practice and pleasure, and paper mills
closed down, we came back to settle in Chelsea, Massachusetts,
and again I was lucky and developed a good general practice. At
first, 1 worked two or three mornings a week in clinics. Now, I
am lucky to have one morning to spare.

I enlisted for duty in World War II and served in an Air Force
Clearing Station, in Normandy, France, Belgium, and Germany.

My family consists of a son at Harvard, Class of ’54, a daughter
at Radcliffe, Class of ’55, and my wife, in a class by herself, the
best cook in the world.

With some training as a child, and a few Fine Arts courses as a
background, plus a love for natural beauty, I have done some oil

[ 162]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

painting; landscapes are my favorite. This is really a good hobby
for anyone who sees the morbid side of life in his work. As for
sports, fresh-water fishing gives me a | thrill, especially salmon and
northern pike.

Politics have always been a source of disgust, and my viewpoint
has not changed. I try to avoid any discussion on this subject.

My religion has been partially pushed into the background by
my medical studies and work. But I have formulated my own
ideology based on “live and let live” and help others as much as
possible and avoid friction in any way. I’ve had both hellish days
and heavenly nights on earth, so I will not await any hereafter.

BENJAMIN CASTLEMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 203 Clinton Rd., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Mass.

BORN: May 17, 1906, Everett, Mass. parents: Samuel Castleman, Rose
Michaelson.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.D. (Yale Univ.), 1931.

marrieD: Anna Alice Segal, Dec. 22, 1935, Boston, Mass. cuitpren: Ruth
Jean, Aug. 24, 1937; Jean Linda, Feb. 18, 1939; Paul Arnold, Jan. 17,
1942.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Frank Castleman, ’29; Eli Bernard Castleman, 731.

OccuPATION: Physician; acting chief of Department of Pathology and Bac-
teriology, Massachusetts General Hospital; assistant professor of path-
ology, Harvard Medical School.

OFFICES HELD: House officer in pathology, 1931-32, resident pathologist,
1932-35, assistant pathologist, 1935-42, acting chief, 1943-45, since 1951,
Massachusetts General Hospital; pathologist, Emerson Hospital, Con-
cord, Mass., since 1941; consulting pathologist, Massachusetts Eye and
Ear Infirmary, since 1937, Cushing Veterans Hospital, Framingham,
Mass., since 1949, Memorial Hospital, Worcester, Mass., since 19523; in-
structor in pathology, Tufts Medical School, 1934-35, Harvard Medical
School, 1935-42; associate in pathology, 1943-48, assistant professor of
pathology, since 1948, Harvard Medical School; Chairman, Northeastern
Regional Committee, College of American Pathologists, 1948-51; secre-
tary-treasurer, 1939-42, president, 1946-47, New England Pathological
Society.

MEMBER oF: American Association of Pathologists and Bacteriologists; Inter-
national Association of Medical Museums; American Society of Clinical
Pathologists, College of American Pathologists; American Society for
Experimental Pathology; New England Pathological Society; New ‘Eng-
land Cancer Society; Aesculapian Club,

[ 163 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

puBLicatioxs: Over thirty articles dealing with anatomic pathology, with
special emphasis on the parathyroid gland, pulmonary infarction, renal
biopsies in hypertension, and the thymus gland.
OUR Class had so many applicants to the Harvard Medical School
that the gods decreed I spend four years with our arch rival in
New Haven. However, in 1931 1 returned to Boston to intern at
the Massachusetts General Hospital, and there I have remained
ever since, joining the Harvard Medical School teaching staff in
1935, and eventually reaching professorial rank. I now enjoy
attending faculty meetings presided over by Mr. Conant who was
both my faculty adviser and teacher at college.

Although my interest in pathology was at first as a basis for a
career in internal medicine, I found working in pathology so
stimulating with my former chief, Dr. Tracy B. Mallory (Class of
1918, ALD. ’21), that I stayed in this field. I continued at the
Massachusetts General Hospital and recently, since Dr. Mallory’s
death in the fall of 1951, have been acting chief of the department.
There is such a dearth of pathologists in this country that this may
be a good place to suggest to those of you who have children in,
or about to enter, Medical School, that they consider this field
seriously. Almost every hospital with over a hundred beds now
wants its own full-time pathologist. Pathologists can really name
their own ticket, and they do not have to treat colds and neurotic
women. It’s really the “cream of the crop.”

During the past ten years there have been many physicians
from foreign countries working in our laboratory. These contacts
led to my being invited as visiting professor of pathology at the
University of Brazil in Rio de Janeiro during July, 1950, and at
the University of Havana in February, 1951; by the time this
report is published, I shall have been at the University of Colom-
bia in Bogota. Royalty could not have been entertained more
lavishly, and we certainly can take lessons in hospitality from the
Latin Americans. The natural companion of travel is photog-
raphy. I was a bit of a Leica fan before I was married, and the
cost of our first child included the purchase of a movie camera.
The results: a series of reels, black and white enlargements

(Contax now), and Kodachromes of the growing up of our three
children and of our many holidays and trips at home and abroad.
As if the coming Twenty-fifth Reunion were not enough to re-

[ 164 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mind me that college days are far behind, being a patron at my
daughter’s school dance certainly did.

FRANK CLINTON CHACE

HOME AbDpDRESS: 49 Lovewell St., Gardner, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: City Hall, Gardner, Mass.

BORN: June 2, 1905, Fall River, Mass. parents: Ellery Wyatt Chace, Ella
Marion Sumner.

PREPARED AT: B.M.C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; ED.M., 1937.

marrieD: Alice Leach Rigby, July 14, 1928, Fall River, Mass. cHmpren:
Frank Clinton, Jr., Sept. 5, 1929; Alston Rigby, Feb. 22, 1932.

occuPATION: Superintendent of schools.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chairman, local War Finance Committee;
several offices in civilian defense.

OFFICES HELD: President, secretary, member Board of Directors, Bristol
County (Mass.) Teachers Association, 1928-37; town moderator, Swan-
sea, Mass., 1942-46; scoutmaster, councillor, Boy Scouts of America;
trustee, Town Library, Swansea, Mass., 15 years; president, Narragansett
Interscholastic League (Mass.); secretary, Old Colony Superintendents
Association (Mass.); chairman, service drives, Red Cross, Polio, etc.

MEMBER OF: Phi Delta Kappa; National Educational Association; American
Association of School Administrators, New England Association of
School Superintendents, Massachusetts School Superintendents’ Associa-
tion; Massachusetts Schoolmasters’ Club; National Congress of Parents
and Teachers; several other education groups; Rotary International.

IN MAY of our senior year at Harvard I was elected as teacher
and principal in the Joseph Case High School, Swansea, Massa-
chusetts, to begin with the opening of the school year in Septem-
ber. During July and August of 1927, I attended Harvard Sum-
mer School, taking courses in education. This bore fruit eventu-
ally in 1937 when I was awarded another Harvard degree, Master
of Education. After three years in the above position I was ap-
pointed superintendent of schools in Swansea — in July, 1930 —
a post I held until June, 1946. At that time I accepted the position
of superintendent of schools in the city of Gardner, Massachu-
setts, a position I still hold.

One year after graduating from Harvard, I married Alice Leach
Rigby, a school teacher, whom I first met in our high school days
at Fall River, Massachusetts. Alice still maintains an active inter-
"est in educational affairs and has just completed her first year of a

[ 165 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

three-year term as president of the Massachusetts Parent Teacher
Association, Inc. Our first child, Frank, Jr., was born in Septem-
ber, 1929. He is now in his third year at the U. S. Naval Academy
in Annapolis, where he holds down the varsity first base spot on
the ball team. Ironically, it was his mean bat that helped to beat
Harvard last spring—and he is looking forward to a repeat
performance in Cambridge in 1952. In February of 1932 our other
child, Alston, was born. He is now pursuing a pre-dental course
at Tufts, where he is enrolled as a sophomore.

Both our boys are good athletes and have excelled in football,
baseball, basketball, and swimming. Frank, Jr., goes about 200
pounds and is six-feet-two. Alston is almost as big. They were
very active in scouting, attaining the Eagle rank. This training
helped to prepare them for their jobs as counsellor which they
have held during summers at various camps.

My two chief hobbies are public speaking and taking, editing,
and projecting amateur movies. ‘These two pursuits have occu-
pied much of my time since 1927.

In regard to religion, my whole family have been very active in
the Episcopal Church. The boys served as acolytes for several
years, while my wife and I served, respectively, as church school
teacher and church school superintendent for about eighteen
years. In addition I served for several years as a member of the
vestry and financial secretary of the church.

Politically, I consider myself a Republican although at the
present time 1 am registered as an independent in order that I
may have a little more freedom in voting. I'd like to see a change
in the White House. I feel, as many others do, that the entire
situation has become unhealthy and we ought to do something
about it. I am definitely opposed to putting everyone on the na-

tional payroll and I believe that we ought to clean up the vice and
scandals which we find in public office. 1 am concerned, also, over
the fact that free enterprise is being smothered.

I can’t boast of travels abroad. However, I did go to Miami
Beach with the Gardner High School football team and I manage
to attend educational conventions in various parts of the country.

The above account is rather sketchy, but it summarizes a period
of twenty-five happy and successful years. I hope that fate has
been as kind to my fellow-classmates.

[ 166]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

_ DWIGHT WESTLEY CHAPMAN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 911 Olivia Ave., Ann Arbor, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Psychology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,
Mich.

BORN: June 4, 1905, South Bend, Ind. parents: Dwight Westley Chapman,
Carrie Ethel Carpenter.

PREPARED AT: New Trier Township High School, Winnetka, II.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. #agna cum laude, 1927; PH.D., 1930.

marriep: Harriet Nye, Aug. 27, 1930, Springfield, Mass. (divorced 1942);
Elisabeth H. Bowie, 1942, New York, N. Y. cHtLpren: David Dwight,
July 30, 1943; Judith Carpenter, Jan, 27, 1946.

occuPATION: Psychologist; visiting professor, University of Michigan.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Research director, Division of Program Sur-

_ veys, U.S. Dept. of Agriculture; deputy director, Division of National

Surveys, Office of Civilian Requirements; psychologist, Office of
Strategic Services.

MEMBER OF: American Psychological Association; Society for the Psycho-
logical Study of Social Issues; American Statistical Association, American
Association for the Advancement of Science; Phi Beta Kappa; Sigma Chi.

PUBLICATIONS: Professional articles in various psychological journals.
THE following strands of life may be gummed to the web left
dangling in 1947. I was at that time on my way to the Research
and Development Board. The Board, tough spawn of the uneasy
cohabitation of the military services, roves over its scientific
activities with a skeptical eye. It hunts for gaps and overlaps,
exhorting the filling of the former and holding the latter up to
intramural ridicule. It codrdinates and it broadly plans; and since
it holds one end of the purse strings, it giveth and it taketh away.
Therefore, it is regarded by the military community much as is
the corner cop —a saint to the needy and an s.o.b. to everyone
else. But with the scientists and their closest brothers-in-uniform
it works happily and fruitfully.

My own duties in the Board have lain with its Committee on
Human Resources, of which I in time became executive director.
The Committee deals with the burgeoning field of social-scientific
and psychological research to improve military selection, training
and management of personnel, “human engineering” of weapons,
and psychological warfare and strategic intelligence. The last four
years have seen this whole field, precariously neglected afrer a
good start in World War II, restored to far better than a mere
toe-hold among the hardware technologies. The headaches of

| [ 167]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

this now-successful effort have been the most absorbing that I
have ever shared.

Now I have decided to take respite from nine years of Wash-
ington and have come to Michigan, as a visiting professor. This is
pleasant. For the nonce I am happy to trade the white heat of the
Current Event for the cosier warmth of the undated Idea. Inevi-
tably I remain tangled in one or two Department of Defense enter-
prises. But signs of the times tell me that the round-trip airplane
ticket is now as common a mark of the academic as was the green
bookbag that you and I remember.

Pour le sport, I still like tennis, but they make sets longer now-
adays and I don’t last out as many. Of an evening I feel loyal to
people who will argue, play charades, or shut up and listen to
music. Once a year I junk my home-made phonograph amplifier
and wire the new one that will finally satisfy me. I paint sporadi-
cally, nigglingly, and in a morbidly delicious funk of self-con-
tempt. Some spark long repressed in me since knee pants wants to
play the violin and has begun to learn, without hope of becoming
more than the poor man’s Jack Benny.

I like sharp cheese of any ilk, reflective novels, unsweetened
drinks, and mechanical gadgets. I am unreasonably prejudiced
against television, a good deal of the South, salesmen, and logical

Ositivism.

In all this I can count usually on collaboration and always on

tolerance from my family. Greater love hath no man.

ALSTON HURD CHASE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 18 Bartlet Hall, Andover, Mass.
BORN: June 4, 1906, Adams, Mass. parents: Franklin Newton Chase, Mattie
Edna Hurd.
PREPARED AT: Salem Classical and High School, Salem, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. sunmna cum laude, 1927; PHD,
1930.
UNMARRIED.
occupation: Instructor in Greek, Samucl Harvey Taylor Foundation,
Phillips Academy, Andover.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECOKD; Commissioned second licutenant, Air Force, May,
1942; discharged captain, July, 1945; served in Air Intelligence, Washing-
ton, D. C, 1942-43; Intelligence officer, troop carricr squadrons, 1943;
ETO, October, 1943-June, 1945, with 8th Air Force Headquarters and

[ 168 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

joint RAF-AAF Target Office, January—-August, 1944; OSS, London,
Paris, Heidelberg, August, 1944-June, 1945.
OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Classical Association of New England, 1948~49.
MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Philological Association; Classical
Association of New England; Classical League; Harvard Club of Boston.
pusLications: A New Introduction to Greek, with Henry Phillips, Jr.;
Homer’s “Iliad” (translation), with William G. Perry, Jr.

THE record speaks for itself. I have had many happy years
teaching the Classics to boys. Except during the war years, my
life has been spent in places of beauty and serenity and has been
refreshed by the daily contact with the charm and hopefulness of
. youth. I am sorry to say that my feelings towards Harvard have
not been warmed by the fact that many Harvard men and not a
few members of the Class of 1927 have helped push the nation
along ways which every lesson I read in the past warns me are the
ways to debauchery of individual integrity and ultimate loss of all
freedom.

LOUIS SAMUEL CHASE

HOME ADDRESS: 40 Fenwick Rd., Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1265 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.

BorN: April 16, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Samuel Isreal Chase, Sarah
Meyer.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; A.M., 1929; M.D. (Univ. of
Berlin), 1934.

marRiED: Esther Jane Mustard, June 12, 1939, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Esther Sarah, Aug. 30, 1943; John Samuel, Dec. 18, 1944; Martha Dell,
Oct. 28, 1948; Rebecca Ellen, May 3, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Private practice of psychiatry and psychoanalysis.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned in Medical Corps, A.A.F., Octo-
ber, 1942; chief, psychiatry, Station Hospital, Westover Field, Mass.;
acting consultant in neuropsychiatry for 1st AF., and chief, psychiatry,
Regional Hospital, Mitchel Field, N. Y.; separated as major, April, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor, Tufts College Medical School; instructor,
Boston University School of Social Work, Boston University Graduate
School Arts and Sciences (psychology), Boston Psychoanalytic Institute;
attending psychiatrist, Cushing Veterans Administration Hospital; con-
sultant, Worcester State Hospital.

MEMBER oF: American Psychiatric Association; American Psychoanalytic
Society; Massachusetts Psychiatric Society; Greater Boston Medical
Society; Massachusetts Society for Mental Hygiene; Massachusetts Medi-

cal Society; American Association of University Professors; Caterpillar
Club.

[ 169 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

PUBLICATIONS: “Effects of Vitamin B, in Schizophrenia,” vol. 95, 1939,
“Prognostic Criteria in Schizophrenia, A Critical Survey of the Litera-
ture” (with Samuel Silverman, ALD.), vol. 98, 1941, Azzerican Journal
of Psychiatry; “Prognosis in Schizophrenia: An Analysis of Prognostic
Criteria in 150 Schizophrenics” (with Samuel Silverman, M.D.), Journal
of Nervous and Mental Disease, vol. 98, 1943.

STUDYING medicine abroad proved a lively and exciting experi-
ence, as was my attempt to become acquainted with political and
cultural developments in the Europe of the early thirties. But
watching mass psychosis develop around paranoid Feuhrers dis-
couraged my political curiosity and proved to be merely a further
extra-curricular course in psychopathology. For the remainder
of the decade I was more or less buried in medical psychiatric
and neurological internships and residencies.

Although I know I’m doing what I would have liked best to
do, could I start all over again as a new Harvard graduate, I some-
times wish four hours could be added to every day, an extra day
to every week, and so on. Then, besides my chosen work, I could
also have time for more garden, more fishing, many more projects
with my children—and also time for a much more detailed
report of the past twenty-five years.

JAMES RAPHAEL CHERRY

HOME apprESS: Chappaqua, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 120 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BORN: May 23, 1907, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Louis Cherry, Mary Geltman.

PREPARED AT: Boys’ High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 19273 LL.B. 1930.

marRiED: Kathryn Johnston, Aug. 31, 1934, Brooklyn, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Raphaelle E., Oct. 11, 1935; James G., March 22, 1938.

occupation: Lawyer; member of firm, Hays, St. John, Abramson & Schul-
man.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Counsel to French Government, 1944-45.

MEMBER OF: Bar Association of City of New York, Westchester Country
Club, Ban Reos’ Club (of America).

FROM layman to lawyer in three years; ejected into the down
cycle in 1930. Then marriage, children, transfer to a larger firm,
and absorption in a law practice of unusual scope. Politically and
in other respects [ continue somewhat aloof of center. Recreant

[170]

OEE THT _

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to my garden and other suburban chores, I alternate the seasons
enthusiastically with insufferable tennis and pitiable squash.

ALFRED THURSTON CHILD, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Polytechnic Institute, San German, Puerto Rico.

BoRN: Nov. 4, 1904, Pueblo, Colo. parents: Alfred Thurston Child, Georgia
Smith Boynton.

PREPARED AT: Garfield High School, Terre Haute, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1927; A.M. (Columbia
Univ.), 1929.

UN MARRIED. .

OCCUPATION: Professor of English.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Deputy director of Selective Service for Island
of St. Croix, World War II; volunteer worker for Red Cross, raising
funds and doing home service work.

MEMBER OF: American Association of College Professors.

PUBLICATIONS: Our Virgin Islands.

I’M very much afraid that my photograph and this “sketch” will
hardly measure up to the man of distinction which George Russell
asked for. Look at those wrinkles in my forehead and around the
mouth; look at the receding hairline and the fancy-rimmed glasses.
They certainly aren’t signs of distinction; but they do indicate
something of the busy, satisfying life ve led down here in sub-
tropical America.

The first few times I returned to the Continent after coming
down here, I always had to explain where Puerto Rico and the
Virgin Islands are. Now, thanks to World War II and the recent
publicity campaigns launched by highly tourist-conscious cham-
bers of commerce, I no longer have to explain anything. Every-
one at home knows everything about the islands. I’m glad we have
more tourists. They mean more money for our friends down
here; they mean a different kind of vacation for you and your
friends; but best of all they mean what one of my students wrote
when he literally translated a Spanish phrase as “mutual compre-
hension.”

For the last seventeen years, except for four brief visits to the
Continent, I’ve been living down here. At first I was assigned as
teacher of English and history (including Virgin Islands history,
about which I knew nothing) to the Junior-Senior High School

in Charlotte Amalie, St. Thomas, V. I. The dizzy social life of
[171 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

this tiny government outpost was something entirely new to me.
No Connecticut village or Middle West town I’d ever lived in
ever had anything like it. The formal crested invitations to goy-
ernment houses, the gala receptions on board visiting warships,
the swank parties at the Tennis Club, the opportunity to hobnob
with celebrities (including Douglas Fairbanks and Edna St. Vin-
cent Millay), teaching in an old barracks without windows built
by the Danes, being gawked at by tourists and gobs in fresh
whites, all added up to total a life that was completely delightful
and entirely new.

Then it all came to an end. I was transferred to St. Croix,
where I had to exchange my desk in a classroom for one in the
superintendent’s office. I had to exchange my easily discharged
duties as teacher for the endless round of administrative and
pedagogical problems of a superintendent. And this change wasn’t
helped by the advent of a new school law which was godfathered
by our friend and superior, Robert Moss Lovett. That law com-
plicated things by giving us a school board to work with, some-
thing none of my predecessors had had to deal with. And as if
that were not enough, along came World War II, with its addi-
tional responsibilities. First there was assuming the réle of deputy
director of Selective Service, and I just one year over the age
limit of the boys I was shuttling off into Uncle Sammy’s Army.
Then came membership on the fund-raising committee of the
local Red Cross chapter, chairmanship of the Red Cross Home
Service Committee, and membership on other war committees. It
was all interesting, challenging, but never as satisfying as teaching.
Consequently, when the war came to an end, I resigned to take
my present position as professor of English and speech at this
small church-related college in Puerto Rico. Even here, however,
extra responsibilities have dogged my footsteps: dramatics, for
during the last two years we have given two cut versions of
Shakespeare on a budget of less than $50; and journalism, as I have
edited the college’s combined student news-sheet, alumni bulletin,
and publicity sheet ever since I’ve been here. Now at last I get a
break. Eight months of sabbatical leave. Where do I spend it?
Well, part in New York studying, part in New Jersey getting
reacquainted with my sisters, brother-in-law, and nephews, and

part in England seeing in person the places I’ve talked so elibly
about in class.
[172 ]

SOP ape pee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

NICHOLAS CIABURRI

HOME ADDRESS: 1372 Rockdale Ave., New Bedford, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 454 Southbridge St., Auburn, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 6, 1902, Fall River, Mass. pARENTS: Vincent Ciaburri, Genevieve
Ziroli.

PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928, DEGREE: S.B, IN MECH. ENGIN., 1928.

UNMARRIED.

A. WALTER CIANI

HOME ADDRESS: 96 Furnace Brook Pkwy. Quincy, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 67 Coddington St. Quincy, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 4, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Louis John Ciani, Marie Ade-
laide Russo.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. C47 laude, 19273; M.D. 1931.

MarRiED: Ruth Alice Bowman, Aug. 24, 1940, Guttenberg, lowa. CHILDREN:
Mary Adele, March 4, 1942; Judith Elaine, July 24, 1943; Suzanne
Elizabeth, June 4, 1946; Cynthia Jane, July 28, 1947; Louis Stephen, May
18, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Manfred Mario Ciani, p.m.p., ’go.

OccUPATION: Orthopedic surgeon.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: In Army Medical Corps over 3% years; most
of time spent as chief of orthopedic surgery, at Fort Harrison and
Camp Atterbury, Ind., in Army general hospitals; held rank of major.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor and assistant professor, orthopedic surgery, Uni-
versity of Iowa, 1937-40; instructor, Tufts Medical School, 1947-52.

MEMBER OF: L’Eco, Quincy; American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgery;
American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Several publications in orthopedic surgery in University of
Iowa bulletins.

AFTER getting through college, I spent four years at Harvard
Medical School where I had the pleasure of being a classmate
of several of my college friends. After graduating in 1931, I
spent four years interning in hospitals in Fall River, Boston, and
Worcester, Massachusetts. After two years of general practice
in Worcester, I realized the advantage of specialization in medi-
cine and spent the next four and a half years studying at Dr.
Steindler’s clinic in Iowa City, Iowa. During my last year there
I married a native Iowan. We enjoyed life on a five-dollar-a-
week grocery bill and took in all the University concerts for ten
dollars a year. Those were certainly happy times. After return-

[173 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I 927

ing to Boston, I struggled along for two years in the private
practice of mending cripples and gained some experience in
court work. I also examined thousands of recruits at the Army
Induction Center. A three-and-a-half-year hitch in the Army
Medical Corps followed. The first year found us in Ohio and
Kentucky. The last two and a half years were spent near Indian-
apolis. Our third daughter was born in Hoosier territory. After
coming out of my O.D.’s, I returned east and shortly afterward
settled in Quincy, Massachusetts. I am again in the harness
working at my specialty and have recently been made chief ortho-
pedic surgeon at the local hospital. We now boast four daughters
and finally one son (age almost nine months at this writing).

I enjoy my yearly trips to orthopedic conventions in Chicago,
usually in January, and these I combine with visits to colleagues
in the midwestern states. I am a dutiful husband, take my wife
out once a week, and get in an evening of bridge with the boys
about every week. It will be a long time before our boy will be

ready for Harvard, but he looks like a good candidate for the
football team already.

PHILIP WADSWORTH CLAFLIN

HOME apprEss: Kettleboro, R.D. 1, New Paltz, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Discount Corp. of New York, 58 Pine St., New York 5,
™N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 9, 1904, Quincy, Mass. parents: Alan Avery Claflin, Mabel
Nash.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927.

MaARRIED: Agnes Rindge, Jan. 4, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alan Avery Claflin, ’20.

OCCUPATION: Securities.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S. Army — Counter-Intelligence.

ALL OF us, f imagine, who abruptly abandoned a profession or
a business to go to war find that period from 1941 to 1946 to
have been far more filled with events and experiences than all
the other years of these last twenty-five. Certainly this has been
true in my case. These war experiences, moreover, lend them-
sclves to narration much better and are much more easily
explained than those earlier adventures I had in Hollywood or,

[174]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

indeed, those I have had and am still having in Wall Street
where the progress has been slow from boom to depression,
from war on towards inflation.

Back in February, 1941, I enlisted in the Army as a private.
Perhaps I acted impetuously. The step enabled me, however, to
attend the first Officer Candidate course offered to enlisted men.
My Harvard education, incidentally, was of considerable con-
venience to me in this since after a lapse of fifteen years or more
I could still speak with dim familiarity on such terms as “isometric
projection,” “sine curves,” and “catenaries.” Through mathe-

- matics, in any case, I qualified as an officer in the Anti-Aircraft
Artillery just at the time of Pearl Harbor, and by the following
February I was on my way to Iceland. Early in the war Iceland
was fascinating as an assignment. One had the feeling of taking
part. Not uncommonly German planes would come to peek at
our installations and more especially at our convoys assembling
for the cruel Murmansk run in Hvalfjordur. With the successful
landings in North Africa, the urgency of supplying and defend-
ing the base in Iceland became less great. Service there became
dull, unbearable, and both men and officers not uncommonly
experienced nervous disorders. After over two long years in
and around Reykjavik I was reassigned to the Counter-Intelligence
and transferred, much to my delight, to London.

In England I took part in much of the strenuous preparations
for Operations Overlord — the landings in Normandy. My par-
ticular assignment was to guard the security of those depots
where the invasion maps were stored. The enemy, of course,
knew we were planning to cross the Channel but lacked details
as to exactly where. Those map depots, therefore, were of supreme
importance. All during April and May of 1944 I jeeped thou-
sands of miles up and down the coasts of Devon and Cornwall
for the purpose of making inspections. Early in July I followed
the first troops across the Channel and shortly after St. Lo, I had
my first and only combat experience in and about Avranches
which was the key to the Third Army’s break-through into
Brittany. With the liberation of Paris I took on the enviable job
of preparing for SHAEF the weekly Counter-Intelligence report.
This was largely a matter of editing the various Army reports
sent into Headquarters, but it enabled me to sce a great deal of

[175 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

what was going on. At this time I also worked much with both
the OSS and the FBI. On these my feeling was that perhaps
such super-security agencies might be competent and efficient in
other theatres of operation than ours. And it makes me wonder
the more now how the newly created Central Intelligence
Agency is working out today.

“At the war's end, thanks to my long service, I reverted quickly
to the civilian status that I intend to maintain. During the work-
week I am back in Wall Street worrying about the Public Debt
and about the administration’s methods of covering it, and about
the fact that bankers and others in Wall Street — even the success-
ful ones—are not very rich. This of course is truly silly and
even sad. So that I do not succumb to these worries, however, I
repair as often as I can to Kettleboro, our farm near Poughkeep-
sie. Of three establishments, Kettleboro is the only one that pro-
vides any degree of comfort and is the only one to make sense.
It is an eighteenth-century farmhouse with country comforts;
plumbing and other twentieth-century features have been added,
although I despair of keeping them running as they should. It
is here that my wife maintains her collection of paintings. Mostly
I garden. But since my wife is a part of adjacent Vassar College,
it is possible to be intellectual even on the land. Gardening, for
example, has its intellectuality through the ministrations of the
Vassar Art Department, through its horticulturists’ advice, and
its landscape architects’ suggestions, so that I find myself quite
absorbed during the bleak months in boning up on such things
as Sharrawadgi, that curious cult of Nature springing from the
Orient and moving into seventeenth-century Italy and into
France and England during the eighteenth and nineteenth cen-
turies. At our Ferme Orné there are shadows of Shenstone and
enough dreams for a Capability Brown.

JOHN DUDLEY CLARK, JR.

HOME Appress: 7 Mountain Ave, Princeton, N. J.
orFice appress: H.C. Wainwright & Co., 30 Pine St., New York 5, N.Y.

Bors: Dec. 30, 1904, Boston, Mass, parents: John Dudley Clark, ’03, Cornclia
Thayer Andrew.

prepartp AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

[176]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MaRRIED: Elizabeth Chatterton Grant, June 17, 1938, New York, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Cornelia Thayer, Oct. 7, 1939; John Dudley, 3d, July 4, 1941;
Linda Grant, March 27, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Forrester Andrew Clark, ’29; George Oliver Clark, 2d,
’31; Nathaniel Thayer Clark, ’35.

occupation: Stock broker; partner of H. C. Wainwright & Company, and
active member on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Pretty Brook Tennis Club,
Princeton, N. J.

HAVE completed twenty-four years as a member of the New
York Stock Exchange and a partner of H. C. Wainwright &
Company. Nine years ago I moved to Princeton where, for a
pastime, I raise chickens and Golden Retrievers. It is said of me
that I went to Harvard, live in Princeton, and root for Yale.

GEORGE LEONARD CLARKE

HOME ADDRESS: 44 Juniper Rd., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Biological Laboratories, Harvard University, Cambridge 38,
Mass.

BORN: Aug. 7, 1905, Providence, R. I. PARENTS: Prescott Orloff Clarke, Mary
Chase.

PREPARED AT: Moses Brown School, Providence, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1927; A.M., 1928; PH.D,
1931.

MARRIED: Marion Sherman Butcher, Sept. 5, 1929, Cambridge, Mass. cuiL-
DREN: David Butcher, June 12, 1932; Prescott, Nov. 14, 1935; William
Leonard, March 15, 1937.

HARVARD SON: David Butcher Clarke, 54.

occuPATION: Associate professor of zoology, Harvard University; marine
biologist, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Confidential research under contract for Na-
tional Defense Research Commission and for Bureau of Ships, Navy
Dept., 1942-45.

OFFICES HELD: President, Limnological Society of America, 1942-46; secre-
tary-treasurer, American Society of Limnologists and Oceanographers,
1946-49; Technical Advisory Committee, Atlantic States Marine Fish-
eries Commission; member of corporation, Bermuda Biological Station,
Marine Biological Laboratories, Woods Hole, Mass.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Zoologists, Ecological Society of America;
American Society of Limnologists and Oceanographers; Gamma Alpha;
Sigma Xi; American Geophysical Union; Atlantic Fisheries Biologists;
A.A.A.S.; Delta Upsilon; Signet Society.

[177]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

PuBLications: About 50 reports in scientific journals on research in marine
biology and related fields.

MY SWIM in the fountain in the Yard on Class Day evening was
not only the most refreshing experience of my college career but
evidently added the finishing touches to the formative influence of
Harvard —I have been a marine biologist ever since. After com-
pleting graduate study, I began teaching in the Biology Depart-
ment of Harvard University. At the same time, I joined the staff
of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. My teaching has
included courses in ecology and aquatic biology as well as the
guidance of graduate students on their thesis problems. My re-
search has been concerned with how the beasts and fishes in the
sea make a living. A better understanding of the ecological fac-
tors controlling the food cycle of the sea is necessary for a more
intelligent utilization of our present marine resources — and for
success in their further development. Investigations in this field
have involved me in activities ranging from measuring the feeding
rate of primitive crustacea in constant temperature tanks to fishing
for eel larvae at midnight in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean.
Ordinarily, my headquarters are at Harvard during the college
year and at Woods Hole during the summer period, but a confer-
ence or research work sometimes takes me farther afield. In
1947 I visited the marine laboratories of our West Coast. During
the spring of 1951, my work was centered in Norway on a Ful-
bright Award and included a study of the Lofoten cod fishery,
one hundred miles north of the Arctic Circle. Visits were made
during the past summer to marine laboratories in Sweden, Great
Britain, France, Belgium, Holland, and Denmark. My wife and
three sons have accompanied me on many of these peregrinations.
They have helped with ficld measurements before sunrise, enter-
tained colleagues til long after midnight, and shared in the gusta-
tory sampling of marine products ranging from abalone to sea
robin.

I was Visiting Investigator at Marine Biological Station, Ply-
mouth, England, in 1929, and at Bermuda Biological Station in
1933. 1 was an invited member of the Mecting of International
Council for Exploration of the sca at Copenhagen in 1936. Tam
listed in A.M.S., and Who's Who.

[178 J

i
:
E

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+! CHARLES PARSONS CLIFFORD

BORN: March 19, 1905, Milton, Mass. parents: Charles Parsons Clifford,
’03, Edith Stone.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.

MARRIED: Grace Pierce Roberts, March 21, 1941, Milton, Mass. cup:
Edith Grace, March, 1943. |

DIED: June 9g, 1946, Baltimore, Md. | .

wipow: Mrs. Charles P. Clifford, Jr., 43 Randolph Ave., Milton, Mass.

AS AN undergraduate at Harvard Charles Parsons Clifford was
a member of the Freshman Baseball Team, and in 1925 was on
the Baseball Squad. His club memberships included Hasty Pud-
ding-Institute of 1770, and the Owl Club, of which he was secre-
tary, 1924-25, and vice-president, 1926-27. Following gradua-
tion he served his apprenticeship in the banking and investment
field and in 1940 he took over the New England sales franchise
for the American Insulator Corporation of Pennsylvania. He
later became sales manager for the entire country. He held
membership in the Society of the Plastics Industry. In the fall
of 1943 he moved to Baltimore where he was living at the time
of his death. :

MILTON HENRY CLIFFORD

HOME ADDRESS: 230 Brattle St. Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 501 Boylston St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 11, 1905, Bangor, Maine. parents: Milton Sherburne Clifford,
Angela Godfrey.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.D., 1931.

MarRiED: Lydia Host, Dec. 23, 1936, Paris, France. cHmpren: Vera Eliza-
beth, Feb. 6, 1938; Angela Sigrid, Sept. 24, 1939.

OccUPATION: Physician, internal medicine.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned major in Medical Corps, AUS,
April 1, 1942; sent to Australia six weeks later as medical section chief
in 1osth General Hospital (Harvard affiliated unit); transferred in
October, 1943, as chief of medical service of s00-bed station hospital
(155th), with promotion to licutenant colonel in 1944; returned to U. S.
in August, 1945, from Morotai, N. E. I, after several months as com-

[179 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

manding officer of latter hospital; awarded Bronze Star Medal; released

from active duty in 1945, after brief tour at Northington General Hos-
pital as chief of the medical service.

OFFICES HELD: Currently: associate medical director, New England Mutual
Life Insurance Company; instructor in medicine, Harvard Medical
School; assistant physician, Massachusetts General Hospital; consulting
physician, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary; member courtesy
staff, Mt. Auburn Hospital; director, Cambridge Family Society; rep-
resentative to the Life Insurance Medical Research Fund elected by
Association of Life Insurance Medical Directors; formerly: member,
staffs of Palmer Memorial Hospital (New England Deaconess Hospital),
Free Hospital for Women, and Faulkner Hospital; secretary, Suffolk
District Medical Society, 1939-41; counselor, Massachusetts Medical
Society, 1939-50.

MEMBER OF; American College of Physicians (fellow); Suffolk, Massachu-
setts, and American Medical Associations; New England Cardio-vascular
Society; American Heart Association, Association of Life Insurance
Medical Directors; Industrial Medical Association; Board of Internal

Medicine (diplomate); Aesculapian Club; Stork Club, Harvard Club
of Boston; The Country Club, Brookline.

SINCE the war my life has been a very happy, quiet family
existence. We moved into a small house near the outer end of
Brattle Street in Cambridge. Our two daughters go to Shady Hill
School nearby. On Sundays the “women-folk” go to Christ
Church in Harvard Square. The whole summertime they and
our dog and two cats spend on the Maine seacoast, at Hancock
Point, with my mother (who still resides in Bangor, forty miles
away), and I usually get nearly a month with them. In the last
few years summer activities were enlivened by my taking up golf.

In connection with my life insurance work, I travel several
weeks of the year all over the United States, and in 1948 I went to
Honolulu, to visit agencies and see examining doctors. It is 4
hope, however, that in the not too distant future, our family may
all visit Norway, my wife’s native land (although she was born
north of the Arctic Circle in Russia). She flew to Oslo two win-
ters ago to visit those of her family who are not here in the
States and returned via Paris, where she had a chance to see
numerous old friends, particularly those who had trained with
her at the American Hospital of Paris. At home our life is quiet

and pleasantly involved with activities of children growing into
their early teens.

[ 180 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CLEMENT DUANE COADY
HOME ADDRESS: 124 N. Maple St. Wabash, Ind.
orFice appress: G. M. Dichl Machine Works, Inc., Wabash, Ind.
BorN: June 4, 1903, Newton, Mass. parents: Patrick Francis Coady, Mary
H. Duane.
PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Acad-
emy, Exeter, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1927 (28).
marrieD: Ida Mae Orr, Aug. 19, 1944, Westfield, N. J.
occUPATION: Sales manager; manufacturers of woodworking machinery.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S. Navy, April, 1942, to October, 1945; convoy
and routing duty in Boston, Bahia, S. A. Rio de Janeiro, New York,
Aruba, Netherlands West Indies; rank, lieutenant commander.
MEMBER OF: Wabash County Club, Kiwanis, Elks.
I WENT from managing the Fish Department of the A & P New
York office in 1938 to woodworking machinery in 1945, but
believe me, my friends, it was not in ten easy lessons. Between
these years came the war. Being minus wife, children, and de-
pendents, I was a most likely candidate for “Greetings” from the
Commander-in-Chief. I therefore set my traps and landed a com-
mission in the Navy. Not knowing the stem from the stern of a
ship, I found myself organizing and despatching convoys to and
from ports along the Atlantic, from Boston to Rio de Janciro.
This was a very interesting duty, but not what one could call
dangerous.

In Rio de Janeiro I was most fortunate in meeting the Girl. She
was stationed with the American Embassy there and in August,
1944, consented to become Mrs. Coady. I only regret that our
paths didn’t cross much earlier. These last eight years, however,
have been wonderful. After the war I took a step I had long
contemplated. It is treason, I know, coming from a Bostonian,
but we moved to the Middle West — first to Cleveland and later
to Wabash. I sold woodworking machinery in Cleveland and
came to Wabash as sales manager for the G. M. Diehl Machine
Works. The chair in which you sit, the table from which you
eat, and the bed in which you sleep were all, no doubt, helped to
completion by a Diehl ripsaw, jointer, splicer, or moulder. Our
stay in Cleveland was a happy one due in great part to our friend-
ship with John and Dorothy Brown. Even now we make regular
pilgrimages back, and I generally pick up gasoline money from

[ 181 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

J. Brown by way of the golf course. That same procedure is
followed more often in Wabash, since Carl and Betty Lundell live
in nearby Fort Wayne, and Carl, too, claims to be a golfer. As
you can guess, my recreation is golf, and in that my wife is my
severest critic and keenest competitor. The above adds up to fun
and enjoyable living. I have few worries since they took out half
my stomach last January. The world affairs, politics, taxes and
such will be well taken care of by those more capable than I.
Today I think is a good day!

ELIOT CODMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 47 Fernwood Rd., Hamden, Conn.
OFFICE ADDREsS: 205 Church St., New Haven, Conn.

gorN: April 30, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Alfred Codman, ’96, Lydia
Fliot.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925.

marriep: Mary Lousie Spaulding, Aug. 18, 1938, Marion, Mass. CHILDREN:
Mary Louise, Nov. 4, 1939; Rosamond, June 19, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Alfred Codman, ’25; Daniel Codman, ’30; Samuel Cod-
man, °31.

occupation: Administrative assistant, real estate.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Decentralization Service, 1942-43; War Ship-
ping Administration, 1943-45.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Harvard Club of New Haven, vice-president, New
Haven Mental Hygiene Society.

FROM 1925 to 1930 I was engaged in the real estate management
business in Boston. From 1930 to 1941 I was in the travel business
in Boston, which included many trips about the universe. I spent
most of the time selling travel and as manager of the office of
Raymond-Whitcomb Inc. I really enjoyed this with the many
free trips afforded and luxurious vacations to boot (on the
house!). The memories will linger long! During this period I
had the good fortune to get married and my wife enjoyed similar
trips with me. War broke out and that was the end of that!

From 1941 to 1945 I was in Washington, D. C., working for the
government in various capacities and was delighted to leave for
more sturdy confines of New England and engage again in prin-
ciples of “Private Enterprise” in the real estate business (in New
Haven, Connecticut — believe it or not!). Since then I have been

[ 182 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in the real estate business and enjoying it a lot. I have two daugh-
ters who keep us busy. I enjoy the State of Connecticut with
Governor Lodge at the helm and look forward to a change of
federal administration in 1952!

LOUIS COHEN

HOME apprEss: 155 Burrill St.. Swampscott, Mass.
BoRN: Nov. 16, 1906, Lynn, Mass. parents: Jacob Cohen, Leo Goodman.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925.

NATHAN NEWTON COHEN

HOME ADDRESS: 142 Claflin Se. Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS; 68 Devonshire St., Boston g, Mass.

BoRN: April 2, 1906, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Edward Cohen, Sonia
Helen Roytenberg.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREFS: A.B, 1927; 5.M. (New York Univ.),
1930.

MaRRIED: Ethel Lynn Becker, Sept. 3, 1933, New York, N. Y. cHILpREn:
Roberta Gay, June 17, 1938; Stuart Jay, Sept. 5, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alan Sidney Cohen, ’30.

OccUPATION: Insurance brokerage; partner, Cohen & Penn Insurance Agency.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1945-46, chairman, Board of Trustees, 1946-47,
Belmont-\Watertown Temple Center, treasurer, Belmont Combined
Jewish Appeal, 1947-48; president, Jewish Centers Association of
Greater Boston, 1949-50.

MEMBER OF: Boston Life Underwriters Association; Insurance Brokers As-
sociation of Massachusetts; Harvard Business School Alumni Associa-
tion; Temple Israel Brotherhood, Belmont-Watertown Temple Center;
Middlesex District, Zionist Organization of America; Freedom Lodge,
AF.&A.M. (charter member), Somerville, Mass., Shawmut Lodge,
A.F.&A.M., Boston; Boston Lafayette Lodge of Perfection, 14°; Giles
Fonda Yates Council, P. of J. 16°; Mount Olivet Chapter, Rose Croix
18°; Mfassachusetts Consistory, S.P.R.S. 32°; Aleppo Temple Shrine,
Valley of Boston (life member).

I

FROM ’27 to ’52, I’ve done the usual thing to do;
I'ye married once, had kids just twice,
And found the whole procedure — nice.

[ 183 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927
II

I've bought a home, tried not to roam,
But served with friends and neighbors all
To answer every civic call.

Il

In Masonry and P.T.A., in Red Cross and C.J.A.
I’ve worked with those who sought to speed
Substantial aid to every need.

IV

No publisher today can claim he raised my manuscript to fame;

For I’ve been of that “minor school” whose deed, not word,
has been its tool;

And were it not each classmate’s chore to trot his pungent
past up ’fore,

You'd not be hearing from me, boys!

CHARLES CARROLL COLBY

HOME ADDRESS: 1240 Pine Ave., W., Montreal, P. Q., Canada.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1117 St. Catherine St., W., Montreal, P. Q., Canada.

BoRN: Dec, 8, 1905, Montreal, P. Q., Canada. PARENTS: Charles William
Colby, Emma Frances Cobb.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927, DEGREES: S.B., 1927; M. ARCH., 1931.

marrieD: Helen Lovat Opie, July 6, 1935, New York, N. Y. cHILpRen:
Charles Williams, May 25, 1939; Robert Lovat, June 3, 1941, Edward
Wilder, July 31, 1942.

occupaTIoN: Architect.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Major, Royal Canadian Engineers, 1943-46,

HAROLD IRWIN COLBY

HOME appress: c/o M. Colby, 208 Duke St., Alexandria, Va.

BORN: Oct. 6, 1904, Lodi, Wis. parents: Charles Chivers Colby, Ethel
Elvira Barnhart.

PREPARED AT: Taylorville High School. ‘

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927,

[ 184 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LESTER JOHN COLBY

HOME ADDRESS: 27720 Red River Drive, Birmingham, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 710 Fisher Bldg. Detroit, Mich.

BoRN: Aug. 25, 1904, Somerville, Mass. parents: Alfred Edward Colby,
Mabel A. Weinheimer.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.; Browne and Nichols
School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

marrieD: Mary Lee Monkhouse, Nov. 16, 1943, Detroit, Mich.

occupATION: Manufacturers’ agent, textiles.

MEMBER OF: Recess Club; Detroit Athletic Club; Birmingham Country Club;
Harvard Club of Michigan.

GUESS I needed the second notice, Monk. Frankly, I have been
reading the “Sample Lives” and have come to the conclusion that
not much has happened to me. I have spent the twenty-five years
in the textile business, three of them trying to learn it from
sheep to cloth, and twenty-two peddling the cloth to automobile
manufacturers. At present I am selling agent for the A. D. Ellis
Mills, of Monson, Massachusetts, and the Masland Duraleather
Company, of Philadelphia. The past ten months have been
“rough,” with prices going up, ceilings, scarcities, etc.; then an
about-face, plenty of cloth, lower prices, fewer cars being built.
Try to sell a plant efficiently under these conditions. (After read-
ing the above, guess I should have written this at home; it would
change the emphasis a little.)

Met Lee during the war, and as she says, “Men were scarce and
we both liked Daiquiris.” We have no family, but have had some
very annoying experiences with social workers on adeptions, so
now have a Siamese cat and a French poodle. We enjoy the
odd eighteen holes together, and I can still give strokes. Gin or
canasta I won't play. I never win, and besides, she gets enough
allowance. When it comes to fishing off Florida, she claims she ©
catches them by feeding them all the time. This winter I want to
go to Bermuda, as it is nearer business, but she wants Hawaii.
Maybe she’s got something —the grass skirts look all right on
Godfrey’s show.

Politics? “If we can only get... .” Maybe it won’t make too
much difference, as we seem to be committed to high taxes,

[ 185 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

spending, and debts, to the point where none of us will ever have
anything set aside. I wonder how we can ever retire to a more
relaxing life and the odd scotch and water. Make mine Red
Label, if you have it. I’m playing only nine today.

ROLAND ARTHUR COLBY |

HOME ADDRESS: 2101 Dellwood Drive, N.W., Atlanta, Ga. .

OFFICE ADpREss:; W, T, Grant Co., Southern Regional Office, 203 Palmer
Bldg., Atlanta, Ga.

BORN: Nov. 8, 1906, Haverhill, Mass. parents: Percy Roland Colby,
Sadie Alice Peck.

PREPARED AT: Haverhill High School, Haverhill, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. Magna cum laude, 1927.

MARRIED: Dorothy Florence Richardson, Feb. 2, 1924, Chestnut Hill, Mass.
cuiLp: Roland Arthur, Jr., Aug. 23, 1929.

occupation: Chain retail stores; regional operations manager — personnel

and store operations administration for Southern Region comprising
Southeast, Southwest, and West Coast states.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California, Harvard Club of At-

lanta; Personnel Club, Atlanta, Atlanta Athletic Club; East Lake
Country Club; Phi Beta Kappa Society.

MY FIRST job out of school was office boy in the B. & A.R.R.
Traffic Department. I was promoted to tariff compiler but
remained only a short time, going to Ludlow Manufacturing
Associates ‘Traffic Department to get enough salary to get
married. I was changed in less than a year to W. T. Grant Com-
pany Traffic Department, when I discovered married life re-
quired more earnings than I anticipated. I went with Grant in
November, 1929, in the same week as the first impact of the
1929 market crash hit. By the spring of 1931 Grant Company,
along with many others, discovered they didn’t need so many
home office (overhead) people to operate. Luckily I got trans-
ferred to their store management training program and started a
life of moving about which I’ve been doing ever since for the
same company. This change to merchandising was the best thing
that ever happened to me — little as I appreciated it at the time,
because my earnings were reduced substantially on the change-
over. After enduring long hours, small pay, but interesting and
exciting work as a floor man in New York City, Philadelphia,

[ 186 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Hopewell (Virginia), McKeesport (Pennsylvania), and later as
assistant manager in Hartford (Connecticut) and Portland
(Maine), I became a store manager in 1934 in Newport, Vermont
(at that time the smallest volume unit in the entire chain), which
was a blow to my pride but stimulated me to exert myself to
get promoted to something larger.

From 1935 to 1940 I was lucky enough to get promotions to
management of our Plymouth, Lynn, and Salem units. Most of
these years were spent trying to get ahead in a none too favor-
able economic climate. In 1940 I went on the road as super-
intendent for Maine, New Hampshire, and Vermont working
out of Portland, Maine. This was such a rugged ycar — travelling
mostly by car, especially in the winter to such outposts as Fort
Kent and Van Buren, Maine — that it was as much a test of
physical endurance as it was a challenge to my supervisory ability.

I was relieved of all this in about a year, when the administrative
set-up of the company was revamped. I was given the job of
organizing a Field Display Organization to be used in connection
with a stepped-up expansion-rehabilitation program of the com-
pany. This kept me travelling all over the United States from
February, 1941, to July, 1943. The war halted the expansion
program, and I was made manager of our Huntington Park,
California, store. After three years on the West Coast, I was
appointed manager of our Miami, Florida, store in October, 1946.
The following spring I was made district manager of the South-
west and travelled the states of Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas,
Louisiana, and Mississippi. In February, 1950, I was sent to the
Harvard Business School Advanced Management Class — the
seventeenth one — for thirteen weeks. At the conclusion of this
course, I was appointed southern regional operations manager,
covering the southern half of the United States and extending
from Norfolk to San Francisco. Effective February 1, I was
appointed to the newly-created position of assistant regional
manager in the southern region.

While most of my life has been spent in moving my family
from place to place, and a great deal of my time has been spent
in travelling jobs, I have never regretted it, believing that it iS
an experience that has broadened and developed me — also given
me opportunities for advancement that I could not have found

[ 187 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

so readily if I had settled down back in the home town. My wife
has been a tremendous help in making friendships and social
contacts wherever we have gone. My son turned native in Texas,
entered Southern Methodist University, and is graduating this
year; he plans to marry a Texas girl and settle down in Texas
after a probable tour of duty for Uncle Sam. I have tremendous
confidence in the growth potential of the South and Southwest and

hope to spend the rest of my days south of the Mason-Dixon
Line.

EDWARD D. COLE

HOME ADDRESS: 21 Squirrel Rd., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.
OFFICE appress: F, L. Putnam & Co., Inc., 77 Franklin St., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 25, 1904, Boston, Mass, parents: Fred Pierce Cole, Edith Dudley.

PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Jane Milnor, Feb. 7, 1931, Cincinnati, Ohio, cumtpren: Leland M,,
Aug. 10, 1934; Joseph E., April 16, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Investment securities.

OFFicEs HELD: Former local Boy Scout chairman.

MEMBER OF: Wellesley Country Club.

THE suburbanite is usually pictured staying pretty much on one
track and leading an existence hardly consistent with interesting
discussion. While resenting the terminology and its implications,
one of the above-named species does find it difficult to go on
from here. As to a career, I started in the investment business in
1928, was married in 1931 because surely business couldn’t get
worse, and still have nightmares of 1932. I am still in the business
and enjoy it immensely. Why, I don’t know, except maybe for
the constant changes that minimize any chance for boredom. I
have been donated quite a few titles in my present firm, none very
impressive, but all indicating a rdle of filling in where necessary.
Selling is my chief vocation.

As a New Englander, a security salesman, and a Republican, I
can only repeat one criticism —“That’s pretty far to the right,
isn’t it?”

My family, fortunately, is congenial. We do a lot of things
together such as golf, fishing trips, and miscellaneous travel. At
the present, our favorite fishing spot is Lake Timagami in Ontario,

[ 188 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a fairly long drive but well worth the trip. Orher hobbies include
hunting, which pretty well occupies the fall season; the quest —
pheasants in Massachusetts and partridges in New Hampshire.
One boy is now at Berkshire School and heading towards Har-
vard. The younger, at the moment, refuses to be rushed and is
heading only for Berkshire.

DANIEL MARK COLLIER

HOME ADDRESS: 1050 Barry Lane, Cincinnati, Ohio.

OFFICE apprEss: The Dan Cohen Co. 400 Pike St., Cincinnnati, Ohio.

BoRN: July 27, 1905, Covington, Ky. parents: Moses Daniel Cohen, Es-
ther Marks.

PREPARED AT: Hughes High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925.

MARRIED: Regine Elaine Altman, July 7, 1935, Cincinnati, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Daniel Mark, Jr. March 4, 1937; Roger E., Feb. 24, 1941.

occupaTION: Shoe chain stores, vice-president, The Dan Cohen Company,
buyer and merchandiser of women’s shoes.

OFFICES HELD: Director, National Association of Shoe Chain Stores, 1945-51;
member, Joint Industry Committee, Popular Price Shoe Show of Amer-

ica.
MEMBER OF: Masonic Lodge, Harvard Club of Cincinnati; Modern Art
Society of Cincinnati; Cincinnau Art Museum Association.

TO PRESENT this narrative chronologically, I should start with
the year 1925 when regretfully I was forced to leave Harvard
during my junior year on the advice of my physicians. I had
always suffered a chronic sinus condition, and the extreme weather
of New England proved too much for me. Consequently, I had
to sacrifice pleasant friendships and companionships in favor of
the less rigorous climate of Arizona, where I remained for almost
a year. Enjoying the beauty of Arizona scenery and attending
classes at the University of Arizona at Tucson kept me busy
throughout that period.

In 1927 I entered the shoe chain store business with a company
founded by my grandfather in 1888, and I have remained with the
company ever since. In addition to my merchandising duties
within the company, I have in recent years become actively inter-
ested in affairs concerning the general industry. In 1944, together

[ 189 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

with several other members of the shoe chain store industry, I
assisted in founding the National Association of Shoe Chain Stores
and was a member of the board of directors of that group from
1944 to 1951. Since the group has been most active in dealing
with governmental problems, | found myself on a number of its
committees and as a result, during World War II and in the cur-
rent defense effort, I have had a rather full schedule of meetings
and conferences. My duties have entailed considerable travelling
about the country visiting shoe manufacturing centers and various
cities in which our company operates stores. I travelled to Europe
in 1930 and again in 1935. Most of my vacations, however, have
been spent in northern Michigan and more recently on the Island
of Nantucket.

Throughout my business life I have never failed to indulge
myself in reference to my two deep and life-long hobbies, sports
and the theatre. My particular field of interest in sports is baseball,
and of course, being a resident of Cincinnati, I am an enthusiastic
follower and friend of the Cincinnati Reds. On occasions I have
managed to spend a few days in the spring of the year at their
training camp, and some of my closest friends have been developed
among the personnel in the baseball business. I still retain a share
of affection for football and have attended the Harvard-Yale
football games several times and also attend throughout the season
a number of other games in the Middle West. My theatre-going
is necessarily limited in this midwest city, so therefore it is con-
centrated within one or two weeks a year when my wife accom-
panies me on a trip to New York, where we attend a number of
new shows and re-visit fine plays which we have enjoyed.

Our home life is interesting and active. My wife is busy in all
phases of club work with particular reference to philanthropic
and cultural affairs. We have elected her as vice-president in
charge of all of this type of activity. My two sons are students at
schools in Cincinnati and attend summer camps in New England.

My elder son, now a freshman in high school, has high hopes of
soon matriculating at Harvard. My political views are best ex-
pressed by saying that I am wholeheartedly in favor of my fellow-
Cincinnatian, Robert A. Taft, being the next president. I am look-

ing forward to that event, for, if true, it would really be a
millennium for the United States,

[ 190 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FORREST FOSTER COLLIER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 69 Chatham St., Chatham, N, J.

orFice appress: Irving Trust Co., qznd St. & Park Ave. New York, N. Y.

porn: July 8, 1904, Billerica, Mass. parents: Forrest Foster Collier, ’go,
Lip. oz, Lucy Bryant Foster.

prepareD aT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass., Hlowe High School,
Billerica, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; M.B.A.y 1929.

MARRIED: Emma Stewart Miller, Dec. 29, 1933, New York, N. Y. ctiupren:
Forrest Foster, 3d, Oct. 6, 1936; Anne Stewart, Sept. 10, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Abram Thurlow Collier, '34, LL.B. "37.

occUPATION: Banking.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Harvard Business School Club of
New York; Harvard Lodge, AF. & A.M., Cambridge, Mass.

THE life of a “commuter” is not an easy one. For complete
proof, if proof is needed, I refer you to “Daily Except Sunday”
by Ed Streeter, Harvard, 1914. Commuter is what I am and
therefore my pattern of life is only too well known to many of
you. The buyi ing of commutation “tickets for years results in the
formation of some good and some bad habits, and existence be-
comes regimented to a considerable degree. The tax collectors,
the mortgage company, and various insurance companies are those
for whom I slave. What is left over goes to raise a family.

Over the years the family has enjoyed many hobbies together,
particularly photography and model trains. The last takes up
a good part of our basement as an active hobby of our son. In
unallocated time I find plenty to do as a jack-of-all-trades about
the house. At intervals time is found to take an active part in local
community drives and in church affairs.

Since leaving the Business School I have been with the Irving
Trust Company associated for most of the time in credit and loan
activities. Recently I have been engaged in the development of
new business in connection with foreign trade.

WORRELL VAN ANTWERP COMBS

HOME appress: 7 W. Rivercrest Drive, Route 4, Box 503C, Houston, Texas.

OFFICE AppRESS: Ruthrauff & Ryan, Inc., 662 Gulf Bldg., Houston, Texas.

BORN: Nov. 19, 1905, Carthage, Hl. parents: Edwin Scott Coombs, Luella
Worrell.

PREPARED AT: Carthage High School, Carthage, III.

[191]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927, DEGREE: A.B., 1927.
marrieD: Dorothy Elizabeth Fick, June 28, 1930, Quincy, Ill. c#rvpren:
Worrell Van Antwerp, 2d, May 19, 1933 (died Jan. 5, 1934); Sheila Ann,
April 7, 1935; Marquis Scott, Aug. 15, 1938.
HARVARD BROTHER: Yale Forsyth Combs, ’29.
occupation: Advertising; Southwest vice-president, Ruthrauff & Ryan.
OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Adverusing Club of Houston.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club; Torch Club; Salt Creek Philosophical Wassail
Society.
IN LOOKING forward to returning to Cambridge after twenty-
five years, my first thought seems to be one probably common
to many of us — that I am sure I don’t look and feel as doddering
as the Class of 1902 appeared to me a quarter of a century ago.

The best remembered years come easily — the pause between
college and my expected return to law school when I was paying
up college debts teaching and coaching in Quincy, Illinois, with-
out benefit of credits in education. There was a double satisfac-
tion, probably as complete as any I have since experienced, of
feeling I was able to instill a trace of English and mathematics in
a group of highly likeable youngsters — and then turning out a
district championship basketball team when the odds looked
long. Result: meeting my future wife, securing a sales “engincer-
ing” job with the Gardner Denver Company (oil field and mining
equipment) with the idea that I might thereby be better able to
support her. I was promptly shipped to Texas with as little
understanding of the state as Bill Locke had about Illinois in
Holworthy Hall. Concluding that advertising and not sales was
my forte, I finally wangled a job with the Coulter & Payne
Agency in San Antonio as general factotum. The organization
folded shortly thereafter in the middle of the depression with
bread lines queue-ing up magnificently in that mild climate about
the time our first child was born. Neal McElroy of Procter &
Gamble decided he could use another man in Cincinnati and
provided what is considered in our business some of the finest
advertising training in the country.

Texas has proved an irresistible magnet for the Combs family,
however, and in five years’ time we were back in San Antonio
in radio and then to Houston with Ruthrauff & Ryan, Inc., to open
their office in 1940. Tam still with R. & R. in Texas after a shift of
a few years in Chicago. Since I have never managed a cigarette

[192 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

account, unlike my capable competitor, Class of 1926, I feel no
urge to apologize for the fictional exaggeration that was Victor
Norman — any more than my preacher friends need deny Elmer
Gantry. Advertising is a business fringed by occasional fantastic
characters — but what field isn’t?

Politically, I deviated during the religious hysteria of the
Hoover-Smith campaign, but returned to the faith of my father
thereafter, to the amazement of some of the clients I have repre-
sented. I feel no great urge to put my money this fall on a blue-
silked Ohio entry sired by the Cincinnati machine, blind on the
off-side, and wearing McCormick-McCarthy hobbles, even
though he may be curbed by a More-Saltonstall stifle pole. And
I remain appalled by the hysterical aspects and the violent personal
feelings of the past decade.

Over the past year or two my gym workouts at noon have
been virtually eliminated, although I still wistfully hope they may
be resumed. Figuratively, I am surrounded by rows of okra and
blackeyed peas by stands of southern pine and yupon bushes —
intermittently occupied by their cultivation and my wood-work-
ing shop — by Mozart and Dixieland. We have four very pleasant
acres, a quarter-horse, one cocker, and one basset hound (Chili
Susie and Sam Bass). Conditioned by a background in favor of
public secondary schools, we are now trying to determine where
we can send our daughter to college, and how our son can qualify
for Harvard if we can get him away from Texas.

* KENNETH STROCK CONKEY

BORN: Feb. 27, 1904, Carthage, Mo. parents: Maurice Cameron Conkey,
Irma Strock.

PREPARED AT: Santa Barbara High School, Santa Barbara, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.

MARRIED: Sarah Brown Burdette, Oct. 4, 1929, Baltimore, Md.

DIED: Feb. 16, 1936, San Francisco, Calif.

AFTER leaving Harvard, Kenneth Strock Conkey became
associated with the U. S. Rubber Company and in 1930 he was
assistant manager of mechanical sales for the Baltimore branch. At
that time he was anticipating moving to California. In 1934 the
Harvard Club of Santa Barbara reported that he was living in San
Francisco, where he died two years later.

[ 193 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

GROFF CONKLIN

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 432 W. 22nd St., New York 11, N. Y.

BORN; Sept. 6, 1904, Glen Ridge, N. J. parents: William Bogart Conklin,
Sarah Hogate Groff.

PREPARED AT: Glen Ridge High School, Glen Ridge, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926. DEGREE: A.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1927.

MarrieD: Lucy Tempkin, Oct. 1, 1937, New York, N, Y.

occuPaTion: Free-lance editor and writer, _

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Office of Strategic Services, 1943-45; Senate
Subcommittee on Wartime Health and Education, 1945-46; Office of
Technical Services, Dept. of Commerce, 1946-47.

MEMBER OF; Author’s League; American Public Health Association; Associa-
tion of American Geographers; Hydra Club; National Housing Con-
ference.

PuBLIcATIONS: All About Houses, 1940, All About Subways, 1939, How To
Run A Rental Library, 1947; immumerable articles in such magazines as
Harper's, Scientific American, Progressive Architecture, Better Homes
and Gardens, Woman’s Home Companion, House Beautiful, Consumer
Reports, Look, Infantry Journal, Science Mlustrated, editor of: New
Republic Anthology, 1936; Best of Science Fiction, 1946, Treasury of
Science Fiction, 1948; Big Book of Science Fiction, 1950; Science Fiction
Galaxy, 1950; In the Grip of Terror, 1951; Possible Worlds of Science
Fiction, 1951, publications of American Diabetes Association, Inc.,
AD.A. Forecast, bi-monthly for lay diabetics, Diabetes, professional
journal to be published in first issue February, 1952; also pamphlets.

DAVID FRANKLIN CONNORS

HOME ADDRESS: 422 Pine St., Lowell, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 15 Kearney Sq., Lowell, Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 15, 1905, Lowell, Mass. parReNts: John Albert Connors, Julia
Walsh.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MarrieD: Mary E, Barrett, Oct. 1, 1932, Lowell, Mass. cuitpren: Mary Jane,
Nov. 22, 1933; Julia Frances, May 21, 1937.

occupation: Managing editor, The Lowell Sun and Lowell Sunday Sun.

OFFIces HELD: Secretary and clerk, Lowell Sun Charities, Inc., trustee,
Lowell City Library, director, Lowell Red Cross, Lowell Heart Asso-
ciation, Lowell Tuberculosis Association; secretary, 1934-43, president,
1943-44, director, since 1950, Lowell Harvard Club.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Newspaper Editors; National Conference
of Editorial Writers, New England Managing Editors and News Exe-
cutives Association; Lowell Literary Club; Holy Name Society; Yorick
Club; Catholic Laymen’s League; Vesper Country Club.

[ 194 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I REVIEW the past twenty-five years with great satisfaction and
pleasure. Most of the time I have been engaged in newspaper
work except for a three-year excursion in the very interesting
and congenial work of conducting and managing the Lowell City
Library as head librarian. I might add that 1 qualified for this
type of work through a concentrated course in library science
that was obligingly given in an informal way by Elarvard’s able
librarian, Mr. Keyes Metcalf.

I resigned that attractive position in 1942 because, unfortu-
nately, the wages of all public librarians are meagre at best. I
returned to The Sun as managing editor, and in that capacity I
have enjoyed a full and busy life, with my family sharing the
many pleasures and the minor woes that have come my way. In
between trips to national political conventions, to editors’ meet-
ings in various parts of the country and to sundry offices in Wash-
ington, I have found time to enjoy a lot of golf, contract, and
summer recreation that we find at a little place in New Hamp-
shire where the family spends the balmy season. I would gladly
bargain for another quarter-century such as the last has been.

RUSSELL MacKENZIE COOK

HOME ApprEss: 15 Afterglow Ave., Montclair, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Thatcher Furnace Co., Garwood, N, J.

BORN: Sept. 12, 1904, Chicago, Ill. parents: Richard Charles Cook, Laura
Frances Cone.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.

MARRIED: Janet Mary Simpson Scott, June 29, 1933, Montclair, N. J. (died
March 18, 1945); Marcia Perry Ruddick, Oct. 25, 1946, Montclair, N. J.
CHILDREN: Richard Charles, 2d, July 4, 1934; Janet Longmuir, June 9,
1936, Joseph Perry Ruddick, March 28, 1936 (stepson).

occuPATION: Heating equipment manufacturer; vice-president (sales),
Thatcher Furnace Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered active duty, May 30, 1942, 1st lieutenant,
US.A.C.; adjutant, 826th Guard Squadron, Mitchel Field, N. Y.. May
30, 1942-March, 1943; C.O., 826th Guard Squadron, Mitchel Field,
March, 1943—June, 1943; captain, A.C, April, 1943; C.O., 1312th Guard
Squadron, Mitchel Field, June-August, 1943; student, Air Intelligence
School, Harrisburg, Pa. August-October, 1943; Intelligence Officer
(S-2), gozd Fighter Squadron, 370th Fighter Group, October, 1943-
September, 1944; arrived England Feb. 13, 1944, and Normandy July 25,
1944; Group assigned to gth Air Force; relieved from active duty

[195 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927
Jan. 5, 1945; battle stars: Air War, Europe; Battle of Normandy; Battle
of Northern France, now captain, Air Reserve, U.S.A.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Thatcher Furnace Company, National Warm Air
Heating and Air Conditioning Association, since 1950; trustee, Kimberley
School, Montclair, since 1951; member Board of Adjustment, Verona,
N. J., 1941-42.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Montclair Golf Club; New Eng-
land Historic Genealogical Society.

AT THIS point I suppose we all face an introspective mood as

We try to sum up and account for the past twenty-five years. My

saga certainly wouldn’t rate space anywhere but in the maternal

pages of a Class Report. In 1927 [had the idea of being a teacher

—actually I envisioned a sort of tweedy, pipe-smoking scholar’s

life in green quadrangles, etc. — but a businessman was still a

respectable person in those pre-New Deal days and everyone in
that field seemed to be making money, so I went into business.
Within three years, of course, the picture was very different, and
I longed for a nice tenure-of-office job as a history teacher in any
rural school. Everyone likes to brag about hard times — if far
enough in the past — but the heating business depends on build-
ing, and nothing, just nothing, went lower than building in 1932
to 1933. However, I was happily married by that time; my son
was born in 1934 and the heating business had to get better if only
because it couldn’t get worse. Incidentally, current statistics show
that births in 1933 to 1934 were at the low for this century, so I
guess we parents of that era were a hardy and reckless band.
Towards the end of the thirties “automatic heating,” meaning
the use of oil or gas as fuel, began to grow and the picture turned
brighter. We had built a house in 1937, and things seemed quite
established by 1941. However, during my bachelor days, I had
acquired a commission in the Military Intelligence Reserve which

at the time seemed to be a harmless if eccentric hobby. In 1942,

in spite of my 300-20 vision, I was called to active duty in the Air

Corps version of the Military Police. I was fortunate in having

my family with me in quarters at Mitchel Ficld for over a year,

but then was shifted to Air Intelligence and served in England
and France as an S~2 with a Ninth Air Force Fighter-Squadron.

By good luck, our classmate, Steve Strong, was with me as an

Intelligence Officer during this service, and we were a couple of

old men together among the twenty-year-old fighter-pilots.

[ 196 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Shortly after my discharge from the Army, my children and I
went through a very dark period following the death of my wife.

During this time I had changed jobs but returned to my old
company within a year. The developments in post-war building
have changed many things in our industry and made the work
more interesting than ever. The antics of the Washington bureau-
crats are a constant headache of course, but since in spite of the
efforts of several of our classmates our economy is not yet as con-
trolled as England’s or Russia’s, there is still some zest in being a
manufacturer. It seems unlikely that I can ever leave my children
a fortune, but at least I can look them in the eye and say that I
never voted for “That Man.”

I was fortunate in remarrying very happily in 1946 and in ac-
quiring a stepson to make it a family of three children. We are all
very fond of tennis and play a lot, but our children have gone
way beyond my wife and me and are playing in the junior-
tournament circuits. My outside activities are at present concen-
trated in a trusteeship on the board of our local girls’ school. I
insert this to confound certain old classmates who may have
tenacious memories of sophomore year. My elder son, Dick, is a
senior at Exeter and hopes to enter Harvard next fall. My stepson,
Perry, a fine boy in all other respects, appears to have a temporary
aberration concerning a small institution in South Jersey which
has had good football teams in recent years, and I am hopeful that
our visit to Cambridge this June will correct this mental condition.

Politically, I’m a life-long Republican, somewhat to the right of
the Old Guard. (If I seem to exhibit a certain bias I ought to add,
in all fairness, that this is being written just after a session with
income-tax forms; even Freddie Field must have a faint, if
transient, reactionary thought at the sight of the 1952 schedules.)
My hobbies are book-collecting on the subject of the Civil War,
and a beginner’s interest in old maps. It will be fun to be in the
Yard again in June and to make some creaking efforts to turn
back the clock.

HAROLD DANA COOKE

HOME ApprEss: Marlboro Road, West Brattleboro, Vt.

OFFIcE AppRESsS: Borough Hall, Kew Gardens 15, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 26, 1904, Athol, Mass, Parents: Oliver Dana Cooke, Flora May
Faulkner.

[197 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

preparED at: Athol High School, Athol, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Florence Emila Freitag, June 25, 1927, Athol, Mass. cHIpREn:
Thomas Faulkner, March 21, 1929 (7. Roberta Pauline Watts, Oct. 9,
1938); Marilyn Flora, March 27, 1931. GRANDCHILDREN: Robert Ralph
Cooke, Oct. 5, 1949; Donald Oliver Cooke, Aug. 14, 1951.

occuPATION: Water supply, civil engineer, assistant Borough engineer and
engineer in charge of maintenance, operation and pressure control,
Queens County, New York City; licensed professional engineer, State
of New York.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II: active duty April 12, 1942—Oct. 9,
1946; entered with rank of captain from Air Corps Reserve, promoted
major; at present, major, U. 5. Air Force Reserve.

OFFICES HELD: Consulting engineer, Accident Control Program; commander,
Post 1008, American Legion, 1950-51; president, Department of Water
Supply, Gas & Electriciry Engineering Club, New York, 1949-50;

numerous jobs on committees, delegate duties, etc.
MEMBER OF: American Water Works Association; F. & A. M., also 32°S.R.;
American Legion; St. George Association. .

1927-1928 —I worked under the East River, New York City,
with the Sand Hogs in air pressures up to forty-eight pounds
doing my share in the construction of the Fifty-third Street tunnel
of the Independent Subway System. It was a book of experience,
especially since I unwittingly unveiled Sand Hog superstitions
when I took my wife into low air pressure at the start of the
tunnel job.

1928-1942 — The high air pressure caused me to undergo a sinus
operation and enter upon the engineering field of water supply.
The only reason was the feeling of the impending depression and
the fact that more people would be forced to drink water. It was
a good guess, since increased family demands spurred me up to
the job of assistant engineer in charge of distribution, Department
of Water Supply, Gas and Electricity.

1942-1946 — The call of Uncle Sam to active duty in the Air
Corps kept me busy, but let’s forget.

The last year was fruitful in that I was crammed with control
systems, administration and procedures, and was assigned to the
Readjustment Program.

After proving out in southwestern Michigan, the job of clear-
ing out $10,000,000 worth of surplus property at Frigidaire Divi-
sion of General Motors was thrust upon me—sink or swim.

[ 198 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Thanks to the fact that General Motors intended to do business
with the American public after the war, the job was completed
with credit to the taxpayers and me.

1946-to date — After being re-established in the old job, more
sweat brought promotions, and I have climbed the ranks to that of
assistant Borough engineer. I am now looking forward three years
when I hope to retire to my hobbies.

Hobbies: Since 1937, with many setbacks, my wife and I have
commenced the life job of building a good herd of Registered
Guernsey cattle. Under Mrs. Cooke’s management our little herd
often makes the Vermont State Honor Roll. In winter we play
with TV and regularly get Boston, one hundred air miles away.

JAMES CALVIN COOLEY, II

HOME ADDRESS: West Cornwall, Conn.

OFFIcE ADDRESS: Mutual Security Agency, Washington, D. C.

BORN: Sept. 28, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: Alford Warriner Cooley,
’95, Susan Dexter Dalton.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; LL.B., 1930.

mMarRieD: Ellen Devereux Engelhard, June 20, 1936, Louisville, Ky. cH-
DREN: Alford Warriner, Jan. 24, 1938; Margaret Devereux, Oct. 27,
1939; James Calvin, 3d, Nov. 2, 1940; Susan Dalton, Jan. 6, 1942.

occuPATION: Lawyer; general counsel, Mutual Security Agency.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City; Association of the Bar of
the City of New York.

LONG years ago, when I was a bachelor in New York, my
roommates and I, from time to time, would make attempts at
budgeting our expenses, to tell us what might happen. When this
failed, we tried to draw up what we called a retroactive budget, to
tell us what had happened. That couldn’t be done either. I have
much the same feeling on facing this “Class Life” form. It would
probably be instructive, and would certainly be comforting, to
chart a course for the future, based on and given direction by an
orderly pattern for the last twenty-five years. Both parts of such
a project are equally impossible.

Nevertheless, the prospect pleases. I count for the forthcoming
years on those family pleasures that have made life thus far so
confused and engaging. I realize that four children cannot indefi-
nitely remain at that ideal age when all can dress themselves and

[199 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

none can drive the family automobile, but I am told by experts,

and believe, that even mature offspring can give pleasure to

parents.

We acquired a place in northern Connecticut in the sprin
of 1941 under the impression that we were New Yorkers who
would spend a lot of winter weekends and summer holidays
there. Unfortunately, by the time the premise proved false, all
of us were too deeply devoted to our hillside to abandon it. So
the winter weekends are out and the summer holidays involve
a June to September separation of husband and wife. A subsidiary
theory has been that the parents have a May week alone each year
to plant the garden; this has happened twice in eleven years. It
is a right nice place, though; and perhaps the unplanned future
will give us more time together there than has the ill-planned past.

Family excursions have so far been confined to local weekends,
a couple of historic jaunts to the Cape, and the feverish twice-
yearly dash from Washington to Connecticut and return via
over-stuffed station wagon. The blueprints for trips to California
and to Europe are still unused, though my wife and I have made
preliminary surveys of both fields, and found them good.

As for daily work, no one could ask for better than I have had
the fortune to fall into, nor for a more stimulating and devoted
succession of bosses, partners, and associates in private practice in
New York, and in Washington in the employ of the government.
The switch from one to the other was made in the summer of
1941, on the short notice and for the short term that were SOP
in those days. It is hard to believe that eleven years have passed
since then.

The longest and the most rewarding stretches of Washington
work have been the first three and a half years with the War
Production Board and the last four with ECA. The WPB legal
staff, constantly changing throughout its life and finally broken
up six years ago, developed and still maintains an esprit de corps
that will last as long as its members do. And the sense of mission,
devotion and accomplishment that inspired and moved the
Marshall Plan made it an enterprise in which it has been good to
have a part. The peace-winning job is nowhere near finished,
but the world has come a long way down the right road, and
continued patience and vigilance ought to see us through.

[ 200 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ARCHIBALD CARY COOLIDGE

HOME AND OFFICE appRESS: The Manlius School, Manlius, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 10, 1905, Cambridge, Mass, paRENts: Julian Lowell Coolidge, ’95,
Theresa Reynolds.

prePARED AT: Montezuma School, Los Gatos, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; B.LITT. (Oxford Univ,),
1929; DR.PHIL. (Trinity Coll., Dublin), 1937.

MarrirpD: Susan Thistle Jennings, June 27, 1927, Holderness, N. H. (divorced
1946); Margaret Olivia Ensor, June 14, 1946, Lakeville, Conn. cHitprEn:
Archibald Cary, Jr., June 9, 1928 (mm. Lillian Merrill, June 29, 1951);
Susan Thistle, April 3, 1931; Julian Lowell, 2d, Aug. 31, 1933; Elizabeth
Crane, Nov. 26, 1939.

HARVARD SON: Archibald Cary Coolidge, Jr., ’51.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Phillips Coolidge, ’35.

OCCUPATION: Headmaster, Manlius School.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant U.S.N.R., July, 1942;
Naval Communications School, Harvard Yard, August to December,
1942; assistant communications officer on staff of Commander Fleet Air
West Coast, North Island, San Diego, Calif.; transferred October, 1943,
to Naval Air Station, Jacksonville, Fla., as communications officer at Air
Station and on staff of Chief of Naval Air Operational Training; May,
1944, to sea on Escort Carrier, USS. Kitkun Bay as communications
officer on staff of Commander Carrier Division 26, taking part. in
Marianas Campaign (Guam, Tinian, Saipan); August, 1944, assistant
communications officer on staff of Commander of Carrier Division 6,
service aboard carriers Enterprise, Wasp, Hornet, Ticonderoga, pro-
moted lieutenant commander, December, 1944, as of October, 1943;
wounded January, 1945; released from active duty, April, 1945; received
American Theatre Ribbon, Pacific Ribbon (six battle stars), Philippine
Liberation Ribbon, Purple Heart, and such other ribbons as were issued
by a grateful government for mere survival.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; University Club of Syracuse.

PuBLICATIONS: Tbe Conventions of Composition, 1935; The Favorite Uncle
Remus, 1948.

I HAVE done (and it is queer to reflect on it for the first time in
twenty-five years) what I wanted, but not so well as I wanted to
do it. I went to Oxford after leaving Harvard because even to me
it was obvious that I didn’t know anything, and after five years of
teaching in one of the country’s best preparatory schools and col-
laborating on a textbook, I still felt that I didn’t know anything
and went back to Trinity College, Dublin, for more education,

more letters after my name. Five more years spent preparing

[ 201 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

young men to go to college (chiefly to Yale) in no way prepared
me for the duties assigned me by the Navy from r1gq2 until 1945,
yet I enjoyed trying my hand at something besides pedagogy. I
ran into a surprising number of my former pupils in some equally
surprising places, Tarawa and Manus for instance, and the way in
which they acquitted themselves, accepting responsibilities out of
all proportion to their years or their training, somehow restored
my faith in American youth and American education. We all
know our schools have their faults. It is easy for schoolmasters
to become depressed and cynical in consequence. But when the
chips were down, the products of our schools came through.

By the time the war was over, my eldest had left Andover and
joined the U. S. Marines, and it was necessary to re-establish some
sort of home life for the other three and get to know them. From
1946 to 1950 I did just that, and because the postwar housing
shortage created special problems for boarding schools, for the
first time I experienced the delights and worries of living in a
house of my own. To be sure the roof leaked, the wind blew
through cracks in the floors, and for a while there was a shortage
of fuel oil, but it was fun. My wife and I painted and papered
inside and gardened and cut grass outside, and if we didn’t do it
very well, we enjoyed trying. Meanwhile, teaching school had
its satisfactions as well as its moments of frustration. |

I don’t quite know why in July, 1950, I agreed to leave Hotch-
kiss with which I had been associated for twenty years, to become
the headmaster of a military school. My sword had never become
me, and in 1946 I had been delighted to beat it into a blue pencil.
I suppose the fact is that since the end of the war an education
which inculcates the rudiments of military training has seemed
more realistic than it did in the 1920’s. At all events the Oppor-
tunity presented itself, and I took it.

Outside New England the majority of parents have yet to learn
to appreciate the value of so-called private schools. Ninety-nine
people out of a hundred will tell you that the public school system
where they live is good, and ninety-nine out of a hundred never

take the trouble to look into it and see whether that is the case.
It is a matter of civic pride to assume that it must be. It is also
cheaper.

Increasing taxation, increasing bureaucracy, and public apathy

[ 202 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

may yet extinguish independent education in the United States.
But while it lasts, the struggle for survival should be fun.

HAROLD JEFFERSON COOLIDGE

HOME ADDRESS: 3106 Cleveland Ave. N.\W., Washington 8, D. C.

oFFice appress: .National Research Council, 2101 Constitution Ave., Wash-
ington, D, C,

BoRN: Jan. 15, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Harold Jefferson Coolidge, ’y:,
Edith Lawrence.

prePARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: $.B., 1927,

MARRIED: Helen Carpenter Isaacs, April 25, 1931, Scranton, Pa, CHILDREN:
Nicholas Jefferson, Feb. 12, 1932; Thomas Richards, Jan. 29, 1934; Isa-
bella Gardner, June 1, 1939.

HaRvARD sons: Nicholas Jefferson Coolidge, '55; Thomas Richards Coolidge,
"55.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lawrence Coolidge, ’27 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Science administration; executive director, Pacific Science
Board, National Academy of Sciences — National Research Council.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD; Technical staff sergeant, 1st Motor Squadron,
Massachusetts State Guard, 1940; private, 2d Co. Separate Battalion,
C.M.J.C., Fort Devens, July, 1940; 2d lieutenant G2 Hq. Co., Massachu-
setts State Guard, 1941; captain, A.U.S., Washington, D. C., July 1943-
May, 1944; major, A.U.S., May, 1944-December, 1945; ordered to Lon-
don, April, 1944, to Paris, September, 1944, to Italy, November, 1944,
to Washington, December, 1944; received Legion of Merit, European

Theatre Ribbon — one battle star.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Coordinator of Information, Washington,
D. C., 1942-46; Office of Strategic Services, Europe and Washington,
D.C.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Coolidge Foundation, since 1940, Mary Elizabeth
Wood Foundation, Children’s Museum of Boston, Boston Society of
Natural History, American Society of Mammalogists; director, Ameri-
can Society of Mammalogists, 1933, 1948, American Foundation of
Tropical Medicine, Pan American Society of New England; chairman,
panel on Nature Protection, U. S. National Commission for U.NES.
C.O., since 1948; secretary, vice-chairman, chairman, American Com-
mittee for International Wild-Life Protection; president, Harvard
Travellers Club, 1939-41; vice-president, International Union for the
Protection of Nature, since 1948; secretary, National Parks Association,
since 1946; collaborator, National Parks Service; member advisory
council, Conservation Foundation; associate in Mammology, Museum of
Comparative Zodlogy, Harvard.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York; Tavern Club, Boston;
Cosmos Club, Chevy Chase Club, Washington, D. C.; Explorers Club,

[ 203 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

New York; American Society of Systematic Zodlogists; Society of
Physical Anthropology, Apphed Anthropology; American Association
for the Advancement of Science; New York Zoological Society (fellow),
Chicago Museum of Natural History (life member); Boston Museum of
Science; Wild Life Society; Conseil Internationale de la Chasse; Cercle
Zoologique Congolaise; Zoological Society of London (corresponding
member); National Parks Association; American Nature Association;
Wilderness Society; American Geophysical U.; Arctic Institute of North

America; Far Eastern Association; I.P.R.,; Boone and Crockett Club;
Sigma Xi.

PUBLICATIONS: Contributions to scientific journals and popular magazines;
“A Revision of the Genus Gorilla,” vol. L, No. 4, Memoirs of the Mu-
seum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard College, 1929; “The Indo-
Chinese Forest Ox or Kouprey,” vol. LIV, No. 6, Memoirs of the Mu-
seum of Comparative Zoélogy at Harvard College, 1940; Three

Kingdoms of Indo-China, Thomas Y. Crowell Company, 1933 (co-au-
thored with Theodore Roosevelt).

THERE has been little time to pause and look back during the
past twenty-five years, especially when life has been so full of
interests and activity that one wished that one might be multiplied
by five to achieve all the things that one would like to accomplish
in a single lifetime. Some of my vividest memories are associated
with experiences in what used to be remote places before the
arrival of air travel. I remember watching from a grass thicket a
large Alaskan Brownie snatching live salmon in his great jaws
from the white water ripples of a beautiful mountain stream on
Admiralty Island off Southeast Alaska. I recall stemming the
advance of a swarming column of thousands of carnivorous driver
ants, that for several hours one night over-ran the entire Liberian
forest village where we were camped, simply by pouring a pro-
tective line of kerosene around our hut. I remember vividly the
bedlam of roars that came from a number of angry gorillas as
they rushed at my terrified Pygmies until the blast of a rifle
caused them to retreat into the mountain rain forest. Also in the
Congo I remember nervously placing a brain shot in a good tusker
who had got our wind at close quarters while wallowing in an
Ituri forest swamp. I think of my wife’s struggle to keep coffee
from putting out the sterno while we were jiggling across the
Tran Siberian on our wedding trip, or of her showing me the
moths she collected with a lamp in Borneo, that came to life and
then took off because she had been too sparing with chloroform,

[ 204 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I remember making a sound recording of the call of an old

gibbon in the mountains of Thailand and of hearing his annoyance

when his own voice was played back to him. There are memories
of chasing angelfish among the live corals off a reef in Tahiti,

gasping for air after the discharge of a powder blast in the gallery
of a chrome mine in New Caledonia. I recall clutching the side
of a narrow canoe while shooting white-water rapids in a moun-
tain stream in Laos, and similarly clutching the arm of a plane
seat in preparation for a crash landing in Japan. Perhaps most
vivid of all is the memory of watching the night eruption of the
New Zealand volcano, Narahue, when white hot lava shot high
in the air while the hotel windows shook as if they would break,
and each explosion caused ominous rumblings not unlike the
sound of a mountain avalanche. These and many similar memories
are associated with places visited as part of my professional career
in the field of zodlogical exploration and the administration of
scientific research field programs.

Twenty-five years can perhaps best be divided into a Harvard
chapter for the first fifteen years, a four-year war chapter, and
finally the Washington chapter.

HARVARD: The Harvard chapter started before graduation,
upon completion of degree requirements in three years, and be-
cause of a keen interest in hunting as well as a summer’s field work
in Alaska, I was invited to join Dr. Richard Strong’s Harvard
Medical Expedition to Liberia and across Africa through the
Belgian Congo. This experience meant far more to me than any
year of college and convinced me that my life should be devoted
to research in higher primates. (In defining a primate it should be
remembered that the Archbishop of Canterbury is the primate of
all England.) There was also developed a strong side interest in
tropical medicine and in the preservation of vanishing species of
fauna and flora. Speaking of conservation, the British Fauna Pro-
tection Society, made up largely of big game hunters, is some-
times derisively called “The Society of Repentant Butchers.” My
return from a senior year in Africa was on the day before our
Commencement in 19273 the next year and a half was devoted to
intensive basic studies in biology, principally at Corpus Christi
College in Cambridge, England, with preparatory work on a
monograph dealing with “The Revision of the Classification of

[ 205 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

signaling mirror (with central aiming cross), over a million of
which were issued and some of which subsequently saved numer-
ous lives. I also had the opportunity to initiate the research which
led to the discovery of an effective chemical shark repellent which
is now widely used by all services on life rafts and life jackets.
WASHINGTON: In June, 1946, there was an Opportunity to
help to organize the Pacific Science Conference of the National
Research Council, and subsequently to be appointed executive di-
rector of a newly-formed Pacific Science Board with a main office
in the National Academy of Sciences, and a forward branch
office in Honolulu. The Board has been established to assist US.
scientific work in the Pacific, and to further international codper-
ation in Pacific science. This broad assignment takes me on one
or two trips each year, hopping by air first to Honolulu and then
to various Pacific islands principally in the Ryukyus, Micronesia,
and the South Pacific. Since 1947 the Pacific Science Board has
operated with funds which it has been part of my duty to raise
from private sources, including foundations, as well as with grants
under two contracts with the Office of Naval Research and one
with the Department of the Army. It has advised government
and private agencies on Pacific science matters. Our active opera-
tions have included recruiting more than one hundred specialists
from colleges and museums and, after screening by advisory com-
mittees, sending them on field assignments principally to islands
in the Trust Territory and to the Ryukyus. Upon their return,
the results of their field work has to be evaluated and their reports
disseminated. The Board’s field program also includes assistance
to projects of the South Pacific Commission Research Program,
a five-year ecological study of coral atolls, the development of a
solar still invented at M.LT. for turning sea water into fresh to
help the inhabitants of water-short areas. We further assisted with
arranging for seventy-five U.S. scientists to attend the Seventh
Pacific Science Conference in New Zealand in 1949. There has
also been an opportunity to codperate with the Natural Re-
sources Section of SCAP in Japan, where I have been three times
honored by the Harvard Club of Tokyo. My most recent Pacific
trip has been to participate in the first International Scientific
Conference on Filariasis and Elephantiasis that was organized by
the South Pacific Commission in Tahiti in August, 1951 — and

[ 208 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

there is no more perfect place to hold a conference! The return
journey gave me an opportunity to survey the communist labor

roblem in the chrome and nickel mines of New Caledonia, as
well as the frightful erosion there resulting from methods of
mountain mine prospecting. At Harvard, my twenty-two-year
connection with the Museum of Comparative Zodlogy happily
continues on an annual appointment as an associate in mammalogy.
This great museum is internationally recognized as one of the
world’s greatest natural history museums.

Additional interests include the development of the “S” in
UNESCO for which I have organized a panel on conservation for
the U.S. National Commission, and serving as U. S. vice-president
of the newly-formed International Union for the Protection of
Nature with headquarters at Brussels. My family has continued
to live in Washington since the war, with my sons first at St.
Alban’s, then Groton, and now at Harvard, and my daughter at
Potomac School. Politically we are Republican, our church
affiliation has been with the Advent in Boston, the Chocorua Island
Chapel at Squam, and the Episcopal Cathedral in Washington.
We have spent one summer vacation abroad, where the boys
stayed with French families, and other summers in August we go
to our Long Island camp in the middle of New Hampshire’s
Squam Lake. There one can find peace away from electricity,
autos, and telephones. The camp was often shared with my pa-
rents and with my brother, Laurie, and his family until his tragic
death two years ago. We were all greatly touched by the Harvard
Scholarship Fund that was raised in his memory by his friends,
which makes a most appropriate memorial to his deep interest
in and devoted service to Harvard as a Freshman Dean, an officer
of the Harvard Fund, and finally as an active member of the Board
of Overseers,

+ LAWRENCE COOLIDGE

BORN: Jan. 17, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: Harold Jefferson Coolidge,
Edith Fairfax Lawrence.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1023-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cuz laude, 1927; LL.B. 1931.

MARRIED: Victoria Stuart Tytus, Jan. 16, 1932, Washington, D. C. cHIL-
DREN: Robert Tytus, March 30, 1933; Lawrence, Jr., March 2, 1936;
Nathaniel Silsbee, Jan. 24, 1939.

[ 209 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant A-V’S, U. S. Naval Reserve, Feb. 6,
1942; battalion commander, first class of N.A.S. Quonset Point, Feb,
6, 1932; USS. Enterprise, October, 1942; U.S.S. Hornet, aboard when
torpedoed and sunk, October, 1942; U.S.S. Saratoga, January-March,
1943; U.S.S. Suwannee, March-June, 1943; U.S.S. Sangamon, June, 1943-
April, 1944; USS. Bennington, July, 1944-August, 1945; inactive duty,
with rank of commander, December, 1945. Seven Battle Stars; Com-
mendation Ribbon.

piep: Jan. 3, 1950, Beverly, Mass.
wow: Mrs. Lawrence Coolidge, South Hamilton, Mass.

THE untimely death of Lawrence Coolidge on January 3, 1950,
just two weeks before his forty-fifth birthday, suddenly ended a
life full of accomplishment and future promise.

He was educated at Groton School, the University of Arizona,
and received his A.B. degree cum laude from Harvard in 1927.
Following his graduation, he served as Assistant Dean at Harvard
for two years and then went to the Harvard Law School, gradu-
ating in 1931. He was a keen sportsman all his life. He played
on the second varsity eleven at Cambridge and rowed on one of
the 150-pound varsity crews. He gave up several summers to
deep sea cruising and mountain climbing. In 1927, with five
friends, he sailed a forty-foot boat from Boston to Falmouth,
England. In the summer of 1930 he took a three months’ trip
through the U.S.S.R. and climbed El Bruz, one of the highest
peaks in the Caucasus, and attempted to climb Ushba. He also
greatly enjoyed being with his family in Hamilton where he
played golf and tennis, chopped wood, skated, and skied for
exercise; and he usually spent his summer vacations with his wife
and children at the family camp in New Hampshire on Long
Island, Squam Lake.

In 1931 he took up the practice of law with the firm of
Loring, Coolidge, Noble & Boyd in Boston. He was admitted
to the firm in 1934 and busied himself with trusts, property law,
taxation, corporations, and general practice. He became a director
of several banks as well as other financial and industrial cor-
porations. He was also on the governing boards of various
charities. In 1935 he edited and published, “Thoughts on Thomas

Jefferson,” a memorial to his father, through the Club of Odd
Volumes.

He applied for a commission in the Naval Reserve the day

[210]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT \

after Pearl Harbor and received it (Lieutenant, A-VS) on Feb.
6, 1942, together with orders to proceed to N.A.S., Quonset
Point, Rhode Island, for the first indoctrination class. He wrote
the following account of his war experiences in the Class Vicen-
nial Report:

“At Quonset I found company from’ 27 (Brewster, Harrison,
Pruyn, and Rawling, among others) and in the general confusion
was appointed a battalion commander. In this capacity, experience
at Fort Devens with the State Guard, a good pair of lungs and a
strong larynx proved useful. At the conclusion of the training
class, I was ‘selected’ by the commanding officer of the station to
serve as his aide for six months. There was, however, time to take
the Air Combat Intelligence Course as an ‘extra duty.’

“On October 2, 1942, Captain McFall received orders to com-
mand the U.S.S. Hornet and arranged for me to go with him.
After a trip by plane to Pearl Harbor, and ten days on the
Enterprise, we were put aboard the Hornet from a destroyer on
October 24th. It was a short ‘tour of duty,’ for on the 25th we
swam off, to the same destroyer, the Hornet being then in a
sinking condition after Jap air attacks (Battle of Santa Cruz).
Rumor has it that I swam one stroke to the rear and three strokes
to the left of the captain. From then on, with the exception of
one ‘Refresher Course’ at Quonset, I had continuous sea duty as
ship or staff ACI officer on various aircraft carriers, as follows:
Saratoga — January to March, 1943 (Solomons), Sangamon,
June, 1943, to April, 1944 (Solomons, support of landings at
Tarawa, Kwajalein and Eniwetok), Bennington, July, 1944, to
August 17, 1945 (first raid on Tokyo, support of landing on Iwo
Jima and Okinawa, raids on Empire), and on December 13, 1945,
I was transferred to inactive duty with rank of commander and
the right to wear seven battle stars and the Commendation
Ribbon.”

Lawrence Coolidge then resumed the practice of law in Boston
as a partner of Gaston, Snow, Rice & Boyd, and his active duties
as trustee connected with the Loring Coolidge office. He took on
his directorships and trusteeships again, and added several new
responsibilities, among these were serving as director of the
Peabody Museum in Salem, trustee of the Conant Real Estate
Trust, and the University Associates. In 1946 he was elected an

[arr]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Overseer of Harvard College where he served actively until his
death. For the last two years of his life he faced what turned out
to be an incurable malady. Though he knew his days were num-
bered, he was determined to live as fully and usefully as possible —
which he did until January 3rd, 1950.

At the ume of his death, many touching letters, memorials
and tributes were received. Mr. Conant wrote his widow,
“Although I never had the privilege of knowing your husband
well, I feel as though I had lost a personal friend. I enjoyed so
much the time I have spent with him, and valued so highly his
many services to the University. The Overseers have lost an
effective member and the community a public-spirited citizen.”

Admiral McFall, his commanding officer during much of the
war, wrote a letter to Laurie’s sons which concluded with these
words, “Your father was great in every way. It was a privilege
for me to have been associated with him. He taught me much.
I should like to order a ‘well done’ for Laurie Coolidge. Can I
say more? If I could, I would.” Henry Hall, who climbed with
him in the Caucasus, said in the Journal of the American Alpine
Club, “To have known him was a privilege. An attractive per-
sonality, coupled with those qualities which are universally
respected, made him a host of friends. He had very real ability,
and did well in whatever he undertook.” A Tavern Club
memorial, written by a close friend, refers to the spiritual courage
with which he faced the time that he knew that he was to die,
and concludes by saying, “Faith in God, serenity, courage and
even gaiety such as the Greeks had at Thermopylae — with these
he faced the end. To us who remain, his memory and example —
will ever bring fresh strength.” ,

Dr. Charles Lund wrote to his widow that the Memorial to the
Cancer Society, established at the time of his death, was the
Jargest amount of money that had come in from any such
memorial.

In order to perpetuate Laurie’s memory in the University
which he loved and served so well in many different ways, a
Lawrence Coolidge Memorial Scholarship Fund has been estab-
lished in Harvard College, through the gencrosity of his family
and friends. Awards from the Fund will be made to freshmen
on the basis of “character, integrity, industry and need.” There

{212 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

are already two Lawrence Coolidge scholars enrolled in Harvard
College.

ROGER SHERMAN COOLIDGE

HOME ADDRESS: Bedford, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2 East End Ave., New York 21, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 30, 1904, Brookline, Mass. parents: Joseph Randolph Cool-
idge, 84, Mary Hamilton Hill.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927(28).

MARRIED: Barbara V. Litchfield, July 1, 1950, Katonah, N. Y. cup: Bayard
Randolph, Aug. 16, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Joseph Randolph Coolidge, ’10; John Gardner Coolidge,
20; Hamilton Coolidge, ’19; Oliver Hill Coolidge, 722.

occupation: Electrochemical research; owner and operator, experimental
laboratory.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered U. S. Army Air Force as 1st lieutenant,
Jan. 19, 1943; served in European Theatre as intelligence officer, head-
quarters, U. S. Air Forces (Europe); overseas three years; separated
from service Aug. 11, 1946, decorated with Bronze Star; at present
major in Air Force Reserve.

OFFICES HELD: Adjutant, gzogth Squadron, Volunteer Air Reserve Training
Unit (Intelligence) with Headquarters in New York.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard
Engineering Society; Waccabuc Country Club.

I CONTINUED at Harvard for two years after our ’27 gradua-
tion in order a) to retake the Bible-Shakespeare examination,
b) to study at the Harvard Engineering School, c) to take the
first year at the Harvard Business School. Moving to New York
in 1929, I started a short carer in the public utility industry, first
as a rate engineer with the Electric Bond and Share Company,
then with the Federal Power Commission in Washington, D. C.,
and finally as utility analyst for the Stock Exchange firm of
Goodbody & Company in New York.

With the advent of World War II, I joined the Army Air
Forces, where my first assignment was the Officers Training
School at Miami Beach, Florida, with billets at the Roney Plaza
Hotel. If I had had the power to write my own ticket for subse-
quent duty assignments, I couldn’t have improved on what I
actually experienced. As an intelligence staff officer in the head-
quarters of the Air Forces in Europe, I learned a great deal about
the relative merits of strategic targets and the amount of bombing

[213 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

currently being allocated to each. Our headquarters were first
in London, then near Paris, and finally at Wiesbaden, Germany,
my service overseas lasted three years.

After World War Il, I set up a small experimental laboratory
in New York City in response to some peculiar reincarnational
quirk in my make-up which led me into the field of electrochemi-
cal invention. This has resulted in several patent applications per-
taining to the construction and operation of nickel cadmium stor-
age batteries. At present I am developing a process for the
electrolytic separation and plating of titanium metal from low-
cost aqueous solutions. It is too early, however, to predict the
outcome, successful or otherwise, of this current endeavor.

As to my family, that story is less than two years old, inasmuch
as I was an unconfirmed bachelor until the middle of 1950, when
I married the girl I first met after my initial move to New York.
Barbara and I are the proud parents of a six-months-old son —a
contender, perhaps, for the position of Class Baby (in reverse).
With this expansion in our household, we moved out of New
York City into a century-old house in Bedford Village, New
York. Therefore my hobbies are changing rapidly from the old
carefree variety, such as skiing, to the more practical variety,
such as snow removal, grass cutting, leaf raking, not to mention
awkward household carpentry, and more awkward gardening. I
still adhere to the outdoor hobbies of swimming and boating,
however, at Squam Lake, New Hampshire, where I have enj oyed
a family summer place since before I can remember. Travels?
Highly to be recommended, based on personal experience, iS a
honeymoon across Canada, to Vancouver, thence to the Yukon
by the inside boat route to Skagway, Alaska, and the narrow
gauge railroad up into the Territory. Be sure to forget neither

your bride nor your camera on such a trip. My political convic-
tions are confined to voting the Republican ticket with modifica-
tions at the local level. And my religious convictions are a com-
posite of Unitarianism and Episcopalianism. Any more questions?

MATTHIAS RICHARDS COOPER

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 1206 Grant St., Madison 5, Wis.

BorN: July 26, 1906, Bethlehem, Pa. parents: Frederick Fus Cooper,
Rosa Muhlenberg Richards, ugene Voope

[214]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Riverside High School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927(28); A.M. 1929.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Henry Cooper, ’23; Charles Muhlenberg Cooper,
"30.

occupaTION: Music — teaching and composition,

OFFICES HELD: President, Madison Civic Chorus, 1946-47, Wisconsin Associa-
tion of Church Musicians, 1948-49; member Executive Committee,
1950, 1951, chairman, 1952, Choir Festival; listed in Who Is Who in
Music, 1951.

MEMBER OF: Madison Civic Chorus; Wisconsin Association of Church
Musicians.

IN THE spring of 1927 I felt no pangs at parting from Harvard’s
halls. As an out-of-course student I had to come back for another
year to complete requirements for a Bachelor of Arts in music.
So September found me back, rooming in Thayer Hall with Alois
Hettwer, also of Milwaukee. Just back from a summer in Europe,
he had, among items cached in the bottom of his trunk, a Luger,
a Mauser, and a bottle of anisette. Though the pistols normally
hung over the mantel in our study, I recall their being removed
thence to be fired up the chimney and out the window with, dis-
appointingly enough, no response whatsoever from the Yard
police. The liqueur, its container smashed in transit, had dyed
Alois’ B.V.D.’s a delicate and elegant pale blue.

In the spring of 1928 I did experience parting pangs, having
received my degree, but they were short-lived. A fellowship
decided me to return for another two years of graduate music
study. Highlight of that period was singing in the Glee Club
under Doc Davison.

The fall of 1930 found me at Asheville School, North Carolina.
I served as director of music there for the next nine years. Hikes
and camping in Pizgah Forest and in the Smokies were frequent
on weekends and holidays. In 1938 I acquired several acres of
land at 4,000 feet elevation on Winter Star Branch of Cattail
Creek near Mount Mitchell and Pensacola, North Carolina. I
planned and had built a log cabin wherein I constructed a spiral
Staircase. My grand piano was sledded down from the road over
rough rocks. I still get there each summer, spending the hours at
music composition and necessary chores, Mornings at sixty de-
grees or lower I make coffee at the fireplace a daily treat. The

[215 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

high temperature in the afternoons seldom exceeds seventy-five,
In the spring of 1939 I resigned from the position at Asheville
School to spend a good portion of the next two years at the
cabin, mainly on composition.

Rejected by the Army in the spring of 1942, I came north to
Madison, Wisconsin, where I took up duties as choirmaster and
organist of Grace Episcopal Church. I enrolled in education
courses at the University of Wisconsin that year. My contribution
to the war effort, in 1944 and 1945, consisted of daily rising at
four A.M. (three A.M. on Mondays) to work in the Sausage De-
partment of Oscar Mayer Company as sausage spicer. I used to
notice people sniffing at my fragrance on the buses. P.M.’s were
still devoted to music teaching and the church work.

In celebration of V-E Day I first played Grace Church Chimes
and that summer commenced their playing daily at noon. The old
style mechanical set-up of yard-long levers, heavy steel cables,
and springs demands considerable physical exertion. A good bell
tone requires a stroke of some forty pounds. In a ten-minute pro-
gram there would often be as many as 700 strokes, In that space
total energy output mounts to something like fourteen tons.
Result: added muscle and lots of sweat. For several years at the
church I gave a short, noonday organ recital each Friday. I com-
pleted also, for use of the choirs, a number of anthems, both orig-
inal and arranged from hymns. In May, 1951, I resigned from the
position at the church. I have been engaged since in private music
teaching and composition.

My hobby this past fall has been the remodelling of a basement
room at home for use as a studio. The work involved for these
inexperienced hands: cement repairs, waterproofing leaky base-
ment, carpentry, fitting wall board around furnace and water
pipes, sanding and refinishing floor, and painting. I am the world’s
slowest at this stuff, but results, though not perfect, are pleasing.
Patching plaster, marvelous invention, has well disguised my inepti-
tudes,

Give us honesty, integrity, courage in government. I like Ike.
McCarthy disgraces this State. I was confirmed in the Episcopal
Church in the spring of 1949. Participation in services and the
communion has been an enriching source of comfort and strength.

[216]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LAMMOT duPONT COPELAND

HOME ADpRESS: Greenville, Del.
OFFIcE ADDRESS: E. I. duPont de Nemours & Co., Wilmington, Del.
BORN: May 19, 1905, Wilmington, Del. parents: Charles Copeland ’8o,

Louisa d’Andelot duPont.

PREPARED AT: Wilmington Friends School, Wilmington, Del.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: S$.B., 1928.
marrieD: Pamela Cunningham, Feb. 1, 1930, Litchfield, Conn. cumpren:

Lammot duPont, Jr. June 4, 1932; Louisa d’Andelot, April 20, 1936;
Gerret van Sweringen, April 17, 1939.

HARVARD SON: Lammot duPont Copeland, Jr., ’54.
occupation: Secretary, E. I. duPont de Nemours & Company.
OFFICES HELD: Director, American Society of Corporate Secretaries, Inc.,

New York, since 1949, Canadian Industries, Ltd., Montreal, since 1949,
United States Rubber Company, New York, 1942-46; director, since
1940, Vice-president, since 1940, Christiana Seourities Company, Wil-
mington; director, since 1938, president, 1940-42, vice-chairman, since
1945, Delaware Safety Council, Wilmington; director, since 1942, mem-
ber Finance Committee, since 1943, secretary, since 1947, E. I. duPont
de Nemours & Company; director, since 1937, treasurer and chairman
Finance Committee, 1942-45, member Nomunating Committee, since
1951, Family Society of Wilmington; director, since 1944, member
Financial Policy Committee, since 1949, General Motors Corporation,
New York; trustee, since 1937, vice-president, since 1937, Longwood
Foundation, Inc., Wilmington; director, since 1946, member Executive
Committee, since 1948, vice-president, since 1951, campaign chairman,
1948, United Community Fund of Northern Delaware, Inc., Wilming-
ton; trustee, since 1951, member Board of Libraries, since 1952, Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, member Board of Managers, Wil-
' mington Institute (Free Library), since 1936; director, since 1940, presi-
dent, 1940-48, Wilmington Society of the Fine Arts; director, since
1943, member Trust Committee, since 1943, Wilmington Trust Com-
pany; director, since 1951, president, since 1952, Winterthur Corpora-
tion, Winterthur, Del.

MEMBER OF: Amabellish Fish and Game Club, New York; American Chemi-

cal Society, New York; Devon Yacht Club, East Hampton, Long
Island; Harvard Club of Delaware, Wilmington; Harvard Club of New
York; Links Club, New York; Maidstone Club, East Hampton; Tusca-
rora Club of Millbrook, Arena, N. Y.; University Club of New York;
Vicmead Hunt Club, Wilmington; Wilmington Country Club; Wil-
mington Club.

REARED in a “chemical environment,” I naturally and happily
chose chemistry as my profession. On leaving Cambridge, I went
to Paris hoping to study under Madame Curie at the Institute de

[217]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Radium only to find that she was on a tour in the United States.
Despite my disappointment, I stayed on for a year, sharing a house
outside of Paris with Bob Straus. Although neither my chemistry
nor my French improved proportionately to the time spent, I
did meet the girl whom I married a year later. She was a Con-
necticut Yankee from Litchfield, which proved to be a nice com-
muting distance from my first job. We have three children, the
eldest a member of the Class of 1954; the second, a daughter, at
Miss Porter’s school; and the youngest, a son, at Wilmington
Friends School.

In September, 1929, I went to work in the Fairfield, Connecti-
cut, plant of the duPont Company. The following January, due
to a slight slackening in business, I was laid off so took the op-
portunity to get married. The “slackening” proved to be an
understatement, but in May I was reémployed, replacing a
chemist who resigned because of ill health. I remained in the
laboratory until 1934 when I took six months’ leave of absence
to work in the Trade Practice Compliance Office of the N.R.A.
in New York. The growing disintegration of that organization
prompted my resignation after five months, and I took advantage
of the remaining month of my leave for a trip to Scandinavia.
Returning to Fairfield, I was assigned to a sales development job
on the then new synthetic rubber, Neoprene. During my
years in Fairfield I learned to fly; first a Kitty Hawk biplane, then
a Fairchild, and now I am the half-owner of my third staggered
wing Beechcraft. The horse also entered my life during that
period and for five years I rode constantly, being a member of an
informal military unit known as Gold’s Dragoons.

Those days ended in October, 1935, when I was transferred to
the Finishes Division of the duPont Company and moved to Wil-
mington, Delaware. After a short indoctrination in the art of
cost control, I became assistant to the general sales manager of
the Finishes Division who had supervision over its regional sales
offices and nation-wide sales force. During this period I became
interested in a number of civic activitics, serving as president of
the Delaware Safety Council and director and treasurer of both
the Family Society and the Wilmington Institute (Free Library).
Also in 1940 I was elected to the Board of Directors of the United
States Rubber Company representing certain family interests, |

[218 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

remained on that board until 1946 and served as a member of its
Finance Committee after 1942.

The growing tempo of the war and its impact on industrial
activity prompted my transfer in 1941 to the Development De-

artment. ‘There I remained for five years, working on special
problems, co6rdinating technical and economic factors with the
various manufacturing activities of the company. Following my
experience in Development, I entered the secretary’s office and
was elected secretary in 1947, a position I still hold. In 1942 I
was elected a director of the duPont Company and in 1943, a
member of its Finance Committee. In 1944 I became one of the
duPont Company’s representatives on the Board of the General
Motors Corporation.

Since the war, Longwood Foundation of which for some years
I have been a trustee, has taken over the operation of the well-
known Longwood Gardens which hundreds of thousands visit
annually. More recently, the Winterthur Corporation has opened
the Henry Francis duPont Winterthur Museum and its exhibits
of American decorative art to the public. These two institutions
complement my business interests and together with fishing, a
farm, and a garden keep me happily occupied.

In 1951 I had the honor to be elected a trustee of the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania and appointed a member of the Board of
Overseers’ Visiting Committee to the Harvard Divinity School.
In retrospect, it seems I gave up the trade of chemist to become a
“Joiner” and remain a Republican.

LAURENCE APPLEBEE COPELAND

HOME ApprEss: Whipple Hollow Road, RF.D., Florence, Vt.

BORN: Aug. 19, 1902, Reading, Mass. parents: "Edward Elbridge Copeland,
Addie May Applebee.

PREPARED AT: Reading High School, Reading, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. wlagna cunt laude, 1927.

MarRiED: Catherine Ippolito, Jan. 10, 1944, Boston, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Office clerk.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: War Production Board, Boston.

LEONARD COPPELMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 252 Clinton Rd., Brookline, Mass,
OFFicE AppREss: Wm, Filene’s Sons Co., 426 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

[219 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

BORN: Feb. 27, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Isaac Pierce Coppelman, Rose
Phillips.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; LL.B. (Northeastern Univ.),
1931.
sarrieD: Lillie Hoffman, Sept. 29, 1940, Boston, Mass. cuipren: Peter

David, Aug. 1, 1942; Jonathan Saul, Sept. 29, 1944; Ross Richard, April
20, 1946; Daniel Paul, Dec. 29, 1948.

occupation: Department manager, retail store, operating misses’ sportswear
department.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman, Wholesale Manufacturers Division, Red
Feather Campaign, 1951.

IN MAY of 1927 I sauntered into Memorial Hall at 1:30 P.M. all
crammed for a divisional exam in government and economics.
Unfortunately the exam had been given at 9:30 that morning.
Notwithstanding a perfectly good X-ray of someone else’s im-
pacted third molar, it was decided not to set a precedent by
allowing me to take a make-up exam. Then came sympathy from
everyone, preparation for final exams in courses I had not at-
tended since April Hours, oral exams in the entire fields of gov-
ernment and economics, and finally days of anxious waiting for
the results. I did graduate with the Class.

For the next two years I floundered around, not knowing what
I wanted to do. I started a law course at Northeastern Night Law
School and tried to decide what my life’s work should be. I
knew I would be happier as a cog in a big organization than as
the owner of a small business. It was necessary to find an organiza-
tion where there was no discrimination, where it was possible to
start at the bottom to learn the business, where promotion was
based on merit, and which was large enough to have a number of
good executive positions. Filene’s seemed to fulfill all of these
requirements. I entered the store in September of 1929, just before
the roof fell in. The next years were rough. By 1931, when I fin-
ished my law course and passed the Bar, 1 was beginning to make
some progress at the store. I think I was earning the big salary of
thirty-five dollars each week. Law clerks at that time were a drug
on the market, so I decided to stay put. I did have one case in
which I placed an attachment which took. I collected my one
Icgal fee and retired from the practice of law. Since then I have
been concentrating on getting ahead at Filene’s. I have been in
several different departments and now have charge of all the misses’

[ 220]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sportswear items. Only recently I have added the bathing suit
department to my responsibilities. To comment that this depart-
ment is an interesting one would be a gTOss understatement.

I have always found retailing a stimulating career. My par-
ticular department is exceptionally fascinating, fast-moving, and
exciting. My job entails quite a bit of travelling. I am in New
York City every other week. I have made about fifteen trips to
California — at least one each year. Last January I had the special
pleasure of taking my wife along on the trip to the Coast for a
belated honeymoon. So far I have been able to avoid the greatest
occupational hazard in retailing, department-store stomach ulcers.
A blind date in New York City in 1939 with my wife’s sister
eventually led to one of those rare and wonderful perfect mar-
riages. From the start my wife spoke of a family of four children.
I thought she was insane but allowed her to rave on. We now
have four sons. We tried all seasons — August, September, De-
cember, April—the result always the same— boys. We now
have given up all hope of having a daughter, and are planning
the rest of our lives to raise four Harvard men for the Classes
of 64, °66, ’68, and ’7o.

By necessity I am now involved in Cub Scouting, one of many
hobbies. I am a pretty good man to have around a house. I do
most of the repair and decorating work around my home. I have
a wonderful library of colored movies of my family covering the
last six years. I have studied silversmithing and have produced
as a “‘piece de resistance” a hand-wrought sterling silver punch
bowl]. I have a complete woodworking shop in my basement to
which I retire when the commotion upstairs gets out of hand.
Everyone has his own measure of success. I feel that I have
achieved a good measure. I have a wonderful wife and family,
a stimulating job, and a keen hope for the future.

PETER ATKINS CORCORAN

HOME ApprEss: Elm Street, Marshfield, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Boston Public Welfare Dept., 43 Hawkins St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: March 30, 1902, South Boston, Mass. parents: William James Cor-
coran, Mary Atkins.

PREPARED AT: South Boston High School, South Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925, 1926-1928.

[ 221 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

siarrieD: Thelma S. Bragdon, April, 1951, Hingham, Mass.
occupation: Social worker, Boston Public Welfare Department.

OFFICES HELD: Field director, American Red Cross, Pacific Ocean Area,
World War II.

FRANCIS JOSEPH CORLISS

HOME ADDRESS: 23 Lindsey St. Dorchester, Mass.

OFFicE appress: Agassiz School, Jamaica Plain, Mass.

BORN: June 9, 1904, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Henry Corliss, Nellie Toomey.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; A.M. (Boston Coll.), 1928.

marrieD: Marie Katherine Treanor, June 24, 1933, Boston, Mass, CHILDREN:
Francis Joseph, Jr, April 15, 1934; Marie Katherine, Aug. 23, 1935;
Barbara Anne, Dec. 10, 1938; James Henry, Oct. 26, 1947; Robert Hol-
land, Nov. 10, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Christopher Corliss, °14.

occuPATION: Teacher, assistant principal, Agassiz School.

MEMBER OF: Boston Teachers’ Alliance; Boston School Men’s Association.

SINCE graduating from college, I have been engaged in the
“noble” but, alas, financially unrewarding profession of teaching.
I began my teaching career in Lynn, Mass., where I remained one
year. I then went to Norwood, Mass., where I served as dean of
boys at the Junior High School for ten years. In 1939 I was
appointed a teacher at the Washington Irving School in Boston.

Although I have been too occupied in trying to support my
family of five children to engage in many hobbies, as in under-
graduate days, I still like a good card game.

ALFRED FREDERICK CORWIN

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Magaw Pl. New York, N. Y.

orFice appress: Motion Picture Association of America, 28 W. 44th St,
New York, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 16, 1906, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Samuel Haskell Corwin,
Rose Ober.

PREPARED AT: Fast Boston High School, East Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927.

MarRkIED: Consuelo Betances de Cordova, Sept. 16, 1942, New York, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Vanessa, Feb. 15, 1947; Consuclo, Aug. 10, 1950.

occupation; Director of information (publicity and public relations) for
Motion Picture Association of America, representing nine major mo-
tion picture companics on matters pertaining to the general interests
and welfare of the industry.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Joined U, S. Army as enlisted man, 1942; com-
missioned znd licutcnant, 1943, 1st lieutenant, 1944; major assignment:

[222 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

charge of special educational program for 8,000 German prisoners of
war at Camp Blanding, Fla. commissioned captain, 1945; prepared
overall evaluation of educational program at Pentagon, Washington;
separated from service, April, 1946.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

AFTER twenty-five years, three goads and a reprimand from
George Russell, I record herewith, humbly and dutifully, some
biographical notes and observations. My four years at Harvard
taught me many things in addition to the fundamentals of
bridge. They cultivated in me a sense of discrimination — so
fine a sense of discrimination that it took me a very long
time before I found the woman worthy of bearing my name
and children. The marriage certificate lagged behind the diploma
by fifteen years. My patience was richly rewarded if the wealth
be measured by the past ten years of happiness, companionship,
and love. But there is this one source of envy for you classmates
who married early. You are well beyond the floor-pacing, baby-
mollifying phase of family life. I write these lines in mid-winter
when the temptation to ignore the pre-dawn wails of a teething
infant is great. Our little girls, one and a half and five, are
joyous things to have around the house. It is fascinating to watch
them grow and develop. The greeting each of them in her own
way gives the old man after a day at the office is an emotional
hypo that drugs you into an illusion that all’s well with the world.
_ Taking editorial departure from the home, I come now to
the means by which I have managed to keep myself and latterly
my family together since taking physical departure from the
Harvard Yard. The first eight years were a period of baptism
in commerce and industry — a period that carried me successively
through jobs with a paint and varnish concern in Boston, a tire
and rubber company in Akron, and newspaper reporting for the
Greenfield (Massachusetts) Recorder and the Providence Sunday
Journal. With the exception of a wartime semi-colon between
1942 and 1946, my story since 1935 unwinds entirely within the
animated confines of the motion picture industry. A seven-year
stretch as publicist and editor in the International Department of
T-wentieth-Century-Fox was halted by the swift march of events
that had a lot of us herded off to the war camps.

Four years later and little the worse for wear, I returned to

[ 223 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

the film business — this time as advertising and publicity director
of the Motion Picture Export Association. MPEA was an outfit
chartered by the major American film companies to distribute
Hollywood movies in countries ravaged by the war. It was set
up as a temporary operation to keep American films moving into
these countries until some semblance of economic and political
stability had been restored. The operation was further limited
in 1948 and 1949 when Poland, Bulgaria, Rumania, Hungary,
and Czechoslovakia, no doubt on orders from the Kremlin, banned
the import of all American movies. The concerted action, inci-
dentally, offers striking evidence that American movies, better
than any other of the mass media, are doing a whale of a job
in selling the American way of life to millions of people overseas.
The Communists were smart enough to see that. That’s why
our movies are banned behind the Iron Curtain.

For the past three years I have been with the Motion Picture
Association of America as director of information. The job in
many respects parallels that with MIPEA but deals public relations-
wise with all countries of the world in which American films
are shown — including our own. From where I sit, the motion
picture theatre will still be a thriving instirution when the rem-
nants of the Class gather again in 1977, notwithstanding the lure,
fascination, and vast potentialities of that new electronic device
in the living room. Television in the home has a long, long road
to travel maybe an endless road— before it can begin to
match the movie screen in clarity, fidelity, size, definition, scope,
color and programming. There’s every indication now that the
film industry will harness television to the movie houses. You'll
still be getting good movies—but you'll also be getting some
intriguing large-screen entertainment via theatre-I'V. If you
would know more of what the industry has up its cinematic
sleeve, consult classmates Leonard Goldenson and Ted Black.

In deference to the printers, I submit, in conclusion, a few
supplementary personal items;

Pet Peeves: Bigots of all stripes and character. Public servants
who betray their trust.
Hobbies; Good movies (shades of the busman); the Broadway

plays; fishing (in season) in the Atlantic; Gilbert and Sullivan; and
the double-crostics of Mrs, Kingsley.

[224]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Wish: That the good Lord go along with us for another
stretch of years — long enough to enable us to bring our memoirs
up to date in 1977.

FRANK HALLOCK COUCH

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Cromwell Hall, Cromwell, Conn.

BorN: April 16, 1904, Cromwell, Conn. parents: William Powell Couch,
Susan Hallock.

PREPARED AT: Hlackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; M.D. (Yale Univ.), 1930.

mMarRiED: Mildred Warden, Aug. 30, 1930, Minnetonka Beach, Minn.

occuPATION: Medicine.

OFFICES HELD: President, Cromwell Fire District, since 1943, Belden Library
Association, since 1947.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association, since 1935, fellow, since 1950;
Connecticut State Medical Society, since 1935; Connecticut Society of
Psychologists and Neurologists, since 1937.

FROM 1926 to 1930 I was attending Yale Medical School and the
following year interned at St. Mark’s Hospital and Knickerbocker
Hospital in New York City. I held a Sterling Fellowship in 1932
and Alexander Brown Coxe Fellowship in 1933, at Yale. Since
1933 I have been clinical assistant and clinical instructor in
neurology at Yale, and assisting attending physician at the New
Haven Hospital. Since 1934 I have been consultant in neurology
at Middlesex Hospital, and since 1937, medical director at Crom-
well Hall.

BUTLER COX

HOME ADDRESS: 592 Allens Creek Road, Rochester 18, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fine Papers, Inc., Rochester 9, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 17, 1904, Jamaica Plain, Mass. parents: Thomas George Cox,
Josephine Butler.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.

MARRIED: Georgia Williams Schermerhorn, Jan. 16, 1937, Lattingtown,
N. Y. cHitpreN: Butler Schermerhorn, April 14, 1938; Georgia Scher-
merhorn, Dec. 4, 1940; Catherine Cotting, July 3, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Coburn Cox, ’28.

OccuPATION: Wholesale paper; president, Fine Papers, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: President, Empire State Paper Association, Inc., 1948-50.

MEMBER OF: Genesee Valley Club; Country Club of Rochester; Harvard
Club of New York.

[ 225 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

IF THIS is to be a twenty-fifth year report, I guess it should
begin that long ago. After a very short fling at the department
store business, I knew I didn’t like it. Next I thought it would be
fine to be president of a railroad. I asked the opinion of a very
astute older man, which he gave in one sentence with no elabora-
tion. “Young man, it’s a long way to the top; don’t lose your
way.” That was as encouraging as getting out of a warm bed and
stepping unexpectedly into a puddle of ice water. Having no true
burning desire in any particular field, I didn’t know what to do,
but that problem was solved by the offer of a job. After investiga-
tion, it looked interesting. It still does. That business is paper.

Ten years were spent in the manufacturing end. At the end of
that period I was advised of an opportunity in the wholesale
branch of the industry. There seemed to be possibilities, but it
was a gamble. I took it. It meant having my own business, and
that looked enticing. That meant being your own boss, taking a
vacation or a day off any time you felt like it, leaving at noon if
it was a good day for golf, etc. etc. Oh yes? After thirteen years
of being my own boss, I know I work harder and longer than ever
before. There must be others smarter than I. Wall someone
please give me his formula for leaving at the end of Friday with
everything solved until Monday morning?

And so the years have passed. Three children, none out of
teen-age, surely do make some difference in your activities and
ideas. I find I have no particular hobbies or outside activities.
Most of these seem to consist of doing those things around the
home that have to be done, or those unimportant doodling jobs
that one does because one wants to, thereby infuriating one’s wife
who has been after one to do something for the last six months
about something or other. A bit more seriously, though, I do like
to hunt and wish I could go more often. I do play golf but not
very seriously . . . not enough to be upset about getting below
eighty. Right now I guess I am just in an in-between age: too
old for Castoria, too young for Serutan.

ALEXANDER THOMPSON COYLE

HOME ADDRESS: 724 Ridge Ave., Troy, Ohio.

or rice ADURESS: First Presbyterian Church, Walnut & Franklin Streets Troy
Ohio. ’ ’

[ 226 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BoRN: Oct. 4, 1905, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents:, Thomas Coyle, Martha Jane
Thompson.

PREPARED AT: Mount Hermon Boys’ School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B, 1927; A.M. (Princeton Univ.),
1930; TH.B. (ibid.), 1930.

MARRIED: Florence Helen Fox, April 11, 1934, Cottage City, Md. cnipren:
Florence Sandra, July 29, 1936; Frederick Alexander, May 31, 1942; Rob-
ert Jeffrey, Oct. 20, 1945 (died June 10, 1947).

occuPATION: Presbyterian minister.

OFFICES HELD: President, Class of 1930, Princeton Theological Seminary, since
1929; fellow in Systematic Theology, Edinburgh University, Scotland,
1930-31; president, American Students’ Union, Edinburgh, 1930-31;
moderator, Long Island Presbytery, 1939, Dayton Presbytery, 1947;
president, Ministerial Association, 1945, Council of Churches, 1948,
Kiwanis Club, Troy, Ohio, 1948; vice-moderator, Synod of Ohio, 1949.

HAVING just had my tonsils out for the third time and lived to
tell the tale, Iam thankful that I still have a voice so as to continue
preaching and that I am still alive and mobile so as to continue
hunting. I will admit that sometimes late Saturday night when
the sermon looks like a C-grade English A theme, I could readily
give up preaching. At no time do I feel that way about hunting.

After graduation and a summer's travel in Europe with George
Major (on $500 apiece! ), I took three years at Princeton Theo-
logical Seminary and then one at Edinburgh University, Scotland.
Ordained to the Presbyterian ministry, I took my first church in
a Washington, D. C., suburb in Cottage City, Maryland. There
I met and married Florence Fox, and there we had our first child,
Sandra. My second church, in 1937, was in Port Jefferson, Long
Island, New York, where Freddie was born. My present church,
to which I was called in 1943, is in Troy, Ohio, where our third
child, Robbie, was born and then, at twenty months, died.

As I look back over twenty years of active ministry, I am sure
that I have not made the devil and his angels tremble. I think,
however, that I have shown many people the power of the Chris-
tian religion to make life joyful and good.

During our summer vacations, we have travelled to the west
coast three times, indulging our hobby of color photography
and, on one trip, camping out in army surplus mountain tents.
We have also visited New England and Canada frequently. Last
summer, being far from the sea here, we gorged ourselves on
lobsters fresh from the sea off Prince Edward Island, at thirty-

[227 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

five cents a pound. Since our children have reached the age

when they would really prefer to stay home, our roving instincts

mav have to be curtailed for the next few years.

] am discovering rather belatedly that my really absorbing
interest, aside from my work and family, is hunting. I have
always done some of this, but only in the last few years have I
indulged my interest to near the extent I really wish. Having
missed three cock pheasants in three seconds during the last
twenty minutes of pheasant season, I am certain that I am a rotten
shot but nevertheless keep at it. The other night two of us risked
life and limb in bitter cold and wind to find and shoot twenty
big, bad crows. We also shoot rats in a city dump! It must the
killer instinct in me! Some day I am going to go after big game
but I'm not sure when or how!

As I look back on college days, my biggest regret is that I
did not get to know more of my classmates. I imagine that many
of them would share this regret. We were probably too bashful
and self-conscious. Never shall I forget the painful experience
of attending some debutante’s coming-out party in Boston (she
must have found my name in the College list) and feeling like
Joe Stalin at a Republican party caucus. Now I feel equally at
home in a county jail (as a visitor), a country club, a Holy
Roller revival, or the Governor’s Ball. Consequently, my native
interest in people can assert itself. This is probably my funda-
mental reason for being in the ministry, and it motivates most of
my preaching, visiting, and personal counselling.

One of the most interesting experiences I have had in recent
years was the self-appointed job of bringing together the manage-
ment of a local factory hiring about 800 men and the leaders of
the C.LO. union in the plant to bring about the ending of a strike.
Three of us ministers invited both groups to meet with us, which
was a test of diplomacy in itself, and then kept them meeting
and talking until they came to an agreement, While it was very
difficult for us preachers to keep still, we managed to avoid giving
advice or taking sides and emerged from the meetings with com-
plete friendliness towards us on both sides and without having
done damage by ill-advised counsel. The result was that the strike

lasted six wecks instead of six months and everybody concerned,
including the community, was happy about it,

{228 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My work as a minister during these years has been, on the
whole, very interesting and rewarding. In addition to the preach-
ing of sermons, calling on parishioners and holding weddings and
funerals, etc., there has been the more personal work of aiding
people in the numerous crises of life and in heart-breaking and

uzzling situations. I have held countless conferences with the
mentally ill and have reason to believe that some have been
prevented from taking their own lives and many restored to a
more Satisfying existence. I hope too that many others have been
saved from mental illness by being able to pour out the story of
their troubles and fears and folly. A minister who remains in one
parish for a number of years and who really loves people comes
to know them so well that he can be of immeasurable help when
they are in trouble.

These twenty-five years have included excitement and mo-
notony, but they have never been boring. The next twenty-five
should be even more interesting. .

JAMES RANDALL CREEL

HOME AppRESS: 1 East End Ave., New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 110 E. qznd St., New York 17, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 20, 1904, Eldorado, Mo. parents: James Randall Creel, Margaret
Davis.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude, 1927; LLB.,
1930.

MarRieD: Alexandra Diodati Gardiner, June ro, 1932, Garden City, Long
Island, N. Y. cHitpren: James Randall, July 10, 1934; Alexandra Gardi-
ner, Nov. 22, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Calhoun Creel, ’34, LL.., 738.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U.S.N.R., 1941; Naval
Observer’s Staff, London, England; chief defense counsel, Navy Intelli-
gence, 3rd Naval District; Judge Advocate of General Court Martial,
5th Naval District; returned to inactive duty with rank of lieutenant
commander, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant U.S. Attorney for Southern District of New York,
1932-40; staff of General Counsel, Civil Aeronautics Board, 1941.

MEMBER OF: Piping Rock Club, Locust Valley, Long Island, N. Y.; Harvard
Club of New York.

MY EVERY instinct was to ignore your request as to “class
life,’ for I know that you are wrong when you state, “The

[ 229 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Class wants to know all about your career history, your family,
your trav els, hobbies, and your social, political, or religious con-
victions.” Not only are these highly personal matters of possible
interest only to me, they are a common bore to all others. It is
only because I do not w ish to appear uncodperative that I comply.
The first three years after graduation were spent in the Har-
vard Law School, and it was not until the great depression that
I commenced to serve my apprenticeship in my chosen profession
of the law. My clerkship and first three years at the law were
served in a junior position in a Wall Street law office, from which
I watched with no great satisfaction the efforts of my seniors to
extricate our clients from the deserved consequences of their mis-
feasances, and even malfeasances, which had contributed in no
small measure to the crash of 1929 and the great depression.

The United States Attorney’s office seemed to me to offer an
opportunity to work with those forces which were on the right
side of the issues of the times, and accordingly, I became an Assist-
ant United States Attorney. During the next six years I prose-
cuted offenders and defended well-intentioned legislative pro-
prams of that era for the best client that an attorney will ever
have — Uncle Sam.

A holiday in Europe in the summer of 1938 convinced me of
the imminence of war, and accordingly, I joined the Naval Re-
serve, then inactive. Some time thereafter, I was called to active
duty with the Navy, and the infamous December 7th found me
on duty with the Naval Observer attached to our Embassy in
London.

The Navy apparently expected Harvard lawyers to do almost
anything and during my five years of Navy service I actually
found myself performing such absurd duties as being an expert
in things Japanese, assisting the British in solving their shipping
difficulties, and finally, after several other assignments for which
I was utterly untrained, other than being a Harvard lawyer, I was
ordered to duty as a Judge Advocate of a General Court Martial.
After less than a year of this duty in my old rdéle as a prosecutor,
I requested and obtained duty on the other side of the Court as
permanent defense counsel, for under the then prevailing code
of Naval Justice with its command control over the prosecution,
the charge, the sentence, the appeal, and even the Court itself,

[ 230 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

this duty as prosecutor came to have no more appeal than the
sticking of pins into poor helpless bugs. The balance of my Navy
duty was served as defense counsel and in agitation for a moderni-
zation of the law relating to military courts.

After the war I returned to the practice of law, and my offices
are at 110 East 42nd Street, New York 17, New York. Please,
clients, the liné forms at the right.

I have a family of which I am very much more than a little
proud. My dear wife, the best thing in my life, has stuck with
me through all the difficulties of all the years. We have two
children, whom we have named, with great originality, after our-
selves. The boy is a Fifth Former at St. Mark’s and captain of
his school football team.. The girl is a student in the Brearley
School and, bless her, takes very much after her mother.

And now that I have complied with your request, may I again
state that you are wrong in your statement that my classmates
want to know all about the personal matters you mentioned. My
classmates have heretofore shown far too much good sense to be
much concerned in such matters, and I seriously doubt that the
passage of a quarter of a century and advanced age has caused
such a deterioration. - .

RALPH GIRARD CREVIER

HOME AppRESS: 48 Glenwood Ave., Newton Center, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Ralph G. Crevier Co., 575 Boylston St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: March 8, 1906, Ogdensburg, N. Y. parents: Ovelia Edward
Crevier, Phoebe Agnes Girard.

PREPARED AT: St. Mary’s Academy, Ogdensburg, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1927(28).

MARRIED: Vera Marie Glover, June 24, 1931, Allston, Mass. CHILDREN: Joan
Patricia, April 22, 1932; Ralph Girard, Jr., July 6, 1935.

OCCUPATION: Food broker.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Boston Food Brokers’ Association, 1951-52.

MEMBER OF: National Food Brokers’ Association; Boston Food Brokers’
Association; Grocery Manufacturers’ Representatives of New England,
Inc.; Commonwealth Country Club.

NOTHING of interest to report, for I still continue in the food
business. Established originally as Crevier, Larsen & Company,
Food Brokers, in 1940, I purchased my partner’s interest two
years ago and am now my own boss . . . while at the office. With
my daughter a junior in college and my son in prep school, I can

[ 231 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF .1927 ;

attest to the passing of the years. I have had fair success in
business, however, and am now looking forward to the time I
can leave New England for Arizona. ..I am plagued with
asthma ... there to lead an easier life and to work in earnest on
my golf game.

KENNETH B. M. CROOKS

HOME AND OFFIcE appress: Happy Grove School, Hector’s River, Jamaica,
B.WI1.

BORN: May 25, 1905, Hanover, Jamaica, B.W.I. parents: Japheth Ansurd
Crooks, Jeanette Amelia Munro.

PREPARED AT: Jamaica College, Kingston, Jamaica, B.W.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; A.M., 1928; PH.D., 1940.

marrieD: Nella Octiva Edgar, June 1, 1929, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Cynthia May, Sept. 9, 1930; Kenneth B. M., Jr. (Ned), Sept. 12, 1931;
Sylvia Amelia, Nov. 19, 1934; Nella Evadne, 2d, Dec. 5, 1936.

HARVARD SON: Kenneth B. M. Crooks, Jr., ’52.

occupation: Missionary educator; headmaster, Happy Grove School (a
Jamaica Government grant-aided college operated under auspices of the
Society of Friends).

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, assistant professor, associate, and professor of biol-
ogy, Hampton Institute, 1928-41; fellow, American Association for the
Advancement of Science, 1934; executive, Natural History Society,
Jamaica; Portland Football Council; General Education Board Fellow,
Harvard, 1937-38; Summer Literary Society; trustee, Winnifred Rest
Home, Fairy Hill, Jamaica; chairman, Friends’ Educational Council,
Jamaica, 1941-43; executive secretary, American Federation Teachers’
Local, 1939-41. |

MEMBER OF: American Association for the Advancement of Science; Helmin-
thology Society of Washington; Virginia Society of Research; Virginia
Academy; American Association of Physical Anthropology; Overseas
member, Incorporated Association of Headmasters (England) and
(British) Science Masters’ Association, Omega Sigma Chi.

pusLications: Laboratory Directions in General Biology, Hampton Institute

Press, 3 vols. (joint author, 2 editions); numerous articles, pamphlets,
papers, reviews.

WHEN I was a boy in preparatory school I was quite a writer:
a couple of scenarios to Hollywood, reams of short stories to the
Saturday Evening Post, Red Book, the Captain Magazine, and
others, at least two novels, and dozens of twelve-line poems.
Only one was accepted so far as I can recall. When I came to
Harvard I thought of getting on The Crime, but I didn’t try, for,
as the psychiatrists claim, my repeated literary failures had done

[232]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

something to my creative personality. You have guessed it, I
was a frustrated author. Today I received in the mail a postcard
labelled ““GOAD” in red. It was meant to break down my built-
up inhibition. The first requests had produced a shrug and a
strange, sickening kind of smile — not one of anticipation, for I
just didn’t know what to write. Why should I repeat the stuff
already in the earlier Class Reports, and why should I tell my
successful classmates what a failure I have been over lo! these
many years? Besides, I comforted myself, the deadline had long
been passed, so I could just forget it. Each reminder was slowly
pushed out of my sight. But this final red goad set me shrieking
almost. The fellows preparing the Quarter-Century Report really
do want something. O.K. Since they insist, here it is.

I am a happy, harassed, discontented, optimistic, enthusiastic
failure; but I have a cause to work with and something to live for
here on the fringes of civilization. I started out to be a physician
and became a biologist. My parents wanted me to be a plutocrat,
a great man with an easy life and a comfortable income. Instead,
I am a Democrat and draw a salary that cannot keep up with my
basic needs. I work in a struggling missionary — educational ef-
fort without the comforts, or the income, or the ease. I am
living in the rural seacoast area of a beautiful, tropic island — far
from civilization and with physical facilities far below what a
Harvard man deserves. If I want recreation I have to drive thirty
miles or have it made here on our little campus. But I have plenty
of inspiration and quarts of perspiration. If I want to see a movie,
well, thirty or fifty-five miles is the prerequisite, As for a real
play, the chance comes only once or twice a year maybe, and I
must drive those fifty-five miles or fly back to the Mainland if
I can manage to raise the dollars — for we live and work in the
Sterling area, a magic term which means we use pounds, shillings,
and pence and because of austerity have to apply for government
permission to get dollars — even to subscribe to the Alumni Bul-
letin.

The years have made other changes too. The confirmed bache-
lor is now a devoted husband and father of four, three girls and
a boy whom we would like to send to Harvard (if the dollars
can be found). The former agnostic was for five years pastor of
a Friends (Quaker) Meeting; the active Soccer player and Track

[ 233]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

athlete is only a coach now; the would-be author has had to be
content with a small book of “Laboratory Directions” and a few
earth-shaking articles of such terrific importance (some scientific,
some literary, some general) that probably nobody has read
them. Since Harvard we have had only two jobs, one teaching
in Virginia (thirteen years) the second in teaching and adminis-
tration here in the West Indies (eleven years). We have been
often tempted to return to the Mainland, but the perpetual spring-
summer climate of Jamaica has kept us here at least until now.
Right now we are trying to resist another temptation to get back
but cannot yet tell what the future may bring, for a conservative
man in his forties must think well before he uproots his family.

I am making an effort to get across for the Reunion anyway.
Our two elder children, a girl (4.8. Earlham Coll. ’51) and the boy,
should be with the gang in June. If I do not get there, best wishes
and good luck to everybody. If I do get there, I'll surely try to
help you make history. But here’s hoping that many of you
Harvard men will visit Jamaica. Of course if you do, you must
come to Happy Grove and spend some time with us. The wife is
so proud of Harvard and of Harvard men that she’ll strip all the
cocoanut trees and paw-paw plants to entertain you. So do come!
You'll enjoy it. Cheerio.

RICHARD BECK CROSSCUP

HOME AppRrEss: 2 W, 120th St. New York, N. Y.

orice appress: Walden School, 1 W. 88th St., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: July 24, 1905, Dorchester, Mass. parents: Louis Edward Crosscup,
Lillian Ainsley Campbell.

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass. Thayer Academy,
Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 10923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927.

Maraieo: Reed Champion, 1930, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1939); Gwen-
dolyn Bennett, June 25, 1940, New York, N. Y. cuirp: Martha, June
13, 1931. .

HarvagD BRroTHFR: Lincoln Crosscup, '19.

occupaTION: Education.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Voluntary, deputy sector commander, air
warden service.

pustications: Articles in Education, Yachting, Fraternal Outlook, Amer-
ican Teacher, etc.

[234]

' 2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALBERT ELDRED CURRIER

HOME ADDRESS: 713 Giddings Ave., Annapolis, Md.

OFFIcE ADDRESS: Mathematics Dept., U. S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.

BorN: Feb. 8, 1905, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: William Gideon Currier,
Gertrude Hastings.. Oo

PREPARED AT: Barnstable High School, Hyannis, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: s.B. magna cum laude, 1927; AM.
1928; PH.D. 1930. ,

MARRIED: Erna Schildberger, May 28, 1931, Munich, Germany (deceased);
Lynor Olson, Dec. 21, 1947, Cloquet, Minn. camp: Albert William,
May 14, 1932. :

occuPATION: Education.

MEMBER OF: Mathematics Association of America. _

FRANK WALKER CURRIER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 72 Foster Rd., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Woodlets, Inc., Portland, Pa.

BoRN: May 23, 1906, Somerville, Mass. PARENTS: Frank Warren Currier,
Mabel Cora Walker.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MarRIED: Doris M. Goodwin, May 26, 1928, York, Maine. cuitp: Candace
Elizabeth, May 8, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Salesman.

OFFICES HELD: Manager, New England Telephone and Telegraph Company,
1927-32; warehouse superintendent, Bethlehem Steel Company, Ship-
building Division, 1942-49. |

SINCE my graduation in 1927, I have led a very unspectacular

existence. There were five happy years with the New England

Telephone and Telegraph Company, starting as trainee and end-

ing as manager of the Quincy and Milton exchanges here in

Massachusetts. After that, due to severe illness and surgery, I

was unable to carry on any work, except on a part-time basis, so

I entered the insurance business, which I enjoyed greatly; there

I made lots of friends and enjoyed a measure of success, consider-

ing the actual time I was able to work.

In the forties my health was restored to me through further
surgery and many prayers, and I was able to take charge of all
warehousing during the war for the Bethlehem Steel Company,
Shipbuilding Division, in East Boston. This was a wonderful
experience for, although not able to serve in the armed services,

[235]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

I came into close contact with them, for I was responsible for
much material for the Army, Navy, Coast Guard, and War
Shipping Administration, as well as for the British Ministry. I
remained with the company after the war until everything had
been disposed of and then went into sales work, in which I am
still engaged. It keeps me out of doors to a large extent, and my
health has improved so that today, in spite of the thinning and
graying hair, I am enjoying better health than at any time in my
life. That, to me, is the most important part of my career. You
can just put me down as a very grateful person.

ROBERT HOLLIS CURTISS

HOME aAppress: Eben Street, Milford, Mass.
OFFICE apprEess: H. M. Curtiss Coal & Lumber Co., Milford, Mass.

BoRN: Sept. 14, 1904, Hingham, Mass. parents: Harold Marshall Curtiss,
Edith Gray Hollis.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.B.A. 1929.
MarRieD: Marion Myers, April 21, 1938, Brookline, Mass.
HARVARD BROTHER: Harold Marshall Curtiss, Jr., ’39.

OccuPATION: President and manager, H. M. Curtiss Coal & Lumber Com-
pany, retailing fuel and building materials.
MEMBER OF: Milford Rotary Club.

IN THE summer of 1929, with a Harvard Business School diploma
under my arm, I launched forth on the crest of the great business
boom as a trainee for an executive position in a large shoe manu-
facturing concern. Within a few short months the depression had
liquidated the business and I was out of a job. Shortly after that
I joined my father in a fuel and building material retail business
in my home town. We rode out the depression and are still
doing business.

Getting married is an event of consequence in everyone’s life,
but my marriage seemed to have more angles to it than is
customary. My fiancée, Marion, had a twin sister, and she became
engaged to Ken Harding, my roommate for many years at Milton
and Harvard. Ken had a brother, and he shortly became engaged
to a third sister. Well, we didn’t have a triple wedding, but Ken
and I were in on a double one. The other couple were in the
wedding party, and after reading an account of it in the New

[ 236]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Yorker entitled “Department of Utter Confusion,” we considered
ourselves fortunate to have come out of it paired off as planned.
And we went on separate honeymoons. Marion and I spent a
month in England visiting friends and seeing the country.

Since that event my life has been pretty well confined to
business and community activities. | was for many years a town
meeting member and served on the Milford Finance Committee
for ten years. In 1938 I was one of a group to organize a Rotary
Club in Milford. After a very slow growth over quite a period,
we have developed and become one of the most active clubs in
this area. I have served one of the local churches in various
capacities and have been its treasurer for the past few years. I
have also taken an interest in the Milford Savings Bank and am
now serving as a vice-president. My wartime activities were con-
fined to the duties of air raid warden and chairman of the War
Bond drives.

Just before the war we bought a farm located on the outskirts
of town. After a very short experience with one cow, I realized
that farming was not going to be my hobby. The cow stayed on
as a pet while my wife and I turned our attention to restoring
the house. It was an old salt box, and behind plastered walls we
discovered fireplaces and old panelling that had not been exposed
for nearly one hundred years. So restoring the house and fur-
nishing it with antiques has been my chief hobby. To keep fit I
try to play squash fairly regularly during the winter and do
some swimming in the summer. As a change from our pastoral
life we take a trip each year. We have tried everything from
bicycling through New Hampshire to trips to Bermuda, Florida,
and the West Coast.

MOSES CUTLER

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Stetson St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Oscar Cutler Co., 44-46 Arlington St., Chelsea, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 24, 1906, Chelsea, Mass. PARENts: Oscar Cutler, Bessie Levine.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Sally Lunn, Aug. 24, 1938, Winthrop, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Owner and operator, president and treasurer, scrap metal
business.

[ 237 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, Supply Corps,

US.N.R., Feb. 22, 1943; stationed supply department, Washington,
D. C.; transferred to San Francisco, Calif., as sales, survey, and material
redistribution officer in Navy Material Redistribution Office, and at

San Francisco Naval Shipyard, separated as lieutenant commander,
December, 1945.

MEMBER OF: Masons; Reserve Officers’ Association.

IT IS with trepidation that I answer the repeated goads of a Class
Committee with a deadline to meet. Shall I tell them? In a class
that has produced statesmen, bank presidents, utility magnates,
doctors, jurists, educators, and the like, there was spawned a
Junk Man! And a junk man with a Harvard degree is seldom
permitted to forget it— from a loving but disapproving mother,
or a gruff but kind “mustang” captain when unable to decipher
my abominable handwriting commenting on a “Harvard” script,
to a competitor when reproved for a questionable unethical act
replying that he acts “regular” and not “Harvard.” But it has its
compensations — being a junk man with a Harvard A.B, — as
when being sworn into the Navy as a lieutenant, senior grade, the
wife of a classmate, and an outstanding fellow, inquired “how
come a junk man gets two full stripes while a lawyer merits only
a stripe and a half?” Could it be, I asked myself, that Uncle Sam
thinks more of a junk man than of a lawyer? At least, that was
my last thought that day, and my ego was restored. And too, I
have my thousand or more ash trays—all different, and all
coming from the junk shop. It is surprising what my men pick
up for me!

Obeying the admonition of Worth Hale that I would probably
make a better salesman than a doctor, I found myself an adjunct
of the family junk business in the late ’20’s, and the depression
and my name on the back of the notes payable found me in
complete charge on my father’s passing in 1934.

The dawn of the realization that perfection is an illusory
concept finally permitted me to enter the holy bonds of matri-
mony in 1938, but the past thirteen years with Sally have proved
that it is the exception that proves the rule.

Pearl Harbor aroused my indignation, and my dissatisfaction
with the status quo caused me to make application for a commis-
sion in the Navy and on February 22, 1943, I was appointed a

[ 238 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Passed Assistant Paymaster with the rank of lieutenant, and issued
proceed orders to the Navy Supply Department at Washington.
After the usual confusion, excitement, assignments, and reassign-
ments, I found myself sailing a desk at San Francisco, a sales,
survey, and material redistribution officer—a junk man again,
but this time with a dignified sounding title and gold stripes. Aside
from pulling the duty officer’s job on Christmas Day each year I
was there, and also on the day the atom bomb was loaded out,
each day was like the other— damaged ship units to survey,
scrap to sell, and surplus to redistribute.

Selling Rye short, but going long on CRP and MSS sort of
balanced out and left a little something to put into NP until Uncle
Sam could make a refund on the EPT he collected in 1942 and
1943 and put old Mose back into the junk again upon his release
to inactive duty as a lieutenant commander in December, 1945.

Collecting is my business and my hobby, too. Publications?
What can a junk man write about? But on second thought, maybe
I shall yet—there’s so much I have “picked up” in the past
twenty-five years.

LEO FRANCIS DALEY

HOME apprEss: 40 Morton St., Andover, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: F. S. Moseley & Co., 50 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

BorRN: Nov. 15, 1901, Andover, Mass. Parents: James Edward Daley, —
Louise Hayden.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.
MaRRIED: Dorothy Bailey, June 22, 1935, Lawrence, Mass. CHILDREN: Leo
Hayden, April 10, 1936; Daniel, Aug. 3, 1938; Agnes, Sept. 23, 1940.
OccuPATION: Partner, F. S. Moseley & Company, investment bankers, mem-
bers of New York Stock Exchange.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Suffolk Savings Bank, Boston; director, Eagle
Tribune Publishing, Lawrence, president and director, Newport Gas

Light Company, Newport, R. I; director, Andover Red Cross, radio

station WLAW, Lawrence and Boston; president, Harvard Club of
Andover.

MEMBER OF: Greater Boston Charitable Investment Trust; Investment
Committee, Suffolk Savings Bank, Boston; Finance Committee, Town
of Andover; Harvard Club of Andover.

MY twenty-five years out of college have been an uneventful
period as compared to some of the great accomplishments of my

[239 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

more brilliant and able classmates; however, to me this span has
been a happy one and that has been a measure of satisfaction to me.

As a result of a summer job I had while in college (I was a
tutor and companion for a young boy — please don’t laugh, as
the same boy has now attained the position of a top-grade lawyer
in Boston), I met a Harvard graduate who was one of the top-
grade investment bankers in the country. At graduation this
same gentleman offered me a job at F. S. Moseley & Company
in Boston where he was the senior partner. For whatever small
amount of success I have had in the investment banking field
(and it has been small!) I owe Mr. Neal Rantoul, my senior
partner, my sincere thanks for the splendid opportunity he gave
me in 1927 and, also, for his sound and hard-headed advice over
these twenty-five years. As you can see, I have worked for
nobody but F. S. Moseley & Company since college.

I do not belong to any fraternal organizations, but I have
joined willingly into outside civic activities both in Boston and
in Andover, where I live.

In June, 1935, I married Dorothy Bailey of Lawrence, and we
have three children, two boys and a girl. My elder boy, Leo
Hayden, is in his third year at Phillips Academy. Daniel, the
second boy, is hopeful of gaining entrance to Andover very
soon, and our youngest child, Agnes, is in the sixth grade. I
have no idea where the boys intend to go to college as that
decision rests entirely in their hands, but I am hopeful that they
will give Harvard serious consideration. I am very proud to have
been graduated from Harvard in spite of the criticism levelled
at our college. To be sure, as in every Jarge educational institu-
tion, some screwball graduate and possibly the same type of
professor utters foolish and unworthy statements and these same
men oftentimes do not act in the best interests of our college and

our country. Thank God these are in a great, great minority.
These men receive great publicity and notoriety — greater by
far than the works and accomplishments of really great and
honorable Harvard men. If 1 were a young boy today, about
ready to go to college, my overwhelming choice would be
Harvard and that, I think, is as great an endorsement as I can
give.

[ 240 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOSEPH MARIUS DatraVALLE

OFFICE ADDRESS: School of Chemical Engineering, Georgia Institute of Tech-
nology, Atlanta, Ga.

BorN: March 7, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Henry J. Dallavalle,
Maria Compiotti.

PREPARED AT: Lenox High School, Lenox, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1930. DEGREES: S.B., 1927; S-M., 1928; S.D., 1930.

MARRIED: Lucy Carolyn Small, Dec. 27, 1930, East Orrington, Maine.

I AM a professor of chemical engineering. My field of specialty
(other than teaching) is with research on the surface properties of
fine particles, especially as it applies to catalysis. I have written
two books on this subject and numerous articles. Two other books
dealing with special problems in chemical engineering are also
on dealers’ shelves. ;

ERNEST BLANEY DANE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 57 Tyler Rd., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 155 Massachusetts
Ave., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 25, 1905, Brookline, Mass. parents: Ernest Blaney Dane, ’92,
Helen Folsom Pratt,

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; A.M., 1928; S.D., 1936.

MARRIED: Barbara Welch, Jan. 9, 1932, Milton, Mass. (divorced 1943);
Henrietta Johnson, 1944, New York, N. Y. cHitpren: Ernest Blaney,
3d, Jan. 5, 1933; Benjamin and Roger (twins), Nov. 22, 1933; Eleanor
H., May 4, 1938; Helen P., 2d, Sept. 25, 1945; Charles B., July 21, 1949.

HARVARD SON: Ernest Blaney Dane, 3d, ’55.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Dane, ’29.

OCCUPATION: Fire control] instrument design; staff member, mechanical
engineering, M.I.T.

OFFICES HELD: Mining engineer, 1928-30, superintendent, 1931, director,
1932-34, New Idria Quicksilver Mines; research associate, Harvard En-
gineering School, 1932-41; research engineer, Eppley Laboratory,
1941-43; D.1.C. staff member, M.I.T., since 1943.

MEMBER OF; Sigma Xi; Eastern Yacht Club.

PusLicaTions: “A Precision Micro Camera,” co-author with L. C. Graton,
Journal of Optical Society of America, 1937; “The Effect of Pressure
on the Viscosity of Glass,” co-author with Francis Birch, Journal of
Applied Physics, 1938; “Densities of Molten Rocks and Minerals,”
American Journal of Science, 1941; chapters on viscosity and on
thermal expansion in Geological Society of America Handbook of
Physical Constants, 1942.

[241 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MY FIRST year after college was spent in the Graduate School
in further geological study in the Canadian Rockies and in
Cambridge. I then started out as a cub mining engineer with the
Magma Copper Company who operate a large and rich mine at
Superior, Arizona; and later with the New Idria Quicksilver
Mines Inc., who ran a small and lean mine in the coast ranges of
California. The latter job was far more fascinating, as at a small
place there is much less specialization. Work here included
underground surveying, bookkeeping, running a small store and
a postoffice, geologic exploration, the installation and repair of
heavy machinery, the design, building and operation of a new
mill, assaying, gas analysis, the working out of new mining
methods, and finally superintendence of the whole layout. This
sort of variety keeps a job interesting. Along with this, there
was strong training in economics working for a company that was
never more than one jump ahead of the next payroll. We survived
thru hectic 1929 and for a year and a half of depression before
having to abandon most of our operations. With this, I left the
wilds at the end of 1931, returned to the East, and married. For
the next nine years I worked as a research associate for Harvard
University. My first job, under Professor L. C. Graton, was the
design, construction, and operation of a special photographic
microscope of great precision and versatility. While | received
much geologic inspiration from many members of the department
during this interval, my heart turned more and more to mechanical
engineering and physics which have occupied me ever since. The
work on the microscope gave this a good start, with practical
experience in fine machining under D. W. Mann, of the physics
department. After taking an S.D, degree in mining engineering
in 1936, I worked for the Geophysical Committee until the end
of my stay at Harvard. Here we used the extreme high pressure
techniques of Professor P, W. Bridgman, white hot furnaces, the
most recalcitrant metals, and the most refined electrical measure-
ments. In 1941, wishing to get into work more useful to the war
effort, I moved to the Eppley Laboratory in Newport, Rhode
Island, makers of precision electrical instruments. Fundamental
differences over the importance of war work ended this associa-
tion in 1943, when I came to work at M.LT. From then until
1945, I was associated with the Felix Bomb Project, a most

[ 242 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fascinating job. Here we learned how to detect a millionth of a
degree of temperature, how to build electronics which could be
rugged and yet have the ultimate in sensitivity, how such an un-
promising shape as a bomb can be made to fly without wings,
how to handle the complicated mathematics of external ballisties,
as well as how to solve such simple problems as the adaptation of
an ordinary breakfast toaster to the control of the most uncon-
ventional eye of a supersonic missile. Like the small mine, this
small project had the fascination of variety. We made abstruse
physical calculations, froze in the open bomb bays of high altitude
airplanes, and worked out industrial production methods. With
the completion of this project I moved to the Instrumental
Laboratory, also at M.I.T. Here we invent and carry to produc-
tion all manner of gadgets from those that shoot airplanes out
of the sky to others that guide those same airplanes to distant
targets. This is a big project, but the huge variety of problems
to be solved keeps the work very interesting.

My jobs have carried me into mines, factories, and air fields
in almost every part of this country and Canada, while pleasure
trips have covered Alaska, Europe, and the West Indies. My
hobbies are sailing, archery, jewelry making, yacht design, and
antique automobiles. There would be more if the days were
longer.

JOHN FREDERICK DAVIDSON

HOME ADpREss: 125 Christopher St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 165 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 4, 1905, New York, N. Y. Parents: Maurice Philip Davidson,
Blanche Reinheimer.

PREPARED AT: Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

‘YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B, magna cum laude, 1927; LL.B.
1930.

marriepD: Florence R. Levine, April 19, 1940, New York, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Robert Maurice Davidson, ’25, LL.B., ’28; Alfred Edward
Davidson, ’33; Frank Paul Davidson, ’39, tx.B., 48.

OccuPATION: Lawyer.

“MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commenced active duty as lieutenant (j.g.)
U.S.N.R., November, 1943; indoctrination at NAS Quonset Point, R. I.;
Education Officer, Assistant Personnel Officer, Sq. VN 6 D8, Corry
Field, Pensacola, Fla.; Contracting Officer for Terminations, Office of
Bureau of Aeronautics General Representative, New York; released to
inactive duty as lieutenant commander, U.S.N.R,, April, 1946.

[ 243 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Assistant General Counsel, Office of Price Ad-
ministration,
OFFICES HELD: Law secretary, U.S. District Judge John C. Knox (Southern
District of New York), 1931-34; assistant U. S. Attorney (Southern
District of New York), 1934-36; attorney, senior attorney, New York
Regional Office, Securities and Exchange Commission, 1936-41; special
litigation attorney, regional coérdinator, assistant general counsel, Office
of Price Administration, Washington, D. C., 1941-43; member Executive
Committee and Board of Directors, American ORT Federation.
MEMBER OF: New York County Lawyers Association.

MAXWELL DAVIDSON, JR.

HOME ADpRESS: Hotel Dorset, 30 W. 54th St., Apt. 9, New York ro, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Bear, Stearns & Co., 1 Wall St., New York 5, N. Y.

BoRN: Feb. 12, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Maxwell Davidson, Maude
Strasser.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Long Island, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: $.B., 1927; J.D. (New York Univ.),
1931.

MARRIED: Joan Roslyn Levy, Nov. 6, 1935, New York, N. Y. (divorced
1944); Gladys Dyckman Slocum, July 25, 1946, Ardsley, N. Y.
(divorced 1948). cHILDREN: Margaret Rose, Nov. 5, 1937 (died Nov.
18, 1937); Maxwell, 3d, Feb. 8, 1939.

occupation: Registered representative, Bear, Stearns & Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: In U.S.N.R., Feb. 17-July 26, 19443 honorable
discharge for medical reasons; passed naval physical examination in
July, 1950, after outbreak of the Korean hostilities, but application for

reinstatement of commission shelved because no billet with rank com-
mensurate with age available.

OFFICES HELD: Former member Board of Directors, life member, New York
Guild for the Blind.

MEMBER OF: Woodmere Country Club (formerly); Inwood Country Club
(formerly); Inwood Beach Club (formerly).

GEORGE RUSSELL’S powers of persuasion finally won out,
although I was sorely tempted to let him write this “Life” for
me as he suggested that he would be forced to do failing receipt
of this one. So, here it is, but in view of the illustrious and
notable “Lives” which I am sure will warrant well-earned space
in the Year Book, I feel constrained to limit the description of
an ordinary one to the minimum. After leaving college and law
school, I practised law for approximately thirteen years and then
swung over to the activitics of a customers’ man in Wall Street
for the Jast nine years. These activities include investment counsel,

[ 244]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

research work, and financial guidance to an interesting and varied
clientele and offer a continuing challenge to suggest proper
courses of action that are both prudent and fruitful. My work
has been interrupted only by a series of major operations, from
each of which I have had the good fortune to recover fully. I
do not discuss them further, since it is not au fait to talk about
one’s operations.

My son is a husky, intelligent, and athletic lad of thirteen,
hopeful of going to Harvard in the not too distant future. I am
seeing to it that he will not enter Harvard, assuming that he can
make the grade at all, at the age of sixteen, graduating at the
mature age of twenty as I did. This is a little too young, I find
in retrospect as a callow youth of forty-five, to get the full
benefit from all that Harvard offers.

I travel very little, essentially as a matter of economy, although
I sojourn weekends in Connecticut, where such pleasurable activ-
ities as swimming, ice skating, wood chopping, and good old-
fashioned gardening give me year ’round pleasure when sup-
plemented by my New York City hobbies of enjoying a sizeable
collection of classical records and an interesting collection of good
copies of Currier and Ives prints. My political convictions have
stayed on the Republican side, although I have not been very
deeply disturbed over the failure to see a Republican president in
office for some twenty years. My religious convictions remain
unchanged. Just as in those early days when I first learned that
there was a very sharp distinction between a Jew and a Gentile, I
am still sufficiently broadminded to be tolerant of those who are
intolerant of a Jew because he is one. In closing I feel privileged
to use this “Life” résumé as an opportunity to say hello, good
fortune, and the very best of good luck in the future to many
Harvard friends with whom, through the passage of time, direct
contact has gradually faded into the limbo of merely remembered
close friendship.

FREDERICK MARTIN DAVIES

HOME ADDRESS: 503 E. 55th St.. New York 22, N. Y.

BORN: May 19, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Frederick Martin Davies,
Emily O'Neill.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N, H.

[ 245 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

Mmarrigp: Diana Dodge, Dec. 6, 1930, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1935).
CHILDREN: Diana, Sept. 3, 1931 (m7, Peter Reed, June 17, 1950); Alex-
andra, Jan. 6, 1934. GRANDCHILD: Jessie Reed, July 26, 1951.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Spent about four years overseas 1942-46; first

as civilian employee at army air base in North Ireland, later with
American Red Cross.

OFFICES HELD: Associate director, Accounting, American Red Cross Com-
mission to Great Britain and Western Europe, 1944-46; member, New
York Fund Raising Committee, American Red Cross, 1947-48; co-

chairman, Men’s Committee on fund raising for Lighthouse of New
York Association for the Blind, 1949-51.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Racquet and Tennis Club; St.
Andrew’s Golf Club.

AFTER graduation I made a trip around the world which lasted
the best part of a year. A brief period of attendance at the
Harvard Law School followed, and I then returned to New
York in January, 1929, and was engaged in financial work in that
city for a number of years. In October, 1940, I went out to
California to work with the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation and
remained there until sent by the company in July, 1942, with
a group assigned to operate an army air base located in North
Ireland. When the work of this group terminated, and after
an unsuccessful effort to obtain a commission abroad from the
Army, I joined the American Red Cross in London in March,
1944. I remained in London for a year and then was transferred
to Paris and put in charge of all financial and accounting activities
on the continent of Europe of the American Red Cross Commis-
sion to Great Britain and western Europe. I continued working
in this capacity until June, 1946, when I returned from Germany
to the United States. Since that time, 1 have been living in New
York City and have been engaged chiefly in fund raising and
allied activities for such organizations as the New York Associa-
tion for the Blind, American Red Cross, and Farmer’s Federation
of North Carolina.

My elder daughter, Diana, finished her schooling in 1949. In
June, 1950, she married Peter Gordon Reed, a Harvard graduate,
and last year they raised me to the status of a grandfather. My
grandchild is a girl, but as may be imagined, she is hardly able
to speak for herself yet. My younger daughter, Sandra, is a
first-year student at Bryn Mawr College. My hobbies might be

[ 246 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

classified as mild exercise, which seems to grow milder all the
time, and travelling. With respect to the latter, I have been
fortunate in being able to visit, for varying lengths of time, a
number of places located in different parts of the world, and hope
to do more of this. I am not and have never been a member of
the Communist party but have voted consistently as a Republican,
which has been perhaps the next worst thing for the past twenty
years. My religious convictions are still founded on the principles
set forth in the Bible, though I am not what I believe is termed
a fundamentalist.

+ LIDDELL SPENCER DAVIS

BORN: June 4, 1903, Blooming Grove, Texas. PARENTS: John Spencer
Davis, Gertrude Greene.

PREPARED AT: Dallas High School, Dallas, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927(26); M.D

1930.
MaRRrep: Bennie Bayless, Aug. 1, 1923, Ennis, Texas. cHmpren: John
Spencer, July 1, 1924; Gertrude Liddell, Sept. 18, 1925.
piep: April 7, 1930, Boston, Mass.
LIDDELL SPENCER DAVIS joined the Class in 1924, having
attended Southern Methodist University in Dallas. He received
his A.B. degree cum laude in 1926, as of 1927. He entered Harvard
Medical School in the fall of 1926 and was the leading honor man
in his class. At the time of his death he was a De Lamar Research
Fellow at the school. His M.D. degree was awarded posthu-
mously in September, 1930, since he had completed the require-
ments before his death.

STEWART MOTT DAVIS

HOME apprEss: S, Main Street, Lambertville, N. J.

BORN: Feb, 22, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Herbert Eugene Davis,
Edith Mott.

PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927(28).

MarRieD: Anita Wich, Jan. 15, 1936, Munich, Germany.

OccUPATION: Retired.

CHARLES HOBEN DAY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 66 St. Mary’s St., Newton Lower Falls, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: General Motors Corp., BOP Assembly Plant, Framingham,
Mass,

[ 247 ]

‘
HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

BORN: Nov. 17, 1901, Kentville, N. S., Canada. parents: Charles Hoben
Day, Carolyn S. Cook.

PREPARED AT: \Vatertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: AB., 1927.

MARRIED: Helen Dearing, June 11, 1941, Newton Center, Mass. cH:
Sally Jean, March 14, 1943.

occupaTIoN: Materials control in automotive industry.

MY LIFE since graduation has been, roughly speaking, divided
into three parts. For the first ten years I was engaged in the
investment business, being associated with Harris, Forbes &
Company and Blyth & Company at Boston. Because of a stomach
ailment I purchased a farm in Maine, four miles from town
(Damariscotta) and spent the next two years more or less leading
the life of a country gentleman. This sort of thing gets into one’s
blood, and I am hoping to return some day. The beginning of the
war recalled me to the city, and as Uncle Sam seemed to have
no particular use for me, I entered the manufacturing business
where I am at present employed.

CHARLES POPE DAY

HOME ADDRESS: 93 Highland Ave., Short Hills, N. J. ;

OFFICE ADDRESS: Joseph P. Day, Inc., 7 Dey St. New York 7, N. Y.

BORN: July 16, 1904, Hot Springs, Va. parents: Joseph P. Day, Pauline
Martindale Pope.

PREPARED AT: Montclair Academy, Montclair, N. J. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928, DEGREE: S.B., 1927(28).

marriep: Margaret Quay Treadwell, Dec. 29, 1928, Washington, D. C.
CHILDREN: Charles Pope, Jr., Sept. 7, 1932; Snowden Treadwell, Oct. 9,
1938. .

HARVARD BROTHERS: Bernard Pope Day, ’25; Joseph P. Day, Jr., ’27; Fairfield
Pope Day, ’36.

OCCUPATION: Real estate; vice-president and director, Joseph P. Day, Inc.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant U.S.N.R., as aviation
volunteer specialist, July, 1942; stationed for duration at Floyd Bennett
Field, A & R Officer; Engineering Officer VRF-1 (Air Ferry Squadron
One); promoted lieutenant commander, October, 1944; released on re-
quest to inactive status, September, 1945.

MEMBER OF: Baltusrol Golf Club; Short Hills Club; Explorers’ Club; Harvard
Club of New York.

“A QUARTER of a century since graduation? Why it seems
only yesterday —.” These thoughts were running through my
mind until I was rudely shaken into reality by the arrival of the

[ 248 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

rough proofs from Sargent Studios. Now I am happy to settle for
a Twenty-fifth instead of a Fiftieth Reunion.

After graduation I joined my father’s real estate firm in New
York, where I worked in various capacities until 1931 when I
resigned to take up the love of my life —aviation. From Lus-
combe School of Aviation I went to Wright Aeronautical Cor-
poration, leaving there to join the Navy in 1942. Since the end
of the war I have been back in the family business,

Let’s turn from cold statistics to a touch of more personal news.
I believe it was Mark Twain who said “A man does not know
what real love is until he has lived with the same woman for a
quarter of a century.” No truer words could express my
wonderful life with my sweet Peggie. I thank God each night
for this truly great blessing.

Hoping that a little fatherly pride is permissible, allow me to

"say that my six-foot-three son, Charlie, Jr., graduated in 1950
from Pingry School cum laude and won the Bausch and Lomb
Science Award. This obviously shows that he takes after his
mother, although everyone says that he looks like me. Snowden,
our thirteen-year-old, is headed for Pingry next year where he
hopes to follow in his older brother’s footsteps.

As to hobbies, Peggie says mine are endless. But golf, bridge,
my workshop, etc., are all secondary to flying my Beech Bonanza
to the far corners of the United States and Canada on either busi-
ness or hunting and fishing trips.

Since “Confessions” are said to be good for the soul and you
have asked especially for them, I have finally decided to unburden
myself with a horrible one — Charlie, Jr., is a member of the
Class of ’54 at Princeton and loves it. What more can I say?

JOSEPH P. DAY, JR.

HOME AppRESS: 71 Woodland Rd., Madison, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Joseph P, Day, Inc. 7 Dey St., New York 7, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 13, 1901, New York, N. Y. parents: Joseph P, Day, Pauline

' Martindale Pope.

PREPARED AT: Montclair Academy, Montclair, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1927 (28); mM.p. (Middlesex Coll.),
1936.

MARRIED: Frances Carey, Aug. 31, 1924, Waltham, Mass. (divorced 1947)
Charlotte Virginia French, April 24, 1948, Winchester, Mass. CHILDREN:

[ 249 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Joseph P., 3d, Aug. 6, 1925 (mm. Jane Wilson, Sept. 2, 1949); Arthur
Carey, June 8, 1935; Ellen Carey, May 8, 1937; J. Monroe Taylor, Feb.
25, 1952. GRANDCHILD: Joseph P. Day, 4th, Dec. 16, 1950.

HARVARD SON: Joseph P. Day, 3d, M.B.a., ’51.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Bernard Pope Day, ’25; Charles Pope Day, ’27; Fairfield
Pope Day, ’36.

occupation: Retired physician; vice-president and director, Joseph P. Day,
Inc. (real estate).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted as private, 114th Medical Battalion 26th
Division, Camp Edwards, Mass., May 12, 1942; commissioned 2d lieuten-
ant, M.A.C. on graduating from O.C.S., Army Medical Field Service
School, Carlisle Barracks, Pa. Nov. 28, 1942; stationed at Surgeon Gen-
eral’s Office, Washington, D. C., 1942-44; served as Chief of Evacuation
Branch, Hospital Division, and performed Medical Liaison duties with
Office of Chief of Transportation, Air Surgeon’s Office, and Provost
Marshal General’s Office; received two promotions; served as Chief of
Reconditioning Service at Hoff General Hospital, Santa Barbara, Calif.
(including not only physical reconditioning of patients but also educa-
tional reconditioning, orientation programs, driver training for hard-of-.-
hearing, and direct responsibility over Dept. of Occupational Therapy),
January-November, 1945; terminal leave, November 1, 1945—January,
1946; promoted major.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Joseph P. Day, Inc., Joseph P.
Day Florida Realty Corporation, other subsidiary corporations; former
director, George Junior Republic, Freeville, N. Y.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Boston; New York Yacht
Club; Sons of Revolution; Society of Colonial Wars; Mayflower Society;
Military Order of Foreign Wars. : |

MY CAREER since graduation has been varied but never dull.
It includes four years in the general practice of medicine at Bel-
mont, Massachusetts, followed by over three and one-half years
of administrative medicine in the Army in World War II.

Soon after separation from service, I decided that the rigors
of brushing up and getting caught up on the many new advances
made in medicine since J had left practice did not appeal to me
as much as the fascination of joining my three younger brothers
and two younger brothers-in-law (all five of them Harvard men)
in the operation of the nationally and internationally known real
estate firm founded by my late father, Joseph P. Day. Joseph P.
Day, Inc., is an establishment which has engaged successfully in
all phases of real estate for over half a eentury (Dad passed on in
1944), and it functions on the high standards and principles laid
down by my father over the years. I have never regretted this

[250]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

decision, and I know that I shall live a longer and happier life
because of it. :

But what really contributes most of all to my well-being and
happiness is being married to a wonderful girl, Virginia French. .
(“Gin” is the youngest sister of Art French, ’29, who captained
Harvard’s great 1928 football team his senior year. Art, incident-
ally, is married to my kid sister, Polly; and their son, Art, Jr.,
now a junior won his Varsity football “H” last fall.) I have
another brother-in-law, Jim Barrett — football captain in 1929,
whose son, Jimmy, Jr., is now also at Harvard.

Gin and I love to travel. In fact, shortly after we were mar-
ried in 1948, we drove out to the West Coast and back, taking
in not only most of our famous National Parks but also the superb
Canadian Rockies about Banff where I had many ever-pleasantly
memorable experiences in the field with the Harvard Summer
School of geology in 1924. This western trip we hope to repeat,
with special emphasis on our two favorite localities: Yosemite .
and the Canadian Rockies. But the ONE spot and place we enjoy
and love above all else (and try to visit at least once and some-
times twice a year) is a beautiful old Florida plantation named
“Fort Gates.” It has been in our family continuously since my
great-grandfather, James Monroe Taylor, built it in the post-Civil
War eighties. The old mansion, with its towers and “ginger
bread” decorations, is situated on the west shore of the St. Johns
River, just above the entrance to Lake George. Behind lies the
entire Ocala National Park and. all the nearby primeval scrub
country made famous in The Yearling, by Marjorie Kinnan
Rawlings. The house itself nestles among magnolias, citrus trees,
cabbage palms, and live-oaks, while in front lies the dock project-
ing out into the lazy current of the river upon whose surface
myriad scattered clumps and islands of water hyacinths drift
slowly by. Here we find good fishing, relaxation, peace, and quiet
away from the hustle and bustle of city and suburbia in what, to
us, signifies Paradise on Earth.

At this point, I wish to introduce a new subject: namely,
about Class babies. I do not know whether or not the Class baby
is the first-born after graduation, or just the first-born. But I
would like to lay claim to being the father of the oldest baby: my
son, Joe, 3d, arrived during the summer of 1925, between our

[25t]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

sophomore and junior years. And I would like to put in a claim
for probably the youngest baby also.
In regard to hobbies, next to my grand wife and family (and
_ lest I forget, I must mention that my son Arthur, now an Upper
Middler at Phillips Exeter, plans to enter Harvard in 1953) comes
my love of automobiles, as exemplified by my many years of satis-
fied Packard ownership. My eighth Packard, a 1951 convertible,
is to me a truly soul-satisfying, exhilerating responsive combina-
tion of smooth power, luxurious comfort, and excellent trans-
portation embodied in what I feel to be a great car. Secondly,
I have a great zest for colored still photography in which I am
kept constantly up to date in both the latest equipment and
methods by my good old friend of over thirty-three years, Claus
Gelotte of Harvard Square.

As for politics, I have tried always to vote for the person I
thought was best fitted for the job, regardless of whether he be
Democrat or Republican. On the subject of religion, I was
brought up as the oldest of six children in a good but varied
Christian background. It can be summed up best by a credo I
have tried always to practise: to live by adherence to the Golden
Rule, and to live and let live. And to wind up, I am grateful for
a year at Antioch College, followed by my years at Harvard.
The combination was a most happy one for me, and each had
its place in opening broad avenues towards a more full and more

enjoyable life.

RICHARD LAWRENCE DAY

HOME AppREss: 25 Circle Drive, Hastings-on-Hudson, N. Y.

orFice Appress: The Babies Hospital, Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center,
New York, N. Y.

Born; March 28, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: William Scofield Day,
Emily Hoe Lawrence.

PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: 8.B., 19273 M.D., 1931.

marnieD: Ida Elizabeth Holt, Jan. 10, 1936, Summit, N. J. cumpren: Sarah, -
Dec. 7, 1936; Elizabeth, Feb. 24, 1939, Kathleen, Dec. 19, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER; Cyrus Lawrence Day, ’23, PH.D. "30.

occuPATION: Physician; associate professor of pediatrics, Columbia Univer-
sity.

wutyacy oR NAVAL RECORD: Physiologist, U.S. Army Climatic Research Lab-
oratory, Lawrence, Mass., 1942-44.

[252 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: American Pediatric Society; Society for Pediatric Research;
Huguenot Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Short articles in medical journals on topics related to physiol-
ogy and pediatrics.

AFTER graduating from medical school and interning at the
Hartford Hospital in Connecticut, I went to the The Babies Hos-

ital in New York for a two-year residency in pediatrics. Since
then I have been doing research and teaching in pediatrics. From
1939 to 1941 I was associated with Cornell University Medical
School, where my work involved a study of the body temper-
ature regulating mechanisms of premature infants. Using a
simple, direct calorimeter devised by Dr. J. D. Hardy, it could
be shown that premature babies have good control of their cir-
culation, but poor sweat glands and an inadequate insulating
layer of fat. During the war I adapted this calorimeter, in part
with the late Dr. Bazzett of the University of Pennsylvania, to
studying the protection against frost-bite offered soldiers by
various kinds of gloves.

After the war I returned to the College of Physicians and Sur-
geons, Columbia University, and The Babies Hospital, where I am
now an associate professor of pediatrics. My daily work consists
of teaching medical students in clinical work and in research. I
have been attempting, without success so far, to find out what it
is in the disease caused by the Rh factor which sometimes dam-
ages the brain.

My one consistent hobby has been enjoying the company of
my wife and three daughters. My wife spends a great deal of time
and energy in helping European displaced persons to get settled
in this country. The children are musical, all three playing in
the high school orchestra. The eldest recently won a contest
sponsored for children by the New York Philharmonic Orchestra.
Her instrument is the harp. In the summers we all live, with two
dogs, on a small boat, cruising along the New England coast.

JOSHUA RAYNOLDS DEAN

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: R.F.D. 1, Tilton, N. H.

BORN: June 2, 1905, Cohasset, Mass. parents: Dudley Stuart Dean, Kate
Saxton Raynolds.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1923-1927.

[ 253 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

smarriep: Afarion Wolfe, June 11, 1932, Detroit, Mich. CHILDREN: Dudley
Stuart, 2d, Sept. 14, 1933; Barbara Evans, Feb. 12, 1938; Julianna, April
21, 1946.

occuPATION: Agriculture.

AFTER eighteen years with the Great Lakes Sreel Corporation
(Ecorse, Michigan), I came east when my father’s health began
to fail and took over the Tilton farm. I have been occupied

modernizing the place and getting a start raising sheep and beef
cattle.

CHARLES BARBER DELAFIELD

HOME ADDRESS: Syosset, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc., 4 Irving
Pl., New York 3, N. Y.

BORN: June 28, 1905, Riverdale-on-Hudson, N. Y. parents: Frederick Prime
Delafield, Elsie Barber.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.

MarrieD: Helen Thorndike, Nov. 8, 1927, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Eleanor,
Nov. 19, 1928; Harriet, Dec. 10, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederick Prime Delafield, ’24.

occuPATION: Vice-president, Consolidated Edison Company of New York,
Inc. in charge of finance, advertising, publicity, and community rela-
tions.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Consolidated Telegraph & Electrical Subway Com-
pany, Non Partisan Civic Association, Fifth Avenue Association; direc-
tor and member Executive Committee, Edison Electric Institute; director
and assistant treasurer, Nassau County Police Boys Club, Inc.; trustee,
North Country Community Hospital, Memorial Free Library; member
Board of Governors, Hundred Year Association; chairman, Planning
Board of Muttontown Village.

MEMBER OF: Piping Rock Club; The Leash; University Club of Chicago;
Harvard Club of New York; Edgartown Yacht Club; Edgartown Read-

ing Room; The Newcomen Society in North America, New York
Society of Security Analysts, Inc.

FOR about fifteen years I was in the investment banking busi-
ness — first peddling bonds for Coffin & Burr, then buying them
for Kidder Peabody. How and why I switched to the electric
and gas business is still a mystery to me, but in 1941 I found my-
self on the payroll of [linois Power Company, first as assistant to

the president and then as vice-president, In 1946 the sidewalks of
New York claimed me again, successively as assistant to president,

[254]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

assistant vice: president and vice-president of Consolidated Edi-
son Company.

My home is a two-acre place near Syosset, Long Island (the
zoning law restricts it to not less than two acres). I live there
with my wife and two daughters. My wife, whom I acquired on
my way through Boston in 1927, is still beautiful and lovely. My
elder daughter I have farmed out to McCal?’s Magazine until she
can find me a suitable son-in-law; my younger child is still a good
tax exemption.

ARMAND FRANCIS pe RAVIGNON

HOME ADDRESS: 14960 Rosemont Rd., Detroit, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2842 West Grand Blvd., Detroit, Mich.

BORN: Nov. 28, 1906, Boston, Mass. pareNTS: Armand de Ravignon, Adeline

| Gertrude Fisher.

PREPARED AT; New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1027. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Marian G. Westervelt, Sept. 10; 1932, East Orange, N. J. cHILDREN:
Carol Jeanne and Armand Robert (twins), April 24, 1935 (Armand died

~ Feb. 8, 1951).

OCCUPATION: District manager, ‘Pigment Color Division, Imperial Paper and
Color Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Pine Lake Country Club; Detroit Commandery #1.

HENRY LONGFELLOW pe RHAM

HOME ADDRESS: 19 Washington Sq., New York 11, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Chubb & Son, 90 John St., New York 38, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 5, 1905, Cold Spring, N. Y. parents: Henry Casimir de Rham,
’04, Frances Appleton Dana.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926. DEGREE: A.B. 1926.

MARRIED: Edith Hyde Colby, Oct. 1, 1927, West Orange, N. J. (divorced
1942); Estelle Randolph Bolling, Aug. 6, 1943, New York, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Charles, Nov. 7, 1929; Edith, Sept. 3, 1933.

HARVARD SON: Charles de Rham, ’5r.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Dana de Rham, ’33, M.ARcH., 738.

OccUPATION: Marine insurance, ocean cargo underwriter,

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, Church of the Ascension, since 1945; co-chairman,
Committee on Transportation & Insurance, National Council of Ameri-
can Importers, since 1950.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club; Down Town Association.

[255]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

SINCE leaving Harvard, I have been employed continuously in
the same business, so that the Twenty-fifth Reunion year includes
the 25th anniversary of my coming to work for Chubb & Son in
New York. My career has been uneventful, in comparison with
those of other classmates, and it is doubtful that even the more
lucid details of my past would be of any general interest. The
scope of this Report is such, however, that my share of it need
not end with the brief statement above.

My field in college consisted of the Classics, with a view to
taking up law, and I did in fact spend one term at the Law School.
The habits of study and thought developed at Harvard have been
of tremendous help to me in and out of business, and I had no
difficulty whatever in persuading my son that Harvard was the
place to get the best education. Between tours of duty with the
U.S. Marine Corps, he has been able to be in college long enough
to confirm my judgment and looks forward to completing his
academic course. The establishment of the General Education
program provided us with added evidence of Harvard’s progres-
sive outlook.

My belief that adherence to Christian principles is the only
Way towards improvement of world conditions was founded at
prep school, but gained depth and impetus at Harvard. The final
lecture in Astronomy A, and the study of ancient Greek and
Roman philosophers, contributed inspiration and information
which has made strong the foundations of faith.

STEPHEN WHITNEY ve RHAM

HOME apprEss: 15 E. 64th St, New York 21, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 7, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Henry Casimir de Rham,
Georgianna Berryman.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

occupaTION: Motion pictures,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RecoRD: Active duty, U.S.N.R., June 17, 1942; duty at
Naval Air Operational Staff at Jacksonville, Fla.; overseas to staff of
gth Fleet in Communications; duties aboard S.S. San Clemente, Naval
Air Base, Langley Point, Philippines, ended duty as lieutenant com-
mander, January, 1945; Victory medal, American Theatre, Pacific
Theatre, and Philippine Liberation ribbons; released to inactive duty,
February, 1944.

[ 256}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JACKSON KEMPER DERING

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1§22 First National Bank Bldg., Chicago 3, Il.

BORN: Nov. 19, 1903, Chicago, Ill. parents: Jackson Kemper Dering,
Edith Stouffer. ; ;

PREPARED AT: Harvard School, Chicago, Ill.; Latin School, Chicago, IIL;
Santa Barbara School, Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

MARRIED: Dorothy E. Roehm, June 12, 1926, Winnetka, Ill. (divorced
1930); Mildred Hamilton Lucas, April 15, 1930, Philadelphia, Pa. cxm-
DREN: Barbara Hamilton, Jan. 23, 1932; Jackson Kemper, 3d, Dec. 17,
1934; Philip Frederick, Feb. 20, 1937.

occupation: Mining and sales promotion.

JOSEPH ROY DESSAUER

HOME AppRESs: 1 S. Dudley Ave., Ventnor, N. J.

BORN: May 1, 1906, Nottingham, England. parents: Henry Dessauer,
Berleen Idahlia Friedenwald.

PREPARED AT: Tome School, Port Deposit, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927.

HARVARD BROTHER: Albert Paul Jerome Dessauer, ’26.

OccUPATION: Retired.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Army, October, 1942, to October, 1945.

PUBLICATIONS: Ventnor City Tournament Books, 1940, 1941, 1942.

I AM waiting for the world to blow up; but for the present, I
intend to enjoy life as much as possible.

BRENTON HALLIBURTON DICKSON, II

HOME AppRESS: Love Lane, Weston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 53 State St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 10, 1903, Weston, Mass. PARENTS: Brenton Halliburton Dick-
son, ’90, Ruth Bennett.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928.

MarRiED: Helen S. Paine, Sept. 15, 1928, Weston, Mass. cHiLpreN: Louise
F., Aug. 22, 1929 (m. William H. Eddy, Jr.); Mary, May 21, 19333
Brenton Halliburton, qth, Dec. 11, 1937; Helen T., April 5, roqt.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Edward Mellon Dickson, ’34; William Anderson Dick-
son, ’36.

OccUPATION: Chemist.

A GOOD portion of my time is spent trying to keep the plunder-
ings of my forefathers intact. I am also working on a process
for separating mica from pegmatites and have set up an experi-
mental plant in New Hampshire.

[257]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

DAVID LUTHER DICKSON

HOME ADDRESS: 237 Exmoor Ave., Glen Ellyn, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Montgomery Ward & Co., 619 W. Chicago Ave., Chicago 7,
Ill.

BORN: March 2, 1906, Minneapolis, Minn. ParENts: Joseph Morgan Dickson,
Jessie Dee Shepard.

PREPARED AT: Lakewood High School, Lakewood, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. Cu7 laude, 19273 LL.B 1930.

MARRIED: Dorothy Eleanor Fifer, June 21, 1930, Baltimore, Md. CHILDREN:
Joyce Alden, Nov. 21, 1934; David Thayer, Nov. 28, 1939.

occupation: Lawyer; assistant general counsel, supervision of claims and
litigation, Montgomery Ward & Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant (j.g.) U.S.N.R.; active
duty, Aug. 30, 1943; indoctrination, Quonset Point, R. I., September-
October, 1943; Naval Auxiliary Air Facility, Nantucket, November,
1943, to June, 1944; Military Government School, Columbia University,
July-December, 1944; promoted lieutenant, December, 1944; Military
Government Staging Area, Presidio of Monterey, Calif., January—May,
1945; at sea and in Okinawa, May-November, 1945; inactive duty, De-
cember, 1945; resigned commission, 1951.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Chicago, Chicago Literary Chub; Chicago Bar
Association; American Bar Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles and book reviews for the Chicago Bar Record.

CONTENTED nations have no history, and the same is true of
contented individuals. For the greater part of the past twenty-
five years I have been a happily married resident of suburbia, do-
ing the kind of work I am best fitted for, and more disturbed
about the state of the world — particularly its moral state — than
about my personal fortunes.

College in retrospect looks, academically speaking, like four
wasted years, which were not redeemed by a Phi Beta Kappa
key. Law School was better, although my average never rose
above a C. My serious education began when I left Cambridge.
Part of it was acquired in general law practice from 1930 to 1943,
when I learned to use the tools of my trade. A quite different
part came from my military service. In the Navy I learned that
a great organization can operate only as a codperative endeavor,
based on personal relationships; and that more can be gained over
a cup of coffee than by going through “channels.” I have tried

to put the knowledge thus acquired to use in my present work,
with modest success,

[258 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My greatest pleasures and most profound lessons have come
from my family. My wife and I have enjoyed our children. |
believe our efforts to inculcate intellectual honesty and urbanity
in them have met with some success. My daughter is a senior
in high school, an accomplished flutist, a student journalist, and
a well-adjusted person; and I have every hope that my son will
follow a similar path.

There seems to be no time for formal hobbies, but I enjoy
reading, swimming, and travel, when opportunity presents itself.
Before the Reunion becomes fact, I expect to read to the Chicago
Literary Club a paper on Irving Babbitt, who I find interests me
more as time goes on. My wife and I have just returned from a
brief and rewarding trip to Guatemala, taken to recuperate from
a five-year pre-trial conference which has brought me frequently
to Portland, Oregon. Some day soon I am going to return to
Gibbon’s “Decline and Fall” again.

These are, of course, frail shelters in the gathering storms, and
a skeptical habit of mind is perhaps not the best armor during -
one’s declining years (which, I gather, are all years after the
Twenty-fifth Reunion). I am still in search of that certainty
which will make my hide impervious to whatever comes, but,
like Henry Adams, I am beginning to suspect that the search has
no end.

NEWTON LEARNARD DILLAWAY

HOME appress: Montrose Avenue, Wakefield, Mass.

BorN: Feb. 17, 1904, Dorchester, Mass. PareNTs: Ernest Newton Dillaway,
Mable Janet Learnard.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

HERMAN DANIEL DOANE

HOME ADDRESS: 78 Hilton Ave., Maplewood, N. J.

OFFICE appress: American Telephone & Telegraph Co. 195 Broadway,
New York 7, N. Y.

BORN: June 28, 1904, Somerville, Mass. Parents: Foster Parker Doane,
Mary Jane MacKay.

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MaRRIED: Eleanor Louise Kershaw, Feb. 27, 1937, Portsmouth, N. H.
CHILDREN: Donald Parker, June 14, 1930 (by previous marriage); Her-

[259 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927
man Daniel, Jr., Jan. 23, 1938; Margaret Ruth, July 24, 1939; Alan
Russell, July 12, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Statistician, General Research Section of Chief Statistician’s

Division, American Telephone & Telegraph Company; specific assign-
ment, customer attitude research.

THE history of my life since June, 1937, includes many of the
events and situations that we all experience. There was hard work,
and pleasant relaxation; love and hate, joy and sorrow. The
passing of the older generation was mourned, and the coming of
the newer one was welcomed.

The duty of perpetuating the race has been performed credit-
ably: I have four healthy and handsome children. The eldest
is a staff sergeant in the Air Force, now stationed in Japan, after
having undergone some pretty rough experiences in Korea. The
second boy is in his last year of Junior High, and our only daugh-
ter is in her first year in the same school. Our youngest (son) 1s
in the second year of grade school. My wife is young and lovely
(and a good cook!).

Thus far, I have enjoyed vigorous health and my appetites
remain lusty. My weight is only six or seven pounds more
than when I rowed bow on “Crew X.” Quite a few gray hairs
are appearing now, but there is no bald spot. The only sure
evidence of middle age that I can offer is the fact that I am
beginning to worry about the future of our country.

Like so many other Harvard men, I am rather leftist in my
political thinking —leftist to the degree that I concede the
doctrine of the divine right of kings to be a debatable issue. |
am smugly happy to state that I voted neither for the knave who
sat in the White House for so many years, nor for the obnoxious
simpleton who succeeded him,

Since graduation I have worked for only one employer — the
Bell Telephone System. My working life has been a happy
one, for many reasons. Not the least of these reasons is the
great usefulness of our industry. I do not think that I could get
much satisfaction from working in a business whose product
or service was of doubtful value or usefulness. When I have
been dissatisfied, I have always been able to feel that the fault lay
not with the general policies of the company but rather with
those who were not carrying out such policies properly. I had a

[ 260 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

great variety of assignments with the New England Company in
Boston; then, in 1946, was transferred to the American Telephone
and Telegraph Company in New York. There was a two-year
special assignment in the Bell Telephone Laboratories, after
which I returned to the “Great White Father” at 195 Broadway.
I find the field of customer attitude research a fascinating one, and
it seems to be coming into its own as a tool of management in
the telephone business.

My life, outside of business activity, is quiet. In my home
town I was fairly active in church work, club work, music, and
civilian defense. Most of these activities were given up during
the busy World War II years. Since moving to New Jersey, I
have limited my routine outside activity to the teaching of a
Sunday School class. I read two or three books a weck, play
chess with anyone who will endure my irritating sort of game,
and find great pleasure in music. My travelling is limited to
occasional business trips, the fewer the better, and, of course, the
annual vacation trip to Maine. I have never been more than
two hundred miles away from the Atlantic Ocean, and if I ever
break that record, it will be because of business necessity.

Religion, through the years, has become a stronger, more
statisfying influence in my life. I believe that through much
prayer and reflection a few faltering steps towards a feeling of
“oneness” with God have been achieved. I recognize the Church
as a great force against evil but formal religion often leaves me
unsatisfied. Church service seems too much like rubbing a magic
lamp to produce the Deity and can sometimes be merely a poor
substitute for true religious experience.

There are many of my classmates whom I should like to see
at the Reunion, but if attending will mean giving up part of my
vacation, the lure of cool green woods, the sweet salt air, and
the old gray rocks of the Maine Coast will win out, as always.

WILLIAM HUMPHREY DOHERTY

HOME AppREsS: 14 Waldron Ave., Summit, N. J.

OFFICE apprEss: Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc, Murray Hill, N. J.

BORN: Aug. 21, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Daniel Bernard Doherty,
Anna Louise Sullivan.

PREPARED AT: Rindge Technical High School, Cambridge, Mass.

[ 261 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 19273 S.M., 19283 S.D.
(hon.) (Catholic Univ.), 1950.

marriep: Alice-Marie Roux, Feb. 18, 1939, Savannah, Ga. cHILDREN: Mary
Anne, Dec. 3, 1940; Alice Roux, Dec. 31, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Daniel Bernard Doherty, ’35.

oocuparion: Director of electronic and television research, Bell Telephone
Laboratories, Inc.

OFFiceEs HELD: Board of Governors, Harvard Engineering Society, 1950-52;
secretary, Harvard Club of New Jersey, 1950-52; Editorial Board, Bell
System Technical Journal, since 1951; Board of Directors, Institute of
Radio Engineers, 1951-53.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Sigma Xi (elected 1940); Holy
Name Society and Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, St. Teresa’s
Church, Summit, N. J.; former member, several New Jersey musical
organizations.

PUBLICATIONS: Several technical papers in the Proceedings of the Institute of
Radio Engineers, and other journals relating to devlopments in radio
transmitting field. |

WHEN we entered college, the field of radio communication
was opening up fast, and in this field Harvard had a faculty of
real pioneers. Their young disciples found a natural destination
in the world’s greatest research laboratory, where I have now
worked since 1929. It is a place where one is continuously stimu-
lated by contact with challenging problems and with the bright
minds that solve them.

It is my job, after two decades of varied experience in radio,
radar, and television, to speculate on the future of communication
and try to guide — not to say inspire — engineers and physicists
in directions that will lead to better communication and more of
it. As I write, the first transcontinental television hookup is bring-
ing the signing of the Japanese peace treaty from San Francisco
into my home. At our Fiftieth perhaps I can report on universal
person-to-person television, if indeed there is still a universe with
people in it.

The world of megacycles and coaxial cables is not without
romance, An invention of mine, now widely used in radio broad-
casting, won a cash award from the Institute of Radio Engineers
in 1937, with which I bought a ticket to Bermuda. There I met
the sweet southern gal who was to become my confederate. She
raised our daughters during the war years while I worked fever-
ishly on radars for battleships, cruisers, and submarines. To my

{ 262]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

gratification these devices were instrumental in the sinking of
many hundreds of Jap ships.

As long as our little girls run joyously to meet their old man
each day, I shall not be looking for a hobby. Only an occasional
business trip, a game of poker with “the boys,” and my secretarial]
duties with the Harvard Club of New Jersey —jolliest of all
Harvard Clubs — take me away from my family. On rare oc-
casions a crisis in the Bell Laboratories orchestra brings back into
action the slide trombone that once tootled on Soldiers Field and
the Boston vaudeville stage, after which its owner, with unprac-
tised lips protruding like ripe tomatoes, returns the battered in-
strument to its plush casket with nostalgic memories of falling
goal posts dimly seen through driving sleet.

One of my happy experiences was a European tour in 1947

following presentation of a paper at a scientific meeting in Rome,
This trip was my initiation into color photography and is unfor-
gettably recorded on color slides, as are all subsequent wander-
ings. Thus a native relish for public utterance, often exercised at
dinners and communion breakfasts as well as technical gatherings,
has lately found additional satisfaction in the travelogue.
In reporting a 1950 honorary doctorate I feel it necessary to
say that the label “illustrious scientist and outstanding Catholic
layman” (quoting the citation) represents something not
achieved, but humbly aspired to.

My wife and I look forward with keen anticipation to the
festivities of June, 1952. Any sons of ’27 under fifteen who attend
will find our daughters giving them the eye.

HUGH JAMES DONAHUE

HOME ADDRESS: McConnelsville, Ohio.
Born: Nov. 11, 1904, McConnelsville, Ohio. parents: Hugh Thomas

Donahue, Jennie Farris.
PREPARED AT: Malta-McConnelsville High School, McConnelsville, Ohio.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.
OCCUPATION: Education.

ALEXANDER DONALD

HOME ADDRESS: Box 1129, Woodside Road, Woodside, Redwood City, Calif.
OFFICE apprEss: King Sales & Engineering Co., 441 Folsom St. San Fran-

cisco 5, Calif.
[ 263 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

BORN: July 24, 1905, Milton, Mfass. PARENTS: Malcolm Donald, ’99, Kath-
erine Storey.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Nass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1927(28).

MARRIED: Barbara Pond, Sept. 17, 1932, Woodside, Calif. cumpren: Deb-
orah, July 5, 1934; Susan, Aug. 4, 1936; Malcolm, Aug. 16, 1940; Peter
Alexander, May 16, 1945.

occupation: Manufacturer and manufacturer’s agent, food processing ‘and
packing of equipment; owner, King Sales & Engineering Company.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Senior industrial specialist, Office of Quarter-
master General, Research & Development Branch, Subsistence and
Packaging Section, Washington, D. C.; war shipping administration,
district food control representative, San Francisco.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman of Board, Peninsula School, 1939-40; trustee,
Woodside Church, 1941-42; chairman, Woodside School Assistance
Fund, 1949-50; trustee, 1949, chairman, 1950, San Mateo, Calif., Child
Guidance Clinic; director, Western Packaging Association, 1951-52;
member Troop Committee, since 1938 (off and on), cub master,
1950-51, Boy Scouts of America.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of San Francisco; Harvard Club of New York;
Pacific Union Club; Press and Union League Club; Commonwealth
Club; Menlo Circus Club; San Mateo County Historical Society.

FOLLOWING the free floating front wheel of my Harley-
Davidson, I found myself, in July, 1927, laboring for the General
Seafoods Corporation — the pioneer successful Birdseye, Frosted
Foods effort. The ramifications of the fish business led me through
a large part of Europe, Canada, and the United States. After a
short time with the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company,
where Clem Coady joined me, I returned to Frosted Foods, but
in San Francisco.

Shortly after my arrival, I met and in the fall married one of
those rare people, a native Californian. At our wedding we were
able to show Jack Harwood some of the beauties of our lovely
city. He promptly took one in marriage and brought her East.
We, however, stayed; and making the decision that San Francisco
and its surroundings would be our home, we lived for a few years
there and then moved to Woodside, a small unincorporated
area in the hills south of the city, overlooking Stanford Uni-
versity . . . (football, etc.).

Adhering to our plan to live in Woodside, I became, in 1938,
a partner of James D. Dole, ’99. Our main purpose was the
development of new food processing methods and equipment.

[ 264]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

World War II interrupted this endeavor, however, and in 1942
I went to Washington to the Quartermaster Corps, from which
I transferred to the War Shipping Administration as food control
officer in San Francisco. On leaving the government service, I
acquired a small food processing and packaging machinery
company and am now enjoying all the benefits that the small
business man is having bestowed on him by a benevolent
government.

With the steady growth of the family, there has been a match-
ing decrease in outside sports such as golf, tennis, soft ball, etc.
Now it is mainly puttering around the home place, and riding
the limitless trails of the Portola Valley and the Coast Range. Our
family is one that has close home bonds, a great desire to be home
and to bring their friends home, for which their mother and I
are very thankful. At times it appears that our place was designed
purely as a battlefield for which four young, independent war
lords violently struggle. We have found out, however, that this
is just a training ground to sharpen the wits and increase the
strength and unity of our whole family whenever it faces
ageression from without. Numerous dogs, chickens, ducks, rab-
bits, horses, a goat (a cat causes hay fever to one member of the
household) have paraded through our lives to teach the children
how to get along with others and the meaning of “chores.” We
have also been lucky enough to take the family on trips around
the West and to Canada, and to be able to bring the children
east every few years, each taking his or her first trip in a basket,
so that they can realize the magnitude, the differences, and the
beauty of our country.

For the rest of my activities, I seem to find that a vast amount
of time is spent in the various and apparently never-ending, always
intriguing, odd jobs that must be done in a small but active com-
munity: in the school amphitheatre and as cub scoutmaster, where
one must keep ahead of the most active, fighting, attractive group
of mothers, and the most active, fighting group of boys ever to
be assembled in one room; at intervals in history, Scout activities,
school festivals, local politics, etc. I recently have been helping to
establish on a firm basis a county tax supported Child Guidance
and Consultation Service, which in the span of a year has proved
the necessity of community child delinquency preventive work,

[ 265 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

not just on the playing field, in the boys’ clubs, or in the Scouts,
but in the home, where there is ample evidence available to
prove that parents are wittingly or unwittingly increasingly rely-
ing on inadequate outside agencies to do their job rearing their
own children.

My thoughts, as requested, on economic, social, and political
subjects are too uninformed to be of any value because of my
inability to obtain honest and factual knowledge, except at the
local level, where it can be obtained unadulterated from the
source. Mly comment, and comment only, is that our whole soci-
ety is becoming too dependent on the ready-made ideas, thoughts,
and conclusions given to us by a rapidly increasing class of paid
executives, of trade associations and unions, columnists, politicians,
officials, and leaders of all sorts. This group is built on its own
publicity, personally unknown to the majority they influence or
control. They dominate because of man’s mental laziness, his
unwillingness to face the facts and the desire for something — for
security, for the greatest return for the least amount of output.
Under the guise of a benevolent oligarchy this leads to cruel
slavery.

JOHN SPEER DONALDSON

HOME appress: Hawthome Road, Fox Chapel, Pittsburgh 15, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 121 University Pl., Piccsburgh 13, Pa.

BORN: May 14, 1905, Bellevue, Pa. parents: John Speer Donaldson, Isla
Flora Rodgers.

PREPARED AT: Bellevue High School, Bellevue, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: S.B., 19273 M.D. 1931.

MarrieD: Cornelia Adams, July 21, 1931, Topeka, Kans. cuitp: Anne, Aug.
13, 1941.

occupation: Orthopedic Surgeon.

MILITARY OB NAVAL REcoRD: With U. S. Army, 1942-46; served in Australia
and New Guinea; head of Orthopedic section, Univ. of Pittsburgh 27th
General Hospital; returned to States; aided in physical reconstruction
and rehabilitating of wounded; rank, lieutenant colonel.

orFices HELD: Assistant professor, orthopedic surgery, School of Medicine,
University of Pittsburgh.

MeMbeR OF: American, Pennsylvania, Allegheny County Medical Societies;
International College of Surgeons (fellow); Orthopedic Guild; Ameri-
can College of Surgeons (fellow); American Academy of Orthopedic
Surgeons, Longue Vue Club, Pietsburgh Athletic Association; Univer-

sity Club,

[ 266 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FOLLOWING graduation from Harvard College, I entered the
Medical School and was graduated in 1931. Because of the ill
health of my father, I returned to Pittsburgh for a rotating intern-
ship and took up the specialty of orthopedic surgery. I have
practised orthopedic surgery since that time, spending a year
studying abroad in various European clinics and at the same time
travelling throughout Europe and the British Isles with my wife,
Cornelia Adams Donaldson of Topeka, Kansas, whom I married
in July, 1931. From 1936 to 1938, I was chief of orthopedic sur-
gery at the State Hospital for Crippled Children in Elizabethtown,
Pennsylvania, and returned to Pittsburgh in 1938 to become head
of the orthopedic department in the Medical Center Hospitals of
Pittsburgh. Since that time my professional career has been un-
eventful. At the present time I am assistant professor of ortho-
pedic surgery at the Medical School of the University of Pitts-
burgh and in charge of the orthopedic service of the Presbyterian
Hospital and Children’s Hospital.

I am a diplomate of the American Board of Orthopedic Sur-
gery and belong to several orthopedic societies as well as the state
and national medical societies. A Republican, I am sincere in the
political belief of individual initiative and free enterprise and am
unalterably opposed to all forms of socialization. We are of the
Presbyterian faith. We have attempted to travel as extensively
as possible, and spent six weeks with the International College
of Surgeons in South America during the summer of 1950, when
I presented a paper in Buenos Aires. In our travels we have visited
the West Indies, Bermuda, South America, Europe, the British
Isles, Canada, the mid-west and western portions of the United
States.

RICHARD DONHAM

HOME ADDRESS: 1809 Chicago Ave., Evanston, III,

OFFICE appress: Northwestern University, Graduate Commerce Division,
339 E. Chicago Ave. Chicago 11, Ill.

BORN: March 18, 1905, Newton, Mass, Parents: Wallace Brett Donham,
Mabel Clara Higgins.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927 (28); M.B.A. magna cum
laude, 1930; D.CS., 1934.

[ 267 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

ararriep: Virginia Frances Whitney, Aug. 21, 1928, Boston, Mass. (divorced
1939); Elizabeth Baldwin, Dec. 17, 1941. CHILDREN: Whitney, Dec. 9,
19:9; Richard, Jr. Feb. 12, 1933.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Philip Donham, °30, M.B.A, °33, D.c.s., ’36; Paul Don-
ham, °36, B.A, °38.

occupation; Educator and business consultant.

OFFICES HELD: Research assistant, instructor, assistant professor of business
policy, Harvard Business School, 1930-40; Jecturer, Yale University Law
School, 1936-39; professor of business administration, 1940-46, since
1948, director of Graduate Commerce Division, since 1950, Northwest-
erm University; former syndicate manager, Electro Anti-Corrosion Cor-
poration; executive vice-president, treasurer, director, Valley Woolen
Mills, director, Commercial Research, Gisholt Machine Company; na-
tional director, Personnel and Education, Price, Waterhouse & Com-
pany; vice-president and director, Laurel Book Company.

MEMBER OF: Economic Club of Chicago; American Accounting Association,
American Management Association; Society for Advancement of Man-
agement; Downtown Harvard Lunch Club, New York; Harvard Busi-

ness School Club of Chicago; Harvard Club of Chicago, University
Club of Evanston.

PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous articles for professional journals.

FOLLOWING graduation I worked briefly in the New Eng-
land textile industry, then returned to Harvard to the Business
School where I received the Master in Business Administration in
1930 and the Doctor of Commercial Science in 1934. I served
at the Business School as research assistant, instructor, and assist-
ant professor from 1930 to 1940. During the years 1936 to 1939
I also held an appointment as lecturer at the Yale University Law
School, commuting between Boston and New Haven. In 1950 I
joined the faculty of Northwestern University as professor of
business administration in the School of Commerce. This appoint-
ment offered me an apportunity to organize a new department and,
for the first time, to “cut out of whole cloth.”

Partly because I believe the teaching of business should not
be done by people cloistered from the world of action, and part-
ly because I have been unwilling to have my family live on a pro-
fessor’s salary, I have been active in business cither as a practising
administrator or as a consultant for the past twenty years. This
sort of dual life has brought me an unusually varied, busy, and
exciting carecr. My experience includes textiles, oil, public ac-
counting, railroad equipment, machine tools, road building ma-
chinery, and several other heavy industrics. I have worked on

{ 268 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

management surveys, market research projects, tax cases, training
programs, organization problems, and executive development.

In the spring of 1942 I took a leave of absence from North-
_ western to become director of research at Gisholt Machine Com-
pany (machine tools), Madison, Wisconsin. The next year I
moved to New York to organize a national personnel and educa-
tional program for Price, Waterhouse & Company. In the fall
of 1948 I returned to the University in my former capacity as
professor of business administration and in February, 1950, be-
came director of the Graduate Commerce Division.

We have a small graduate business program, less than one hun-
dred students, but again I have had the fun of starting new things.
The division itself is thirty years old. However, until two years
ago we offered advanced courses only to people trained in under-
graduate business schools. Now we give graduate business educa-
tion to graduates of all kinds of colleges and universities, main-
taining a flexible program under which the time required for a
Master’s degree depends upon the amount of previous business
training presented by the candidate and approved by us.

The graduate division has undertaken, also, several programs
for executives, most important of which is the four-week Institute
for Management held for the first time Jast summer on our Chi-
cago campus. This is a high-level, live-in, concentrated program
limited to thirty men about our own age. The response of busi-
ness firms and the enthusiasm of the. participants is unquestionably
my most gratifying professional experience.

As a result of my several moves (from Cambridge to Belmont,
to Evanston, to Winnetka, to Madison, to Pelham, to Evanston
again) and of the changing and diverse character of my university
and business activities, my family has had much with which to
contend. Both boys have attended several schools and have been
called upon to make new friends with considerable frequency.
While the disadvantages of such a life are frequently argued, it
is my observation that both Whit and Dick have gained from
meeting so many different kinds of people and from having had
to adjust to so many changes in their environment.

Currently, Whit, who ‘recently returned from studying at
Grenoble and who plans to become a writer, is taking special
courses in English, turning out short stories and w orking on 2

[ 269 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

novel. A badly wrecked knee, the result of an almost foolhardy
devotion to the sport of skiing, has rendered him draft-exempt
at least under present conditions, Dick is a freshman at Knox
College where he is in the Reserve Officers Training Corps and
where, don’t ask me why, he considers Greek to be his favorite
subject. Like father, unlike son!

My wife, Elizabeth, likewise has shown an amazing ability to
take the changes in stride and, happily, a willingness to do so. A
Wisconsinite, “she has been equally at home in Westchester, in
Boston during a brief stay, and on Chicago’s north shore. The
boys and I have been fortunate in her natural ability to make
friends; especially so since most of my own friends of long stand-
ing, including 1927 classmates and their wives, settled in and
around Boston and have been pretty well beyond my orbit for
the last half of our twenty-five years since graduation. It will
be grand to see them again this June. By way of final comment,
my life since 1927 has been fully packed with fun and trouble, the
former greatly outweighing the latter. I look forward to as much
in the next quarter-century.

MILTON JAMES DONOVAN

HOME ADDRESS: 19 Chatham Rd. Longmeadow, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Robinson, Donovan & Reed, 127 State St., Springfield, Mass. |

BoRN: March 16, 1906, Springfield, Mass. parents: William Joseph Dono-
van, Jennie Teresa Leonard.

PREPARED AT: Springfield Central High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1927; LL.B., 1930.

Margiep: Ruth M. McCarthy, June 6, 1936, Springfield, Mass. CHILDREN:
Jean Marie, July 27, 1937; Susan Ellen, June 15, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

orrices HELD: Member Board of Directors, Springfield Chapter, American
Red Cross, 1941; chapter chairman, American Red Cross, 1950-51;
trustee Child and Family Welfare Association, 1945; board member,
Springfield Five Cents Savings Bank.

MeMBeR oF: American Bar Association, Massachusetts Bar Association;
Harvard Club of Springfield; University Club; Civitan.

LEAVING Cambridge in 1930 was a definite wrench. “After
seven thought-provoking years we were being set adrift in a
world rapidly descending into an economic morass. We were a
bewildered and uncertain gencration. As late teenagers we had

[ 270 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

touched and most of us had enjoyed the final throes of the F.
Scott Fitzgerald era. It hadn’t shackled us as it had many of
those a few years our senior, but its cynicism had left its mark
upon us. Then, while we still “prepared for life” (apologies to
President Lowell) the economic foundations of the life we were
preparing for were shaken and for some destroyed. Spawned
in the midst of moral disintegration and nurtured in an atmosphere
of economic decay, is it any wonder that our Class has produced
some disturbing headlines? Launched in such a sea as bore us
away from Harvard, only steady keels could make the passage
to the “brave new world.”

None of us can have had dull lives in this last quarter-century.
We all have had an exciting struggle to find a way of life, but
how can we put it down here? How many nightly sessions we
spent as critics of the order that had been bequeathed to us! How
many more would we have to spend to justify the order we are
passing on? I do not think we have failed; most of us are just
now reaching the maturity that can be effectual. Harvard men
should compose that group of enlightened conservatives who
can temper the abuses of the past with the best elements of for-
ward thought. We should be able to hold the reins fast to a
middle course between the reactionary and the radical, thwarting
revolution but accepting change and molding it to the American
pattern.

I must have felt that my place to attempt to achieve the ideals
and inculcate the ideas I had received in Cambridge was in my
old home town because, after deliberating for a couple of months
between offers of a placement in a law practice in Boston and in
Springfield, I finally chose the latter. I have never regretted the
choice — perhaps chiefly because I remember Caesar’s comment
about the little Iberian village. In any event, my practice has
ranged from the smallest police court in western Massachusetts
to presenting an argument before the United States Supreme
Court. And as to the latter let me assure you that the biting
student-professor dialogue at Law School with Professor
Frankfurter was but mild réte-a-téte tea talk compared to the
staccato of fire through which Mr. Justice Frankfurter puts you
when you stand before him in that august chamber in Washing-
ton. Law is a hard life (the ulcers haven’t arrived yet but are

[271 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

imminent), but one I have loved. It satisfies at various unexpected
and unpredictable times most of our natural cravings. It fulfills
your dramatic urge, your striving towards leadership, even your
animal cunning. And at the same time no other profession presents
you with so many opportunities to serve and to ameliorate the
cares and troubles of your brother.

On the personal side there is not too much to be said. We have
lived virtually all of our married life in Longmeadow, which is
probably the most beautiful residential town in the East. With
a charming wife and two growing daughters life in such a
community cannot help being pleasant. The people in your group
are stimulating, the parties you attend are merry, and small town
activities and politics are diverting. As for hobbies, my chief
one is travel and I have satisfied it reasonably well. Our trips
mostly have to be quickies, but in these times, that is no restrain-
ing handicap, so that we have managed to see many of the
places we have wished to and are looking forward to many more
between now and the Fiftieth or such earlier date as the Grim
Reaper arrives.

KENNETH DORN

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Byron Ave., Brockton, Mass.
OFFIcE appress: Wilbar, Wilbar, Dorn & Stone, 106 Main St., Brockton,
Mass.

BORN: Jan. 3, 1907, Brockton, Mass. PARENTS: Henry Dorn, Annie Daniels.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; LL.B. 1930 (32).

MARRIED: Alice Shapiro, April 21, 1933, Camillus, N. Y. cumpren: Bettina,

Aug. 19, 1939; Anthony Peter, Aug. 2, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

AFTER passing the Massachusetts Bar examinations in 1930, I
clerked in the Brockton law offices of the late Hon. Herbert C.
Thorndike (Class of 1902) for six months. About then I felt the
desire to strike out on my own and worked as an insurance claim
adjuster in and around Boston until I had saved enough to open
my own office. In 1933 I finally passed the last of my flunked
Harvard Law School courses, so as to graduate, nunc pro tunc,
with its Class of 1930. I probably hold the dubious distinction of
having failed more courses than any other graduate from that
breeding ground of great Americans. My clients know, however,

[272]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

that their lawyer is better trained than any other Harvard Law
alumnus, having taken most of its courses not once, as with the
ordinary practitioner, but several times.

In 1930 I ruptured a disc in my back while trying to continue
my undergraduate basketball activities for the local Y.M.C.A.
Until 1942, when a laminectomy finally straightened me out, I
Jooked more like a bent corkscrew than a human being and pain
was my constant companion. If Alice hadn’t been my loyal, child-
hood sweetheart, I doubt that she would have wedded such a
physical wreck. I thank my lucky stars for her and the two
rugged individuals, Tina and Tony, with whom she has enriched
my life!

Perhaps it was a case of matter over mind, but by practice from
1933 to 1941 gradually concerned itself more and more with
business wrecks. I became one of the most active bankruptcy
attorneys in southeastern Massachusetts. In 1936 three fellow-
poker players joined me in starting a law firm wherein each mem-
ber could specialize in a particular field and thus give better serv-
ice to our respective clients. Abraham Stone of our Class was and
still is an outstanding corporation attorney; Dexter Wilbar (Dart-
mouth, ’26, Harvard Law, ’30) was a most thorough man in pro-
bate court work until ill health forced him to move to California;
George Wainwright of Syracuse University was our tort expert,
and has recently been appointed a district attorney.

The approaching Second World War put an abrupt end to the
great volume of distressed commercial situations. My professional
forte disappeared overnight. This turn of events, plus the suc-
cessful operation on my spine, possibly combined to divert my
unconscious mind and efforts to more constructive phases of my
profession. In any event, I had to learn to handle all types of
cases and began to see people under more varied circumstances
and stresses. My medical history disqualified me from service

with the armed forces.

As we all know, the tensions of the last war created widespread
marital disruption. The incumbent judge of our local divorce
court began referring to me investigations in connection with
this augmenting number of domestic controversies. At first the
work seemed confusing and I found myself making recommenda-
tions vital to people’s lives merely on the basis of my own limited

[ 273 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

experience and in accordance with orthodox moralistic ideas.
While I sometimes was fortunate enough to make sense, I was not
making science, and in my desire to please the court and encour-
age its patronage, I was eager that my endeavors rest on a more
solid foundation. To this end, I started seeking out and attending
lectures on the science of interpersonal relationships (commonly
known as psychiatry or dynamic psychology). I have seen and
heard some of the greatest men of our time in this field at the
Boston Psychopathic Hospital, the Metropolitan Hospital, and
the Fernald School. I have read scores of books on the subject
from Freud onward. I cultivated the acquaintances of psychi-
atrists so as to learn their approach and methods. I even went so
far as to submit to some short therapy in connection with my own
personal problems.

My labors reflected the results of this study and I gained con-
fidence in what I did. Referals became more numerous from the
court. In 1948 Governor Bradford appointed me a trustee of the
Taunton State Hospital, a large mental institution which looks
more like a college campus. In 1950 the trustees named me chair-
man of their board. In recent years I am encouraging clients to
use my services as counsellor and to think of a lawyer not merely
as a gladiator to fight their cause, but as a guide in helping them
get along with their fellow-men. I have found that most disputes
which people bring to their barristers are very largely based on
emotional upset. By knowing how and trying to give them in-
sight, a lawyer is in a position to dissipate the emotional tension so
that clients can feel able to work out their disputes more logically,
be they with wives, heirs, or neighbors, and to do so without re-
sorting to drastic or more expensive methods.

All of this leads me to regret that courses in modern dynamic
psychology are merely available at colleges. I am beginning to
feel more and more that they should be compulsory, especially for
students in professions dealing with interpersonal relationships.
I now understand what the poet meant in saying, “The proper
study of man is man.” Before Freud there was no such study in a
scientific sense. There were only the fancyings of philosophers

or the intuitively conceived and blindly accepted articles of
various faiths, Neither philosophy nor religion could academically
qualify as knowledge. Today there is no longer an excuse for not

[ 274]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

studying man, for there now exists a science of man, reaching its
latest heights in the semantics of Court Korzybski.

Well, that’s the unspectacular story of one member of the
Class of 1927 who can’t discuss career, hobbies, and convictions in
separate paragraphs because they are all one. I have no outstand-
ing record to be proud of, as have so many of my classmates whose
careers I have followed while basking in their reflected glory. But
occasionally some person is happier for having met me on his
journey through life and I let him know that I got my start as
homo sapiens at Harvard.

NORMAN PERRY DORT

HOME appREss: Chesterfield, N. H. _.

BORN: Jan. 28, 1905, Keene, N. H. parents: Frank Gilman Dort, Kathryn
Bardwell Cable.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1929.

MarRiED: Pauline Foraker, Oct. 10, 1938, Lexington, Ky.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Robert Gilman Dort, ’14 (deceased); Wakefield Dorrt,
"17.

occupation: Manufacturing.

PERCIVAL DOVE, JR.

HOME Appress: g Bayard St., Larchmont, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 17, 1904, Conshocken, Pa. parents: Percival Dove, Alice
Loring Barker.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927, 1928-1929. DEGREE: S.B. IN MINING ENG. C17?
laude, 1929.

OCCUPATION: Singer.

DAVID CROOKER DOW

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 1587 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 13, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. parents: David Crooker Dow,
Edith Leslie Atwood.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B, 1927; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1931.

OCCUPATION: Physician. .

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned Passed Assistant Surgeon with
rank of lieutenant, U.S.N.R., October, 1943; active duty from Nov. 22,
1943, to July 28, 1946; staff of the commander L.S.T. Group 4a
Flotilla 17 for over a year; on board U.S.S. L.S.T. 60 off a British-held

[275 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

beach on June 6, 1944 (D-Day); promoted lieutenant commander, M.
C., while at Separation Center, Boston.

OFFICES HELD: Medical examiner, First Middlesex District, June 20, 1942,
to June 20, 1949; president, Henniker Crutch Company, Inc., Warner,
N. H., since 1942.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; Middlesex South District
Medical Society; American Medical Association; Cambridge Medical
Improvement Society; Massachusetts Medico-Legal Society; Rotary
Club, Cambridge, Amicable Lodge, AF. & A.M.; Economy Club; Cam-
bridge Y.M.C.A.; staff, Mount Auburn Hospital, American Historical
Association; Middlesex Club; Republican Club of Massachusetts; Salva-
tion Army Advisory Board, Cambridge.

AFTER graduating from Tufts College Medical School in 1931,
I spent two years on a rotating internship at Worcester City
Hospital. On November 13, 1933, my twenty-eighth birthday
and the thirty-fourth anniversary of my father’s opening an office
for the practice of medicine, I hung out my shingle. In association
with my father I began the general practice of medicine in Cam-
bridge. In the eight years we were together he taught me much
from his experience. He was a man devoted to his profession
and the welfare of his patients. He had a deep influence upon me
in my attitude towards medicine. After a brief illness he died in
May, 1942.

My father’s death made a great difference in my practice.
Many of his old patients came to me. Then I was appointed to
succeed him as Medical Examiner for the First Middlesex District,
an office he had held for over twenty years. To prepare myself
for that work I attended the First Seminars in Legal Medicine
given at the Department of Legal Medicine, Harvard Medical
School, by Dr. Alan R. Moritz. I carried on the duties of this
office under District Attorneys Robert H. Bradford and George
E. Thompson. I found the work fascinating and frequently hec-
tic. I had military leave of absence for the months I was in
the service and served only four and a half years of a seven-year
term. When the term expired, another was appointed and I
found myself free to devote my full time to practice.

My father had purchased a crutch company in 1936 and
organized it. When he died, I had to assume the chief
responsibility for it and became president of the organization
which is now known as the Henniker Crutch Company, Inc., and

[ 276]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

is located in Warner, New Hampshire. Through the years the
crutch company has become an absorbing avocation, far afield
from the profession of medicine. Business problems common to
the crutch industry forced the manufacturers to form the United
States Crutch Manufacturers Association in 1942 and brought
me into contact with the other manufacturers. Though I live and
work in Cambridge, I make the trip to New Hampshire at least
once or twice a month to keep contact with developments at
the factory.

From November, 1943, to July, 1946, I was a naval medical
officer, often unhappy because of insufficient medical work. Life
aboard ship and at sea was pleasant, but paper work was a bore.
I was happy to return to general practice in Cambridge and
resume my connections with the Mount Auburn Hospital, as a
member of the staff. For several years I have given the lectures
in hygiene at Cambridge Junior College and have found the
work stimulating.

I have been active in the affairs of the First Church in Cam-
bridge, Congregational, the Rotary Club of Cambridge, the
Cambridge Y.M.C.A., and Amicable Lodge A.F. & A.M. In
politics I am still a Republican who works and contributes but
never runs for office. For vacations I like to get out of New
England, visit friends and relatives, and see their families growing.
Recently I have found a new hobby in color photography.

The general practice of medicine places the physician at the
bottom of the medical pyramid. Above him are rank on rank of
specialists, but his work is essential. His hours are long; his
personal satisfactions great for he knows his patients as individuals
in a way that the specialist seldom does. Now I feel, as my
father did, that being a family physician is a most satisfying life.

JOHN GOODCHILD DOW

HOME ADDRESS: 195 River Rd., Grand View, Nyack, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Warner-Hudnut, Inc., 113 W. 18th St.. New York 11, N. Y.

Born: May 6, 1905, New York, N. Y. Parents: Joy Wheeler Dow, Eliza-
beth Goodchild.

PREPARED AT: Canton High School, Canton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: A.B, cua laude, 1927; A.M. (Colum-
bia Univ.), 1937.

[277 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MARRIED: Harriet Dow, Oct. 18, 1930, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN: Thomas
Goodchild, Dec. 22, 1939; Timothy Tucker, Dec. 25, 1942; Diantha
Elizabeth, May 20, 1946; Alice Sophia, Dec. 9, 1951. |

occupation: Office manager, Warner-Hudnut, Inc., manufacturer of drugs
and toiletries; specific job, to manage office services and to improve
systems and procedures of organization.

OFFiIcES HELD: Deputy Director of Civil Defense, Grand View, N. Y.

I WAS associated successively with an advertising agency, a bank,

a manufacturer of high pressure boilers, an aircraft parts manu-

facturer, a food distributor, and now a distributor of drugs and

toiletries. In all of these connections, except the first, my work
has related largely to office systems and procedures.

Having a very active job, a long daily “commute” to the
city, two red-headed sons, and two small but enterprising daugh-
ters, I keep almost as busy as my wife. We have a small house
in an odd but attractive setting on the Hudson. Now and then
I doa stint at painting, either on the house or on canvas. Although
college may not have aimed to prepare us too well for workaday
living, it did indeed stir an interest in the world at large, and
disclose some perspectives of history past and future. In these
realms, we can hope that our interest will move us to progress
along a better trail.

Once I sat on a park bench in Washington and passed the
time of day with an unemployed potato-digger from Virginia.
After a mutual exchange, he learned that I had been at Harvard.
Instantly he got to his feet, pumped my hand with gusto, and
said, beaming: “Well, this is the first time I ever got to shake
hands with a Harvard man.”

+ JAMES MICHAEL DOYLE

poss: April 1, 1907, Jamaica Plain, Mass. parents: Michael James Doyle,
Rose Kilroy.

prepare AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: 8.B., 1927(28).

Marrizp: Mary Agnes McPhillips, Aug. 19, 1929, Quincy, Mass.

pirp; Oct. 3, 1929, Burlington, Vt.

AS A freshman, James Michael Doyle held a Boston Newsboys’

Scholarship and the following year he won a Longfellow

Scholarship. In his junior year he received honorable mention

for his speech on “Ia France et Locarno,” which was entered in

[278 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the competition for the Medal of the Comité France-Amerique.
From 1927 until his death, he was instructor in Romance languages
at the University of Vermont.

MILAN NATHANIEL DRAKE

HOME ADDRESS: 3733 Northampton St., Washington 15, D. C.

BORN: Sept. 20, 1904, North Hampton, N. H. parents: Clifford Sumner
Drake, Delania Ayers.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B. 1927.

CHARLES JACKSON DRAPER

HOME AppREss: RFD. 71, Woolwich, Maine.
BORN: Oct. 1, 1905, Wayland, Mass. parents: Leonard Drury Draper, Ida

Davis McKay.
PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.
MARRIED: Ruth Edna Chamberlin, Jan. 4, 1930, Winchester, Mass.
HARVARD BROTHER: Leonard Drury Draper, ’25.

OccuPATION: Retired.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: A.US.A.C., Dec. 23, 1941-Aug. 2, 1946, Assam,
Burma, China offensives; separated 1946 with rank of lieutenant colonel;

member, U. S. Air Force Reserve.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

APPROXIMATELY fourteen years divided between the broker-
age business and real estate operations and five years in the Air
Force during World War II made me certain that I would never
upset the equilibrium of history. I retired after separation from
service in 1946, purchased a small farm on the Kennebec River in
Maine and proceeded to devote my time to farming, fishing,
hunting, cruising, and travel. Nine months a year are occupied
with the various chores and delights of country living, and three
months are devoted to travel. During the last twenty-five years,
my wife and/or I have pretty well covered Europe, the Medi-
terranean countries, North and South America, all the Leeward
and Windward Islands, India, Burma, China, Australia, and way
stations. We look forward to Africa, the Philippines, Afelanesia,
and Polynesia, before putting our feet in moth balls. The Rus-
sians can have Russia as far as I’m concerned. Extra-curricular
activities during recent years seem to have included the running

[279]

e

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

of Class Reunions, the duties of which have been a considerable
source of pleasure to me.

As to political convictions, I am still an ardent Republican and
remain utterly bewildered by the way the larger percentage of
American voters still insist upon throwing their birthright away
when they attend the voting booths. I still hope to see the day in
this country when office-holders will be chosen because of their
abilities, and not as a result of the number of votes they can beg,
borrow, or steal in back rooms.

JOSEPH CLAUDE DREYFUS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 616 E. Lincoln Ave., Mount Vernon, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New York Life Insurance Co., 41 E, 42nd St. New York,
N. Y.

BORN: May 26, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Joseph Claude Dreyfus,
Emma Alice Jacobs.

PREPARED AT: George Washington High School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927(28).

marrieD: Shirley E. Kaper, Aug. 26, 1932, Highland Falls, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Joseph Claude, 3d, Feb. 2, 1936, Eric M., June 20, 1937; Alan R., Dec.
17, 1942.

occupation: Life insurance, agent for New York Life Insurance Company;
sales, including estate planning, estate analysis, and business insurance.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered on active duty Feb. 10, 1941, as Ist
lieutenant, F.A.; served with 14th F.A. (Armored) 2nd Armored Divi-
sion, 67th F.A. 3rd Armored Division, 65th F.A. (Armored), 5th Ar-
mored Division; commanded Battery A., 65th F.A., then promoted to
battalion executive; promoted captain February, 1942, major December,
1942; landed in North Africa January, 1943; wounded in battle of El
Guettar, April, 1943; invalided back to U.S. returned to duty at Fort
Knox, Ky., as instructor in tactics, retired from service 1945 because of
combat injuries.

OFFicEs HELD: Community chairman, Mount Vernon Reserve Officers As-
sociation.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Westchester.

IMMEDIATELY after graduation from Harvard, I joined the
Stock Exchange firm of Salomon Brothers & Hutzler. The crash
was the direct cause of ending my interests in Wall Street in 1930,
when I entered the retail field with R. H. Macy & Company.
Shortly after the repeal of prohibition, I became the wine and
liquor buyer for Abraham & Straus, where I became known as
an authority on fine wines and liquors. I stayed in this field until

[ 280 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

February, 1941, when I volunteered, as a Reserve officer, for
one year’s active duty. Pearl Harbor ended my voluntary status,
and the year became four years of very active participation in
World War II. During my years of service my family and I got
a liberal education in the geography of the United States. Into
the bargain I had an opportunity to see something of a very old
and interesting civilization in North Africa. Some day I should
like to return to North Africa as a tourist, as I found it a very
beautiful and fascinating country. I was married in August, 1932.
My first son was born in February, 1936. He is now a junior
in high school and would like to go to Harvard. My second son
was born in June, 1937, and will graduate from junior high this
June. He too is planning to go to Harvard. My third son was
born in December, 1942, is now in the fourth grade, and wishes
the school would burn down. I’m sure that he, too, will want to
go to Harvard.

After my retirement from the Army, I returned to the liquor
business for a short time but found that it lacked the zest and
interest it held for me before. I am now very happily associated
with the New York Life Insurance Company and expect to
continue in this profession. I have maintained my activity in
Reserve affairs through the Reserve Officers Association, not
alone because of pleasant associations, but because of my con-
tinuing and firm belief in the vital importance of a strong and
active military reserve. At the present time I am the chaplain of
the Westchester Chapter cand co-chairman of the program
committee.

I have found great interest in the Harvard Club of Westchester
and hope to continue active in its growth and development. I
firmly believe in citizen participation in local politics, and because
of my interest in local affairs I was offered the nomination for
county supervisor by both the Democratic and Liberal parties
of Mount Vernon, in this past election. I accepted. We fought a

good fight and while I did well for my first in politics, I didn’t
win. We did elect the leading candidate on our ticket, however.
Two weeks ago the mayor appointed me City Service Officer,
which covers supervision and coérdination of welfare activities
in the city. The political bug has bitten me, and I hope to make
a better showing at some future election.

[ 281 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

* GEORGE WING DRYER-

BORN: Sept. 22, 1904, Talledega, Ala. paRENTs: Edmund Hext Dryer, Laura
Carrol Wing.

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.D., 1931.

MARRIED: Eileen F. Millard, Oct. 25, 1932, Wainchester, Mass. CHILDREN:
Beverly Joan, Oct. 15, 1933; Suzanne Cousens, Jan. 15, 19355 Carroll
Wing, Jan. 1, 1939.

DIED: Jan. 12, 1942, Moline, Ill.

GEORGE WING DRYER entered the sophomore class at Har-
vard after studying one year at the University of Alabama. While
in college, he was on the Lampoon staff, and was a member of the
Instrumental Clubs, the Dramatic Club, and the Boylston Chem-
ical Club. Following graduation he attended the Harvard Medical
School and received his M.D. degree in 1931. He spent the next
year in Europe, principally in Berlin, and returned to serve an
internship at the Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit. He then
entered private practice in Moline, Illinois.

RALPH I. DUCHIN

HOME ADDRESS: 54 Manchester Rd., Newton Highlands 61, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Enterprise Stores, Inc., 1050 Commonwealth Ave., Boston,
Mass.

BorN: March 21, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Samuel Duchin, Esther
Duchin.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 19273; LL.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Evelyn Jane Bloom, Oct. 11, 1931, Brookline, Mass, (died Febru-
ary, 1950); Eunice Bloom Stein, Aug. 3, 1950, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
David B, Stein, 17 years, Abner L, Stein, 13 years, Linda F. Stein, 7
years (stepchildren).

occupation: Buyer and merchandising executive, chain of retail department
stores, junior department stores, and women’s and children’s specialty —
shops.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, A.US., with European Civil Affairs and
Military Government Division, served with various Infantry and Tank
Divisions, Corps and Armies throughout France, Belgium, Luxem-
bourg, Holland, and Germany, received five Bronze Stars for participa-
tion in major European campaigns.

mMeMBER oF: Harvard Varsity Club; Tau Fpsilon Pi Fraternity; Harvard
Business School Alumni Club, Harvard Law School Alumni Associa-
tion, Academy of Political Science; Military Government Association;

[ 282 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Newton Squash and Tennis Club; Temple Israel Brotherhood; numer-

ous local and national charitable organizations.
AFTER college graduation I continued on through Harvard Law
School and then through Harvard Business School, at the same
time assisting the Harvard Director of Intramural Athletics with
coaching and officiating in football, baseball, and basketball. After
a few years of research work combined with a brief law practice
at the Massachusetts Bar, I turned to the mercantile field. Since
1935 I have been with my present company in various capacities,
except for the time spent in the Army during World War II, and
my association has been a very happy and most interesting one.

My hobbies have been the theatre, reading an extensive assort-
ment of magazines, newspapers, and books, and sports of all
kinds. Until a recent heart ailment incapacitated me, I was very
active in both tennis and squash. Along with my second wife, I
acquired three children—a new, very pleasant, and interesting
experience which has added richly to the fullness of my life and
which has become the best hobby of all.

My social, political, and religious beliefs can be grouped to-
gether under one heading, “independent and liberal.” I follow
local, national, and international events very closely and do not
despair of the very apparent degradation of human integrity
throughout the world. It is a normal aftermath of a war, like
World War I], unparalleled in history for its global implications
and disruptions. The return to a normal and sane world has
therefore become that much more difficult particularly because
of Russia’s obstruction tactics. But I have never once doubted the
efficacy of democracy, by its very nature slow and confused in its
thinking, to restore the world eventually to a balanced way of
life. Democracy will arise out of this turmoil stronger than ever
before.

«LAURENCE HAYDEN DUGGAN

BORN: May 28, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Stephen Pierce Duggan,
Sarah Elsseser. |

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cunt laude, 1927.

marriepD: Helen Boyd, Sept. 17, 1932, Woodland, N. Y. criupren: Steph-
anie, June 4, 1937; Laurence, May 16, 1942; Robert, Nov. 16, 19433
Christopher, Feb. 26, 1945.

DIED: Dec. 20, 1948, New York, N. Y.

[ 283 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

FOR two years after graduation Laurence Hayden Duggan was
with Harper & Brothers, publishers. He then joined the Institute
of International Education, which was founded by a group
including his father to promote international exchange of students
with aid from the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.
In 1930 he entered the State Department. He became an expert
on Latin American affairs and rose to the position of chief of the
Division of American Republics. Subsequently he served as
olitical adviser on Latin American affairs to Secretary of State
Cordell Hull. He resigned from the State Department in 1944
and continued with the Institute of International Education of
which he had been president for two years prior to his death.
He served as assistant to the diplomatic adviser, UNRRA, dur-
ing 1944-45 and Latin American consultant during the follow-
ing year. Sumner Welles, former Under-Secretary of State, said
that Duggan “rendered outstandingly able service to the United
States and to the cause of hemispheric friendship and solidarity.”

+ ROBERT JOHNSTON DUNKLE, JR.

BorN: Nov. 7, 1904, Jamaica Plain, Mass. parents: Robert Johnston Dunkle,
Estelle Hale MacFarlane,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927(28).

MARRIED: Ruth Davenport Litchfield, Nov. 10, 1927, Newton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Robert Johnston, 3d, May 29, 1929; Peter Litchfield, Dec. 17, 1939.

piep: March 17, 1952, Dedham, Mass.

wipow: Mrs. Robert J. Dunkle, 32 Old Farm Rd., Dedham, Mass.

ROBERT DUNKLE’S death occurred as this Report went to
press. Since he had sent in his story in January, it is printed here
in place of an obituary.

“Having graduated at the end of an era of great prosperity,
probably called the ‘Coolidge Era,’ we faced the business world
fearlessly. We all knew the prerequisites of success: to bathe and
shave each morning, have hair combed, shoes polished brightly,
clothes neat, a clean shirt once a week, then we would do well —
everyone else was doing well. If one worked in Philadelphia,
New York, or Boston, owned a derby, and appeared a half-hour
early at the office two or three days in a row, one would be sure to
receive at Icast one or maybe two raises in the first month. Being

[ 284 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

bolstered by this recognition one immediately turned to the girl
of one’s choice, was married, and still lived in great happiness,
The wife of a classmate was heard to say after a Harvard-Yale
football weekend (and this is for the benefit of those who have
not had the pleasure of living in a suburb of Cambridge), I quote,
‘Well, dear, I still say what I did when you were graduated, your
classmates are the nicest bunch of bums ever collected or grouped
by any quirk of fate.’ |

“The fall after graduation I started out in Philadelphia with the
Insurance Company of North America and, like most of us, got
married as soon as I reached the point where I could call the big
boss by his first name. Progress in business was quite speedy for
all of us until the two great debacles: the crash of 1929 and the
election of 1932. Then those of us who had taken courses at
business school continued forward, while the rest of us wavered
slightly, wondering what was behind it all. It was at this time, if
my memory is correct, that our derbies no longer made an im-
pression and we were classed with all the other first-class clerks,
including Princeton and Yale men.

“In the meantime Ruth and I were blessed with a son, Bob, 3d.
We carried on, moving out to Villanova on the Main Line, and
began to live for the first time. Then suddenly I was offered a big
job with the company in their resplendent New York office. So
we picked up stakes and moved into delightful surroundings in
Bronxville, having as our neighbors Dorothy Thompson and
Sinclair Lewis — neither of whom we saw much in the four years
we were there.

“In the spring of 1938 I was transferred back to Philadelphia.
In the summer of that year I had the misfortune of losing my dad,
and I was invited to join the firm of OBrion, Russell & Company
of which Dad was senior partner. Needless to say, it was a tre-
mendous break for me! Since then we have resided in Dedham
surrounded by good friends, most of them dating back to college.

“The ease of our schooling was forcibly shown when Bob went
to Trinity College, from which he was graduated in 1951, just
missing out in honors. I shall always remember the snap courses
which I took and flunked, but still thought there were such things,
whereas the boys in college today know that there is no such
animal as a gut course. They don’t have to resort to taking the

[ 285 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

professor to some new speak-easy or buy him caviar at Locke-
Ober’s, all of which I tried with no success, except in one case |
flunked with an E plus instead of a flat E.

“New England air or atmosphere provided Ruth and me with a
second, up-and-coming son, Peter, who is now at Noble and
Greenough and hopes in a few years to step in and bolster the
once great Red Sox. I rather think he could now, but his age
prevented his pinch-hitting this year.

“Our elder boy, Bob, has to our great pleasure taken on a teach-
ing job at the Park School in Brookline and spends his weekends
at Squantum Naval Air Base, carrying on for us guys in the Naval
Reserve.”

At the time of his death Dunkle was a member of the firm of
OBrion, Russell & Company, and he held membership in The
Country Club, Brookline, the Harvard Club, Dedham Country
and Polo Club, Algonquin Club, Beacon Society, and Down
Town Club.

He was survived by his wife and two sons.

JOHN BROOKE DURANT

HOME AppRESS: 65 Hollet St., North Scituate, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Associated Press, 244 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 16, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Harry Brooke Durant,
Laura Winifred Brown. .

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

marriep: Ruth Holmes, Sept. 21, 1929, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Brooke,
Nov. 21, 1931; David, March 17, 1942.

OCCUPATION: News editor.

THE SKELETON THE FLESH

Wives (1) The gears are a little worn but the
paint job and upholstery are still in
good condition and look good for an-
other 50 years. Unplan trade-in.

Children (2) One boy is old enough to be racing
car driver, the other young enough to
believe the old man still knows some

of the answers.

[ 286 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Hair (about zero)

Accumulated savings,
bonds, stocks, etc.
(same as above)

Houses (2)

Autos (1)

Gone with the wind.

Never had it to go.

One resurrected from old barns and
built with my own hands, the other
we're sensible enough to live in.

Magnolia Ford is now 10 years old
and apparently the first 100,000 miles
were her hardest. Would not think of

trading her in because I could not

think of how to pay for a new one.

Jobs (approximately 50) [ve done everything except make

Politics (zero raised to
the nth power)

Hobbies (by the dozen)

Religion (a Unitarian
by birth, a Congrega-
tionalist by chance,

a Hindu by nature)

money. For the past 10 years the As-
sociated Press has hoodwinked me into
thinking I’m a newsman but beneath
the false surface lies the real Durant —
a no-account lazy sun-squatter.

Boys, if you’ve never seen before an
anarchist (pls see original definition),
you'll have a chance to see one at the

_Twenty-fifth Reunion in the person
of the first person.

I’ve tried everything from chess to
furniture refinishing but I’m inclined
to agree with the conclusion reached
by that crafty Italian statesman, Ma-
chiavelli. In his old age he summed

_ up the fruits of his rich Renaissance

life in this paraphrased way: “A good
meal and the bed are the two most
enjoyable things in life, which every-
one knows and no one admits.”

A man has to be either very stupid or
an egomaniac not to believe in God.

[ 287 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Philosophy (?) Apparently 50,000,000 Frenchmen,
Americans, etc., can’t be wrong when
they tell me a nation is richer, wiser,
and more civilized for digging gold
out of one hole in the ground and
putting it in another with a bank of
cement around it, but somehow [ can’t
get away from my old school bring-
ing up and prefer VERITAS. |

Recapitulation What I would have written when
graduating I would not have written
at the First Reunion. And that would
surely have varied from the distilled
wisdom of the Fifth, as that would
have from the Tenth, as that from the
Twenty-fifth, etc. Therefore, sirs, I
beg you see me at the Fiftieth when
my mind and the times are sure to be
more settled.

HENRY SALMON DYER

HOME AppRESS: 25 Dwight St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 11 University Hall, Harvard College, Cambridge 38, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 7, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. parents: John Lathrop Dyer, ’99, Alice
Salmon.

PREPARED AT: Rindge Technical High School, Cambridge, Mass.; Phillips
Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926, 1927-1928. DEGREES: S.B., 1928(27); ED.M., 1938;
ED.D., 1941.

MarrieD: Helen Gullberg, Sept. 1, 1934, Boston, Mass, cHiLpREN: Janet S.,
Dec. 7, 1935; Nancy L., June 27, 1941; Paul H., May 15, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Assistant to Dean of Faculty of Arts and Sciences; director of
Office of Tests; lecturer on educational measurement — all at Harvard.

MEMBER OF: American Association of University Professors; American
Statistical Association; Psychometric Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional articles on educational and psychological testing.

Career. When I got out of college, I taught English for two
years in the New Hampton School in New Hampshire. I then
came back to the University, took some graduate work in English,
and supported myself with a part-time job at the Dexter School

[ 288 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in Brookline, Massachusetts. The following year the part-time
job became a full-time job, and I stayed at Dexter until 1938. I
then quit teaching and began work for a doctorate in educational
measurement. This degree was granted in 1941. Meantime I had
got a job with the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of
Teaching as a researcher in educational testing. This brought me
in contact with Allegheny College (Meadville, Pennsylvania)
where I went as an assistant professor of psychology in January,
1942. I stayed through the spring semester and then accepted an
offer as Assistant Dean of Harvard College in July, 1942. In this
post I was in charge of the National and Freshman Scholarship
program until 1945, when I was made Assistant to the Dean of the
Faculty and Director of the Office of Tests. I am still in that job.
_ Famity. Two daughters and a son ranging in age from sixteen
to five. Oo

Travers. I have done very little.

Hossizs. My job.

PoLiTICAL AND Reticious Convictions. Politically, I am an inde-
pendent and religiously I am a Congregationalist. I am fairly
active as an officer of the Old South Church in Boston, with a
special interest in religious education and student work.

FREDRICK McCURDY EATON

HOME appREss: 791 Park Ave., New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Shearman & Sterling & Wright, 20 Exchange Pl., New York
5,N. Y.

BORN: May 21, 1905, Akron, Ohio. parents: Hugh McCurdy Eaton, Jessie
Smith.

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; LL.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Justine Allen, May 21, 1932, Manhasset, Long Island, N. Y. CHIL-
DREN: Justine Allen, June 20, 1933; Frederic Allen, Sept. 5, 1935; John
McCurdy, Oct. 30, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: General counsel with War Production Board.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, American Museum of Natural History, Doctors’ Hos-
pital, Prison Association of New York; director, Monsanto Chemical
Company, New York Life Insurance Company, Owens-Corning Fiber-
glas Corporation.

MEMBER OF: The Links; Links Golf Club; River Club, New York; Metro-
polican Club, Washington.

[289]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

AFTER leaving Law School in 1930, I went to work for the firm
of Cotton & Franklin and became a partner some years later. In
June, 1940, I went to Washington as legal adviser to Mr. Knutson
who was then a member of the National Defense Advisory Com-
mittee. I remained with the succeeding Defense agencies, the last
of which was the War Production Board of which I became gen-
eral counsel. I returned to New York in 1945 and took up again
the practice of law with certain of my former partners in the
firm of Shearman & Sterling & Wright.

JAMES PERCIVAL EATON

HOME appRESS: 34 Cabot St. Waltham 54, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jos. Breck & Sons Corp., 401 Summer St., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 21, 1904, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Percival James Eaton, ’83,
Emily M. Craft.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. .

MarRiED: Edith N. Grant, Oct. 10, 1936, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1947);
Florence Ida Dunn, Dec. 27, 1947, Boston, Mass, CHILDREN: Ruth
Isabelle, Oct. 6, 1948; Emily Craft, July 15, 1950.

occupation: Salesman, Joseph Breck & Sons Corporation, wholesale hard-
ware, housewares, garden supplies.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S.N.R.; served three years on L.S.T.’s #398
and #0945 as chief boatswain’s mate in southwest and central Pacific;
Solomon Islands, Bougainville, Okinawa campaigns, received Am-
phibious Insignia Ribbon, American Area Ribbon, Asiatic-Pacific Rib-
bon with four stars, Navy Unit Commendation L.S.T. Flotilla Five.

MEMBER OF: Housewares Club of New England; New England Hardware
Dealers Association.

SIDNEY LOVETT EATON

HOME AppRESS: 481 Washington St. Dedham, Mass.

orFice appress: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

BORN: May 1, 1906, Syracuse, N. Y. parents: Horace Ainsworth Eaton, ’ 93»
A.M., 97, PH.D., 00, Emily Russell Lovett.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; A.M. (Syracuse Univ.), 1931.

Maggio: Jessie Adkins, June 24, 1930, Washington, D. C. cxitp: Sidney
Lovett, Jr., Jan. 27, 1933.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Endicott Eaton, '32.

occupation: English teacher, chairman, English Department, Noble and
Greenough School, artist (painter of watercolors).

[ 290 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II: lieutenant US.N.R., ACL,
trained at Quonset, 1943-44; staff, ComAirLant, intelligence distribution
officer, 1944~45; naval liaison with 14th Air Force, Kunming, China,
1945; special duty with AGAS U.S. Army P.O.W. and Allied Internee
Mission, Shanghai, China, 1945; awarded commendation ComAirLant
service, Soldier’s Medal for Shanghai mission, Asiatic battle star.

OFFICES HELD: President, Loomis Alumni Association, 1927-37, Cum Laude
Society, Noble and Greenough, since 1949, vice-president, Dedham
Society of Artists and Craftsmen, 1951.

MEMBER OF: English Lunch Club; Dedham Society of Artists and Craftsmen;
Center Harbor Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, Loomis Alumni Bulletin, 1930-37; occasional articles in
Independent School Bulletin.

MESSRS. Jacques Leon Ach, Thayer Cumings, and Wells Fay,

all 26, have set an admirable but desperate pace for their succes-

sors of °27. Their self-delineations, so gay, so graceful, so infor-
mative are encouraging (the thing can be done) yet frightening

(but how?). “Fool,” said my Muse to me, “look in thy heart and

write.”

Though one twenty-five-year hobby is the basketing of ques-
tionnaires and current bills, I am practising self-denial on this,
since, so far as I know, neither the F.B.I. nor the instalment col-
lector is looking over my shoulder. :

A few weeks before graduation in ’27, my trusting headmaster
at Loomis included an interview with me in his search for an Eng-
lish teacher. I either possessed or gave promise of developing the
necessary Briarean supply of hands. I landed the job and a sug-
gestion that a summer of education courses at Harvard would
imply a serious-mindedness that my collegiate grades were rather
reticent about. I learned the since-forgotten dates of the founding
of Andover and Exeter and began school-mastering at Loomis in
the fall.

Doubtfully equipped with little Latin, less Greek, a modicum
of English, and a touchingly misty array of ideas, ideals, and
absence of methods, I plunged in, dampening a number of inno-
cent bystanding lads with the ignorant splash. My vaguely-
defined aims were a desire to be a good boy and to dispense light
served up with sugar. Thanks to the tolerance of friendly col-
leagues and generous pupils, my follies were forgiven and suff-
cient future possibilities gambled on to earn me “reappointment.
In those buoyant days I taught baby Latin, strange assortments of

[291 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

deCordova and Dana Museum, Lincoln, Mass. (1951), Town and
County Club, Hartford, Conn. (fall, i951), and at the Castano
Galleries, Boston (spring, 1952). The Kraushaar Galleries, my
New York agents, have hung occasional Eatons in their group
shows, and other pictures have made various juried group exhibi-
tions about New England. This all sounds like self-advertising.
Perhaps it is, but the surprise and excitement are still with me.
Painting is a delightfully selfish pursuit, a satisfying complement
to school- mastering.

After years of school dormitories, military bivouacs, and Ded-
ham rentals, we've at last purchased a Dedham house through the
courtesy of the G.I. Bill and a trusting bank. It allows room for
the mounting and encroaching picture frames, space to slosh paint
about, and desk-corner area for the themes, themes, themes — at
once the bane but eventual blessing of the harried secondary
scholar.

To mortar these loose narrative bricks with statement of phi-
losophy and spiritual conviction calls for a better contractor than
I. I believe in better prose than I can write; I believe that my
pictures have something; I believe I am blessed in my family, I
believe that the Quakers have the only sane approach to world
fellowship, but I doubt my consistency and worthiness to affiliate
actively with them — we are erratic Episcopalians in church at-
tendance; I believe in priceless friends whose living or having
lived in this life makes it seem worth the candle; I continue to find
some of the acts of man and most of the actions of nature admir-
able; and above all I continue to find life exciting. I am grateful to
Harvard for having prepared me with sensitivity to many feelings
and thoughts which, had I never caught them I should never have
known I had missed, but having blessedly known I could not live

without. As I presume is evident, I have not recovered from
English A verbosity, though Robert Hillyer tried his best to
cure it.

GEORGE EBBECKE

Home Appress: 800 Unruh St., Philadelphia 11, Pa.
orrice aporess: Frankford High School, Oakland and Harrison Sts., Phila-
delphia 24, Pa.

[294]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

poRN: July 3, 1906, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: George Ebbecke, Amelia
Mary Wise.

PREPARED AT: Frankford High School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927(26); ¥D.M.,

1931.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Teacher of mathematics; faculty sponsor of Student Board of
Frankford High School (the student council); organizer and faculty
sponsor of Frankford Pioneer Chapter of National Honor Society.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Medical detachment, Bolling Field, May-
August, 1942; engineer officer candidate, Fort Belvoir, Va., September-
November, 1942; instructor, supervisor of literacy training, Fort Bel-
voir, November, 1942-August, 1943; depot officer training schools,
Camp Lee, Va., and Granite City, Ill, Seprember-November, 1943;
warehouse officer, November, 1943-August, 1944; supervisor of stock
records (including electric accounting machine section), September,
1944-January, 1946; separated from service, April, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: President, Experimenters’ DX. Radio Foundation, since in-
corporation 1949.

MEMBER OF: Experimenters’ DX. Radio F oundation; National Education
Association; Philadelphia Teachers Association, Mathematics Teachers
Association; Phi Delta Kappa (national honorary fraternity for men
in educational work).

THE wisest man in the world is he who knows what not to say.
In the long run it is better to say nothing than to bore others
with biographical accounts of little real interest to fellow-class-
mates. I am not wise enough, however, to practise what I
preach — or, perhaps, it is the numerous communications from
the Class Report chairman which have, at last, broken my resist-
ance. Years ago, in those informal discussions for which the
undergraduate is so noted, I used to express the view that
research, the expansion of the frontiers of human knowledge, is
the most important job in the world. I still believe this to be
true. In both my profession and my spare-time activities I have
found fields worthy of investigation in what I hope is the true spirit
of research. Results have not been spectacular, but they have
given me a great deal of satisfaction.

A second thesis I have always maintained is that, next to research
pursuits, the teaching of young people, the spreading of knowl-
edge gained by the race, is the most important profession in the
world. In the light of experience I should not want to diminish
this implied emphasis on subject matter, but I now believe that

[295 ]

nnnneeeninetinie ee 1

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

there are other factors in the teaching-learning processes which are
of at least equal importance in the world today. If man were a
robot calculating machine, it is conceivable that knowledge alone
would be sufficient to produce the better world most of us seek.
But man is more complex, and he carries with him a composite
of attitudes and prejudices which modify the functioning of
even the best brains.

All emotional blocks to straight thinking, however, like envy,
hate, greed, probably have their roots in selfishness, a fact which,
despite the prevalence of this fault, gives us hope for the future.
Selfishness — which really is a form of dishonesty — is found in
high places and even is associated with supposed intelligence,
yet those who practise it are among the most short-sighted of
men. The futility of the attempt to secure unfair advantage
over our fellow-man is not hard to demonstrate, for such attempts
produce only temporary gains. In the long run, we pay a high
price for our error for, as members of the human race, we are all
interdependent, and certainly we cannot fool all of the people
all of the time. Least of all can we fool ourselves — and we have
to live with ourselves a long, long time. It is one of the respon-
sibilities of a teacher to give young people the opportunity to dis-
cover for themselves the desirability of practising unselfishness.
It is equally important that students be able to identify this virtue
and its opposite in the world around them. Most political and
ideological propaganda, as well as much advertising, involves
attempts to secure advantages over others which are unwarranted
by objective evidence. Thus these fields provide a suitable con-
tent for the study of the activities of selfish individuals and
groups. I have found that investigations of advertising tech-
niques, claims, insinuations, and half-truths have often furnished
excellent, unemotional approaches to the subject.

Appeals that are not based on objective evidence are equally
out of place in the sale of soap, cigarettes, gasoline, or political
ideologies. It is necessary that we be critical even in fields where

truly harmful consequences of error are practically non-existent.
Otherwise we become “fuzzy” in our thinking and do not realize
that we are accepting the mere counterfeit of precise reasoning
when we prefer the claims of those who would have us destroy
our democratic way of life. In a large school one individual

[ 296]

L

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

teacher can have more effect if he can reach the student lead-
ers who, by their example, can influence others. I am happy to
be associated, at Frankford High School, with two such groups,
the student-elected leaders (on the Student Board) who give
much of their time and effort for the betterment of the school
and the faculty-elected leaders (in the National Honor Society)
who, without fanfare, help fellow-students in studies they are
finding difficult and encourage them to remain in school and to
help, in turn, other students who may be benefited by their
varied and often non-academic abilities. In these associations I
am not a propagandist, for I believe it is just as wrong to be right
for the wrong reasons as it is to be wrong in the first place. Each
student must decide for himself whether or not unselfishness and
service to others will give him the greater satisfaction in the end.
I have enough confidence in the young people of America to
believe that they are capable of reaching the correct answer,
without resort to motivation of an emotional nature.

It may be argued that the world is not built this way, that we
meet selfishness at every turn, that we make it harder for our boys
and girls to accommodate themselves to harsh realities. The
answer is that we can force the elimination of this fault if we our-
selves are truly unselfish, for all successful campaigns of special
interests are based on appeals to selfish attitudes of the prospec-
tive supporters. Unfounded claims of superiority, the dissemina-
tion of half-truths, the use of emotionally-charged means to
cloud reason can be eliminated, eventually, from the world
scene, if more and more young people become immune to the
blandishments of the propagandist and the special pleader.

ADAM FEIGHNER EBY

HOME ApprEss: 60 Arlington Pl. Buffalo 1, N. Y. (winter); Juniper Villa,
Point Abino, Ont., Canada (summer).

OFFICE ADDRESS: Adam F. Eby Associates, 336 Andrews Bldg., Buffalo 2,
N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 5, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Walter Mauney Eby, ’o2,
LL.B., 06, Gertrude Irene Gordon.

PREPARED AT: Nichols School, Buffalo, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Virginia Ruth Kamman, April 9, 1928, Buffalo, N. Y.

[ 297 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

occupation: Owner, Adam F. Eby Associates, advertising agency; owner,
Kamman’s Meat Markets (a small chain).
OFFICES HELD: President, International Brotherhood of Magicians (Ring 12),
1940; captain, Fleet 12, International Lightning Class Association, 1945-
46; president, Harvard Club of Buffalo, 1950; commodore, Buffalo
Canoe Club, 1949; fleet captain, Royal Riverside Yacht Club, 1950-51.
MEMBER OF: Buffalo Canoe Club; Rotary Club of Buffalo; International
Brotherhood of Magicians, International Lightning Class Association,
Lightning Fleet #12; Royal Riverside Yacht Club; Buffalo Yacht Club;
University Club of Buffalo; United States Power Squadron.
puBLications: “Mother’s Song Waltz,” a trumpet solo; revisions of the
Virtuoso Courses of Instruction for various instruments (written origi-
nally by W. M. Eby); Magicians Educational Forum; miscellaneous
articles on advertising and merchandising.
DISCOURAGED that the family M.D. would not let me con-
tinue through Harvard Law School after graduation, I undertook
to become a music teacher in my Dad’s music school, then con-
sidered the largest brass and woodwind school in the world. (Dad
was then listed in Who’s Who as the world’s greatest teacher of
these instruments.) But I soon found more interest in the adver-
tising end of the business than in teaching, and within a year or so
was given the impressive title of advertising manager, but it re-
mained for Alex Osborn of Batten, Barton & Osborn really to
establish me on the road to an advertising career. Seeing some of
“stuff,” he thought I would be good enough to do some
direct mail work for him and Ed Germain of Dunlop, which,
with additional assignments from time to time, kept me going
until after the big crash.

With the advertising agency business dropping off at about
the rate the cars used to go down the “Thunderbolt” at Revere
Beach, 1 was fortunate to step into a combined advertising and
merchandising position with Larkin Company, Inc., then rated
at fifty million dollars. Some six or seven years later I was hired
away from Larkin’s by Ed Hengerer, then president of the
E. W. Edwards department store chain, in a combined merchan-
dising and advertising job. This lasted until 1936, when I decided
to go out for mysclf, and opened Advertising Associates as an
advertising agency. A few years later I bought the entire stock
and changed the name to Adam F. Eby Associates, which it is
today. So much for the progression of positions in business since
graduation.

[ 298 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Many readers will undoubtedly recall the headlines across the
front page of the Boston Post “EBY OF HARVARD IN HUR-
RY TO WED” — the result of some good clean fun by a bunch
of my fraternity brothers at Kappa Sigma. Well, the same Smith
girl who was written up in that screaming story as the “femme
fatale” became Mrs. Eby in 1928, and today is still the same
wonderful person who made her such a favorite around the
campus.

Athletically, I continued playing some basketball for a few
years, then switched to tennis. I won a few titles hereabouts
and then suddenly found the M.D. frowning on further partici-
pation. Fortunately, I still had something I could do, as I owned
a boat and had been sailing for a number of years past. So, after
a few years of experimenting, I found myself sailing in the Inter-
national Championships of the Lightning Class Association and
winding up in fourth place. We’re still sailing the good ship
Ginger (#574) and are determined to hit the jackpot of Inter-
national Championship before we pump ’er out for the last time.

Financially, I have had a bit more, perhaps, than my share.
Today Virginia and I are able to live in a comfortable summer
home on the shores of Lake Erie with about three acres of
ground around us (which I mow regularly myself with the aid
of a two-wheel tractor that hauls both me and the mower around),
have my boat moored within a few minutes’ drive at the Buffalo
Canoe Club, and cook luscious steaks from our own meat markets
on a charcoal grill which I likewise built myself. In the winter
we hole in with Virginia’s mother (probably the most wonderful
mother-in-law in the world) at our combined home in the center
of Buffalo.

SAMUEL HECHT EHRLICH

HOME ADDRESS: 32 Acacia Ave., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Josepthal & Co., 19 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 29, 1903, Boston, Mass. parents: Henry Ehrlich, Sally Heche.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925.

MaRRIED: Priscilla Sawtelle, Aug. 25, 1939, Needham, Mass. cuitp: Sally
Stevens, June 15, 1942.

OccUPATION: Broker.

[ 299 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

THE events of my life from 1927 to 1937 have already been
recorded in the Decennial Report, so I shall pick up the story
from there. | |

I was married in 1939 to an attractive girl from Needham, and
the result of this capitulation was Sally Stevens Ehrlich, born in
1942. At this point my education really started. Since then I
have been learning things not included in the curriculum at
Harvard University.

My hobbies consist of golf, skating, and amateur gardening.
During the first two years of World War II, I was employed by
a company in Harvard Square, and supplied uniforms and ac-
cessories to Army and Navy officers stationed at the College.
When I left there, I went to work for a company in South
Boston which had a sub contract with the Raytheon Manufac-
turing Company. I donned dungarees, expressly tailored for me
by the New England Overall Company, and spent the balance
of the war sandblasting radar parts. I was forced to relinquish
this job because of illness which kept me on the inactive list for
a year. Subsequently I returned to and still am in the brokerage
business. In closing, I might add that in the face of undeniable
opposition I have consistently supported the Harvard football
team and the Republican party.

EUGENE EISENMANN

HOME abpress: 110 W. 86th St., New York 24, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Proskauer, Rose, Goetz & Mendelsohn, 11 Broadway, New
York 4, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 19, 1906, Panama, Panama. parents: Gustave Eisenmann, Esther
Ethel Brandon.

PREPARED AT: DeWitt Clinton High School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: $.B. magna cum laude, 1927; LL.B.
magna cum laude, 19309.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Brandon Eisenmann, ’29.

occupation: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: President, Linnaean Society of New York, 1947-49; vice-
president, 1950-51, editor, 1951, president, 1952, Federation of New York
State Bird Clubs,

MEMuER oF: American Museum of Natural History; National Audubon
Society; American Ornithologists’ Union, Wilson Ornithological Club;
Cooper Ornithological Club; Linnaean Socicty of New York.

[ 300 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

puBLicaTions: “Annotated List of Birds of Barro Colorado Island, Panama

Canal Zone”; various articles in ornithological journals.
AFTER fulfilling the requirements for my college degree in
February, 1927, I spent seven months in Europe and the Mediter-
ranean region, visiting ancient ruins, medieval churches, and
art museums. In September I entered Harvard Law School,
where I spent the most intellectually stimulating year of my
life. Law was something completely new to me; I enjoyed the
pleasure of reasoning and the devoted atmosphere of the Law
School that first year. By the end of my third year I was weary
of the Law School and looked forward to entering the world of
actual practice. By the time of my graduation the depression
had hit and there was no noticeable rush by the law offices to
vie for my services, though my grades had ranked me among
the first two or three of my class. I spent a very unhappy sum-
mer writing to and interviewing prospective employers. After
a few days with an investigation of culpable public officials,
such as occurs in New York from time to time, I became
associated with the firm of Proskauer, Rose & Paskus in New
York. I have remained with that firm (the name now changed
to Proskauer, Rose, Goetz & Mendelsohn), and have been a
partner since 1942.

My external life does not make dramatic reading. I can boast
of no unusual achievements. In recent years my most entertaining
experiences have been in court. Although I served as a delegate
from the Canal Zone to the National Democratic Convention of
1928 (we nominated Al Smith), I have had no connection with
politics beyond performing the ordinary civic functions of a
voter.

For some years I have devoted considerable time to natural
history. While the fields in which I have been most active have
been conservation and the ornithology of Panama, my interest
in the New York area has been sufficient for me to hold almost
every office in the Linnaean Society of New York and to be
elected president of the Federation of New York State Bird
Clubs. Ornithological activities and studies keep me out of doors
a good deal and ornithological writing and correspondence take
up much of my leisure evenings.

As to Harvard: I never thought much of the formal teaching

[ 301 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

methods for undergraduates, but I was impressed by the atmos-
phere of interest in the arts, humanities, and literature. Our
undergraduate era was one of prosperity; I recall little discussion
of the economic and social problems that became so important
in the 1930's. However, I am far from regretting those years of
cloistered existence. At least our generation can realize that it
is possible for humanity to enjoy periods when life is not
shadowed by the present constant sense of anxiety. We are
fortunate in that part of our lives embraced such a period.

NATHAN EISNER

HOME ADDRESS: 73 N. Main St., Uxbridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cameo Theatre, Uxbridge, Mass.

BorN: Feb. 9, 1907, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: Jacob Eisner, Caroline Good-
man.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927.

MARRIED: Jeanette M. Lockwood, March 30, 1928, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Steven Jack, April 8, 1929; Joan, Oct. 16, 1931; Richard Allan, Nov. 27,
1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Benjamin Eisner, ’26, LL.B., ’29.

occupATION: Motion picture exhibitor, owner, Cameo Theatre.

OFFICES HELD: President, Uxbridge Rotary Club, 1950-51.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club.

AFTER eleven years of economic struggle in the fields of
manufacturing and selling men’s clothing, selling investment trust
shares, dry cleaning stores, and retailing of ladies’ ready-to-
wear, during which time I moved my family from New York
to Buffalo, to Bridgeport, to Boston, I finally landed in Uxbridge
in 1938 as a motion picture theatre owner. I have been moder-
ately successful here, have built a modern indoor theatre, and
recently completed a modern 600-car Drive-In theatre here in
Uxbridge.

In the early years of our marriage, my wife and I used to
wonder how people could live in a town of 7,000 population
such as Uxbridge, and when opportunity waved its finger at
Uxbridge, we had our doubts about the possibility of our
adapting ourselves to this small community, not only because
of its size but also because there did not happen to be any other
Jewish residents. However, we did make the step and certainly

[ 302 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have never regretted it. We have raised our children here and
have become an integral part of this community; we can honestly
say that this is our home. At present our son, Steven, is serving
in the Army, Joan is attending Saint John’s College in Annapolis,
Maryland, and Richard is attending the Uxbridge public school.

KIMBALL CONRO ELKINS

HOME ADDRESS: 34 Madison St., Cambridge qo, Mass.
OFFICE ADpRESS: Widener Library, Harvard University, Cambridge 38, Mass.
BORN: Jan. 24, 1903, Bath, Maine. parents: Wendell Phillips Elkins, ’88, Ruth

Dexter Conro.
PREPARED AT: Proctor Academy, Andover, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1927; A.M. 1933.
UNMARRIED. ,
HARVARD BROTHER: Hervey Bertrand Elkins, ’28.
OccUPATION: Senior assistant in Harvard University Archives.
MEMBER OF: Nuttall Ornithological Club.

AFTER graduation I worked as a farm hand for several months.
The pay was six dollars a week and “found,” but there was little
temptation to spend money, and I was even able to save a little,
though not enough to assuage the impatience of my creditors.
At any rate it was better than loafing while waiting for something
to turn up. This occurred in January, 1928, in the form of a
job as a clerk in the Massachusetts State Library. I enjoyed my
associations there, acquired a smattering of knowledge of library
procedure, and learned to recognize a government document
when I saw one. Perhaps it was an exaggerated estimate of the
latter accomplishment which got me an invitation, the following
November, to join the staff of the Harvard College Library,
for my new job turned out to deal principally with that species
of literature. When the second World War depleted the per-
sonnel of the University Archives, I was asked to fill in there,
and I have stayed on. Besides serving as custodians of the official
records of the University that are not in active use, the members of
the staff of the Archives are in charge of the Library’s collection
of Harvardiana. We operate a small reading room and a reference
service which tries to assist all enquirers whose researches deal
with the past of the University or the careers of Harvard men.
Classmates who have college memorabilia (especially lecture

[ 303 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

notes or diaries) that they wish to dispose of are invited to offer
them to us.

My travels have been limited to some twenty-six states of the
Union and the provinces of Quebec and Ontario. I have spent
most vacations at the ancestral farm in Andover, New Hampshire.
My principal hobby is field ornithology. In politics I have always
been an independent. Usually I find myself on the side of those
who want to throw the rascals out, but I have seldom had as
few qualms about adopting that position as at the present time.

WILLIAM PARTRIDGE ELLISON

HOME ADDRESS: Hotel Somerset, Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Proctor Ellison Co., 26 South St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 19, 1904, Newton, Mass. PARENTS: Eben Howes Ellison, Grace
Melville Jones.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927(29).

MARRIED: Isabelle Clark Lothrop, Sept. 5, 1931, Portsmouth, N. H.

HARVARD BROTHER: Eben Howes Ellison, Jr., ’17.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Proctor Ellison Company, sole leather tanners.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S.N.R., 1942-45.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Gamewell Company, 1934-51, Day Trust Company,
1942-51; trustee, Boys’ & Girls’ Camps, Inc., 1938-51; vice-chairman,
Committee on Development, Northeastern University, 1948-51.

MEMBER OF: Shoe and leather associations, The Country Club, Brookline;
Duxbury Yacht Club; Greater Boston Community Fund, 1950-51.

THE Old Cow Hand” as referred to in the Decennial Report
has had quite a lot of experience since that time spending many
hours of his day with light cows, heavy cows, native steers and
country steers, to say nothing of throwing a little “bull” now
and then at Proctor Ellison Company.

After my graduation from Harvard, I devoted my time to the
sole leather business, with the exception of three years when
1 was in the service. I enlisted in the U. S. Naval Reserve in
1942, served as Damage Control Officer aboard a destroyer
escort operating in the Atlantic on convoy duty for two years
and was later transferred to an aircraft carrier in the Pacific
during 1944-45. I still enjoy the friendship of many service men
with whom I came in contact during my wartime service.

My Icisure hours I devote to golfing and hunting — wild ducks

[ 304 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

—and also hunting contributions for worthy causes. In that con-
nection, I might add, my greatest joy has been in helping the Boys’
and Girls’ Camps, Inc. (young girls I mean) to enjoy life a little
better and watching them mature to fine young men and women,

I am looking forward to the Twenty-fifth Reunion and meeting
the various friends I have contacted throughout my college life.

SUMNER WILSON ELTON

HOME ADDRESS: 11 Warwick Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 50 Congress St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 19, 1905, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: William Johnson Elton,
Bertha Frances Wilder.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927; LLB.,
1930.

marrigp: Elizabeth Wilma Lloyd, July 24, 1937, Wareham, Mass. (di-
vorced 1945); Flora Glidden Brown, April 20, 1946, Darien, Conn.
cup: Sumner Wilson, Jr., Sept. 12, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Norman William Elton, ’20.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Judge advocate, Trinidad, B.W.1, 1942-44;
judge advocate, First Service Command, Boston, 1945-46; colonel,
J-A.G.G.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant attorney general, Massachusetts, 1946-49.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

HAVING been accorded the pleasures and duties of father-
hood at a tender age when many of those in the Class were well
on their way towards being, if they were not already, grand-
fathers, what else could there possibly be for me to talk about at
this time? Suffice it here, however, merely to comment that this
is at least some evidence that life can begin well past forty.
Otherwise, I practise law and have on rare occasions been known

to make an excellent shot at golf.

PAUL KENNETH ELWELL

HOME AppRESS: 25 Spruce St., Belmont 78, Mass.
BORN: May 26, 1904, Gloucester, Mass. parents: Clarence Alfred Elwell,

Hannah Malena Anderson.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925.

[ 305 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

CHEEVER HAMILTON ELY

HOME ADDRESS: 1502 E. Schantz Ave., Dayton 9, Ohio.
OFFICE ADpREsS: Norton Co., 40 Keowee St., Dayton 1, Ohio.

BorN: May 20, 1904, Beverly, Mass. parents: Charles Hardy Ely, ’98, Ade-
laide Florence Trafton.

PREPARED AT: Sharon High School, Sharon, Mass.; Phillips Academy, An-
dover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B.. 1927.
MarRieD: Mary Frances Noyes, Oct. 13, 1929, Sharon, Mass. CHILDREN: |
Cheever Hamilton, Jr., Jan. 24, 1931; Charles Beecher, Dec. 26, 1940.
occupation: Abrasive engineer, involving recommending of abrasive prod-
ucts for use in manufacturing processes, such as precision grinding.
MEMBER OF: Dayton Engineers’ Club, American Ordnance Association;
American Society of Tool Engineers; Institute of Radio Engineers,
Dayton Amateur Radio Association; American Radio Relay League.

AFTER repeated urgings and exhortations from Monk Russell,
and I interrupt so easily when contemplating a job like this, I
shall now endeavor to beat the deadline and write a short synopsis
of my activities since 1927. The years have brought neither fame
nor fortune to me or my family, but we have had a grand time
just “living” and are continuing to do so.

The July after graduation I embarked on my business career
by starting with the one and only company with which I have
ever been associated, namely, the Norton Company of Worcester,
Massachusetts. The Norton Company is the world’s largest
manufacturer of abrasives and abrasive products in addition to
being a large machine tool manufacturer. There, on a very fine
training course they initiated me into the mysteries of abrasive
products, particularly grinding wheels. The training course lasted
until August of 1928. At that time I was transferred to the Detroit
branch office and became a “glorified expediter and follow-
upper,” trying to keep the automotive plants supplied with
grinding wheels during the hectic months of late 1928 until
October, 1929.

On October 13th, 1929, Mary Frances Noyes (Wellesley, 1930)
and I were married. Yes, that is right, the date was the thirteenth,
and we both still agree that thirteen is our lucky number. At
this time the Norton Company moved me back to Worcester
where I became a member of the sales engincering department.
We lived in Worcester from October, 1929, until January, 1931,

[ 306 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

On January 24, 1931, our first son, Cheever, Jr., was born.
Shortly after his birth I was transferred to the Norton Company
district office in Cleveland. There I was the office manager for
five years and later for two years was field engineer for the
Ohio and Kentucky districts. While we were in the Cleveland
area we made our home in Shaker Heights. In September, 1938,
I was transferred again, this time to Dayton, Ohio, where I was
responsible for a sales territory comprising a good part of
Southern Ohio and Northern Kentucky. On December 26th in
the year 1940 our second son, Charles Beecher, was born, and
he completes our little family with the exception of a small cocker
spaniel named Dixie. In one of her Wellesley Class Reports Mary
Frances very aptly described her occupation as that of running a
C. C. C. Camp — Cheever, Chip, and Chuck.

For hobbies and recreation we started out with bridge, golf,
and amateur radio. I say we because Mary Frances very gener-
ously “tolerates” and at times enjoys this radio hobby of mine,
although she does not have an amateur radio license herself.
However, we are still going strong on bridge, especially Mary
Fran, and I am still an ardent radio “ham.” Almost any Sunday
morning you can hear me “yacking” away on the twenty-meter
amateur phone hand on 14,230 kilocycles with the call W-8-LJ.
Through amateur radio we have made many friends not only in
the United States, but throughout the world. During World
War II, I was active in the organization of the Dayton War
Emergency Radio Service, a part of the Civilian Defense
activities. I am also an active member in the present emergency
radio communications set-up in Dayton and southern Ohio.

Our elder son, Cheever, Jr., attended Miami University at
Oxford, Ohio, last year and was a member of the Naval Reserve
Officers Training Corps. In the summer he requested active duty
in the Naval Reserve and at present is in Naval Aviation, stationed
at Jacksonville, Florida. Our younger son, Chuck, is in grade
school in the suburb of Dayton called Oakwood, where we make
our present home. It is too soon to anticipate, but perhaps Chuck
will be the one to carry on the family Harvard tradition starting
with my grandfather, then my dad in the Class of 1898, my
wife’s dad in the Class of 1897, and her brothers in the Classes of

1924 and 1934.
[ 307 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

This very briefly describes some of the major activities of the
Elys, but it cannot in any way express the fun we have all had
together, and the fun we are still looking forward to in the years
to come.

RALPH ALBERT EMCH

HOME ADDRESS: 3736 Garrison Rd., Toledo 13, Ohio.

OFFICE AppREss: Schultz Die Casting Co., 1810 Clinton St., Toledo 7, Ohio.

BorN: Dec. 20, 1905, Toledo, Ohio. PARENTS: Albert Henry Emch, Martha
Welke.

PREPARED AT: Scott High School, Toledo, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MarrieD: Mary Margaret Schultz, Sept. 19, 1929, Toledo, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Sue Ellen, Aug. 25, 1932; Judith Claire, Oct. 6, 1935.

OccUPATION: Vice-president and treasurer, Schultz Die Casting Company.

MEMBER OF: Sylvania Country Club; Toledo Club; Harvard Club of Toledo.

MY FIRST job after leaving Harvard was as assistant merchandise
manager in a local department store. Two years of this type of
work convinced me that retail merchandising was not to my
liking, so I quit and went to work for a lighting fixture manufac-
turing company. The big depression put an end to this business,
and in January, 1932, I joined the Schultz Die Casting Company,
with which, 1 am happy to say, I am still associated.

I was married September 19, 1929, to Mary Margaret Schultz
and am now the father of two lovely daughters. The early days
of our married life were a rather hard struggle financially because
of the depression and because our company came into being in
the very depths of the depression. The ensuing years were kind
to the new enterprise, however, and as the business prospered,
life for our family assumed a more comfortable status also. We
haven’t done much travelling, although we do manage an annual
vacation trip to the seashore or to a northern Michigan or Cana-
dian Jake for fishing. My hobbies are golf, squash, hunting, fishing,
and photography. I am a member of Hope Lutheran Church and
have just completed six years of service on the church council. I
am a staunch Republican as was my father before me, and I
look forward to 1952 as the year for a Republican victory in the
national elections. My admiration for Harvard has increased

with the years, and my one sincere regret is that I have no sons
to send to her for training.

[ 308 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DEWITT ENDICOTT

HOME ADDRESS: 1120 N. Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, Il.

oFFIcE AppRESS: Union Carbide & Carbon Corp., 230 N. Michigan Ave.,
Chicago, Ill.

BORN: Oct. 10, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: George Endicott, Ellinor
Ten Broeck Reiley.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928, DEGREE: A.B., 1927(28).

marrieD: Elizabeth Townsend Appleby, April 27, 1946, New York, N. Y.

occupaTION: Manufacturing; personnel manager, Union Carbide & Carbon
Corporation.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted September 23, 1940; Field Artillery,
relieved from active duty as major, July 14, 1945.

a

ARNOLD HENRY ENGBORG

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Bedford St., Lexington, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hayden, Harding & Buchanan, Consulting Engineers, Park
Square Bldg., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 31, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Carl G. E. Engborg, Hannah

E. Nilsson.
PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B. IN CE. cum laude, 1927.
MARRIED: Maude Jeannette MacQuarrie, Dec. 22, 1933, Cambridge, Mass.
CHILDREN: Alan Roy, Nov. 28, 1936; Paul Bertil, Nov. 5, 1938.

occuPATION: Civil engineer.
TWENTY-FIVE years of vocational indifference have been
made more tolerable by the pursuit of varied diversions. Photog-
raphy and sailing have come and gone, but woodworking and
music have held on all through the years since boyhood, music
especially, and the piano above all. During the past ten years a
lively interest in fine automobiles, especially of the sports type,
has added much to the enjoyment of after-working hours. In
February, 1944, I was one of the seven enthusiasts who founded
the Sports Car Club of America. My present pride and joy is an
Alfa Romeo car of vintage age now in the process of rebuilding.

For a livelihood, I have kept to engineering most of the time,
working for consulting engineers and the U. S. government.
After spending the war years as a naval architect with the Navy
Department, I went to Bolivia for the Institute of Inter-American
Affairs. I returned home resolved to leave the engineering
profession, but this resolution has not as yet been fulfilled.

[ 309 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

CHARLES PHILIP ENGELHARDT, JR.

HOME apprEss: 17 Otis St., Bedford, Mass,
OFFICE ADDRESS: g Arlington St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 11, 1907, Somerville, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Philip Engelhardt,
Emma Tesko.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREE: S.Bi 1927.

MARRIED: Nlarion Hazel Tucker, Sept. 2, 1933, Somerville, Mass. CHILDREN:
Beverly Carol, June 2, 1937; Gretchen Marilyn, Feb. 9, 1939; Merle
Christine, Jan. 14, 1944.

occupation: Architect, Kilham, Hopkins, Greeley & Brodie.

OFFICES HELD: Building inspector, Bedford, 1948, 1949; member Planning
Board, Bedford, 1949-52.

MEMBER OF: 1730 Club; Harvard Club, Concord; Northeastern Faculty
Club.

pustications: Zoning Survey, Town of Bedford.

MY LAST three years in the Architectural School, plus my
undergraduate work in Fine Arts, instilled in me a desire to
travel in Europe to study and see the important monuments, so
I spent several months abroad. When I returned home, archi-
tectural work was scarce, so I set about getting practical experi-
ence in the various branches of an architect’s training. Some-
times this took the form of locksmithing, speculative building,
plumbing, and steamfitting, and hardware business — and I found
myself with an established hardware store. During World War
Il, I felt I could do more for the war effort, so I took several
courses in engineering at Northeastern University. My associa-
tions there were so pleasant that I decided to go there and teach
drawing and mathematics, working at Stone & Webster’s sum-
mers on war work.

With the war over, I left teaching and spent several years
doing architectural engineering with Nichols & Norton and some
occasional teaching at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
In 1949 there was an opening with a fine firm of architects, Kil-
ham, Hopkins, Greeley & Brodie, with whom I am now associ-
ated, but I continue to follow the teaching profession by carrying
night courses at Northeastern University. When first married we
bought a small house in Bedford with several acres of land, and
we have lived there ever since. Much of my spare time is spent
in enlarging my home and doing some farming which seems to

[310 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

be my hobby. When prospective builders monopolized my
weekends, while I was building inspector in the Town of Bed-
ford, we bought an old farm in Candia, New Hampshire, and
retreated there weekends and summers. Keeping these two
homes running and my three lovely daughters and wife happy
leaves little spare time.

+ WILLIAM HARRISON ENNIS

BorN: May 13, 1905, Decatur, Il]. parents: William Stapp Ennis, ’86, Jessie
Margaret High.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927.

pieD: July 27, 1935, near Milwaukee, Wis.

WHILE an undergraduate William Harrison Ennis was a member
of the Freshman Track Squad, Freshman Glee Club, Freshman
Instrumental Club, Deutscher Verein, and Debating Union.
Throughout his undergraduate years he was a member of the
Wrestling Squad. After graduation from Harvard, he travelled
abroad and the next fall entered the Northwestern University
Law School. During the summers, between law school sessions,
he travelled a great deal in Mexico and Central America, from
the Guatemala frontier to Honduras, and in Europe. After com-
pleting his studies at Northwestern, he started his law practice
in Chicago which he continued until his death. He was active in
politics; he had been the Republican nominee for alderman and
later for representative in the State Legislature. He never
married. .

+ CARL OSCAR ERICKSON

BORN: July 1, 1905, Magnolia, Mass. pARENTs: Nels Gustave Erickson, Ida
Anderson.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

DIED: Jan. 31, 1934, Arlington, Mass.

AFTER leaving Harvard, Carl Oscar Erickson spent one year
working in the display advertising department of the Boston
Herald. In the spring of 1929 he joined the New York Life
Insurance Company, as a salesman in the Boston office. He was
not married.

[311]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

WILLIAM HINCHMAN ERTEL

HOME ApprEsS: 414 Crest Ave., Charleroi, Pa.
OFFice appress: Fox Grocery Co., 300 McKean Ave., Charleroi, Pa.

BORN: May 24, 1905, Rushville, Ind. PARENTs: Thomas Henry Ertel, Eva
Marie Hinchman.

PREPARED AT: Rushville High School, Rushville, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.B.A., 193I-

marriep: Mary Hall, Dec. 21, 1935, Galesburg, Ill. cuttpren: Thomas Nich-
ols, Jan. 9, 1940; Ann, Oct. 29, 1942.

occupation: Meat merchandising manager, Swift & Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Charleroi Rotary Club, 1948-49.

MEMBER OF: Mfasonic Lodge; Harvard Business School Club of Pittsburgh.

FRESH from the corn country,” was the name given to me b
the members of the old Kex Club when I arrived in Cambridge
from Indiana in September, 1925. In many ways, it seems that I
have never completely outgrown this name — at least, I have never
outgrown my genuine interest in the corn country.

Following my graduation from the College, I spent one year
in the Law School and later transferred to the School of Business
Administration, where I received my M.B.A. in 1931. Immediately
after graduating from the Business School, I spent one year with
Haskins & Sells, public accountants, in Newark and New York.
Later, in September, 1932, I went with Swift & Company, meat
packers in Chicago. This was the beginning of a very nomadic
life which led through the cities of Syracuse, Chicago, Detroit,
Milwaukee, South Chicago, Chicago, Pittsburgh, Wheeling
West Virginia, Pittsburgh, Cumberland, Maryland, Pittsburgh,
Washington, Pennsylvania, Charleroi, Pennsylvania, West
Brownsville, Pennsylvania, and Charleroi. Confused as the above
may seem, I actually went to Pittsburgh for the first time in 1935;
and have been in the so-called southwestern Pennsylvania area
ever since. Most of my work has been in the branch house
division of the Swift & Company selling organization. My job
at the present time is that of meat merchandising manager for
some 200 Clover Farm stores of the Charleroi area, although I
am still associated with Swift & Company. One of the outstanding

events in my experience with Swift & Company was the winning

of a national sales contest with a two wecks’ trip to Havana,
Cuba, in 1949, for my wife and myself.

[ 312)

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Along the way, I have found time to become a member of the
Masonic Lodge in Wheeling, West Virginia. In Charleroi I
became a member of the local Rotary Club, of which I was
president during 1948-49. Membership in the Rotary Club, as
an active service club, has been one of my most interesting
experiences in recent years as it has enabled me to develop a wide
acquaintanceship in the entire Monongahela River Valley. This
has also contributed towards active participation in many civic
and community affairs. Frequent changes in residence have
prevented active membership in the Pittsburgh Harvard, Yale,
Princeton Club, although I have been able to maintain member-
ship in the Harvard Business School of Pittsburgh, at times.

In December, 1935, in Galesburg, Illinois, I was married to
Mary Hall, Knox College, ’31, a member of Pi Beta Phi sorority.
She has shared my Pittsburgh and western Pennsylvania travels
with me. Our son, Tommy, was born in January, 1940, and our
daughter, Ann, in October, 1942. In spite of our nomadic ex-
periences listed above, our children have been fortunate in
attending only one school.

My active participation in the Cub Scout and Boy Scout
program has developed through my son, Tommy, who also
maintains and stimulates my interests in athletics by his active
interest in the school athletics, as well as in the Pittsburgh Pirates
and Pittsburgh Steelers. Unfortunately, I haven’t seen a Harvard
team play in years.

In contrast to the naturally strong-boy interests of my son,
Tommy, my daughter, Ann, lends the femininity and balance
to the family life with her winning personality and pronounced
joy of living. Together we have shared all the adventures of
Winnie-the-Pooh.

Another of my active interests is that of the Christian Church
where I have maintained membership and in recent years, have
taught several Bible Classes.

I am probably among the few Harvard men who never voted
for our fellow-alumnus, Franklin D. Roosevelt. As a conse-
quence, I have seldom been on the winning side in a national
election. I have not been in agreement with the United States
Foreign Policy, particularly in South America and Asia, under
“Harry’s” administration and disapprove very strongly of

[ 313 ]

cheetah ae aemmeeieeeenemannrmemenemenmteneett

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MacArthur's removal. Neither do I agree with the government’s
current program of controls as one of the fundamentals in old
Economics A made a mild reference to the natural economic laws
of supply and demand which I haven't forgotten. Those I remem-
ber most among the College faculty are “Archie” Coolidge,
“Frisky” Merriman, Schlesinger, Merk, William Bennett Munro,
Kirtley F. Mather, and my tutor, J. P. Baxter, 3d.

PETER AUGUST ESCHER

HOME AppRESS: Threefold Farm, Spring Valley, N. Y.

OFFiceE appress: Biochemical Research Laboratory, Spring Valley, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 3, 1903, Zurich, Switzerland. parents: William C. Escher, Emma
Abegg.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

MarrieD: Anne Varley, December, 1934, Paris, France (divorced).

occupation: Agricultural research.

GEOFFREY WINSLOW ESTY

HOME appress: 6 Ober Rd., Princeton, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New Jersey State Dept. of Health, Trenton 8, N. J.

Born: Nov. 30, 1904, Brookline, Mass. parents: Clarence Houghton Esty,
Rosamond Amelia Field.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.D., 1931.

MARRIED: Valiere Wrightmyer, July 6, 1929, Belleville, Ont., Canada. cuiL-
DREN: Joseph Arthur, June 28, 1937; Jonathan Field, Dec. 7, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Selover Esty, ’16.

OccUPATION: Physician; pediatrician; public health (full-time).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned captain, Medical Corps, August,
1942; attending surgeon, Fort Riley, Kans.; depot surgeon (post sur-
geon), 18th Replacement Depot, serving 9th Army, England, France,
Belgium, Germany; separated, major, January, 1946.

oFFices HELD: Director, Division of Constructive Health; New Jersey State
Dept. of Health, charge of Bureaus of Maternal and Child Health,
Dental Health, Adult and Industrial Health, Nutrition, and Crippled
Children Commission; state chief, Health Services, state Civil Defense
Organization of New Jersey; member, New Jersey Welfare Council
(chairman, Mental Healch Committee); Nutrition Council, Council for
the Improvement of Child Health Services; Advisory Council, New
Jersey Chapter National Society for Crippled Children and Adults;
State Crippled Children Commission; president, Henry George School,
Newark, N. J., trustee, Henry George School, N. Y.; trustee, Economics
Education Institute, trustee, Lincoln Foundation; vice-president, Inter-

[314]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

national Union for Land Value Taxation and Free Trade; trustee (1950),
New York Society for General Semantics; member, Governor’s Com-
mittee on Youth; advisory committee, Parents Group for Retarded ©
Children.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Pediatrics (diplomate), 1938, American
Academy of Pediatrics (fellow), 1938; American Public Health Asso-
ciation (fellow); American Medical Association, County and State
Medical Associations; New Jersey Academy of Pediatrics, New Jersey
Association for Adult Education; World Federation for Mental Health;
National Council on Family Relations; American School Health Asso-
ciation; Child Study Association of America; New York Society for
General Semantics; Institute for General Semantics; International Soci-
ety for General Semantics; American Association for the Advancement
of Science; Harvard Club of New Jersey; Civil Defense Research Asso-
clates,

PUBLICATIONS: Articles, reviews, speeches, on fundamental economics, public
health, and mental health, in professional journals including American
Journal of Economics and Sociology.

IT WAS with great relief that I was informed in 1927 of my

admission to the Harvard Medical School to begin the grueling

four years to become a doctor. All was not work, however, for

I had begun to know a beautiful Canadian contralto, and in the

summer of 1929 we were married and went to Europe on our

honeymoon. She then shared with me the many trials and
tribulations of internships, first at the Children’s Hospital in

Boston, then a rotating service at the Fifth Avenue Hospital in

New York City, and a final moulding into a pediatrician by a

year of internship at the Babies Hospital in New York City. In

1934 we struck out on our own and settled in Westfield, New

Jersey, to begin the practice of pediatrics. In 1935 we took the

summer off and drove our car through Europe, visiting and

studying in children’s hospitals in Switzerland, Austria, and

Germany.

In 1937 our first son, Joseph, was born, and I really began to
learn about practical pediatrics. In 1939 we built a beautifully
designed and equipped pediatric office adjacent to our house, and
in 1940 our second son, Jonathan, was born to add the final
touches of a successful pediatric practice. Becoming increasingly
interested in teaching, I took a part-time position with the Bureau
of Maternal and Child Health, New Jersey State Department of
Health, in 1941, and began to teach and supervise some eighty
physicians and 250 public health nurses in the state baby keep-

[315]

yi 2 Sct a tne la aN Raced nonaaieceanaenannaeeilN. re

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

well stations in the field of preventive pediatrics and mental
hygiene.

Then the war struck, and I “volunteered” after having been
told by the recruiting physician that “pediatricians were unnec-
essary at any time, especially in war time.” Like a darn fool, after
that remark, and knowing nothing of the Army, I accepted the
rank of captain, instead of major like all the other pediatricians,
and off to Fort Riley, Kansas, I went to become “attending
surgeon.” This L. C. job called for the care of all wives and
children of enlisted men and officers on and off the post, the
nurses, the WACS, the px girls, a daily women and children
clinic, the new-born service, two wards of sick WACS, and all
the emergency ambulance cases on the reservation. That’s all.
Fortunately, I had a nice home full of cockroaches on the post,
and my wife and children soon joined me to enjoy (?) the Kansas
summer. In the winter of 1943 I was whisked off to the E.T.O.
and found myself as depot surgeon (post surgeon, also an L. C.
job) for the newly-organized 18th Replacement Depot, which,
after D-Day went over to France from England, and then became
the replacement supply depot for the Ninth Army as they ad-
vanced through Belgium, Holland, and Germany. Finally head-
quarters in Paris ordered our cracked colonel to give me the pro-
motion to major I had let myself be talked out of when I entered
the Army. After “enjoying” the buzz bombs and the Battle of the
Bulge and starting several other replacement centers, I returned
home and post haste got out of the Army at the end of 1945.

Instead of returning to pediatric practice, I entered full-time
public health and rejoined the State Department of Health and
the Bureau of Maternal and Child Health as pediatrician in charge
of child guidance. In 1949, with the reorganization of the Health
Department, I became director of the Division of Constructive
Health, which includes the Bureaus of Maternal and Child Health,
Dental Health, Adult and Industrial Health, State Crippled
Children Commission, and the programs of nutrition and mental
health. I am also State Chief of Health Services, State Civil
Defense Organization of New Jersey.

In 1950 we built a modern “functional” house in Princeton of
all places and have been living there very happily since. As a
Harvard man, I have just got used to saying that I come from

[ 316 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Princeton without blushing. My children are huge — in fact we

all are. Joe, now fourteen, is over six-foot-two, with a size thirteen

hoof, good at sports and studies alike. Jon is ten, and even bigger

at his age than was Joe. He plays a wicked clarinet and is

possessed of a swell disposition. My wife is as charming and
sings as well as ever. I don’t know how a family could be happier.
Hobbies? I have had many of them through the years. Music,
singing, photography, tennis. My sons and I built a large model
railroad in Westfield, but haven’t had time to rebuild in Princeton.
Right now, I am a hi fi fan (high fidelity to you), and enjoy my
record collection and deafening our guests. Before the war, my
wife and I became interested in the philosophy of Henry George
and in fundamental economics. I have been teaching it a bit and
am connected with several schools and organizations in this field.
I also became acquainted with general semantics, having studied
with the late Alfred Korzybski at the Institute for General
Semantics at Lakeville. These two interests have profoundly
influenced our lives and broadened our perspective and our
understanding of other human beings, giving us much to share
and to think about as we grow older together.

CHARLES EVANS

HOME ApprEss: 408 N. Thomas St., Arlington, Va.

BORN: March 29, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Lipman Evans, Dena
Jennie Levine.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; LL.B. (Boston Univ.),
1931.

_ MaRRIED: Alma Stein, Dec. 28, 1941, Boston, Mass. c#irp: Laurence
Michael, Nov. 10, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Attorney-at-law; branch counsel, Pulp, Paper, and Paper-
board Branch, assistant divisional counsel, Forest Products Division,
Office of Price Stabilization, Washington, D. C.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Branch counsel, Office of Price Administra-
tion, Washington, D. C., 1944-47 (Pulp, Paper, and Paperboard
Branch); volunteer worker, Civil Air Raid Warning Center, Boston,
during World War II.

OFFIcEs HELD: Town Meeting member, Brookline, Mass., 1936-48; public
adminstrator, Bristol County, Mass. 1939-43; editor, Sunrmons (offi-
cial publication of Tau Epsilon Rho legal fraternity), 1937-40; director,
Kehillath Israel Brotherhood, Brookline, since 1935.

[317]

rer aiann FoR die ea maaan ceed NNR ab ieneaniaaetaene abn btitd

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MEMBER OF: Masons; Massachusetts Law Society; Tau Epsilon Rho, legal
fraternity.

PUBLICATIONS: “Status of Life Insurance Policies in Bankruptcy under
Massachusetts Law,” “Double Jeopardy,” (co-author) Boston Uni-
versity Law Review; former editor, Case of the Month, Massachusetts
Law Society Journal.

THE minutiae of change are difficult to comprehend, much
more to describe. We scarcely observe these changes within
ourselves, excepting those instances when a mirror is handy.
Others who see us at intervals are far more capable of describ-
ing these changes, at least objectively. Consequently, were I to
state that since graduation my corpus accrued some fifty pounds
of meat and fat, it would be difficult to imagine the change in
the picture of the youth that appeared in the Year Book.
Obviously my attention should properly be directed towards
events and incidents rather than to change.
Like many other untold numbers of attorneys, I presumably
was the victim of economic depression during the ’30’s. Since
time was not a factor professionally, a substantial portion of it
was devoted to legal research. The fruits of this effort appeared
as articles, notes, or comments in legal publications. Since legal
articles were not accepted as legal tender by tradesmen, how-
ever, My economic status was not improved during this span.
Following my return from London late in 1938 — a trip financed
in part by sympathetic clients —I was impressed with the inevi-
tability of total war. My efforts to revive my commission in the
Field Artillery were unavailing. The Army said I was too old.
Out of despair I joined the state of matrimony. When the draft
finally caught up with me, I was rejected as psychologically
unfit. Suffice it to say that three Harvard classmates, who were
examining doctors at the induction center, expressed surprise at
sceing me report and then proceeded to pass me physically.
During the interval between Pearl Harbor and mid-1944 a por-
tion of my time was devoted to the Civil Air Raid Warning Cen-
ter in Boston. My duties there were to alert the country at the
approach of enemy planes. After a stint at a local shipyard, I
moved my family to Washington, D. C., where my efforts were
more appreciated as a member of the legal staff of the Office of
Price Administration in 1944. I saw it through to the bitter end

[318]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and then returned to the law practice in Boston in 1947. For —
four years I kept trying to pick up loose strings, at which I was
no howling success. After Korea, when the staffing of the new
Office of Price Stabilization was taking place, 1 was requested to
join the legal staff at my old job in Washington — branch coun-
sel of the Pulp, Paper, and Paperboard Branch.

My son, Larry, who, at the age of seven, is four and a half feet
tall and almost as heavy as I was as a college freshman, bids fair
to participate in Harvard’s future football glory provided, of
course, he can qualify scholastically. My extra-curricular activ-
ities are probably those of the average American citizen. My
hobby is trying to keep the landlord, the butcher, and the grocer

happy.
NORMAN A. EVANS

HOME ADDRESS: 5841 N. Shore Drive, Milwaukee 11, Wis.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pressed Steel Tank Co., 1445 S. 66th St., West Allis 14, Wis.

BoRN: March 1§, 1903, Pecatonica, Ill. pARENts: Robert Llewellyn Evans,
Mary Hunt.

PREPARED AT: Soldan High School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREE: S.B, IN MECH. ENGIN. cum laude, 1927.

MARRIED: Amoret W. McDowell, June 15, 1929, Rochester, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Anne Southworth, July 29, 1930; Carolyn Amoret, June 20, 1934; Corn-
elia Hunt, June 17, 1939.

OccUPATION: Vice-president in charge of sales, Pressed Steel Tank Company.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Whitefish Bay Community Methodist Church; direc-
tor, Liquefied Petroleum Gas Association.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Mechanical Engineers, A. S. R. E., Har-
vard Engineering Society; Harvard Club of Milwaukee; Town Club;
Wisconsin Club.

DO YOU remember the dozens of interviewers around Cam-
bridge in 1927 offering “positions” to all who would accept? I
weighed all the propositions given me and decided to take that of
the New York Telephone Company because their starting pay
happened to be a few dollars more per week than the others!
After a training period in New York, I was moved to Albany,
to the commercial engineering department. Albany was convenient
for commuting to Wellesley, but the work was less than stimulat-
ing, except for the Saturday football pools. (Don’t tell Kefauver! )

In any case I decided that while the largest corporation in

[ 319 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

the country was a secure place to work, it was not for me, so I
looked around for a job in a small company, which I found in
the James L. Taylor Manufacturing Company of Poughkeepsie,
New York. I started to work for them in February, 1928, as
assistant to the owner, a job which consisted of being everything
from office boy to general handyman. I was taught the rudiments
of a conservative manufacturing business, saved enough to pay
my debts, and finally convinced my Wellesley gal we could get
married and live on what was left — which turned out to be nil.
We had a wonderful time in Poughkeepsie; played lots of tennis,
made many lasting friendships, and entered into the community
life as though we would be there forever. It was not until a year
after the 1929 crash that I realized that not only were there
drawbacks in working for the largest corporation in the world,
but working for too small a company also had its disadvantages,
particularly in a period of diminishing returns. The curtailment
of business in 1930, with the corresponding decrease in income,
seemed to be the beginning of the end for us, but it proved to be
a blessing in disguise, for it was the reason for my making a
connection with my present company, the Pressed Steel, Tank
Company of Milwaukee.

I started with Pressed Steel Tank in January, 1931, and soon
realized not only that I had found the kind of work I really en-
joyed (selling), but that I was working for one of the finest
manufacturers in the country, not too big, not too small. In June
of that year I was put in charge of the New York sales office
and I stayed there until January, 1939, when I was moved to
Milwaukee to become general sales manager, a position I still
hold, although a vice-president title was added a few years ago.

Our family is pretty well grown up now. I am completely
surrounded by females— even the dog. Our eldest is at Purdue,
the next will enter college next fall (her mother hopes it will be
Wellesley), and the youngest will be in the eighth grade. So you
sce the end of big family budgets is not yet. In the summer of

1949 the whole family took a tour of the West by car and visited
many of the National Parks. We covered an awful lot of territory

in a litrle less than four weeks. The high spot was the fishing in

Yellowstone. We had our limit of wonderful trout within an

hour. Yes—you guessed it. I do like to fish whenever the

[ 320 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

opportunity presents itself — which isn’t nearly often enough.
Northern Wisconsin is a good place, and we've spent several
vacations there. Fortunately for me, I have some very good
friends (who also are customers) who likewise like to fish, so I
do seem to get in a weekend or two each year in Maine, New
York, or Canada for some real good fishing. That seems to be
the only sport I can manage. I travel too much to play golf
consistently, and my tennis is confined to playing with my
daughters. In the winter I enjoy speed skating vicariously by
going to the meets in which our youngest daughter is entered —
and who, by the way, hasn’t done too badly.

The last twenty-five years have gone by altogether too quickly.
I seemingly have been too busy to enjoy my family or my leisure
properly. Now I have resolved to take more time to enjoy life,
and suddenly I’m wondering if I’m able to. Are there others
who have likewise missed the boat? I hope to find out in June.

MANNING PHILLIPS MASON EXTON

HOME appress: Main Street, Greenwich, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Seabrook Farms Co., Bridgeton, N. J.

BORN: June 17, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: William G. Exton,
Florence Phillips.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.

MaRRiED: Lillian C. Bassick, Nov. 4, 1944, Bridgeport, Conn. CHILDREN:
William Bassick, March 7, 1946; Cordelia Wheeler, July 11, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Exton, Jr., ’26.

OCCUPATION: Assistant to president, Seabrook Farms Company, which
operates extensive farms and processes frozen foods.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active duty, Supply Corps, U. S. Naval Re-
serve, July, r9q1-February, 1946; duty as officer in charge, U. S. Navy
Cost Inspection Office, Bridgeport, Conn., responsible for audit of
contractor's accounts, price determination, contract termination claims,
etc., September, 1941-February, 1946.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts; Priorities Division, OPM, Washington, D.C. .
April-June, r9qr.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1935, member Board of Control, 1937, Art Stu-
dents League of New York; trustee, American Fine Arts Society.

MEMBER oF: Art Students League of New York (life member); National
Association of Cost Accountants; Chestnut Ridge, N. Y., Rod and Gun
Club; Rotary Club of Bridgeton; Country Club, Fairfield, Conn.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional exhibits of watercolors,

[321] e

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

THIS twenty-fifth year out of college finds us with surround-
ings that tell why this is called the Garden State. It was just a
year ago that we moved here to “Tea Burning Town,” Green-
wich, New Jersey. We have a rare 1730 Flemish bond brick
house, which makes us less mindful of the old Connecticut Salt
Box that we called home. Doings are less hectic here below the
Mason-Dixon line, though we are in reach of Wilmington and
Philadelphia. Our new friends have made it enjoyable here.
With our two children at the threshold of school days, the focus
of interest is on them. (The committee will not hold up pub-
lication long enough to permit our announcing our third child.)
The foregoing may seem to suggest that there should be time
for other interests. It never works out that way, perhaps because
I have always had so many of them. My favorite avocation,
drawing and painting, is much too neglected to suit me; skiing
calls for a major excursion from flat South New Jersey. But one
outside activity manages to occupy much of the time of us all —
our “other” houses. There is our rambling Victorian, remodelled
carriage house in Southport, Connecticut, where Linda and the
children stay in the summer and enjoy the company of many
relatives and friends. There is our old house in the woods, set
down in a hollow amid the rolling hills of Millbrook, New York,
near the Exton family home. And since this seems to be a habit
of ours, there is another old place we are starting to putter with
near here in Mannington, Salem County.
On the business side, my work is very satisfying. Our opera-
tions from May through November involve farming operations
of 50,000 acres and codrdinating this with the largest frozen
foods processing plant. Besides the usual business variables to
contend with, we have the weather. Having had extensive expe-
rience in production, management, accounting, industrial engineer-
ing, methods and systems, in many different lines of business, I
operate as a management engineer, working with whomever and
whatever may be involved to raise efficiency, improve operation,
and increase profits. You could hardly have a more interesting
assignment — it ranges from marketing problems and _ setting
selling prices to budgeting and planning production. Although
this pattern of working on the bottlenecks and exceptional busi-
ness problems has been mine since 1927, I have never written for

° [322]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

publication. At least one of my jobs, however, has left a per-
manent mark on the shape of American Industry, through the
example I worked out for General Foods, which has been exten-
sively copied. It has become part of the literature of business

lanning; i.e., Prentice Hall, Corporate Treasurer's and Control-
ler’s Handbook, chapter two. For General Foods I worked out
a way to coordinate the long-range business planning with annual
forecasting, financial planning, capital budgeting, and current
operations.

Back in the thirties while I was a student at the Art Students
League of New York, this large codperative society was losing
money and was in danger of extinction. I led the reorganization,
served as treasurer, and put it into profitable operation. As a
result of the experience of dedication in this case, I have ever
since avoided intense participation in service activities, although
I am a fairly regular attendant at the Rotary Club of Bridgeton.
I hope that Linda’s and my visit with the twenty-fifth Reunion
will reéstablish contacts with the Class that have been all too few
during the last twenty-five years.

JOSEPH FACTOR

HOME ADDRESS: 26 Livermore Rd., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 51 Brattle St., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN; Aug. 5, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Sol Factor, Mathilda Wenger.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.D. (Boston Univ.),
1931.

MarRiED: Bernice Loewenstein, June 28, 1936, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Sol Avram, June 28, 1946; Rachel Irma, Nov. 26, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, Medical Corps,
US.N.R., November, 1942; ordered to active duty, January, 19433
released to inactive duty as lieutenant commander, May, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in obstetrics, Tufts Medical School.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association, Massachusetts Medical Society;
New England Obstetrical and Gynecological Society; American Board
of Obstetrics and Gynecology.

AFTER several years of training in Boston and New York, I
entered the practice of medicine in 1937, specializing in the field
of obstetrics and gynecology. I am still at it, with my office
conveniently located in Cambridge, so that I may continue to

[ 323 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

have my hair cut at La Flamme’s until such time as the last fuzz
vanishes. I married the girl I was courting back in 1927; we sub-
sequently weathered together both the depression, when we
started our married life, and the disruption of World War IL. I
returned gratefully to home base, having lost all desire to travel.

I should still do it all over again and do not think the world is
coming to an end except occasionally at 26 Livermore Road,

Belmont, when the youngsters and the puppy decide to whoop
it up together.

CLARENCE FAGAN

HOME ApDpREss: Buzzards Bay, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Dept. of Public Welfare, District 7, 600
Washington St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 16, 1898, Venice, Ill. parents: William Henry Fagan, Laura
Peggs.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 10923-1925.

mMaRRIED: Martha E. Robertson, June, 1933. CHILDREN: Richard, Feb. 16,
1934; Robert, Sept. 4, 1936.

OccuPATION: Social work.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Marines, April 17, 1917, to April 30, 1919.

I HAVE been employed since 1929 as a social worker in the
Massachusetts Department of Public Welfare.

HARRIS FAHNESTOCK

HOME AppRESS: Nashawtuc Road, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Digital Computer Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 30, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Harris Fahnestock, ’92,
Mabel Metcalf.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1927(28); A.M., 1930.

marriep: Alice M. Post, June 29, 1926, Bernardsville, N. J. (divorced
1937); Frances Clarke Jeffery, May 1, 1939, Chicago, Ill. CHILDREN:
Alice Patricia, Dec. 2, 1930; Eileen Metcalf, May 15, 1934; Joan
Whedon, Jan. 9, 1944; Deborah Turner, Nov. 13, 1946.

OccuPATION: Research engineer, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

FROM 1928 to 1930, Harvard Graduate School; 1930-31, learning
to fly at Inter City Airlines, East Boston; 1932-38, flying and in-
structing, Inter City Airlines, East Boston; 1939, married Frances
Jeffrey of Chicago whom I met in Sun Valley, skiing; 1940-42,

[ 324 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

one of founders of General Aircraft Corporation and vice-presi-
dent and director, test pilot of Skyfarer, Lowell Airport; 1942-45,
Radiation Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology;
since 1945, Digital Computer Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute
of Technology.

IRVING JAY FAIN

HOME ADDRESS: 376 Slater Ave., Providence, R. I.

orFfice appress: Apex Tire & Rubber Co., 505 Central Ave. Pawtucket,
R. I.

BorN: Aug. 11, 1906, Providence, R. I. parents: Alfred Abraham Fain,
Elizabeth Stoneman.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Providence, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Evelyn Macie Fine, March 14, 1937, Providence, R. I. cumpren:
Lee Stoneman, April 19, 1943 (died July 28, 1943); Lyle Stoneman,
Nov. 11, 1945; Elizabeth, Feb. 4, 1947.

occupaTION: Secretary (principally concerned with overseas activities),
Apex Tire & Rubber Company, manufacturers of special products of
rubber, cork, and plastic for the tire, shoe, and wire industries.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcoRD: U. S. Army, June, 1942-December, 1945 (QM,
then ORD, then Air Corps); United Kingdom, North Africa, Italy;
then to Wright Field, Ohio, and McClellan Field, Calif.; job — some
miscellaneous assignments and rubber specialist.

OFFICES HELD: Currently: president, Providence Foreign Trade Club, Provi-
dence Urban League; vice-president, American Technion Society,
Classical High School Alumni Association, member board, Union of
American Hebrew Congregations, Temple Beth El (Providence),
General Jewish Committee of Providence; Pawtucket area chairman,
United Negro College Fund, member Export Advisory and Rubber
Products Export Advisory Committees, Office of International Trade.

MEMBER OF: Export Managers Club of New York; Overseas Automotive
Club; New England Export Club; Providence Foreign Trade Club;
American Ordnance Association; Air Force Association; Air Forces
Aid Society; Nation Associates; American Civil Liberties Union,
Ledgemont Country Club.

THE past twenty-five years have treated me well. My life on
the whole has been happy and secure yet active and varied, with
the blessings outnumbering the sorrows. Ever since I married
Macie Fine from Hattiesburg, Mississippi, in 1937, we have com-
plained that we didn’t start earlier and get our family younger.
After a discouraging series of medical difficulties, our first son
Lee was born while I was overseas, in April, 1943, but died three

[ 325]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

and one-half months later after spending all of his days in Chil-
dren’s Hospital in Boston. Our boy, Lyle, and girl, Elizabeth,
are now six and five respectively, extremely active, much too
active and young for parents celebrating the Twenty-fifth Reun-
ion. My father’s family is closely-knit and harmonious. Although
my mother died suddenly in 1942, my father has kept the family
close together and now enjoys his five children, spouses, his
fourteen-plus grandchildren, and one great-granddaughter. We
live close together geographically also, and four of the five are
in business together with Dad. Our joint business activities are
varied enough to keep us all out of mischief, including Apex
Tire & Rubber Company (rubber, cork, plastic products),
Tower Iron Works (steel fabrication, steel swimming pools,
textile machinery), Thompson Chemical Company (anti-freeze,
oil, etc.), Lee Engineering Company (tire demounters and jacks),
Hay Realty Corporation, Dighton Industries, Inc.

As is inevitable in such a family group, I handle a variety of
things but particularly overseas business. The contacts we enjoy
around the world bring us interesting mail and visitors. It also
means travel for me, particularly to South America and the Far
East. Outside of the family circle I am vice-president of Israel
Electric Products Corporation, a pioneer manufacturer in a pio-
neer land. In college I campaigned for Bob LaFollette for presi-
dent. I am still a liberal despite the strange associations of this
word in some minds and the quite opposite attitudes of many of
my business contacts. I can report to my friends that I am not
yet overwhelmed by the “black shadow of fear”; nor have the
McCarthys “ put the finger” on me for being a long-time reader
of The Nation and member of the American Civil Liberties Un-
ion; and I am still the optimist who believes that our rights and
liberties will not be eroded by the hysterical attacks upon them
under the guise of protecting them.

ROBERT FAIRCHILD

HOME AND OFFIce ADDRESS: 26 E. Main St., Marathon, N. Y.

Bon: Nov. 15, 1905, Johnstown, N. Y. parents: Irving Eugene Fairchild,
Ellen Hodder.

peepanen at: Johnstown High School, Johnstown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLFGE: 1923-1927. DPGREFS: A.B. 1927; M.D. (Columbia Univ.),

IORI.
[ 326)

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Jeannette E. Julien, July 1, 1930, Brooklyn, N. Y. cHitpReN: Robert
Eugene, May 4, 1931; Betsy-Anne, Dec. 12, 1932; Susan Ellen, April 3°
1942.

occuPaTION:! Physician, in private practice. |

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: 1st lieutenant, Medical Corps, 11th Armored
Division, Oct. 30, 1942; promoted captain, June 6, 1943; 32nd Evacua-
tion Hospital, E.T.0., Dec. 24, 1944; Feb. 27, 1944, to July 25, 1945,
Third Army; separated Nov. 14, 1945, to active Reserve; promoted
major, Dec. 10, 1946, US.A.R,; discharged U.S.A.R. and A.U.S., Aug.
15, 1951. 1 9 te

OFFICES HELD: President, Cortland County Medical Society, 1938; senior
warden, Masons, 1942; member, Cortland County Board of Health, since
January, 1950; director, Marathon Emergency Hospital under Civilian
Defense, since 1951.

MEMBER OF: Cortland County Medical Society; New York State Medical
Society; American Medical Association; American Academy of Gen-
eral Practice; American Legion; Masons.

PUBLICATIONS: Two recent “Letters to the Editor” of local weekly news-
paper, panning local school board.

I RECEIVED my M.D. from Columbia University in 1931 and
the following year interned at the Binghamton (N. Y.) City
Hospital. During 1932-34 I did general practice in Bainbridge,
New York, and since then have been doing general practice in
Marathon, New York. I was completely liquidated by a flash flood
on July 7, 1935. I was rehabilitated and have led a humdrum
Babbitt existence since, except for three years in the Army.

EDWIN FARNHAM

HOME ADDRESS: 200 Common St., Belmont 78, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 20, 1905, Belmont, Mass. parents: Edwin Emery Farnham,
Florence Chenery.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927.

Marriep: Pearl Elizabeth Tiffin, Oct. 14, 1932, Ferguson, Mo. cuitp: Ed-
win Andrew, Aug. 17, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Air transport design specialist in defining maintenance and
operations problems.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Civilian specialist: evaluated with Navy Bureau
of Aeronautics and N.A.C.A. risk of loss of landing control of flying
boats, 1941-42; worked with Lockheed designers on the development
of the Navy air transport “Constitution,” 1942-45; surveyed air-
freighting of “shell” oilrig to Arajuno, Ecuador, by Panagra, 1943;
surveyed and planned for expansion of China National Airways Cor-

[ 327]

RAE As nt

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

poration’s maintenance and personnel capacity in operation from Cal-
cutta, India, to Chungking, China.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant to division engineer eastern, 1935-39, assistant
division engineer eastern, 1939-42, assistant resident engineer (at Lock-
heed), 1942-45, Pan American Airways, Inc.; engineering designer
“A” and specialist, North American Aviation, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Varsity Club; Amalgamated Bachelors Association
of Bristol, Pa.; Bryan Memorial Church of Coconut Grove, Fla.; Los
Angeles Aero-Medical Association; Magnolia Park Community Church
of Burbank, Calif.; Belmont Methodist Church.

PUBLICATIONS: Reports limited in circulation to business associates.

THIS is the biography of a bachelor of arts who aspired to be’
an engineer. After I heard at Red Top, in 1927, that Harvard
College had granted me a degree of Bachelor of Arts, my back
muscles assured me there must be a better way to travel than
backwards in the bow of a shell or astride a motorcycle; so |
took stock of my knowledge. During the last of 1927 and first
of 1928, I gathered together at the Harvard Engineering School
such additional knowledge as my engineering sciences major
made intelligible. In the summer of 1928 Elliot P. Cogswell with
whom I had model “T”ed the United States in 1926, suggested I
help him control the weight of the Keystone Aircraft Company
tri-motor transport “Patrician.” My career as a journeyman in the
aviation industry was started.

For the next seven years I went through the jobs of stress
analyst, draftsman, and designer with, successively: the Fokker
Aircraft Company, on the shipboard fighter XFA-1, the Curtiss
Wright Airplane Company, on the “Condor II” air transport;
general aviation, on the trimotor that died in development, the
Waco Aircraft Company, on its Peruvian trainer; and the Doug-
Jas Aircraft Company, on the Army Y1o-43 observation and
Navy XTBD-1 torpedo bomber. The young aircraft manufac-
turing industry became my staff of life.

A young social worker of St. Louis, Pearl Elizabeth Tiffin,
whom I met during the development of the “Condor,” shared
my faith in the good that aviation held in store for our genera-
tion. Betty and I continued to move together from October 14,

1932, through the far-flung group of air travellers, Without a
growing family of our own, we moved into the family circles
of our young friends and shared their experiences as designers,

[ 328 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mechanics, pilots, storekeepers, managers, and world travellers.

In 1935 we had the opportunity to shift into the fast-develop-
ing field of international relations through the job of assistant to
the division engineer, Eastern, of Pan American Airways, Inc. My
field of minor concentration — history, government, and eco-
nomics — while in college had awakened my interest in inter-
national relations. By 1933 I was convinced that these relations
would revolve about air transportation and had made my appli-
cation to Pan American Airways. In the easy informality of the
small community of Coconut Grove, Florida (which was the
seaplane base of the air transports serving the passengers shut-
tling between North, Central, South America, and the Old World),
we used the planning, designing, and production of our aircraft
friends and acquaintances. We serviced and maintained the Si-
korsky $38, Sqo, S41, Sq2z, and S43 amphibians and flying boats,
the Fokker Trimotor, the Douglas DCz, DC3, and Cs54 land-
planes, the Consolidated “Commodore” flying boats, the C-87
landplanes, the Boeing 247D and B307 landplanes, the B314 fly-
ing boats, the Martin “Clippers,” the Lockheed “Electras” and
“Lodestars,” and the Fairchild amphibians. In the evenings we
listened to our friends’ experiences “on the line” in making air
travel easier and more certain, shared the ever-increasing anxieties
of individual travellers for a common ground of understanding
among nations, and grew in our social understanding of individ- .
ual needs from such informal contacts.

In the face of expected transportation needs growing out of
this demand for person-to-person communication, the ever-
increasing importance of mechanical and operational reliability
being built into replacement transport aircraft to supplement
operations planning and sweat became a personal conviction
that led to reports substantiating the points of current weak-
ness. By 1938 I was formalizing these needs for our business
associates: Standards of Engine Performance versus Piston
Fatigue; Engine Oil Foaming, 1939; Corrective for Hydrody-
namic Instability of Flying Boat Landings, 1940; and Standards
of Aircraft and Instrument Performance, 1942. These campaigns
for improvements led us back into the manufacturing industry
eight years after our arrival in Coconut Grove, enriched by the
understanding of human needs that had added Edwin Andrew

[ 329]

7S ASLO cM Se a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

to our family group on August 22, 1940. In Los Angeles we
found old and new friends among the designers and craftsmen who
were planning the “Constitution.” With Andy walking and talk-
ing, our social interests revolved about our church and neighbor-
hood activities. I joined a “rider pool” for transportation to
work and occasional fishing and hunting in the Sierras. The
informal work of the aeromedical group that met once a month
to discuss pilot fatigue and high altitude flying became a sub-
stitute Coconut Grove. We missed, however, the freedom of
communication of a small community and were hampered by
fuel rationing and blackout. |

As assistant resident engineer on the Pan American Airways

staff of consulting specialists during the development of the
Lockheed “Constitution” and Douglas C7q transports, I found
myself an outsider turned to “Monthly Summaries of Aircraft
Mechanical Irregularities” in 1943. During that year I made
further reports on Fatigue Causes of Engine Failures in Peru,
Quick Change Macelles for the P-38, and Oil Exploration and
Airfreight Potentials in the Amazon Basin. In late 1943 and
early 1944 I reported on Pilot Fatigue related to Supervision Needs
in China, essayed a prediction of the Initial Maintenance Service-
ability of the “Constellation,” and discussed before the aero-
medical group Aircraft Flying Characteristice and Safety versus
Trained Pilot Judgement. At the same time I was tussling with
“Principles of Jet Propulsion” at the University of California
at Los Angeles under Harvard Graduate D. M. J. Zuerow.

In 1946, stretched beyond my capacity to influence designers
as an outsider, I dropped into six years of effort as a part of the
North American Aviation, Inc., preliminary design group. Betty
and I were buying a modest Burbank home and found thereon a
street teeming with youngsters and a congenial circle of friends.
The majority, like myself, spent a couple of hours each day to
reach work that had moved from Burbank. Betty threw her
efforts into the Magnolia Park Community Church, the Burbank
Parent Teachers Association, and the Red Cross Welfare services.
Andy lived for his school and neighborhood friends. My think-
ing was recorded in a series of N.A.A. reports on: airplane and
airline total operating costs, competitive air transports for 1950;

domestic air transport market for 1950; international air trans-

[ 330]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

port market for 1950-55; economics of turbine-powered air
transports; trainer safety, reliability, and accessibility; life of air-
craft components; and production and development costs of
advanced aircraft. We are now living in Belmont with the hope
of soon becoming a part of the expanding helicopter industry.

WARREN FOSKET FARR

HOME ADDRESS: 31 Walton St., Dorchester, Mass.

Born: April 2, 1905, Dorchester, Mass. parents: Walter Bates Farr, Mary
Evelyn Byrne.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927; LL.B.
magna cum laude, 1930.

J. HORACE FAULL, JR.

HOME AppRESS: 72 Fresh Pond Lane, Cambridge 38, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 16, 1904, Toronto, Ont., Canada. PARENTS: Joseph Horace Faull,
PH.D., 0g, Annie Bell Sargent.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.; University of Toronto
Schools.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1927; A.M., 1929;
PH.D., 1932.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Chemical consultant, headquarters, Cambridge, Mass., adviser,
General Tire & Rubber Company, Baytown, Texas, GR-S develop-
ment; adviser, Office of Naval Research, Washington, military rubber
research; adviser, Office of Rubber Reserve, Washington, research and
development.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Technical superintendent, Baytown Synthetic
Rubber Plant; member numerous government GR-S technical commit-
tees,

OFFICES HELD: Director research, General Latex & Chemical Corporation,
Cambridge, 1948; head, Scientific Section Office of Naval Research,
Boston branch office, 1946-48; director, Northeastern Section, American
Chemical Society, since 1950; director, Irving Street Club (Alpha Chi
Sigma), since 1947.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Sigma Xi; various rubber groups;
Harvard Club of Boston; Franklin Club of Akron; Torch Club of
Houston; Appalachian Mountain Club; past member Savin Hill and
Boston Yacht Clubs; American Geographical Society; Academy of
Political Science, New York; American Academy of Political and Social
Science, Philadelphia.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional technical articles; many internal reports.

[33t ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

REFLECTING on twenty-five years and this recurring task of
writing installments to my “life,” I now recall that the habit was
promoted early with an English A assignment. At that time
there was much doubt that the material available could be
presented to assure the necessary grade, so I enlarged on future
expectations. Since then perhaps it is an unconscious devotion to
VERITAS which has aided a lagging resolution to put in writing
these corrections to those early expectations. Regardless of
intervening transformations, I am convinced that I benefit from
continuing positive correlations of great and rare value between
Harvard education and ability to live a justifiably useful and
satisfying life; this statement reduces the temptation to elaborate
again on future expectations, even though the “life” material
available leaves as much doubt as existed for the English A
assignment. At least my classmates can anticipate two prospects;
first, I shall see more of them, and second, there are good and
improving grounds that I shall have at least fifty years for this
pleasant task as well as the agreeable one of trying to live more
and better material for the next “life” installment.

In the five years since the Vicennial Report, my practice of
turning to new jobs on a leave-of-absence-continuing-advisory-
to-the-old-job status has changed me to a chemical consultant
specializing in elastomer research and synthetic rubber. My clients
are limited in number, but take up a lot of time and travel,
although I hold to the feeble theory that a quarter of my
time is my own. Together the problems faced are those arising
from supply and material property deficiencies in a period of
protracted national danger. Since few any longer contemplate an
early relief from world stresses through any early events of a
decisive or final nature, the rubber programs with their still
critical outstanding problems require organization for a long pull.
While it is difficult to recognize deadlines, and there is no oppor-
tunity to relax effort, the situation does permit proper emphasis
on continuous basic research effort. Many lament the continuing
dominance of government in this field, but an adequate alternative
mecting security needs is not so far appearing. Perhaps the steep
rise in rubber usage with a stable natural supply will eventually
provide the incentive to private synthetic producers. If in the
meanwhile some security objectives of the research program have

[ 332 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

been accomplished, rubber will become of less government
concern.

My hobbies continue to be a little color photography, an
occasional deep sea small sailboat cruise, presently in the
Caribbean, an occasional hike in the New England mountains, and
the enjoyment of good food with a friend anywhere. My reading
appetite seems omnivorous outside fiction, partly because of a
need to discharge professional responsibilities which are forever
demanding all I can add to acquired knowledge, and partly
because the world environment is so fascinating, with reading an
essential means of making contact.

JOSEPH VINCENT FEELEY

HOME ADDRESS: 2 Captain Pierce Rd., Scituate, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: E. J. Feeley Co., 263 Summer St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1905, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Edward Joseph Feeley,
Anna Murray.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1927(28).

MARRIED: Helen Russell, June 21, 1930, Newton, Mass. cuitp: George
Russell, June 29, 1931.

occupation: Manufacturing and sales of dyestuffs and chemicals for textile
mill uses.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, E. J. Feeley Company.

MEMBER OF: Scituate Harbor Yacht Club; Scituate Rod and Gun Club.

THERE is nothing unusual to report. My spare time has been
spent in following the activities concerned with being on the
water in small boats and with my family. My son has reached
the service age and has enlisted in the U. S. Army.

*- LOUIS PERCY FEINBERG

BORN: June 6, 1906, Boston, Mass. Parents: David Feinberg, Rebecca
Soloduchen.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.

MARRIED: Pauline Sidel, June 14, 1927, Boston, Mass. cui~pren: Flinor,
Aug. 19, 1929; Marcia, May 28, 1932; Joan, Oct. 16, 1939.

DIED: Feb, 2, 1947, Boston, Mass.

DURING his freshman year Louis Percy Feinberg was awarded
Price Greenleaf Aid and in succeeding years he held the Henry

[ 333]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

D. and Jonathan M. Parmenter Scholarship, 1924, and the Stough-
ton Scholarship for 1925-26. After graduating, he went into his
father’s millinery business where he remained until 1933. He
then joined the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. He
advanced rapidly and in three years became an assistant manager
at Brockton, Massachusetts, and was one of the company’s out-
standing representatives. He was a member of the National Life
Underwriters Association.

In 1945 he was given a leave of absence because of illness. In
1946, finding his former work too strenuous, he took the position
of general manager in charge of sales for the Slate Company of

Brockton, a tobacco firm, with whom he was associated at the
ume of his death.

SIDNEY THEODORE FEINBERG

HOME ADDRESS: 19 E. Cedar St., Chicago, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 33 N. LaSalle St., Chicago, IIl.

BORN: Jan. 27, 1907, Chicago, Ill. parents: Abraham Feinberg, Rose Lowis.

PREPARED AT: Englewood High School, Chicago, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: §.B., 1927; J.D. (Univ. of Chicago),
1929.

Marriep: SherLee Pelinski, Feb. 15, 1947, Los Angeles, Calif. cuitp: Jeffrey
E., March 10, 1951.

occuPATION: Attorney-at-law.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered U.S. Naval Reserve as lieutenant (j-g.)
Nov. 23, 1942, and released to inactive duty on Nov. 20, 1945, as lieuten-

ant; saw active service as gunnery officer in North Adiantic, Bering Sea,
and White Sea.

MEMBER OF: Phi Epsilon Pi Fraternity; Veterans of Foreign Wars.

I HAVE managed to stay alive, eat, maintain my health, provide
for my family, pay my taxes, and stay out of the newspapers,
insignificant enough accomplishments until I look over the list of
my colleagues who have failed to accomplish one or more of
these details. If I can report as well on our Fiftieth Anniversary,

I shall consider myself one of the outstanding members of our
Class. And who will say, “No”?

HAROLD ARTHUR FELIX

HOME apokRss: 3 E. Goth St, New York 21, N. Y.

orice appaess: Leve, Hecht, Hadficld & McAlpin, 50 Broadway, New
York 4, N. Y.

[334]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Jan. 12, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Samuel Andrew Felix,
Bertha Lange.

PREPARED AT: DeWitt Clinton High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: S.B. 19273 LL.B. (Columbia Univ.),

1930.
MaRRIED: Karyl Levene, Nov. 28, 1934, New York, N. Y. cup: Jill, Jan.

3. 1948.
occupaTION: Lawyer; partner in firm of Leve, Hecht, Hadfield & McAlpin,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II; G. I. Cadre Instructor, Field
Artillery Replacement Training Center, Fort Bragg, N. C.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chairman, Registrants Advisory Board, and
Associate Government Appeal Agent of New York Local Draft Board,
Selective Service System; head attorney, War Production Board; as-
sistant counsel, Navy Price Adjustment Board.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant U.S. Attorney, Southern District of New York.

MEMBER OF: Lawyers Club, New York City; County Lawyers Association
(member, Committee on Law Reform).

ON GRADUATION from Law School, I was appointed to the
United States Attorney’s office in New York, but this was before
the “glamour” attached itself to the “FBI” and “Mr. District
Attorney.” Leaving that office I became associated with the
counsel for the New York Superintendent of Banks in the liqui-
dation of the Bank of the United States. With the advent of NRA
in 1933, I became Code Authority Counsel for the Artificial
Flower and Feather Industry.

World War II, jolting us out of complacency, found me at
Fort Bragg, North Carolina, “sounding off” on the firing of the
105-millimeter howitzer at the FARTC and performing the far
from legal chores of a G.I.

Return to more mundane things in New York was via Wash-
ington and a period of service with the War Production Board.
In 1945 I became a member of the law firm in which “Pink”
Hadfield is also a partner.

In 1948 a blessing was bestowed upon us in the form of a
daughter, Jill. She is truly the light of our lives, and in her so
many of our expectations are centered.

While the partners around me are devotees of golf, I am the
lone “rider” of the group, and come rain or shine, I am out week-
ends availing myself of Central Park’s bridle paths.

Politics? Democrat, of course, but of the Independent stripe.

[ 335 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

ALBERT FENDIG

HOME ADDRESS: Orange Grove Plantation, St. Simons Island, Ga.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Gowen, Conyers, Fendig & Dickey, Brunswick, Ga.

porn: April 12, 1906, Brunswick, Ga. Parents: Albert Fendig, Rosalie
Borchardt.

PREPARED aT: Glynn Academy, Brunswick, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925.

MARRIED: Gladys Hemenway Gowen, April 17, 1929, Brunswick, Ga.
CHILDREN: Jane Hemenway, March 17, 1930; Albert Fendig, 3d, Nov. 17,
1931; James Gowen, April 7, 1936; Rosalie Deneen, June 21, 1947.

occupation: Lawyer, member of firm, Gowen, Conyers, Fendig & Dickey.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Called to active duty as lieutenant (jg), U.S.N.R.,
July 1, 1941; promoted commander; served at Charleston, S. C., New
York, and West Coast areas, and Hawaii; returned to inactive duty,
Sept. 26, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Area Commissioner and other offices, Okefenokkee Area
Council, B.S.A., 1928-41; president, Coastal District, B.S.A., 1946; presi-
dent, Brunswick Rotary Club, 1947-48, Brunswick Bar Association,
1949; member, National Council, B.S.A., 1949-50; vestryman, Christ
Church, St. Simons; director, Frederica National Monument Associa-
tion, Brunswick Federal Savings & Loan Association, etc.

MEMBER OF: S.A.E. fraternity; Masons; Elks; Escorts’ Club; Brunswick
Country Club; American Legion; Brunswick Rotary Club, American
Camellia Society; Southern California Camellia Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Co-editor, American Camellia Catalog.

PRINCIPALLY because of my father’s serious ilIness I did not
return to Harvard after my sophomore year. My father died in
1926 and it became necessary for me to assume management of
some of his business affairs. For this reason, I never returned to
complete my studies. Desiring a professional career, I commenced
the study of law soon after I had completed the work in connec-
tion with my father’s and mother’s estates. In 1929 I married
Gladys Hemenway Gowen, a Brunswick girl. I passed the
Georgia Bar exams in December, 1929, and was admitted to the
practice of law in January, 1931. I have been practising ever
since, except for the four and one-half years’ interval, 1941-45,
when I served in the Navy. During the first decade of my
business experience I engaged in work concerning timber lands
and other realty businesses.

My travels consist of a trip to Europe in 1927, a trip to Canada,
several trips to the Midwest and Southwest, numerous trips to

[ 336 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

New York and Washington, and my extensive travels with the
Navy. I am an Episcopalian, a member of historic old Christ
Church on St. Simons Island.

Since returning to civilian life in 1945, I recommenced the
practice of law, individually at first, and later as a member of
my present firm which we formed in April, 1951. While I am
engaged in the general practice of the law, my specialties are
taxation, realty, corporation and estate law.

While I have done my share of golfing, fishing, and hunting,
my particular hobby is growing camellias which (for the benefit
of any of my poorly informed classmates) is the aristocrat of
southern shrubs. I happened to have done so much research work
in connection with the classification and nomenclature of
camellias, that I have done all of the research work in connection
with the American Camellia Catalog, and have contributed articles
to the American Camellia Society yearbook. At the present time,
one of the national publishing houses has engaged me to write
a book on the subject which will be published in 1953.

This particular member of the Class of ’27 considers that he
has lived a satisfactory, happy, full, non-spectacular, average
existence with the normal amount of ups and downs; that he has
made and probably will continue to make his proper contributions
to his community and country; that he has reared and is rearing
four grand children (taking credit primarily due their mother);
that he takes pride in his vocation and avocation and desires

nothing more than for the Russians to leave us alone, so that
it will not be necessary to interrupt such a career again.

+ OLIVER DRAYTON FERGUSON

BORN: Dec. 18, 1903, Paducah, Ky. Parents: John King Ferguson, Lorena
Stahl.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924, 1925-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Katherine Smith, March 12, 1930, Grosse Pointe, Mich. (divorced
1932). cuit: Oliver Drayton, Dec. 21, 1930.

HARVARD SON: Oliver Drayton Ferguson, ’52.

piep: April 6, 1952, Paducah, Ky.

AS THIS Report went to press the Secretary learned of the death
of Oliver Ferguson.

[ 337]

= ae nts ch ati ith ama iD eaten eae tasaens inet nie |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

With the exception of three years, 1939-42, spent in Arizona
prospecting for gold, he had been hospitalized since 1933 at
Western State Hospital, Hopkinsville, Kentucky.

LAURENCE MUNROE FESSENDEN

HOME AppRESS: 1 Lakeview Rd., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Home Insurance Co., 22 Batterymarch St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Dec. 6, 1905, West Medford, Mass. parents: Horace Chapman Fessen-
den, Alice Mabel Long.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

marrieD: Hilda Josephine Bewes, May 5, 1933, Exeter, N. H. CHILDREN:
David Long, April 22, 1934; Laurence Munroe, Jr., Oct. 1, 1935; Linda
Dunsworth, Sept. 26, 1940; Nancy Barrett, March 1, 1944; Jeffrey
Marlowe, Aug. 27, 1946.

occuPaTION: Assistant manager, Boston office, Home Insurance Company of
New York.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Private first class, Massachusetts State Guard.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Bay State Club; district chairman, Community
Fund; trustee, Laurel Trust.

MEMBER OF: William Parkman Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Winnepesaukee Boat
Association; Boston Office Managers’ Association; Insurance Library
Association, New England Insurance Exchange, Harvard Club of East-
erm Middlesex, Bay State Club, Winchester Country Club, Weown
Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Table of Various Commissions and Net Premiums; insurance
articles in trade journals.

LIKE many of my brethren, I was catapulted into the stock and
bond business in the era of unlimited credit and skyrocketing
stock prices. 1 was absolutely convinced that, given a few more
years, I could be a second Jessie Livermore, the boy wonder of
Wall Street. I can truthfully say I never made as much money
before — or since. There were only two things that stopped me
from becoming that second Jessie Livermore; one was not
enough time, and the other a few days in October, 1929, that
cleaned out not only me but the firm for which I was working.
I limped along for a year or so with another outfit and then
changed to the insurance business where I do not make as much
moncy, but where meals come with more regularity. I am now
assistant manager of the Boston office of the Home Insurance
Company of New York but still chin with some of the old guard

[ 338 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

who weathered the crash, and watch the second big bull market
upswing which is now going on with apparently a firmer back-
ground and credit structure than the 1929 affair.

Somebody said that “children are assets” and since I am the
father of five, I should consider myself wealthy. The two older
boys, I think, are going to Harvard. The elder is quite interested
and is applying for admission to next year’s freshman class. The
number two boy stirs less easily, and although interested, at the
moment wants only to reach maturity and marry a rich girl. The
chief interests of the two girls are, of course, clothes and hair-dos,
while the youngest, a boy, would just as soon have more and
more Hopalong Cassidy.

On the hobby side I consider myself quite an average person.
During the winters I keep busy bowling one night a week, and
last year I took up the ancient but fascinating sport of curling.
This could be taken as a sign of advanced age, but, after seeing
the growing interest among young and middle-aged groups in
this country, and the rabid interest among our Canadian neigh-
bors, I find it is a great sport than can be played with enjoyment
at all ages. During the golfing season I get unpopular at home
by spending too much time chasing mugs, cups, and plates and
occasionally I win one with the help of a good handicap and
partner. I have only one real luxury, a summer home built on the
shore of Lake Winnepesaukee, New Hampshire, in 1946.

All in all the past twenty-five years have been very kind. I
have a good wife and family, good health, all my teeth and part
of my hair. I can honestly say there are few men with whom I
would swap places.

FREDERICK VANDERBILT FIELD

HOME apprEss: 16 W, 12th St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 23 W. 26th St., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: April 14, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: William Brachurst Osgood
Field, Lila Vanderbilt Sloan.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Brown, March 20, 1929, New York, N. Y. (divorced);
Edith Chamberlain, Feb. 18, 1937, New York, N. Y.; third marriage,
July 14, 1949, Las Vegas, Nev. cutupren;: Lila Ann, Feb. 17, 1932; Gail C.,
Jan. 15, 1938.

[ 339]

matt ent at ARR AES SASL ASTRON CTT RN OUI re emenmammenee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

ISAAC FERSICHERT FINE

HOME ApDpREsS: 208 Fuller St., Brookline, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Division of Employment Security, 881 Com-
monwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 18, 1906, Scerniewitz, Poland. parents: Abraham Fine, Annie
Feifer.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.B.A., 1929.

marriep: Anne R. Hecht, Jan. 1, 1936, Boston, Mass.

occupation: Supervisor of training, Massachusetts Division of Employment
Security.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II veteran.

THOMAS ELDRETH FINLEY, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

Born: Oct. 16, 1904, Madisonville, Ky. parents: Thomas Eldreth Finley,
Ella Campbell.

PREPARED AT: Madisonville High School, Madisonville, Ky.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924, 1925-1927. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927.

marrieD: Mildred Shacklette, Aug. 20, 1931, Avon, Conn.

occupation: Teacher in independent secondary school; head of Mathe-
matics Department; chairman of dormitory committee; supervisor of
freshman program. .

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Appointed 1st lieutenant, Army Air Forces,
September, 1942; administrative officer serving principally in Florida,
promoted to grade of captain, October, 1943, to major, February, 19455
separated from service, January, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, vice-president, Connecticut Walley Section of
Association of Teachers of Mathematics in New England, 1950-52.
MEMBER OF: National Council of Teachers of Mathematics; Southern New
England Mathematics Association; Harvard Club of Connecticut.

EXCEPT for the years from 1942 to 1946 I have been on the
faculty of the Loomis School since graduation from college.
Going into teaching was more or less without premeditation,
certainly I had made no long-term plan, for or against, but it
seems to have taken. For several years I divided my teaching
time between mathematics and history, but I came to believe
that I preferred mathematics as a subject to teach and have
taught only mathematics for fifteen years. I became head of the
department three years ago when the senior member retired. In
a boarding school teaching is only one of many activities. At

[ 340 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

first, as a bachelor, I lived in a dormitory as corridor master;
later I had a small group of boys in a separate house. As head
adviser for the first-year program I carry a reduced number of
classes. I take part in the program of intramural athletics, gen-
erally nowadays as a football official, or umpire in baseball.
My summer vacations, which by a school calendar can be long
if not too easily financed, have been spent variously. Two of
them, in 1934 at Cornell and in 1949 at Harvard, were spent in
summer school. I have also taught in summer school at various
times. Recently I have taken long vacations in Vermont and in
Maine and shorter periods in the Berkshires and on Cape Cod.
In 1930 I conducted a bicycle tour in France, Germany, and
Switzerland for a small group of boys. Mildred and I went to
Europe in August, 1939, with a plan for visiting specific places
in France and England. After two weeks in France, including
a weekend in the mountains near Grenoble during which the
Nazis and the Russians announced their pact of non-aggression,
we went on to England. By this time, in spite of Mr. Chamber-
lain, normal activities for tourists were becoming impracticable,
and we sailed from Liverpool on September 2nd, on the Athenia.
The declaration of war came on September 3rd, and we were
torpedoed the same evening — somewhere northwest of Ireland.
We were in different lifeboats overnight, then picked up by a
British destroyer, and landed a day later in Glasgow. We
returned to the United States later in the month on the Orizaba,
chartered by the United States Lines to bring home Americans
stranded in Europe. |
My military experience in the Air Corps began with six weeks
at Miami Beach, then I had a short assignment in Washington.
In November, 1942, I was transferred to the command at
Orlando and served in Florida for more than three years with
administrative duty, principally in a bombardment squadron as
ground executive officer. After a few months, Mildred came to
Florida, and we followed the movements of my squadron from
one small town to another—tourist houses, overnight camps,
one leaky cabin, two or three rapidly made over apartments,
finally a good one in Orlando for almost two years. For hobbies:
a little golf, much bridge for a period but little recently, minor
carpentry and the kind of cabinet making that goes with it, inter-

[341]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

est in old houses, New England and other, and mathematics out-
side the classroom as well as in.

DORSEY GASSAWAY FISHER

OFFICE apprEss: American Embassy, Madrid, Spain.
BorN: Feb. 12, 1907, Fort Leavenworth, Kans. parents: Ronald Earle Fisher,
Ellen Brewer Gassaway.

PREPARED AT: Series of Army post and public schools stretching from Mary-
land to the Philippine Islands.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: A.B. wiagna cum laude, 1927; A.M.,
1928.

occtuPaTion: Foreign Service of the United States; First Secretary and Public
Affairs Officer of the American Embassy in Madrid.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Foreign Service assignment in the American
Embassy, London, 1941-46.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Club of Mexico, 1949-50.

MEMBER OF: Society of the Cincinnati; Harvard Club of Mexico.

IF A summary of the years since June, 1927, sounds in my case
more geographical than biographical — well, that is the way the
Foreign Service is. While waiting to take the Department of
State’s examinations, I returned to Harvard for a year of graduate
work in history and international law; I took and passed the
examinations in December, 1928 (written), and February, 1929
(oral), and was called to duty in Washington on May 1, 1929.
After training there, I was assigned as Vice-Consul in Calcutta,
a post that fulfilled all my requirements by being as far away
and as picturesque as possible. In the nearly three years I spent
in India, I was able to see a good many parts of that extraordinary
country, from Bengal to Bombay and from the native states of
the center to Kashmir and the Khyber. During the second half of
1932, I was back in Washington, and the Office of European
Affairs. Then came Habana and two years of Cuban revolutions
and hurricanes; and then two and a half years (1935-37) in our
legation in El Salvador, the smallest and one of the most friendly
and enterprising of the American Republics. From May, 1937,
until early 1941, in a period of mounting tensions and crowding
events, I served in the press office of the State Department in
Washington, ending with the title of Assistant Chief of the
Division of Current Information, Not the least interesting of
my dutics was to take forcign correspondents from every corner

[ 342 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of the globe to that unique American institution, the Roosevelt
press conference, during four years when the White House was
becoming ever more a center of world action.

In April, 1941, I was assigned to our Embassy in London and
served there, as Second and later as First Secretary, for the next
six years — over four years of war and nearly two of peace. My
work was that of assistant for press relations with Ambassador
Winant and later with Ambassador Harriman; liaison between the
Embassy and the press offices of General Eisenhower, Admiral
Stark, and the Office of War Information; and as a sort of aide-de-
camp to the remarkable series of special American official vis-
itors who came to England during the war, and who included
Stimson, Knox, Byrnes, Stettinius, Harry Hopkins, and Mrs.
Roosevelt. My London service was interrupted by an assignment
for three months in 1945 as Assistant Press Officer of the San
Francisco Conference that drew up the Charter of the United
Nations, and I served in a similar capacity with our delegation to
the first United Nations meetings in London at the end of that
same year. In January, 1947, I reported for my next job as First
Secretary and Public Affairs Officer of our Embassy in Mexico
and spent four stimulating years in that dynamic country, in
charge of the information (press, motion pictures, radio) and
cultural (libraries, exchange of teachers, students, technicians of
all kinds) program of our government. Since January of this year
I have been doing the same job in Madrid. Once again I have
been fortunate in my timing: this is a period of rapid develop-

ment in American-Spanish relations, when Spaniards are looking
to the United States to end this long isolation and bring them
back into the family of nations.

JOHN LOCKE FITZPATRICK

HOME AppREss: 6 Abbott St., Wellesley, Mass,

OFFICE appRESS: Maryland Casualty Co., 20 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb, 5, 1903, Wellesley, Mass. Parents: Patrick Joseph Fitzpatrick,
Katherine Anne Concannon.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 19273 LL.B. (Boston Coll.),

1932.
[ 343 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MARRIED: Alice May Ollendorf, Nov. 10, 1938, Wellesley, Mass. cum:
Katherine Alice, Oct. 20, 1940.
occupation: Attorney, Legal Department, Maryland Casualty Company.

AFTER my admission to the Bar, I became associated with the
late Henry F. Hurlburt who at that time was liquidating agent
of the closed Highland Trust Company in Somerville, Massachu-
setts, and afterwards, by appointment of the then bank commis-
sioner, I was assistant liquidation counsel in charge of the legal
affairs of the Highland Trust Company and also the Inman Trust
Company of Cambridge. After several years of this work, I
became associated with the Legal Department of the Maryland
Casualty Company as a trial attorney and have spent these years
in trying all sorts of tort claims arising from the various branches
of a casualty insurance business throughout the Common-
wealth. In this way I have kept in touch with many of the fellows
who are practising law in Massachusetts and also several of those
who are members of the medical profession. To me the work,
although not highly remunerative, is really interesting. There
is not much to say for the rest of my life except that I have
settled back, after a short period of living in Boston, in my native
town of Wellesley where so far I have lived happily with my
wife and daughter and I only hope that this life will continue
for many years to come.

HERBERT FLASHMAN.

HOME ADpRESS: 42 Buckminster Rd., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Slate Co., 1210 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: June 6, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Jacob Joshua Flashman, Dora
Hartstone.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.

Marrigp: Ruth R. Rosenfield, July 18, 1929, Boston, Mass. crH1tLpReN: Roberta
Joan, June 12, 1931 (m. Norman L. Vernon, June 25, 1950); Stephen
Richard, March 6, 1934.

HARVAKD BROTHER: David Harry Flashman, M.p., ’22.

OCCUPATION: Treasurer and manager, Slate Company, wholesale tobacco and
allied products.

orrices HELD: Secretary, New England Division of the National Association
of Tobacco Distributors, member Executive Committee, Massachusetts
Tobacco Distributors Association,

mMemura or: Wells Chess Club; various local Jewish organizations.

[ 344]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I WAS one of seven sons — I came right in the middle, with three
older brothers and three younger brothers— and that fact has
dominated my career. Having determined during college that
I didn’t want to be lawyer, doctor, or teacher, I went right into
the business that was being operated by my father and two
older brothers (one of my older brothers had become a doctor).
Then the three younger brothers gradually came into the business
as they finished their schooling. That left six brothers and their
father together, and we have stayed together to date. By hard
work and constant diligence, I am glad to be able to report that
our business has prospered and grown. We now operate a whole-
sale toy business, a wholesale tobacco business, a whiskey
brokerage business, and a little real estate business, all in the
Greater Boston area. |

Somehow, life must have been easier during the depression
period of the thirties; I had time then to play a little chess (I
played for the Wells Club in the Boston group), and to take a few
trips and cruises to the Caribbean and Florida. But when World
War II came along, and four of my brothers were in service at
one time, things got rather complicated. And since we have had
one state of crisis after another since then, trying to do business
under all sorts of alphabetical controls and varying tax laws, very
little time has been found for relaxation lately. But I have
managed to steal enough time to supervise the building of a new
home in Brookline, a summer home on the Cape, and a new
building for our wholesale tobacco business. This construction
hobby I have found very interesting, but not very relaxing.

I plead guilty to having neglected my social and political
obligations. My brothers are all hard-working business men, and I
fell right into the groove. I have not joined any social clubs or
done any notable political work, and therefore I do not believe
I have any right to criticize the lot of things about our recent
political history that I do not like. I consider myself a liberal-
conservative. 1 would like to see Labor get a voice in Management
and get a larger share of the profit than they did before Franklin
Delano Roosevelt, but I do not believe Management should have
been punished as much as it was by F.D.R.

I was born into an Orthodox Jewish family and have remained

[ 345 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

so, although I will admit that each year it becomes harder to
understand the necessity for its strict rituals.

Throughout the trials and tribulations of young and growing
businesses, I was fortunate in having a healthy and growing small
family. My daughter, Roberta, was always a model student, and
even though now married, she will graduate from Wellesley in
1952. My son, Stephen, was not quite as good a student, but he
never had any trouble getting the “Gentleman’s C,” and I let him
follow his own desires. He is now at North Carolina State
College of Engineering and seems to have found himself in that
field — if Uncle Sam will let him finish. Now, at the age of forty-
five, I feel in my prime. I have amassed a lot of business experience
and am enjoying putting it to use and watching it succeed. —

THOMAS FLINT

HOME ADDRESS: Simon Willard Road, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Graydon Smith & Co., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 28, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: Carleton Phillips Flint,
M.D., 96, Suzannah Porter Harty.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: S.B., 1927(29); S.M., 1929.

MaRRIED: Rebecca Hooker, June 24, 1933, Belmont, Mass. cHILDREN: Thomas
Hooker, April 22, 1936, Suzannah Porter, March 11, 1938.

OccUPATION: Partner, Graydon Smith & Company; consulting engineer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Received citation from Navy for work as
civilian engineer.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Finance Committee, Concord, Mass., 1950-51, Red
Cross Drive, Concord, 1949; registered professional engineer, Massachu-
setts.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Mechanical Engineers.

puBLications: “The Design and Performance of a High-Pressure Axial-Flow
Fare, ” with Lionel S. Marks, Transactions of the A.S.M.E., October,
1935.

RICHARD THOMAS FLOOD

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 28, 1905, Brookline, Mass. parents: Charles Herbert Flood, Grace
Thomas.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREPS: A.B., 19273 A.M. 1942.

makgiep: Ellen Holdrege Brewer, June 24, 1933, Weston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Richard Thomas, Jr., Aug. 10, 1935; Laurence Brewer, Oct. 30, 1937.

[ 346 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Assistant headmaster, Noble and Greenough School.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U.S.N.R., June, 1942;
reported for active duty, July, 1942; served in Naval Aviation Gunnery
Training Division as teacher, author of textbooks, and administrator,
stationed primarily in Florida; honorably discharged as lieutenant com-
mander, September, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, New England Association of Social Studies
Teachers, 1949-50; member, Harvard Fund Council, since 1950; Town
Meeting member, Dedham, 1933-41, since 1946.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Blue Hill (Maine) Golf Club;
Kollidgewidgewok Yacht Club; New England Association of Social
Studies Teachers; Authors Guild, Mark Twain Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Pass That Puck, Houghton, Mifflin Co., 1948; The Fighting
Southpaw, Houghton, Mifflin Co., 1949; The Point After, Houghton,
Mifflin Co., 1951.

EXCEPT for the three-plus years in a naval uniform for Uncle
Sam, Noble and Greenough School has been both my business
and home address since the fall of 1927. The field of secondary
education continues to be for me a constant challenge as well as
a firm brake on growing old. The teaching, coaching, and
administrative work provide variety, and I love it. The inde-
pendent school may be a relic of the past, but our present
applications do not bear out that theory. We are bulging at
the seams and hope we are doing a job that warrants that
confidence. Incidentally, the number of sons of 1927 who have
come to our school has risen to fourteen with more in prospect
for the future.

In the summers I have taken up the writing game. Houghton,
Mifflin’s Juvenile Department has been kind enough to publish
three books for me. They are stories of boys similar to the ones
I am teaching. To date the books have covered the fields of
hockey, baseball, and football. Where to go next is a question.

Outside of school hours, I have taken a moderately active part
in town affairs and Harvard 1927 Class activities. I enjoy serving
as a Class agent, particularly as it keeps me in touch with what
members of the Class are doing.

In 1946 we bought a summer home in Blue Hill, Maine. It
has proved a wonderful investment for me and my family. When
the Fiftieth Report rolls around, my business and home address
may read Blue Hill, Maine, as opposed to Dedham.

L 347 ]

ieuenendiene cashenesbminmmhiiadhaiatteoenliaitoeiticts ates bbs aes" atesas oom aeaeens gemniaintineidpabamiademmere etn eae eT

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

JOHN BURTON FOLEY

HOME ApprEsS: 716 VW. Hutchinson St., Chicago 13, Il.

OFFICE aDbREss; Magnolia Land Co., 945 W. George St., Chicago 14, Ill., and
Foley, Ala.

BORN: Jan. 23, 1905, Chicago, Ill. PARENTS: John Burton Foley, Anna Eliza-
beth McCloskey.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

marrieD: Ardis Elaine Swenson, March 29, 1943, Chicago, Ill. CHILDREN:
John Burton, March 1, 1944; Ardis Swenson, July 29, 1946. |

HARVARD BROTHERS: Garrett Radcliffe Foley, ’19 (deceased); Loyal Luding-
ton Foley, ’20 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: President, Magnolia Land Company, Foley & Company.

WILDER FOOTE

HOME apprEss: 159 Wilmot Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: United Nations, New York, N. Y.

BorN: Aug. 30, 1905, Montrose, Pa. PARENTS: Henry Wilder Foote, ’97,
Eleanor Tyson Cope.

PREPARED AT: The Rivers School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927; AM.
(hon.) (Middlebury Coll.), 1942.

marrigep: Marcia Noyes Stevens, Oct. 22, 1928, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Wilder, Feb. 25, 1931; Judith, Aug. 21, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Arthur Foote, ’33; Caleb Foote, 739.

occuPATION: Director of Press and Publications, United Nations.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chief of information for Lend-Lease, OWI,
1942-43; director of information, Foreign Economic Administration,
1944; assistant to Secretary of State, 1945.

PuBLications: Many U. S. government and United Nations reports and
policy statements as anonymous draftsman.

THE first year after graduation I spent in informal study of
European politics, economics, and languages in France, Germany,
and Austria. After my return in the summer of 1928, I joined
the Boston Bureau of the Associated Press as a staff writer, with
the intention of making journalism my career and the hope that
I might become a foreign correspondent. I stayed with the
Associated Press in Boston for three years, the last year as night
editor. I married Marcia Noyes Stevens (daughter of O. L.
Stevens, ’94), and our son Wilder was born. We fell in love
with Vermont during a brief vacation visit and like many another
newspaperman, I decided I wanted to be a country editor with

[ 348 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a paper of my own — at least for a while. I could not afford even
a small daily, but I was able to buy an old and decrepit country
weekly, the Brandon (Vermont) Union.

In October, 1931, we moved to Vermont. I built up the paper
as much as possible in a town of three thousand people and later
merged it with two neighboring weeklies, the Middlebury Reg-
ister and Bristol Herald. For ten years I was a country editor and
publisher with a “job-printing” business on the side. Middlebury
College was the main client for our printing business, but we also
printed the Harvard Advocate for several years and dozens of
town reports for the annual town meetings of our county. We
lived first in Brandon, then in Middlebury, and participated fully,
of course, in the life of the communities we served. We learned
a good deal about what is finest and best in America in those
years. Roosevelt caught part of it in his phrase, “the policy of
the good neighbor.” But it goes beyond the friendly tolerance
and helpfulness of the good neighbor. It is enterprising and con-
structive. It is the sense of individual responsibility to the com-
munity for progress and improvement. This spirit found its
expression in the work of the 4-H Clubs, the Rotary Club, the
League of Women Voters, and dozens of other organized citi-
zens’ groups. The more I saw later on of the rest of the world,
the better I understood what this spirit has meant to our coun-
try. A small town is the best place I know of in which to see and
come to understand and appreciate how it works. In the light of
my later knowledge of the Rotary’s work for international
understanding and civic service among merchants and other
small business men and town and city officials, I remember with
shame my sophomoric scorn of Rotarians.

They were a very happy ten years, requiring hard work,
returning a low cash income, but bringing many other less tan-
gible and more worth-while rewards. One of my most treasured
possessions is the honorary Master of Arts degree conferred on
me by Middlebury College, after we had left, for my services as
editor of the county paper to community and college.

I had always been a strong internationalist and supporter of the
League of Nations. The persistence of American isolationism
even after the outbreak of the war in 1939, and especially after
the fall of France in 1940, disturbed me greatly. Increasingly I

[ 349 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

felc 1 must enter work directly in the international field. Finally
in the fall of 1941 I sold my papers. In November of that year
we moved to Washington, and I began work in one of the infor-
mation agencies later merged into the Office of War Informa-
tion. I became information officer for the Lend-Lease Adminis-
tration under the late E. R. Stettinius, Jr., and later director of
information for the Foreign Economic Administration. In these
capacities I was the principal draftsman of many of President
Roosevelt's quarterly reports to Congress on Lend-Lease opera-
tions. In December, 1944, when Mr. Stettinius became Secretary
of State, I transferred to the State Department as an assistant to
him. I went with him to the Yalta Conference, then to Moscow,
the Mexico City Conference of American States of March, 1945,
and the United Nations Conference at San Francisco which
wrote the Charter. When Mr. Stettinius resigned as Secretary
of State and was appointed the first United States representative
to the United Nations, I became director of information for the
permanent United States Delegation to the United Nations. I
served in that capacity at the first General Assembly in London
and thereafter at New York under Ambassador Warren R. Aus-
tin (formerly Senator from Vermont) until August, 1947. Sec-
retary General Trygve Lie then appointed me director of press
and publications in the Secretariat of the United Nations, the
job I hold today. This makes me an international civil servant,
responsible to sixty member countries. I have accompanied the
Secretary General on several of his visits to Yugoslavia, Greece,
Turkey, Egypt, Syria, Lebanon, and Israel. I was stationed at Paris
during the sixth annual session of the General Assembly. I am
happy in my work because I believe so deeply that the United
Nations embodies the best hopes of contemporary civilization
and because of the shortsightedness and blunders of the member
governments, including my own as well as the Soviet Union's,
make it such a long, uphill road and a constant challenge.

We bought a house outside Scarsdale, New York, in the spring
of 1946, and that has been our home since then. We live next to
one of the few remaining farms in Westchester County, operated
by a family whose first farm was at Columbus Circle one hun-
dred years ago, and the second in the Bronx. Now they are
thinking of moving up into the Roosevelt neighborhood in

[ 350 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Dutchess County — lower taxes, but still within hailing distance
of New York City. I find gardening a better antidote than golf
for bureaucracy and international debate. My wife and I are
both active members of the White Plains Community Church,
open to all creeds but affiliated with the American Unitarian
Association. In politics we might be most accurately described
as New Dealers. We have little faith in the sword as a weapon
against tyranny, injustice, and other evils. We are sworn
enemies of bigotry, intolerance, character assassination, loyal
tests, and other forms of thought control] and consider them all to
serve the cause of totalitarianism, whether it be Communist or
Fascist. We believe the rest of the world has much to learn from
the best in America and that America also can profit from the
contributions of other civilizations. We do not believe in Henry
R. Luce’s “American Century.” We believe in a world society of
infinite diversity and local freedoms in which peace is enforced
by the international community but in which no people is forced
by any outside authority to choose any way of life, even the way
of democracy as we know it.

My son is in the Air Force for three more years. He chose a
small college, St. Lawrence University, and went there for a
year and a half before he enlisted. He’s a Pfc., hopes soon to be
a corporal, and doubts that he will be able to get leave for the
Reunion. My daughter, Judith, is in the seventh grade, learned
a little French in Paris this winter, has a tremendous scrapbook
of cuttings on Queen Elizabeth II, and is looking forward very
much to meeting her father’s classmates and their children at the
Twenty-fifth Reunion.

FRANCIS MURRAY FORBES, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 21 Beaver Pl., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Welch & Forbes, 73 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: April 21, 1904, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Francis Murray Forbes, Mar-
jorie Cochrane.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924. DEGREES: B.A. (Univ. of Cambridge), 1927; M.A.
(ibid.), 1944; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1936.

MarRieD: Elizabeth Livermore, Dec. 10, 1929, Boston, Mass. cHtpREN: Diana,
March 23, 19323 Marjorie, Oct. 5, 1933; Francis Murray, 3d, Jan. 26,
1940; Lorna, April 12, 1947; Elizabeth Gay, July 20, 1950.

[35]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

HARVARD BROTHER: Alexander Cochrane Forbes, °32.

occuPATION: Trustee and lawyer; partner, Welch & Forbes.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: COM I, Washington, D. C., May—August, 1941;
First Naval District, Intelligence, 1941-42; Office of Naval Officer Pro-
curement, IND, 1942-43; Administrative Officer, Intelligence Division,
COMNAVEU, 1943-44; U. S. Liaison NID Admiralty, 1944-45; Navy
Commendation Ribbon for service in Normandy Campaign, 1944;
Officer of Military Order of the British Empire, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: President, Beacon Hill Association, 1951, Charitable Irish
Society, 1949-50; manager, Boston Port & Seamen’s Aid Society; clerk
of corporation, director, Cabot, Cabot & Forbes, Inc.; trustee, Children’s
Hospital; director, Commercial Wharf Company, Lewis Wharf Com-
pany, Proprietors of Boston Pier or Long Wharf, State Street Trust
Company, Vermont & Massachusetts Railroad Company; trustee and
secretary, New England Conservatory of Music; vestryman, King’s
Chapel.

MEMBER OF: Tavern Club; Savile Club of London; Union Boat Club; Essex
County Club; Manchester Yacht Club.

SINCE 1932, with a four-and-a-half-year interlude in the Navy,
I have worked in the trust office of the Welch family. My boss,
the late E. Sohier Welch, patiently saw me through a long
apprenticeship which included four years of studying law at
Boston University while working in the office. Today, under
Francis C. Welch (Harvard 33), we are carrying the business
into the fourth generation, aided by the financial acumen of
Henry A. Wood, Jr. (Harvard ’24) and the legal talent of H.
Shippen Goodhue (Harvard ’38). Like the President and Fellows
of Harvard College, our firm is self-perpetuating, having carried
on since 1838. In spite of the chaotic state of the world, we still
have hopes for the future.

In Boston a trustee is expected to epitomize the prudent man,
an offspring of the reasonable man of legal fiction. He takes
responsibility for the orderly arrangement of family and business
affairs. Success and survival alike depend on ability to manage
the business entrusted to him, to meet individual requirements
of his beneficiaries and not according to rigid formulae. There
is little, therefore, that is cut and dried about the profession. Each
day brings its quota of fresh problems and new solutions and a
constant challenge to the ingenuity and imagination.

Of numerous interests, my principal one seems to have been
children. We have both a pre-war and a post-war family ranging
from a Bryn Mawr sophomore to a young lady of eighteen

[352]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

months, all of whom entertain and reward us in their own special
ways. The problem of providing food for the young has
developed my wife’s talent for cooking to a fine art. A by-
product is an opportunity for me to experiment in combinations
of food and the more modestly-priced French and Californian
wines.

We have enjoyed travel, often combining business and
pleasure, with trips to Europe in 1929, 1934, 1937, 1938, and we
hope again in February, 1952. Asa result of one trip to Germany
in 1934 we were convinced early of the danger of Hitler and the
Nazi movement. A disciple of Mahan, I was impelled to join the
Naval Reserve and was called to active duty eight months before
Pearl Harbor. Two and a half years of my service were overseas,
including three months in France following the Normandy
Campaign. I respect and admire the men of the regular Navy
and am proud to have served, but as a reservist felt the usual
mixture of frustration relieved by moments of feeling useful.
The job in France and the last job in which I served as U. S.
Liaison, Naval Intelligence Division Admiralty, I shall always
remember with pleasure. It has been a matter of regret that
premature U. S. demobilization left the field open to Russian
imperialism with the result ‘that we have had to pay the extra
price today for the course of temporary expediency then adopted.

A change of the party in power in the government seems to
me long overdue. Although in the past the lack of Republican
foresight in foreign affairs has appeared to me unfortunate,
General Eisenhower’s candidacy has produced fresh hope.
Although I never saw him during my European service, I have a
vivid impression of his excellent qualities as Allied Commander
in Chief and a respect for his wisdom, integrity, and humility.

He is my candidate.

Unitarians are supposed to believe in “the fatherhood of God,
the brotherhood of man, and the neighborhood of Boston.” While
I find that the tax rate makes belief in the neighborhood come
dear, I take courage from the results of the last municipal election
which returned an honest Mayor to office and put new and
hopeful faces in the Council and School Committee.

In looking after other people’s affairs there is a good deal of
pulling and hauling and a lot of detail: it is what I have been

[ 353]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

trained to do, and I enjoy it. However, when things go wrong I
remember the last four lines of a sonnet by Merrill Moore:

But on some days he felt he accomplished very little
Which was truly the case and it always saddened him.
Then he thought of Inner Mongolia, unvisited,

And mountains on the horizon, gray and dim.

+ FRANK HAMILTON FORCE

BoRN: Feb. 10, 1899, Newburgh, N. Y. parents: Henry Lyon Force,
Sophia Kaupp.

PREPARED AT: Newburgh Academy, Newburgh, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1927. DEGREE: $.B. cum laude, 1927.

marrieD: Helen V. Flynn, 1921, Newburgh, N. Y. CHILDREN: Frank
Huntington, Nov. 21, 1932; Marjorie Helen, Sept. 13, 1934; Peter
Newell, March 31, 1936.

piep: Aug. 2, 1939, Brooklyn, N. Y.

THE only information in the Secretary’s files concerning Frank
Hamilton Force’s career after graduation is that he was a librar-
ian at New York University at the time of his death.

WILLIAM ARTHUR FORCE, III

HOME appress: 145 E. 22nd St., New York 10, N. Y.

OFFIce appress: William A. Force & Co., Inc., 216 Nichols Ave., Brooklyn
8, N. Y.

BoRN: March 17, 1905, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: William Arthur Force,
Jr., Edith Manville Hicks.

peepakeD aT: Bordentown Military Institute, Bordentown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

Markiep: Jane Boos Wood, Sept. 11, 1930, New York, N. Y. cnizp:
Shirley Wood, April 11, 1935.

OCCUPATION: President and general manager of small manufacturing business
producing numbering machine for printers and general industry.

ROBERT TURNER FORD

HOME ADbRESS: 2322 Ivy Ave. Baltimore 14, Md.

OFFICE apprEss: Dunbar High School, Baltimore, Md.

BORN: Nov. 14, 1906, Elkton, Md. parents: Robert Edgar Ford, Emma
Victoria Turner.

peepanep at: Douglass High School, Baltimore, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGES 1923-1927. DEGREPS: A.B. 1927; AM. (Columbia Univ.),
1949.

[354]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Alice Goldia Dennis, Dec. 17, 1932, Baltimore, Md. cit: Alice
Beatrice, Aug. 19, 1938.

occuPATION: Secondary education; teacher of English and Latin; adult
education, administration.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S. Army, December, 1943-November, 1945;
no foreign service.

MEMBER OF: Kappa Delta Pi; Phi Delta Kappa; National Education As-
sociation. .

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional poems, newspaper articles, and contributions to
professional publications.

THERE is little of interest to report except the fact that I seem
to be belatedly preparing for a slight change in career. I] am at
present on leave from my long-held pedagogical task attempting
to complete work on my doctorate. I expect next year to enter
another phase of educational work, namely, the teaching of edu-
cational and social psychology in a teacher-training institution.
This, incidentally, is representative of the kind of horizontal
occupational mobility that characterizes the educational pro-
fession. Those of us who either do or do not make good as
teachers of the young seem sooner or later to move over to the
job of trying to teach teachers.

As an impecunious pedagogue I naturally have no articulate
political and social convictions, except those expected of a dem-
ocrat, spelled, you notice, with a small “d.” I do, however, still
maintain an obstinate devotion to the notion that the world is
becoming better, in spite of the fact that the appropriate middle-
aged bias should lead me to the conviction that everything is
“going to the dogs.” My hobbies have long since been restricted
by the process of aging to such sedentary pursuits as reading,
the theatre, and mingling with people. Modest means have limited
my travels and other recreational activities, but I have found
much to enjoy in many places.

KENDALL BLACKSTONE FOSS

HOME apprEss: Maximilianstrasse 15, Munich 22, Germany.

BORN: Jan, 24, 1904, New Rochelle, N. Y. parents: Martin Moore Foss,
Elizabeth Kendall.

PREPARED AT: Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MarRigD: Elisabeth von Wedelstaedt, Dec. 24, 1930, Berlin, Germany (di-
vorced 1939); Mary Ann Bishop, Sept. 30, 1939, Alexandria, Va. cHIL-
DREN: Kristiana, Oct. 8, 1940; Alexandra, July 8, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Journalist.

(355 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

THE larger part of my life since college has been spent abroad,
principally in central Europe, though a good ten years in Wash-
ington (1933-1943) presumably protect me from the invidious
term “expatriate.” Mostly I have been in newspaper work and
serving as a foreign correspondent, although the Washington
years were in the field of public information.

I have been in Germany since the war writing, editing, and —
more recently — experimenting with the introduction of the
idea of “public relations” to a country almost totally unconscious
that there is such a thing. The work yields me a satisfactory
amount of that necessary sense of being useful, without which,
I think I have found, a job becomes very flat. Like many of our
generation, I spent the thirties assuming that out of the Soviet
experiment something good well might come. I accepted the
thesis that there was a vast difference between a red and a brown
dictatorship. The experience of living in Berlin from the summer
of 1945 onwards taught me better. Amid the ruins of one dic-
tatorship and in the looming shadow of another, the differences
shrink to insignificance. So we had been wrong, and the thing to
do was to stress the essential differences between freedom and
dictatorships of all shades in every way possible. I live in a difh-
cult country, but I maintain that whatever can be done to secure
this country’s unswerving adherence to the West is time well
spent. Incidentally, the job is far from hopeless.

SAUL LOURIE FOX

HOME Appress: 608 N. Alta Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 9441 Wilshire Blvd., Beverly Hills, Calif.

BORN: July 5, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Isidore Harry Fox, Bessie Cohen.

prepareD AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1927; M.D., 1931.

Marriep: Matilda R. Aaronson, Jan. 26, 1933, Baltimore, Md. cHILDREN:
Myra Diane, July 26, 1936; John Orrin, Oct. 6, 1938. _

occuPATION: Physician, specializing in internal medicine.

MILITARY OR NAVAL gecorD: During World War II, spent 24 years as medical
officer in various general hospitals and went to Europe —in England
for the most part — with the 34th GHI.,; completed service as cardiol-
ogist and C.O. of 3rd Field Hospital,

WARTIME COVERNMENT Posts: Draft board surgeon (prior to above record).

orrices HELD: Associate, In-Patient and Out-Patient Departments, Cedars of
Lebanon Hospital, Los Angcles.

[ 356 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California; California Society of
Internal Medicine; Los Angeles Society of Internal Medicine, Los
Angeles Heart Association, Los Angeles County Medical Association.

PUBLICATIONS: “Sarcoma of the Breast,” Annals of Surgery, September, 1934;
“Origin of Pilonidal Sinus,” Surgery, Gynecology, and Obstetrics, Feb-
ruary, 1935; “Radioiodine in the Management of Thyrocardiac Disease,”
Annals of Western Medicine and Surgery, June, 1950; contribution to
Diseases of the Breast, textbook by Charles F. Geschickter, 1945.

MEMORIES, like shadows, are elusive things. As I remember,
oddly enough, life began for me at Harvard at the age of twenty-
one. The test of a univetsity’s greatness is how it molds the shape
of its men. I was to feel Harvard’s influence most at the Medical
School across the Charles River. For me the memories of those
four years became most enduring. In 1931 I left my home in
Boston forever, and my next three years were spent in training
in Baltimore hospitals, two years at Sinai and one at Johns
Hopkins. Here it was my good fortune to meet Matilda, whom
I subsequently married in 1933. She was a bright, attractive girl
from Washington, D. C.; and after another year of post-graduate
work, she suggested that we go to Hollywood. Hollywood is
semi-tropical, colorful, and exciting. It is soporific, vegetative, and
evergreen. Palm trees and research as a rule don’t go together,
and for the Simon-pure [ don’t recommend it. Nevertheless, I
decided that my destiny lay here, because my interests were
clinical, and there was much that could be done in this field
in a community where medicme was no more than two genera-
tions old. New-comers were encouraged, hospital beds were
available, and it was right in the middle of the depression.

I started as an internist with special leanings towards endocri-
nology. The community was full of osteopaths, chiropractors,
naturopaths, and more dubious practitioners, and patients were
few and far between. My first patient was a “doctor,” a chiro-
practor with leg pains. When I told him he had syphilis, he left
me. My next patient was a man with a facial tic. He kept his
identity a secret, and when I later discovered that he was an
internationally known foot specialist and mentioned it, he never
returned. The path of a young doctor is full of thorns, and mine
was no exception. In the meantime, in 1936, a daughter, Myra,
was born to us and two years later a son, John. Fortunately, they
inherited the loveliness and wit of their mother and, unlike their

[ 357]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

eastern cousins, were raised in a clime relatively free from the
bane of winter epidemics and discomfitures. Myra, now fifteen
years old, is quite lovely and full of high school charm. John,
wise and scholarly at thirteen, is an eighth-grade quarterback
and should make good Crimson material. The numerical growth
of the family was rudely interrupted by the Second World War,
which also cast a shadow over a medical practice which began
to include some of those strange, fickle, and extraordinarily
talented creatures that make up the fascination which is
Hollywood. The trauma of war serves to enhance mostly the
experience of the surgeons and their specially related branches.
The closer to the battlefield the internist gets, the less useful he
becomes, but it was particularly during those fourteen months
overseas that I became aware of the effect of anxieties and stresses
on the individual and the personality changes which resulted
from them.

Equipped with these fresh experiences and an_ altered
therapeutic approach to medicine, I returned to Beverly Hills,
where I lived and resumed private practice in 1946. I almost
didn’t make it until 1948. The war had taken me to Europe, and
on V-E Day I found myself in Piccadilly amidst thousands of
tired but merry Londoners. I looked wistfully homeward, but
that proved to be an illusion. I received orders to proceed to the
dust bowl of France — Marseille, the jumping-off point for the
Philippines. A delay en route in Paris caused me to miss my
outfit, which didn’t return to the States for another year and a
half. 1 was on the high seas on V-J Day, and ours was the first
ship to enter New York harbor. ‘There were 4000 negro
engineers in addition to three medical field hospitals on board,
and for twenty-four hours the world lost its sanity.

It took me about a year to gather up the loose ends again. |
joined the Thyroid Clinic at the Cedars of Lebanon Hospital
about the time that radio-active iodine came into use. This
biologic atomic agent gave me just the therapeutic weapon |
needed for my work, and I have since been engaged most en-
thusiastically in the practice of medicine with part-time research.

I see my classmates from time to time at conventions and
when they come to visit southern California. It is gratifying to
sce them all growing old gracefully. As I remember, when

[ 358]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Twenty-fifth Reunions came to Harvard in my student days, the
men seemed as “old as God.” But Hollywood is not Cambridge,
of course, and never will be. There is U.C.L.A. and U.S.C,
like Harvard and Yale, but they are different — they just hate each
other! Medically speaking, however, the community has grown
tremendously; there is a good infusion of fresh blood and a new
medical school. In summary, I might say that the pursuit of
happiness is given to us all; the pursuit of the truth is given to a
gifted few. My own twenty-five years, from the exalted to the
exotic, lay perhaps somewhere between the two. Much has hap-
pened; more might have been accomplished. I seriously question
whether the opportunities offered us the first quarter of a century
will be repeated in the second.

STANLEY TURNER FRAME

HOME ADDRESS: 1 Bayview Rd., Plandome Manor, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Biscuit Co., 449 W. 14th St., New York 14, N. Y.

BORN: May 22, 1906, Rockland, Mass. parents: Joseph Frame, M.p., ’94,
Bessie Abagail Turner.

PREPARED AT: Rockland High School, Rockland, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1023-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; M.B.A., [931.

MARRIED: Pauline Frances Tyler, 1929. cHiLpreEN: Charles Dudley, 1930;
Merilyn, 1931 (m2, Albert Stuart Angus, 1950). GRANDCHILD: Stuart Tyler
Angus, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Marketing research manager, National Biscuit Company.

+ HOWLAND COIT FRANCIS

BORN: Aug. 1, 1904, Brookline, Mass. pARENTs: Carleton Shurtleff Francis,

’88, Elsie Wesson.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1927(28).
pIED: Feb. 24, 1936, Brookline, Mass.

WHILE at Harvard Howland Coit Francis was a member of
the Freshman Glee Club, the Instrumental Clubs, Speakers’ Club,
and during his senior year he belonged to the Vocal Unit. For
six months after graduation he worked for the Multibestos Com-
pany at Walpole, Massachusetts. He then became associated
with the Oxford University Press of New York and was with
them at the time of his death.

[359]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

IRWIN FRANK

HOME ADDRESS: 2819 S St., S.E., Washington 20, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Production Authority, Commerce Bldg., Wash-
ington, D. C.

BORN: March 2, 1907, Boston, Mass. pARENTs: Louis David Frank, Fannie
Schwartz.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.

maRRIED: Mabelle C. Henderson, Aug. 7, 1937, Jackson, Mich.

HARVARD BROTHER: Saul Edward Frank, ’22.

occUPATION: Economist, National Production Authority, Office of Civilian
Requirements; principal duty is preparation of programs to assure
maintenance of production of essential civilian goods.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Inducted Sept. 14, 1943; assigned Army Signal
Corps; discharged May 27, 1945.

WARTLME GOVERNMENT posts: Senior statistician, War Production Board;
industrial analyst, Reconstruction Finance Corporation.

PUBLICATIONS: Some minor economic and financial studies, and a series of
marketing maps.

AFTER leaving school, I found interesting and relatively profit-
able employment in that much maligned area known as Wall
Street, first as an accounting adjuster with Henry L. Doherty &
Company, and later, after a precarious but stimulating interim as
a free-lance in market research and operations analysis, as bond
analyst with Gertler, Devlet & Company, and as chief economist
with one of its successors, the National Marketplace for Secu-
rities, Inc. During those seven years, I developed a fondness for
New York that even now mises to plague me though I know it
to be too restless a pace. I lived in the Village, Sutton Place,
Washington Heights, on Riverside Drive, and in the West
Forties; in Flatbush and out at Brighton; up in the Bronx and in
Sunnyside in Queens; and out on the Island in Lynbrook. How
I happened to neglect Staten Island I have forgotten.

In 1935 I left the city to become vice-president and director
of research and analysis of Securities Analytical Service, Inc.,
Ford Building, Detroit. 1 was unimpressed by the auto town, and
the feeling was apparently reciprocated. Three and a half years
were ample; I left the firm and Detroit, but took with me the
nicest thing I had found there, my wife.

Came a series of free-lance assignments, alternating with

[ 360 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

stretches “at liberty.” Pearl Harbor found me in Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania, setting up a system for the operation of the Food
Stamp Plan throughout the state. I was called to Washington by
the War Production Board; function: statistics. We’re still in
Washington, although the west coast appeals to us tremendously.

My Army career was uneventful and unsatisfying. Twenty
months of routinized stagnation were ended when I was ordered
discharged by Secretary of War Stimson to help the RFC set up
an organization for the disposal of surplus real property. 1 was
with the RFC and its successor for this function, the War Assets
Administration, until 1947, when I resigned to undertake a pri-
vate venture that was almost, but not quite, successful.

The Korean outbreak motivated my return to government
service, this time as an economist with the Office of Civilian
Requirements of the National Production Authority. We shall
probably remain in Washington as long as the current state of
emergency continues, although we have never, even after ten
years, felt that Washington is our home. We have travelled
considerably around the country, and, perhaps baselessly, feel
that we'd like to live in Southern California or the Southwest.
Future circumstances, of course, will be the determining factor.

Our family is just the two of us, and we’re very happy. We
have no strong social, political, or religious convictions to inter-
fere with our enjoyment of life, and our activities are of the
unexacting variety. I carefully avoid anything that resembles
exercise — my hobbies are stamp collecting and photography.
My wife is also allergic to sports, and she enjoys photography
and china painting. We both want to travel, but we haven't
had the opportunities to do as much as we'd like. Perhaps by
the Fiftieth Reunion we shall have felt like settling down.

DONALD BISBEE FRAZEE

HOME AND OFFICE ‘ADDRESS: Jefferson, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1904, Plympton, Mass. parents: Fenton Eugene Frazee, Mary
Bisbee.

PREPARED AT: Stamford Seminary, Stamford, N. Y.; Mount Hermon School,
Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREE: A.B, 1927(28),

[ 361 ]

enn ena dtataratioes tiie i

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

smarrieD: Marjorie Ann Hastings, Sept. 17, 1937, Blenheim Hill, N. Y.
cuitprEN: Donald Bisbee, Jr., June 13, 1939; Carolyn Daphne, July 20,

1942.
OCCUPATION; Farming.

THE self-examination that autobiography asks is not to most
people a pleasant exercise. Even among the sons of Harvard,
Class of Twenty-seven, there must have been many who had
an impulse to duck when the questionnaire hit them. But |
suppose it takes all kinds to make a Class Report, and I am
probably just about unique among my classmates. My distinction
is that there is nothing Very Important about me at all, in fact
I am possibly the least “I” of all my Class. That in itself may be
the only point of interest about my personal report. The
important are always talking about the unimportant, but the
unimportant don’t get much chance to say anything about
themselves.
So here it is. After a couple of years with Taussig, Carver,
and Whitehead in the Graduate School where I had young
dreams of teaching a combination of sociology and modern
philosophy, I came to realize that H. G. Wells might be right
when he makes a fiction character say that most teachers were
teachers because they would not be any good at doing anything.
I realized then, as I do now, that there were exceptions, but self-
inspection made the idea disturbing, and I decided to see first if
I was any good at doing anything. I am still trying. Anyway,
I ran away from school a year short of a Ph.D. — up into Canada
first, where I didn’t even hear of the 1929 crash until weeks
after. But later I ran solidly into the ruins as I drifted to the
West Coast with only such resources as I could pick up on the
way. After two years or so of really tough going — that was
before W.P.A., etc. —I thought it was time to go home and start
over again. You sce I really had roots; I had been away for eight
or ten years, but the Frazces have lived on Catskill Mountain
farms for more than 150 years, and their roots take hold of the
stony ground again easily when they return to it. My father
and grandfather before me had come back in the same way. With
my father, on the family land I settled into that intimate rela-
tionship with Nature, half antagonism, half coGperation, that iS
modern dairy farming. I am now master of the Jolly Rock Pile

[ 362 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

(registered farm name), often locally spoken of as Haywire
Manor, some 250 acres of naturally fertile soil draped over
wrinkles in Mother Earth’s face where the bone is pretty close to
the surface.

But if I am its master, I am equally its slave. I am rarely able to
escape from it for twenty-four hours at a time and could not
perform all the labor it demands if I were twins. My family and
I do practically all the work, a true family farm. I employ almost
no help at all, and most of my time is used in actually doing
manual work, some of it highly skilled, much of it very menial.
The modern and the primitive overlap curiously in our daily
lives. The horse is gone and the outfit is fully mechanized, but
the cows, despite their fancy names, are about the same amiably
cussed creatures our ancestors struggled to codperate with. My
wife cooks on an electric range, but the kitchen is warmed in
winter by a stove in the corner which burns wood cut from the
farm’s woodlots and fencerows. And so it goes; much is done for
us by social organization, but much remains to be done by our-
selves as more or less rugged individualists on the north end of fork
and axe handles.

There is plenty of time for thought in the many hours of
solitary work, when the machines or tools I use need only casual
attention. My personal philosophy as it jells with the years is
more and more fiercely individualistic. I grow more and more
to resent attempts to regiment and subsidize my way of life.
Some of my fellows who have received material benefits from
both tendencies accuse me of being actually anti-social. Perhaps
I am, but I hope I am not uncharitable in the original sense of
the word. My attempt to maintain individuality carried over
into my outlook on other things. Both as an amateur non-
mathematical cosmologist and as an animal which lives very close —
to our hard planet, I find all theisms childish, alike futile to explain
the infinite wonder of things or as a refuge from their impact. To
take the place of uprooted theistic weeds in my mental garden,
Humanism has brought rich satisfaction. And with it of course
go Ethics — a life-long game, an inexact science, and the finest of
the arts — that of getting along with people.

My favorite sport, I presume, is making maple syrup. I am
now an old professional at the game. A highly strenuous night-

[ 363 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

and-day affair for the early spring months, it helps keep me
young and provides a substantial part of my income.

My wife came from a family across the valley much like my
own, and when I think of her and the two children, I feel some-
times that, while I may not be much of a success personally, we
are doing all right as a family in the degree of integration we
have reached. Our physical isolation in the open country compels
us to work and play together a great deal of the time, and in
general I think we enjoy our own company. If the members of
a man’s family are really his friends, his cup is nearly filled to
begin with, and it is not too difficult to forget lack of some other
things. Donald, Jr., is already a fairly competent truck and
tractor driver, and Daphne is the little grandmother of all the
Brown Swiss Calves and the kittens and pollywogs on the place,
and she is beginning to play the oboe. May time be kind to us all.

CHARLES RUSSELL FRAZIER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 609 Wyllie St., Honolulu, Hawaii.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1001 Waimanu St., Honolulu, Hawaii.

BORN: Nov. 15, 1905, Honolulu, Hawaii. parents: Charles Russell Frazier,
Fannie Letitia Osborn.

PREPARED AT: Punahou School, Honolulu, Hawaii.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1927(28).

MaRRIED: Vera Virginia Cartwright, Nov. 26, 1932, Honolulu, Hawaii.
cuiLprEN: Bruce Charles, Nov. 24, 1934; Virginia, May 26, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Osborn Frazier, 31.

OCCUPATION: Salesman, advertising novelties.

MEMBER OF: Pacific Club.

FRANK HERZL FREED

HOME ADDRESS: Route 12, Box 620-D, Houston, Texas.

orFice appress: 340 Mellie Esperson Bldg., Houston, Texas.

BorN: Feb. 15, 1906, San Antonio, Texas. PARENTS: Louis A. Freed, Fannie
Goodman.

prepared at: Central High School, Houston, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREE: 8.B., 1927.

Marriep: Eleanor Loveman Kempner, Sept. 7, 1950, Mexico City, Mexico.

occupaTion; Life insurance salesman.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RecoRD: Enlisted U, S. Army April, 1942; attended Air
Corps Officer Candidate School, commissioned zd lieutenant December,
1942; served in Special Service and Corps of Engineers; promoted 1st

[ 364 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

lieutenant and captain; twenty months’ service European Theatre, cam-
paigns: Normandy and Northern France; separated March, 1946.
MEMBER OF: Aetna Life Leaders Club; Harvard Club of Houston; Temple
Emmanuel, Houston Museum of Fine Arts; Contemporary Arts Asso-
ciation; Houston Symphony Society.
PUBLICATIONS: Articles and fiction in Theatre Magazine, Ringmaster, Post
Time, and Houston Gargoyle — all defunct.

BACK in the days when I elected to major in English, my
ambitions were towards writing and journalism, but upon
returning to Houston, the obviously low state of the local
newspapers offered little scope or promise. I began selling life
insurance with my father, who had devoted many years to the
business, and I have concerned myself with the arts strictly on
my own time. I might add that these intervening years have
shown no progress whatsoever in the local press, although the
amounts of life insurance owned by Texans have multiplied
greatly.

Self-obituaries of this kind give me the jimjams, because I feel
that my life has just started to become interesting during the past
three or four years. In September, 1950, Eleanor Loveman
Kempner and I flew to Mexico City, where we were married.
We travelled around that fascinating country for a few weeks,
and this year we have a ranch-type air-conditioned home about
ten miles from Houston, with woods and a lake that is sixty feet
across at high tide.

About three years ago I became interested in painting and have
been attending night classes. I don’t know why there was such
a lag in this activity, as I had done nothing of this kind since I
used to submit an occasional drawing to the Lavpoon, but if I
could go back to Harvard, I would put in my time mostly at
Fogg, even though Dr. Edgell has gone on to the Boston Museum.
Meanwhile, some of my paintings have been shown in local and
Texas shows and last year one of them, “Liberation of Paris,”
made the National Amateur Painters’ exhibition in New York.

Harvard: Even though I am aware that the high winds of world
discord have left their flurries in the Yard, Harvard still lives
in my mind as a tranquil world apart, whose judgments and
values are not those of the market place most of us call civiliza-
tion. Perhaps this is what comes of looking at 1952 through the

[ 365 ]

—__gnaiaeiapanewsic tio ni nenenteiansmmsacamesnianasiatcasnninmeaaanm tecsswiaaisnsinnuanalansanedaliia,,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

eyes of 1927, because I hope that we can always regard the
University, as now, a living force in the United States, rather
than a pleasant shrine — the standing guarantee that the United
States will always be a good country for free scholars and free
men.

ALBERT CHARLES FRIEND

HOME ADDRESS: 768 Madison Ave., New York 21, N. Y.

orFice appress: Dept. of English, City College, New York, N. Y.

Born: July 14, 1906, Milwaukee, Wis. PparenTs: Charles Friend, ’88, Car-
oline Blumberg.

PREPARED AT: Milwaukee Country Day School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; A.M. 1930.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Charles Friend, ’31, LL.B., ’34.

occuPaTION: Assistant professor of English, City College.

MEMBER oF: American Council of Learned Societies (fellow); Mediaeval
Academy; Modern Language Association; Harvard Club of New York.

PuBLICATIONS: Articles on Chaucer, Latin literature of the Middle Ages,
T. S. Eliot, Henry James.

I HELD a Fulbright grant for research in France, during 1950-51.

DONALD FROTHINGHAM

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Fenn School, Concord, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 14, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Edgar Victor Frothingham,
’96, Genevieve Lord.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926, 1937-1939.

MARRIED: Elizabeth VanValzah Philbrick, March 25, 1933, New York, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Diana, Sept. 23, 1935; David Alden, Sept. 9, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Lord Frothingham, ’24.

occuPATION: Teacher and dormitory master, Fenn School.

PUBLICATIONS: One letter to the editor in the Herald Tribune.

I HAVE been a teacher and dormitory master almost without in-

terruption since the fall of 1931. To those of my classmates who

are or have been in the same profession there is no need to say

more. To those whom I consider to have been less fortunate it

would be almost impossible to say anything meaningful about

some eighteen terms of work, endlessly fascinating and reward-

ing though they may have been. There have been high moments

to cheer one on the way, but these have arisen out of the intimate

complexities of personal relationships with boys as students and

[ 366 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

as social individuals, and I cannot feel like writing about them,
even if I were able to do so effectively. There have been many
things to laugh over, many irritations, many joys, and a few
heartaches, but they have all added up to rich experience.

Before the children appeared on the scene, my wife and I
managed to get in a summer trip to England, but since then we
have stayed in New England for the most part. We spend the
better part of our summers on Cuttyhunk Island where, a number
of years ago, we combined with another couple to buy a house.
Work on the house and on a decrepit but beloved Model A
station wagon, tennis, swimming, sailing, occasional “striper”
fishing expeditions or runs off shore after swordfish — these things
make a full and restoring kind of life. We manage to do some of
the entertaining we can’t fit in when school is in session, visiting
yachts often providing us with most welcome surprise arrivals.
We never know, say, when a gang of Whiffenpoofs may suddenly
turn up and lead us into another marvelous evening of music. Our
upright gets a good deal of exercise, one way or another.

Bird identification is a source of pleasure in season, as is my
very so-so brand of skiing. Flying is a hobby I enjoy infrequently
enough to make each flight something of an adventure, and
where I land is almost always disturbingly rough country. An
airplane under my unpractised hand becomes as skittish and
unpredictable as a thoroughbred mare and has been known to
perform nearly as many agitating gyrations. There is nothing,
however, like the glow to be derived from that occasional good
landing.

I have been “agin” the party in power for many years, clinging
as I do to the perverted belief that unbalanced budgets make poor
paving for the road to Elysium.

The gray hairs that are appearing haven't affected my ability
to enjoy my work and my play, and I hope the same may be
said for those of my classmates who take the trouble to read this.

THEODORE FROTHINGHAM

HOME ApDpDRESS: Pleasant Street, Bass River, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ship Shops Inc., Bass River, Mass.

BORN: March 2, 1904, Brooklyn, N. Y. Parents: Theodore Longfellow
Frothingham, °84, Elizabeth Frothingham Mason.

[ 367 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926,

MARRIED: Nanneen Prendergast Rebori, April 17, 1935, Hyannis, Mass.
(divorced 1941); Irene Mae Pasek, Aug. 28, 1949, Bass River, Mass.
CHILDREN: Elizabeth Mason, Oct. 3, 1937; Nathaniel, March 29, 1939;
Geoffrey Bruce, March 12, 1950; Jean Pasek, Sept. 1, 1951.

occupation: President and general manager, Ship Shops Inc., marine hard-
ware shop and boatyard.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II: served one year in Coast Guard
Temporary Reserve; enlisted in regular reserve, September, 1942;
bo’s'n’s mate ist class petty officer in charge of anti-submarine patrol
craft, Harwichport, Cape Cod, and Otter Point Coastal Lookout &
Weather Station, Mt. Desert Island, Maine; in charge of fire boat at
ammunition loading port, Searsport, Maine; ended service in lighthouse
work at Graves Light, Boston; discharged July, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Director, South Yarmouth Library Association, since 1950.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of Cape Cod; Barn-
stable Comedy Club; Cape Cod Power Squadron; Bass River Yacht
Club; Hyannis Yacht Club; Bass River Rod & Gun Club; Owl Club of
South Yarmouth.

puBLications: Articles for Yachting and Yarmouth Register.

MY LIFE since college seems to have centered mostly around
Cape Cod, and Bass River in particular. True, I started out for
a year or two working in New York City for the Munson
Steamship Lines and the International Mercantile Marine both in
the office and on shipboard, but my increasing desire to be
forever free from the city led me into work on a farm, a short
period of school teaching, and boatyard work at the Crosby
Yacht Company on Cape Cod. My desire to have a business of
my own and be my boss was realized with the formation of Ship
Shops and later its incorporation, at Bass River. Our work deals
with boat storage, reconditioning, the sale of marine hardware,
teaching seamanship and sailing, and considerable small boat
brokerage. Besides this there is convoy work for the yacht
club, buoy setting, and even occasional fishing. Out of season I
have time for travelling and writing, and to take part in various
community activities both political and social. At the shop I have
had the pleasure of watching a number of generations grow up,
and have enjoyed my part in directing their youthful enthusiasms
for all things pertaining to the water.
With the war, I went into the Coast Guard Reserve and value

[ 368 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the many contacts I made as an enlisted petty officer whose
duties never took him outside of New England, but because of
a variety of assignments covered many phases of Coast Guard
work. Most particularly I developed a love for the coast of
Maine and the people who inhabit it, as I lived among them much
of the time.

After the war I returned to my business which was badly
damaged by the hurricane of 1944, and I shortly returned to
Maine to open a marine hardware store at Bar Harbor. My
stay was short-lived due to the great fire which destroyed much
of Mt. Desert Island and completely destroyed the house in
which I lived. After part of a year at Somesville, Maine, I
returned to Cape Cod and repurchased my former business at
Bass River. Since my return we have expanded and built up the
shop which my wife and I manage, with various help. We have
very active springs, summers, and falls, and are delighted to
have a little time off in the winter.

I still enjoy my attempts at writing which take up quite a
bit of my time during the winters, and this past year I have done
some radio announcing. My Cape Cod life has proved to be most
satisfying and with a young family to bring up I find little idle
time for what are called hobbies. The variety of work and peace
of living we enjoy is something quite unique in the world today.

JOSEPH CHAMBERLAIN FURNAS

HOME appress: R. D. 1, Lebanon, N. J.

BORN: Nov. 24, 1905, Indianapolis, Ind. parents: Isaiah George Furnas, Sally
Elizabeth Chamberlain.

PREPARED AT: Shortridge High School, Indianapolis, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE! A.B. cum laude, 1927.

MarrieD: Helen Winthrop Levinson, Feb. 21, 1931, New York, N. Y.

occuPaTION: Free-lance writer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Authors’ League of America; Phi
Beta Kappa Society.

PUBLICATIONS: The Prophet's Chamber (novel), 1935; Many People Prize It
(novel), 1938; How America Lives, 1941; Anatomy of Paradise: Hawaii
and the Islands of the South Seas, 1948; Voyage to Windward: The Life
of Robert Louis Stevenson (due October 5, 1951).

[ 369 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

I WENT to New York after leaving Cambridge. The first
intelligible job was wniting copy and doing general chores for a
bright Broadway press agent. When he moved over to movie
publicity, I went with him. The assumption was that I had
learned something about show-business promotion, so in the fall
of 1929 I was hired by a now defunct agency to write adver-
tising copy for movie accounts. The job hinged on a consolidation
in Hollywood which fell through when the stock market crashed.
I was one of the first fired in consequence of that historic event.
I suspect that I wasn’t long for the job anyway.
I took perforce to free-lancing while looking for another job.
I never found it and have free-lanced ever since, first getting
my teeth into it with a couple of ghosting jobs for magazine
autobiographies. For over twenty years I have done non-fiction
pieces, largely feature-reporting, for magazines ranging from the
British Fortnightly to Esquire, including most of such national
slicks as the Saturday Evening Post, Collier's, Look, and women’s
magazines like the Ladies Home Journal and McCal?s. Sometimes
for fun, oftener on business, I’ve seen something of Russia, France,
Britain, Central America, the West Indies, Canada, Australia,
New Zealand, and almost all the major groups of South Pacific
Islands. As I write, I feel restless because it’s two years since I
crossed the U. S. boundary, the longest such stretch since 1934.
My two novels, done in the thirties, didn’t sell. Some time I
may try another, which won't sell. A piece on traffic accidents
that I did for the Reader’s Digest in 1935 blew up in my face as
a national sensation, which was excellent general promotion for
me and has resulted in my writing a good deal on traffic safety off
and on. My How America Lives (consisting of the first year of
the Ladies Home Journal series of that name) was put into a
dozen languages for OWI use during World War II. I can read
the French and have a stagger at the German but the Greek
version still baffles me. My Anatomy of Paradise won the 1948
Anisfield-Wolf award for non-fiction of the year likeliest to
better inter-racial relations. During the legwork for that one
my wife and I stayed several months off and on as guests at
Vailima, Robert Louis Stevenson’s house in Samoa. That com-
Lined with my long-standing interest in Stevenson to start me
on a definitive life of the man. The result is Voyage to Wind-

[ 379 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ward, on the press as I write, which took all time available
outside bread-and-buttering for the last three years. Due as
much to luck as judgment, it’s definitive.

Eleven years ago we bought thirty acres of woods and brush
in a truly rural section of New Jersey and built a house that most
people call functional, but which the architect soundly preferred
to call simple. I cherished the woods and am trying gradually
to reforest the brush, with some success. I work there when not
in Baraboo or North Bay on a magazine job. My wife works
closely with me, sometimes with a double by-line, oftener without
credit for doing a good half of the work. We're too busy for
conventional hobbies, but not for a forty-by-fifty vegetable
garden. The place is otherwise noted for the largest and toughest
groundhogs in the country. Other livestock: one red cocker.
Gardening and chopping one’s own fireplace wood keep the
waistline down.

The sum so far: A very interesting life at work I like. A
free-lance’s position is always precarious but never-the-same-
thing-twice is stimulating. When I left Cambridge, an eminent
member of the philosophy department told me all I'd learned was
how not to work. I’ve relearned since. Were I an undergraduate
again, I’d work on languages and anthropology in place of ... .
what did I study?

FREDERIC WILLIAM GALBRAITH, III

HOME ADDRESS: 4325 E. Whitman St., Tucson, Ariz.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Davis-Monthan Air Force Base, Tucson, Ariz.

BORN: May 23, 1903, East Orange, N. J. Parents: Frederic William Gal-
braith, Jr., Esther Gilmore.

PREPARED AT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1927. DEGREES: S.B. cum? laude, 1927; S.M., 1928; PH.D.
(Univ. of Arizona), 1935.

MarrieD: Lynette May Brown, Sept. 11, 1926, Jacksonville, Tl.

OccuPATION: Major, U. S. Air Force; professor of geology, University of
Arizona, on indefinite leave.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned rst lieutenant, U. S. Army Air
Force, 1942; served as instructor and director, Photo Intelligence Divi-
sion, Air Intelligence School, Harrisburg, Pa., to 1944; 14th Air Force,
assistant Air Force intelligence officer, to 1946; promoted major, July,
1945; separated May, 1946, received American Theatre Ribbon, Asiatic

[371]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Theatre Ribbon with two stars, Victory Medal, Bronze Star Medal,
recalled to extended active duty April, 1951, with 43rd Bombardment
Wing, assigned to Intelligence Division.

OFFICES HELD: President, Tucson Kennel Club, 1949; president, Great North-
ern Exploration Company, 1947-50.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Xi; Harvard Club of Arizona; Tucson Kennel Club;
American Mineralogical Society (fellow).

PUBLICATIONS: Minerals of Arizona; Ore Deposits of the Superior Mining
District, Arizona, Ore Deposits of the La Plata Mining District, Colo-
rado; various articles in scientific periodicals.

AFTER reading the narrative “lives” in the sample sent with the
questionnaire, I decided that I needed a ghost writer. I don’t
think those samples are quite fair. Couldn’t you have included
just one from a perfectly ordinary person, and one who can’t
write very well? Strangely enough, the first “life” was that of a
chap I knew quite well during freshman year, and of whom I
had not heard even a whisper since graduation. So in view of
that, and after a futile search for a ghost writer who might
glamorize my past twenty-five years for a small fee, I decided
that after all I could make a stab at it myself.

During the few years following 1928, the need for geologists
was at an all-time low, and jobs were not scarce, they were non-
existent. A couple of years learning the mining business from
the worm’s-eye view, from mucker to mine superintendent, and
a couple more learning which end of a diamond drill went in the
ground, kept us from both starvation and relief. Thank heaven
I married my wife during my senior year. Later on I am afraid
she might have chosen someone who could more readily support
her in the manner to which she had been accustomed.

In 1932 1 was persuaded to resume work towards a Ph.D. in
geology, which I had started before leaving Harvard. Having
spent most of the past four years in the Southwest, I chose the
University of Arizona because of its outstanding reputation in
the field of mining geology. I was appointed a teaching fellow in

1933, and after receiving my Ph.D. in 1935, I simply never got
away from the University. Maybe it seemed to be too much
trouble, and thus another college professor was born. I have
often recalled a conversation with my cousin, Mac Galbraith, ’28,
whose life ambition at that time was to teach. I was positive
that if a teaching job was the last position open in the world, I

[ 372]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

wanted no part of it. So I wind up a teacher, and Mac is one

of the more prominent younger mining geologists. That’s life.

The years of teaching have been anything but humdrum. One
advantage, of course, is the three-and-a-half-month summer vaca-
tion — if you can afford to take it. Sometimes we could, and
spent it camped on the bank of a trout stream in Colorado or
Montana; sometimes we couldn’t, and spent it doing mining
exploration in the Southwest, Canada, or Mexico, but even that
was a vacation of sorts. There was always time for bird and deer
hunting in the fall, and some golf. All that changed in 1942, when
for four years there wasn’t much time for anything but Air
Intelligence, I have never regretted a minute of it, however, for
every job I had was extremely interesting, especially the year and
one-half in China in charge of the target section of the 14th Air
Force.

Back to the university after the war, with the same space,
same facilities, and twice as many students. Not much time
for hunting and golf, and the summer mostly spent in mining
exploration. It is a good thing my wife likes the outdoor life, or
she would have got rid of me long ago. She is an excellent fisher-
man, a pretty good shot, a good lady golfer, and can hold her
own on a camping trip with the best of them. She has gone
nearly everywhere with me, including a three-month trip into
Yukon Territory, where the airplane brought in supplies once
a month, and she was left alone for five and six days at a time.
With no children you can do those things, and after twenty-five

years I am about convinced that I would rather be married to
her than be single.

.With the expansion of the Air Force (write your own figures)
groups, it seemed that they needed some additional personnel. As
I had been moderately active in the Organized Reserve, it was
inevitable that they would eventually come to my name, and as
I wasn’t a complete physical wreck by that time, I found myself
back on active duty. It’s not bad. I don’t work half as hard as
I did at the university, and I have more time for golf. Of course,
I shall never become rich at it, as I would undoubtedly have as
a university professor, but from what I hear it is becoming

increasingly difficult to keep your money, no matter how much
you make. Besides, who knows, there might be a war some time.

[ 373 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

ELBRIDGE CLEGHORN GALE

HOME ApDpRESS: Red Bluff Plantation, Hardeeville, S. C.

BORN: Dec. 8, 1905, Chicago, Ill. parents: Arthur Ernest Gale, Jessie
Gordon Wood.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.B.A., 1930.

MARRIED: Margaret Lueur St. John, Oct. 19, 1937, Greenwich, Conn. (died
Jan. 19, 1948); Elizabeth Saroukhanouf, Dec. 28, 1950, Greenwich, Conn.
cHitp: Gordon Elbridge, May 27, 1946.

occuPaTION: Farming; owner and manager of plantation, raising cattle,
turkeys and trees.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant (j.g.), U. S. Coast Guard Temporary
Reserve, Savannah, Ga., patrolling adjacent sounds and inland water-
ways.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Meade & Gale, Inc., Boston, 1935-42.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Eastern Point Yacht Club; Gloucester
Oglethorpe Club, Savannah.

ONLY Charlie Draper & Company could convince me that a
biography of the average man is of any importance, so, after
repeated nudges including a Christmas card from Monk Russell,
I submit to super salesmanship.

After our Commencement exercises were over, I joined a group
under the auspices of ISHA (International Student Hospitality
Association). My particular group was destined for the Uni-
versities of France with the obvious and excellent idea of helping
international friendship and understanding. By the end of the
summer I fear most of us felt that we had spread few of the
values we so gaily set out to disseminate. We rushed from one
university town to another never staying long enough in any
one to get really to know the students. On the whole the French
students spoke far better English than we spoke French and yet
not good enough to allow a complete meeting of minds and, much
to our chagrin, we found them to be far better educated
scholastically than we.

My companions departed for the U.S. A. in the fall, and I went
on rather an aimless path around the world which was not com-
pleted until the following fall when I entered the Harvard Business
School. In June, 1930, I again found myself on the Atlantic on

my way to Russia. Going into Russia completely antagonistic to
Communism, I came out four months Jater still antagonistic but

[ 374]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

somehow sure that while Marxist Communism would not survive,
neither would Capitalism as we then knew it. It is now twenty
years since I have left these shores. Having visited almost all
the countries of this world, I have never had a desire to leave
again. However, this does not mean that I do not have respect
and admiration for all countries and all peoples. Nations are
nothing more than people and in the worst there is good and in
the best there is bad.

Ten years in the insurance business in Boston convinced me
that while insurance is generally a necessary precaution against
possible loss or disaster, these were not the thoughts I preferred
to dwell upon. Searching for the answer to an inner restlessness,
my wife and I bought an abandoned southern plantation. On
the land that we acquired there was but one small cabin, the old
plantation home having burned many years before. This move
proved to be the answer for us both. As we attempted to become
farmers we saw our land producing more and more, our pure-
bred herd of Hereford cattle increasing in quantity and quality,
instead of raising one hundred turkeys we were raising 6000 —
these were years of great excitement, pleasure, and lots of work.
And then to add to all, our son was born. And then down crashed
the curtain. I beg everyone to give all he can to cancer research.

For the young if not for the old, discouraged and sad as one
may become, life had to go on and time does help. From far
across the seas and lands there came a person. To the Caucasian
Mountains of Russia my son and I are deeply indebted. Our
farm being pretty well buried in the woods and swamps of South
Carolina, it seemed hardly a place to attempt to bring up a young
boy (aged three). Yet where is there a better background for
youth than the mystery of growing things and animals, woods
full of game, and ponds and streams full of fish? While I believe
that once our children come into this world it then becomes their
lives and not the parents’, we as parents should not completely
divorce ourselves from planning for the future. The thought of
returning to catching the 8:01 was a nightmare to me. Finally a
compromise was made, and a Yankee definitely became a Rebel
when he sold his house in Massachusetts and built one in Savannah,
Georgia, only twenty-eight miles from Red Bluff Plantation.
Now my son can go to school with normal contact with other

[375]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

children and the challenge to maintain Red Bluff Plantation is
being met. I hope one day Gordon may not only appreciate the
effort but will find healthful and fruitful pursuits from the
potential possibilities of land.

JAMES SOUVERINE GALLO

HOME ADDRESS: East Allendale Avenue, Saddle River, N. J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: §oo Market St., Paterson, N. J.

BoRN: Dec. 12, 1903, Paterson, N. J. parRENTS: Fermin Gallo, Ninfa Baronio.
PREPARED AT: Paterson High School, Paterson, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927; M.D.
(Columbia Univ.), 1931.

MARRIED: Agnes Marie Agarino, Sept. 12, 1935, New York, N. Y.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon, specializing in the treatment of neoplastic diseases.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II: Lieutenant commander, USMCR,
1943-44; Commander, 1945-46.

OFFICES HELD: Member Board of Managers, American Cancer Society, New
Jersey Division; chairman, Medical Advisory Committee, New Jersey
Cancer Control Program.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American College of Surgeons,
American Radium Society; American Association for Cancer Research.

AFTER graduation from the Yard in 1927, I attended Columbia
College of Physicians and Surgeons, from which I graduated with
the degree of M.D. in 1931. I then served my internship at the
Paterson General Hospital, where I first became interested in the
diagnosis and treatment of neoplastic diseases. It was my good
fortune to become associated early in my career with Dr. George
T. Pack, the eminent cancer specialist, from whom I received
stimulus and guidance. My first surgical appointment was as
clinical assistant in the Lendrim Tumor Clinic of the Paterson
General Hospital. In 1938 I became associate surgeon to the
Surgical Department of the Paterson General Hospital. World
War II interrupted my career. I was commissioned lieutenant
commander in the U. S. Naval Medical Corps Reserve, and
served about one year at Portsmouth Naval Hospital, Virginia,
and the remainder of the time at sea in the Pacific Area on APA
210 (Telfair) and on LST 276. We were in on the invasion of
Okinawa where we were on the receiving end of three Kamikaze
planes. My surgical training was of some tangible use for several
months in and around Okinawa where I treated many casualties.

[ 376]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I was made a commander while in the Pacific and was out of the
Navy in 1946. I then spent two years with Dr. George T. Pack
of New York City, brushing up on the treatment of neoplastic
diseases. I returned to my first love — the Lendrim Tumor Clinic
of the Paterson General Hospital — as its director early in 1949.
My private surgical practice and my clinical duties keep me
extremely busy and happy. In 1950 I moved my home to the
country, to which I retire each night to lick my wounds and
gather strength for the high hurdles of each ensuing day.

ERNEST FRANCIS GAMACHE

HOME ADDRESS: Easton Road, Westport, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Foundation for Tropical Medicine, 17 E. 4znd St.,
New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Nov. 4, 1904, Leominster, Mass. parents: Frank Joseph Gamache,
Emma Mercier.

PREPARED AT: Leominster High School, Leominster, Mass.; Cushing Academy,
Ashburnham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: S.B., 1927; M.B.A., 1929.

MaRRIED: Mary Elizabeth Walsh, Sept. 21, 1932, Newark, N. J. CHILDREN:
Anne Louise, May 13, 1935; Mercy Mary, May 30, 1936.

OCCUPATION: Executive director, American Foundation for Tropical Medi-
cine and Liberian Institute of the American Foundation for Tropical
Medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Air Youth of America, 1938-41, American Founda-
tion for Tropical Medicine, 1946-51, Liberian Institute, 1946-51; mem-
ber House Committee, Harvard Club of New York, 1949-51.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Varsity Club; American
Society of Tropical Medicine, Harvard Business School Alumni Asso-
ciation.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional contributions to publications in tropical medicine.

‘GAZING back over twenty-five years of prohibition, depression,
wars, recessions, emergencies, and now preparations for an atomic
war, one wonders if our period in history will not become known
as the “Age of Ulcers.” For certainly many of us have been so
blessed, and those who have escaped have done so only by
growing philosophical in this rough and tumble, what next
world!

Starting out in a tail-spin depression in the fall of 1929 after
finishing Harvard Business School was a grand time to cut one’s
eye teeth in business. We had learned of a new level of economic
prosperity, two cars in every garage, two chickens in every pot

[377]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

I manage to keep my waistline down and remain young enough
to enjoy the teen-age antics of my growing daughters. Life
would be somewhat more enjoyable if Harvard could win a few
more football games, but that day will come! I remain ever
hopeful that by the time of our Fiftieth we shall have passed
through the atomic era to one hundred years of peace. No one
can say our first twenty-five have not been charged with the
activity of a lifetime. We should be able to take the next twenty-
five — ulcerless — in our stride.

EDWARD MICHEL GARMENT

HOME AppRESS: South Terrace, Fishkill, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: V.A. Hospital, Montrose, N. Y.

BorN: Dec. 10, 1905, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Samuel Garment, Rose Cooper.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREE: M.D. (Long Island College Hospital),
1930.

miarrieD: Martha Levine, June 29, 1934, New York, N. Y. cuHiLp: John
Samuel, Nov. 6, 1938.

occuPATION: Physician; chief, TB-NP Service, Montrose V.A. Hospital.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: First lieutenant, Medical Corps, May 11, 1942;
stationed at Fort H. G. Wright, N. Y.; Station Hospital, Camp Edwards,
Mass.; Lovell General Hospital, Fort Devens, Mass.; separated as major,
June 3, 1946.

MEMBER OF: American College of Chest Physicians (fellow); Ameri-
can Trudeau Society; Dutchess County Medical Society; American
Medical Association (service fellow); New York State Chapters of
American College of Chest Physicians and American Trudeau Society.

KENNETH GREENWOOD GARSIDE

HOME AND OFFICE Appress: Partridge Road, Duxbury, Mass.
Bors: Feb. 2, 1905, Holyoke, Mass. parents: Arnold Lewin Garside, Mary
Greenwood.
PREPARED AT: Taunton High School, Taunton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: 8.B., 1927; 8S.M. (Massachusetts Inst. of
Technology), 1929.
marrigp: Alice Blake Hawes, Aug. 29, 1930, Dartmouth, Mass. CHILDREN:
Anne, Feb. 28, 1932 (7. Michael Cann, Sept. 15, 1951); Elizabeth, Dec.
31, 1934; Caroline, Nov. 21, 1939.
occupation: Cranberry grower.
WARTIME GOVERNMENT POSTS: Civilian defense activities.
orriess HetD: School Committee, Duxbury, Mass., 1940-46 (chairman, 1941-
4), Planning Board, Duxbury, since 1947 (chairman, 1951); director and
officer in several corporations engaged in cranberry industry.

[ 380 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FOLLOWING graduation I attended Massachusetts Institute of
Technology for eighteen months, acquiring a Master of Science
degree in chemical engineering. In January, 1929, I entered the
employ of the Central Hudson Gas and Electric Corporation in
Poughkeepsie, New York, where I also discovered Vassar College
and met my wife-to-be, then a Vassar undergraduate. I worked
with Central Hudson for seven years in various engineering
capacities in the manufactured gas division—planning engineer,
design engineer, construction engineer, and finally operating
superintendent of their Kingston-Catskill division. In the middle
’30’s the future of the manufactured gas industry, because of the
competition of government electric projects and private electric
utilities, looked not too bright and I returned to New England
to become a cranberry grower in Duxbury, Massachusetts. I find
agriculture, and particularly cranberry culture, a satisfying
existence. '

My wife and I find life in a small town congenial and ideal for
raising a family and are active in civic and church affairs. My
major civic interest has been education in which connection I
spent six years on our local school committee and have served
on several building committees. At present I am chairman of the
Planning Board.

Politically, I am a one-time member of the Republican Town
Committee, have on most occasions voted a nearly straight
Republican ticket but with no great enthusiasm since Willkie —
am still hoping for the day the Republican party will stand for
something, preferably integrity in office and a platform of
economics as expounded in our days of Economics A. Nominally,
my church affiliation makes me a Congregationalist — actually I
am probably a low-grade Unitarian or Humanist. On the whole,
I think life is good and have been glad to observe that with those
classmates whom I have met, the last twenty-five years have been
a period of growth and development.

GEOFFREY McNAIR GATES

HOME ADDRESS: 153 E. 74th St., New York 21, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Parsons School of Design, 136 E. s7th St. New York 22,
N. Y.
BORN: June 25, 1905, Elyria, Ohio. parents: William Nahum Gates, Ada
Laura Cook.
[ 381 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927. —

MARRIED: Jane Joyce Shonnard, October, 1929 (divorced 1936); Mrs. Grace
Momand Bingham, Sept. 27, 1938, Baltimore, Md. (died September,
1946); Mrs. Louise Macy Hopkins, September, 1947. CHILDREN: Geof-
frey, Nov. 20, 1932; Diana Hopkins, Nov. 15, 1932 (stepdaughter).

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Nahum Gates, ’24, LL.B. ’27; John Monteith
Gates, '27; Edward Leigh Gates, ’30; David Edgerley Gates, ’34.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Parsons School of Design; in charge of business
administration,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve,
July, 1941; active duty in office of Chief Cable Censor, Washington,
D. C., November, 1941, Allied Force Headquarters, North Africa,
August, 1943, as commander, liaison officer, U. S. Office of Censorship
and French Censorship; covered United Kingdom, Italy, Mediterranean
from Agadir to Damascus; U. S. Naval Hospital, St. Albans, N. Y,,
September, 1944, to January, 1945; with SHAEF, Paris; inactive, Septem-
ber, 1945; awarded U.S. Navy Commendation Ribbon; French Croix de
Guerre with Silver Star.

OFFICES HELD: Junior positions, Guaranty Trust Company of New York,
and Dominick & Dominick, brokers; chairman, 1948-51, member Execu-
tive Committee, Council on Student Travel; member Executive Com-
mittee, Greater New York Council for Foreign Students, member Ad-
ministration Board, Society of Memorial Cancer Center, N. Y.; member
Board of Directors, National Association of Schools of Design.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Schools of Design; American Council
on Education; National Education Association; National Association of
Foreign Student Advisers.

FROM graduation until the war, life came along towards me
cherry-bow] style, i.e., tres gai. Now, sedentary and old beyond
my years, I find life far more enjoyable. For example, I have a
nineteen-year-old son who, in personality and behavior, is the
exact image of me at his age; it seems inconceivable to me now
that anyone could be so heedless, so unwise. But he troubles
neither deaf heaven nor anxious parent with bootless cries; he
just laughs, and a greater part of the world, including me, laughs
with him.

For the first fourteen years after college my temperature
fluctuated precisely with the Dow Jones averages. Since then
it has stabilized at 97.60° — just one point behind the lighthouse —
and the averages interest me not. In short, if you stay away from
baseball, you get no hits, score no runs, and make no errors — in
baseball, that is. During this period, banking and brokering in

[ 382 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Wall Street, and independent business venturing, were nicely
interspersed with periods of travel, living in Paris, and some
not very expert fox-hunting in Virginia. The last came to a rude
end in 1937 with four breaks: my horse’s leg, my own right arm,
the stock market, and my first marriage. My military experience,
although mostly remote from enemy action, was work-loaded,
worry-making, weight-reducing, and altogether wonder-packed.
When applying for a commission in Naval Intelligence in 1940,
the one branch I stated a distaste for was Censorship. In the fall
of 1941, I was ordered to active duty in Censorship. It proved
the most interesting work I ever did. But then, I was lucky in
assignments and also had a skipper who would never have
provoked a mutiny on the U.S.S. Caine. In July, 1943, after
eighteen months in the head office in Washington, I was given
a spot-promotion to commander and sent to North Africa as
the American liaison officer with French Censorship. During the
two years I was overseas, the Army thought I was under Navy
jurisdiction and the Navy thought I was under Army jurisdiction.
I can remember no disadvantages in that deal.

The first pleasure of returning to civilian life was quickly
blighted. My second wife fell ill with cancer, and for nearly a
year I kept her constant company as she went slowly downhill
to the end. It’s not a nice way to die. Because of my pity for her
and for anyone afflicted with cancer, my major charitable interest
is New York’s incomparable Memorial Center for Cancer and
Allied Diseases. I serve on the administrative board of the Society
of Memorial and I work at least one night a week, from the end
of office hours to late evening, as a volunteer aid in the wards
there. It is sometimes a grim, but always interesting and satis-
fying service. My present wife, who ran up a score of nearly 3500
hours as a nurse’s aid during the war, and whose late husband,
Harry Hopkins, died at Memorial, always works with me in
the wards and offsets my timidity and ineptitude. Since Novem-
ber, 1946, I have been learning and practising an attractive trade:
business administration of an art school. Parsons School of Design
is one of the oldest non-profit design schools in the country. It
swarms with talented young people, of college age and up, who
are studying to become designers or illustrators in the fields of
advertising, fashion, textiles, and interiors. Students, faculty, and

[ 383 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

things of art combine to envelop me in a happy and stimulating
climate.

As for family, how can one publicly describe a perfectly happy
marriage? Lest the colors get too warm, I shall leave the painting
of that picture to my biographers. Not least of the immaterial
assets provided by my wife was second parenthood—a prefab-
ricated daughter, Diana Hopkins, now a sophomore at Bryn
Mawr. She couldn’t be nicer if she were my own daughter! My
aforementioned son, young Geoff, has volunteered his 200 pounds
of meat to the Marine Corps’ Platoon Leader Class. ‘Thus, he
sweats summers at Parris Island, and winters he sweats practically
not at all at college. What college? Well...er...ah... he’s
at a place called Princeton.

Hobbies? I wouldn’t let a hobby within shootin’ distance of
me. Sports... ditto. As I heard someone else say, when I feel
an urge to exercise I lie down until the feeling goes away.
Politics? I vote Republican, but with greater reluctance each
time. My distaste for Communism and Fascism is soul-root deep.
Racial discrimination makes me sick at heart, but that solves
nothing. As an Episcopalian I’m a back-sliding back-bencher.
Things like kindness, fair-mindedness, fidelity, humility, and
democracy are for me now, I am sure, more than just words or
vague concepts.

After a year at the Sorbonne, on the heels of graduation, I moved
to New York City. Figuratively, my phone number has been
“Butterfield 8” ever since. I can out-enumerate almost anyone in
reasons to move elsewhere, but I’m sure I’m here to stay. I just
adore to eat. I revel in reading. New York’s a good place to do
both. No, I guess I'll never move. Also, I have a pleasant cottage
in a gentle unassuming community by the name of Quogue, out
on Long Island, and you couldn’t ask for more when it comes
to beach life and change of scene. And, to make contentment
twice compounded, I can always remind myself that I’m a
Harvard man!

JOHN MONTEITH GATES

Home Avoress: Glen Head, Long Island, N. Y.
orricg, aporess: Steuben Glass, 7:8 Fifth Ave., New York 19, N. Y.
nomex: June 25, 1905, Elyria, Ohio. pangnts: William Nahum Gates, Ada
Laura Cook.
[ 384 ]

125TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

preparEeD AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926. DEGREE: B.ARCH. (Columbia Univ.), 1929.

MaRRiED: Ellen Wise Crenshaw, Dec. 27, 1927, Washington, D. C. (divorced
1939); Evelyn Byrd (Dows) Bliss, Sept. 27, 1940, Greenfield Hill, Conn.
CHILDREN: John Monteith, Jr., Aug. 2, 1928; Ellen Douglas, Oct. 2, 1931
(m. Russell Grace D’Oench, Jr., Sept. 12, 1949); Peter Parker McNair,
Dec. 27, 1934; Evelyn Byrd, Oct. 20, 1942; Ada Gwendolyn, May 1o,
1943; Jonathan, Aug. 29, 1947. GRANDCHILD: Peter D’Oench, Sept. 12, 1950.

HARVARD SON: John Monteith Gates, Jr., ’50.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Nahum Gates, ’24, LL.B. ’27; Geoffrey McNair
Gates, ’27; Edward Leigh Gates, ’30; David Edgerly Gates, °34.

occuPpATION: Architect, h designer; vice-president, director of design, Steuben
Glass.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U.S.N.R., June, 1942;
cable censorship, New York; London, January, 1944, G-2 SHAEF; Nor-
mandy, July, 1944, liaison with French Intelligence; Luxembourg, De-
cember, 1944, to March, 1945; March-October, Chief Allied Censorship
Group, Holland; separated, New York, October, 1945, lieutenant com-
mander, Inactive Reserve; European Ribbon, five campaign stars, Bronze
Star; Croix de Guerre, Luxembourg; officer of the Oak Crown, Luxem-
bourg; Croix de Guerre, with Silver Star, France. ‘

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; Royal Society of Arts, Eng-
land (fellow).

BY THE end of my junior year I was so firmly decided on my
future profession that I left Harvard and enrolled in the Columbia
School of Architecture, from which I graduated with honors in
the spring of 1929. In the meantime, I married Ellen Crenshaw in
December, 1927. The year 1929-30, we spent in Europe with our
new-born baby, travelling in a Ford “touring car” from Sweden
to Greece, from Germany to Sicily. The long years since have
not dimmed the wonder and excitement of that year, nor the
joys of vagabond water-color painting and architectural study.
The early thirties were hard. I bounced from one depressed
architectural office to another, with diminishing returns. I don’t
forget those years, either, or the growing anxiety and insecurity
for my wife and two children. I was perhaps at my lowest in the
fall of 1933, when I took a job supervising a residential construc-
tion job for classmate, Geoff Platt, in York Harbor, Maine. There
one morning a most surprising phone call came through from
Corning, New York, offering me a job with a glass company
called Steuben. Arthur A. Houghton, Jr. (29), vice-president of
the parent company, Corning Glass Works, wanted me to help

[ 385 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

in a new enterprise which comprised the designing of both a
novel New York shop and a completely new line of domestic
glassware. I accepted his offer before he could voice ict.

Houghton and I knew more about alchemy than starting a
retail store in New York, but we plunged in with a degree of

enthusiastic unorthodoxy that now makes me shudder; and with
his brains and my drawing pencil, we cooked up a lively and stout
little shop at Fifth Avenue and 57th Street, manned by contempo-
raries. (I was the oldest, I was twenty-eight.) We opened our
doors on February 19, 1934, in a raging blizzard. It must have
been a good omen, but at the time, no human body darkened our
door. The following spring, some of my pre-Steuben efforts were
rewarded by a cable from Sweden telling me and my ex-partners,
the brothers William and Geoffrey Platt, that we had won the
first prize of some $5,000 in an international competition for the
replanning of the city of Stockholm.

The next years were a lot of hard work. I was designer and
managing director of Steuben Glass and operated a moderately
successful architectural office at the same time at 1 East 53rd
Street. I went abroad for various business reasons in 1934,
twice in 1935, in 1937, and 1938, either to stage exhibitions
of our glass or to round up famous artists to execute designs. ‘The
latter were fun to meet and often maddeningly exasperating.
The upshot was a notable exhibition in 1939 of crystal engraved
from designs by twenty-seven different artists, such as Matisse, »
Cocteau, Dali, Laurencin, Maillol, Eric Gill, O’Keefe, Grant
Wood, Benton, Manship, Tchelitchew, Noguchi, etc.

Having been divorced from my first wife in 1939, I married
my present wife in September, 1940, and am still making her
the happiest woman in the world. And speaking of family, I
now have six children, my wife five, and we three, which means
that no one but that wall-eyed wizard who taught me Math A can
tell you we have eight altogether. And by the time this is printed,

I shall be a grandfather twice. I am trying to teach my youngest
son, aged four, to make a noise like an uncle.

That’s about it. The war put me into a Navy officer’s suit.
After about two years of shore duty here, I spent another two
homesick years in Europe, mainly as chief of a small mission

(G-2 SHIAFF) composed of American, English, and indigenous

[ 386 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

officers and enlisted men, in England, France, Luxembourg, and
Holland. As of this writing, my wife and I are just back from
a fine trip to London, Paris, and Rome. In London, we officiated
at the presentation by Mrs. Gifford, the wife of our ambassador,
of a commemorative Steuben Cup to Princess Elizabeth, as
honorary president of the Royal Society of Arts. In Paris we set
up a large exhibition of Steuben Glass in the Louvre, which was
officially opened by our ambassador, Mr. Bruce, and President
Auriol of France (with whom my wife and I later had a private
chat in his palace). In Rome we saw the Pope officiate at the
magnificent pageant of a Beatification in St. Peter's.

I’ve no particular hobbies. [’m an intermittent Episcopalian,
a political mugwump, quite a reader of fiction and non-fiction,
a continuing student of design, and a very happy person who
loves his job and his family life, and has latterly switched from
Martini-man to Old Grandad-on-the-rocks. Ho-hum. Next!

ARCHIBALD GORDON GAULD

HOME ADDRESS: 14 Farm Rd., Weston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1180 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 16, 1906, Leominster, Mass. parents: Frederic John Gauld,
Harriet Bensel.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 19273 M.D. 1931.

MARRIED: Virginia Furman, Sept. 6, 1941, East Palatka, Fla. cumpren: Arlie
Farrington, July 17, 1942; Stuart Gordon, Sept. 1, 1943; Alan Maclay,
Oct. 5, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Brownlee Bensel Gauld, ’19.

OCCUPATION: Physician, private practice.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Ordered to active duty as lieutenant (MC)
U.S.N.R., May 19, 1941; released from active duty as commander, Feb.
6, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in obstetrics and gynecology, Harvard Medical
School; obstetrician, Boston Lying-in Hospital; surgeon to out-patients,
Free Hospital for Women, Boston; associate obstetrician, Massachusetts
General Hospital, consultant in obstetrics, Monadnock Community
Hospital, Peterborough, New Hampshire.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Aesculapian Club of Boston; Obstet-
rical Society of Boston.

SINCE returning from the war I have resumed the practice of
obstetrics and gynecology in Boston. After many moves I have

[ 387 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

at last settled in a new modern house in Weston, where, with
wife, children, and dog, I hope to remain for many years to come.

MELVIN GERARD

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Terrace Drive, Hastings-on-Hudson, N. Y.

OFFICE appRESS: Hol-le Toy Co., 148 Post Ave., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 20, 1908, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Charles Gerard, Jennie Blotner.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Maxine Gould, May 30, 1941, Brookline, Mass. cHILDREN: Ronald,
Feb. 9, 1944; Diane, Oct. 15, 1946.

occupation: Toy manufacturing.

IRVING GERSTEIN

HOME ADDRESS: 610 E. 20th St, New York 9, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 15-17 E. 16th St. New York, N. Y. .

BoRN: June 5, 1906, Jersey City, N. J. parents: Louis Gerstein, Gussie
Cohen.

PREPARED AT: Stevens School, Hoboken, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928.

occupation: Manufacturer of bias binding.

WALTER ROCKWELL GHERARDI

HOME appress: Cove Neck Road, Oyster Bay, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFIceE appress: Chubb & Son, go John St., New York 7, N. Y.

BorN: Feb. 21, 1905, Newport, R. I. parents: Walter Rockwell Gherardi,
Neville Simms Taylor.

PREPARED AT: Ot. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.

MaRRiED: Lilia M{cCauley Tuckerman, July 8, 1927, New York, N. Y.
cuitpren: Lilia Rockwell, Feb. 6, 1928 (am. F. P. Nash, Jr., Dec. 28,
1948); Florence Neville, July 31, 1929 (7. Michael Monroney, Feb. 9,
1949). GRANDCHILDREN; F, P, Nash, 3d, June 9, 1951; Sharon Taylor
Monroney, Sept. 29, 1949.

occupation: Manager, underwriting department for ocean hulls and pleasure
yachts, Chubb & Son.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Director, Large Vessels Procurement, War
Shipping Administration, Washington, D. C.

oFFicks MeL: Police justice, Village of Cove Neck, N. Y., 1950; vice-presi-
dent, Vigilant Insurance Company, New York, 1950; member, American
Institute of Marine Underwriters, New York, 1950; member, American

surcau of Shipping, New York, 1951.

[ 388 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Indian Harbor Yacht Club, Greenwich, Conn. (secretary),
1939-41; The Lunch Club, New York, since 1946, Cove Neck Tennis
Court, since 1946.

NINETEEN fifty-two is not only my Twenty-fifth Reunion,

but also my twenty-fifth wedding anniversary and the twenty-

fifth year I have been with the insurance underwriting firm of

Chubb & Son. Having been married at an early age and had

children promptly, I have had what I assume has been the same

problem as many another classmate, namely, that of trying to
keep up with the cost of educating the children, and now that
that is completed, of keeping up with income taxes.

In business, I started with Chubb & Son in 1927, and after
several years spent in various departments, I ended up in the hull
and yacht department, which I now manage. This involves the
insuring of every conceivable type of vessel ranging in size from
outboard motorboats to the largest ocean liners. During the war
I was with the War Shipping Administration from 1942 to 1945.
For the last year or so of that time I was director of Large
Vessels Procurement. This involved the requisition of the pri-
vately-owned merchant vessels of the United States and the
payment of “just compensation” thereof. It was very hard work
but interesting. However, I shall never tackle one like it again
if I can avoid it.

I returned to Chubb & Son in 1945 and am again doing the
job I was doing before the war. It is extraordinarily interesting
because I deal with ships that trade to all corners of the world.
With the world in the shape it is today, I must keep informed as
far as possible with all information as to the countries and areas
to which the ships operate which might affect their normal
operation.

My family life is pretty well spelled out above. I was married
right after college and promptly had two daughters, who are
now married. Each has a child, so I now am twice a grandfather.
My wife and I are interested in travelling, but have only begun
to do all that we would like. Until last year we had managed a
trip to Bermuda and four or five trips to California, These latter
generally were a combination of business and pleasure. My office
has extensive interests on the Pacific Coast and my wife’s parents

live in Santa Barbara, Last year we got a good start on more

[ 389 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

extensive travelling, which I hope we can do from here on at
least every other year. On this trip we covered England, France,
and Switzerland. When we don’t go on extensive trips, we are
most likely to appear on Nantucket or Martha’s Vineyard Islands
which, to our way of thinking, are pretty hard to beat.

I am a Republican and certainly hope I am going to add one
more celebration to my various twenty-fifth anniversaries in 1952.
My children have known no other than the Democrats. If my
grandchildren are to suffer the same fate—well, I wonder
whether even many Democrats today are not thinking that some
change must be made in Washington. That about covers it for
me. Hope I shall be around to make a report for our Fiftieth.

DONALD STALEY GIBBS

HOME ADDRESS: 192 Bedford Rd., Chappaqua, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kudner Agency, 575 Madison Ave., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 4, 1904, Troy, N. Y. Parents: Frank Goodell Gibbs, Jessie
Edith Staley.

PREPARED AT: Albany Academy, Albany, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cu laude, 1927.

MARRIED: June Hovick, Sept. 16, 1936, Stanwich, Conn. (divorced 1943);
Joselyn Reynolds, Dec. 30, 1943, New Rochelle, N. Y. cuttpren: Ruth
Sutton, Oct. 18, 1944; Donald Staley, Jr., May 15, 1947.

occuPaATION: Advertising; vice-president, Warwick & Legler.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: War Savings Division, Treasury Department,

Washington, D, C.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of Southern Cali-

fornia; The Players, New York.

FROM Cambridge a wire matutinal

Says, “Listen, Gibbs, this is the final
Knock on your unresponsive portal,

Your ultimate chance to be immortal.

Make with the words, write your life story
Or you'll draw a blank in reunion glory!”
Signed, less in anger than in pity,

By one of the Class Report Committee.
Obviously, no more time to stall!

Let’s hit the keys and confess it all!

Like many another once hopeful hero —
Twenty-five years and he comes up zero —

[ 390 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

At least in the things that are really able

To get you respect and a decent table

At Romanoff’s, Chasen’s, “21”

Or any other true place in the sun.

No drug store shelf boasts a book of mine.

No ribbons to dust, no medals to shine.
No major assists to a troubled world:
Gibbs’ glory flag never got unfurled.

The newspaper racket, department stores,

Advertising agency saddle sores!
Let’s reprise the line “once hopeful hero —

Twenty-five years and he comes up zero.”
At least when he struggles to chalk up “great”

On his Harvard 25th Reunion slate.
But, suppose, since it’s time to go to press,

We skip the glory and settle for less!
I’ve got me a wife (the second time round)

Whom Wall Street would quote as truly “sound.”
I’ve got me two fry, one fem., one masc.,
Smarter than whom no man could ask.

I’ve got me some pals here and back thar

Who'll stand me a Scotch at any bar.

And though I’m twenty-five years from heaven,
The commencement heights of °27,

Down in the depths of middle age hell

I still think both Harvard and life are swell!
In fact, completely sans fame or booty

I can speak right highly de senectute.

SAMUEL GILMAN

ADpDRESS: 258 Kent St., Brookline, Mass.

ADDRESS: 330 Brookline Ave., Boston, Mass.
Nov. 1, 1907, Somerville, Mass. parents: Max Gilman, Minnie

Anis.
=p aT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

N COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; M.D. 1931.
9: Mildred Pearlman, March 9, 1937, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
chael, Aug. 5, 1938; Vivian, Sept. 30, 1942.

10N: Physician; head of department of anesthesia, Beth Israel Hosp!-

Boston.

[391]

mn ln Ba aA tascam heim EE aT inane NNN tetas

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

SARELL EVERETT GLEASON

HOME ADDRESS: 1698 31St St., N. W., Washington 7, D. C.

OFFICE appREss: National Security Council, White House, Washington
25, D.C.

BorN: March 14, 1905, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Sarell Everett Gleason,
Florence Agalia Sellon.

PREPARED AT: Evanston High School, Evanston, Il.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cu7m laude, 1927; A.M., 1928;
PH.D., 1934.

MARRIED: Mary Eleanor Abbott, June 19, 1937, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Abbott, July 25, 1938; Ellen Richmond, Nov. 17, 1941.

OccUPATION: Deputy executive secretary, National Security Council, Wash-
ington.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned major, A.U.S., June, 1943; honor-
ably discharged, lieutenant colonel, A.U.S., October, 1945; assigned to
Joince Intelligence Staff, J.C.S. Washington, D. C., April, 1944-
October, 1945.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Office of Strategic Services, January, 1943-
October, 1945; Department of State, October, 1945-April, 1946.
OFFICES HELD: Instructor and tutor in history, Harvard, 1930-37; assistant
and associate professor of history, Amherst College, 1938-46; historian,
Council on Foreign Relations, 1946-51; National Security Council,

since 1951.

MEMBER OF: American Historical Association; Medieval Academy of
America; Council on Foreign Relations; Colonial Society of Massachu-
setts, Cosmos Club, Washington; Gibson Island Club, Md.

pustications: An Ecclesiastical Barony of the Middle Ages, Harvard
University Press, 1936, The Challenge to Isolation (with William L.
Langer), Harpers, 1952.

I LEFT Harvard College with the firm conviction that I would
teach history at the college or university level for the rest of my
life. After a brief summer’s tour of France and the British Isles,
I returned to Cambridge in the autumn of 1927 and entered the
Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. I was fortunate enough
to get a proctorship in the freshman dormitories and fell heir, in
the normal course of things, to an A.M. degree in 1928. There-
after I followed the rather routine course of reasonably indus-
trious graduate students in the University. From assisting in
undergraduate courses, I presently became an instructor in
History I at Radcliffe and moved on from my proctorship to
an appointment as resident tutor in Adams House in the heyday
of enthusiasm for the tutorial system. In 1930 the University

[ 396}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

awarded me a Sheldon Fellowship, which took me to France
and elsewhere in Europe for a year’s study and travel. I studied
medieval French history at the University and the Ecole des
Chartres in Paris and did research on my doctoral dissertation at
Bayeux and Caen in Normandy. Upon returning, I finished my
dissertation and received the Ph.D. degree in 1934. Shortly there-
after I achieved the distinction of giving a half-course of my own
in the History Department and of publishing a modest volume in
the Harvard Historical Monograph series. Much more important,
I married in 1937 Mary Eleanor Abbott, daughter of the late Pro-
fessor Wilbur C. Abbott of the History Department. Our first
year of married life was spent in Adams House, where I was act-
ing senior tutor, one of the first instances in which the University
permitted married tutors to reside in the houses. This proved a
highly entertaining experience.
In 1938 I was offered an assistant professorship in history at Am-
herst College. Being very much interested in teaching, and at-
tracted by the remarkable record of Amherst undergraduates in
the Graduate School at Harvard, I accepted this offer and spent
four very pleasant years at Amherst. My intention of remaining
there indefinitely was changed by Pearl Harbor. I continued
teaching for nearly a year after our entry into the war, but found
it increasingly difficult to tarry in academic grooves when so much
seemed to be at stake outside of them. Accordingly, I requested
leave of absence from the college and after a few months’ service
as a consultant to the Army Air Forces, I took a job as a civilian
with the Office of Strategic Services in Washington. After a few
months as a civilian in this extraordinary agency, I was commis-
sioned in the United States Army and subsequently assigned as rep-
resentative of the Office of Strategic Services on the Joint Intelli-
gence Staff of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in Washintgon. I was
luckier than many of my friends and classmates in finding myself
engaged in wartime activities for which I had some preparation
and a few qualifications. I remained on this job, except for a short
tour of duty overseas at the end of the war, until 1945 when I was
discharged with the rank of lieutenant colonel and awarded the
Legion of Merit.
Upon completing my war service, I had every intention of re-
turning to Amherst and to my interrupted teaching career. At

[ 397]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

this point, however, my friend and former colleague, Professor
William L. Langer, with whom I worked at O.S.S., asked me to
collaborate with him in writing a history of United States policy
during the Second World War, under the auspices of the Council
on Foreign Relations. The decision between a return to Amherst
and undertaking a research and writing project, which seemed
most worthwhile, was hard to make. After much soul-searching,
I finally decided to write the history and regretfully resigned
from the Amherst faculty. From March, 1946, to March, 1950,
I lived with my family in Cambridge and spent my time in re-
search at various places along the Atlantic seaboard and at writ-
ing in my office in Harvard Square. While four years had origi-
nally seemed an adequate amount of time in which to complete
this book, it turned out that when the allotted time was up, Pro-
fessor Langer and I had not quite finished two volumes the first
of which, entitled The Challenge to Isolation, is scheduled for
publication in January, 1952.

Just before Korea, while still debating in my mind whether to
return to my teaching career, I was invited by an old friend, Mr.
James S. Lay, Jr., executive secretary of the National Security
Council, to become his deputy. This has proved a most interest-
ing and, since the outbreak of the Korean War, a most lively
assignment. I am bearing up remarkably well and finding that life
in Washington has many compensations in return for the inevi-
table stresses and strains which are absent from the academic life.
As to what the future will hold, I can make no predictions beyond
the prospect that there will not be a dull moment.

The effect of the Harvard religious tradition, so happily de-
scribed by President Conant in a recent issue of the Alumni Bulle-
tin, must have been abnormal in my case. I was confirmed in the
Episcopal Church while an undergraduate. Since then I have in-
creasingly found its creeds, rituals, theology, and its ‘“moss-cov-
ered” orthodoxy in general, eminently relevant to my own life
both as a challenge and a refuge. My social life is so insignificant
as now to be largely swallowed up in the goings and comings of
my children. I foresee no immediate end of my present career as

a chauffeur. The political views of residents of the District of

Columbia don’t count for much. They have no vote!

My son, Abbott Gleason, who prefers to be called Tommy, is

[ 398 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a student in St. Alban’s School at the Cathedral in Washington.
He is undecided as to his choice of colleges. Hitherto Harvard
and Amherst have been the leading contenders. Lately Princeton
has been casting an ominous shadow. My daughter, Ellen, is more
constant in her ambition to go to Radcliffe. Clearly I won’t have
much to say in either case, and I merely hope to have cash enough
to pay the bills.

LANGDON WARREN GODDARD

HOME ADDRESS: 67 South St., Waltham, Mass.

BORN: June 12, 1905, Bridgewater, Mass. paRENTS: Warren Benjamin
Goddard, ’94, Gertrude Maude Babcock.

PREPARED AT: Concord High School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925.

“MARRIED: Alice L. Ross, Sept. 15, 1928, Concord, Mass, cHitpren: Lang-
don Warren, Jr., Jan. 31, 1930; Richard Ross, Jan. 3, 1935.

occupation: Machine adjuster, paper bag manufacturer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served six years in National State Guard.

MEMBER OF: A.F, & A.M.

IN 1925 I transferred from the Engineering School to Lowell
Textile Institute, and in 1927 when the textile industry no longer
looked attractive, I left Lowell to seek other fields. After trying
the rubber industry and fuel testing I went with the A & P
stores for three years only to be caught by the depression in ’33.
When other fields failed to offer any jobs, I turned to my manual
and mechanical skills — painting and rebuilding auto bodies and
auto repair work, mostly in my own backyard. In ’35 I went
into paper bag making where I have remained, with sidelines of
interior decorating and remodelling including paper-hanging,
carpentry, plumbing, wiring, etc., all done with my own hands —
skills which were not taught at Harvard.

While I may have disappointed my ancestors who were mostly
ministers and teachers, I have made some homes more pleasant
to live in and have brought up two boys who stand in the honor
groups in their schools, one who is graduating in the electronic
field this June, and one still in high school, who aims for the
chemical engineering field.

During World War Il, I was saved from being 4F by being

. o
over-age but managed to stay in the Massachusetts State Guard

[ 399 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

(Home Guard) for six years (from its inception to its disband-
ment) and somehow managed to reach the grade of sergeant.

After many years of more or less indifference, I have finally
realized my dependence on God and have been more than pleased
that my sons, mostly on their own initiative, have done the same;
one of them while 3000 miles from home, in the service.

While I have always tried to be an independent voter, for
many national elections I have voted for the same party’s presi-
dential candidate but I doubt that I shall do so in the next elec-
tion.

My hobby for many years has been model railroading and its
kindred interests, the nearest I have got to my original study
of engineering.

For some time I have wondered why more people do not
realize that the two things which have brought this country to
its present greatness are religion and hard work and that our
present trend away from them can lead only to disaster.

+ GORDON GODOWSKY

BORN: June 9, 1905, Berlin, Germany. parents: Leopold Godowsky,
Frederika Saxe.

PREPARED AT: Clark School.

YEAKS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928.

MARRIED: Yvonne Evelyn Hughes, Feb. 14, 1928, Harrison, N. Y.

piep: Dec. 27, 1932, New York, N. Y.

GORDON GODOWSKY had planned to study at Oxford after
leaving Harvard but abandoned the plan after his marriage in
1928. At the time of his death he was in charge of the parts and
service department of a taxicab company in New York.

+ WALTER GOFF

BOKN: June 6, 1905, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Mandel Baird Goff, Rebecca
Weiss.

parpareo at: Peabody High School, Peabody, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: 8.B.. 1927; LL.B., 1930.

WakvAkD BeoTHERS: Elarry Gale Goff, '15; Hugh Clay Goff, ’23.

pito: June 13, 1933, Colebrook Corners, Ohio.

peoiien: Warry G. Goff, 1200 Farragut Sc., Pittsburgh 6, Pa.

[ 400 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WALTER GOFF studied for a year at Ohio State University

before he entered Harvard. Upon completion of the college

course he entered the Harvard Law School, from which he

graduated in 1930. He practised law in Pittsburgh from that
"time until his death three years later.

CHARLES KIRKLAND GOINES

HOME ADDRESS: 3421 78th St., Jackson Heights, N. Y.

BORN: June 10, 1903, Washington, D. C. parents: Charles Patrick Goines,
Lottie Adelaide Chisholm.

PREPARED AT: Dunbar High School, Washington, D. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: 8.B., 1927.

LEONARD HARRY GOLDENSON

HOME ADDRESS: 803 The Parkway, Shore Acres, Mamaroneck, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: United Paramount Theatres, Inc., 1501 Broadway, New
York 18, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 7, 1905, Scottdale, Pa. parents: Lee Goldenson, Esther Broude.

PREPARED AT: Scottdale High School, Scottdale, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 19273 LL.B. 1930.

MARRIED: Isabelle C. Weinstein, Oct. 10, 1939, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Genise Sandra, Oct. 16, 1943; Loreen Joy, June 8, 1948; Maxine Wynn,
July 31, 1950.

OCCUPATION: President, United Paramount Theatres, Inc.; operating large
chain of motion picture theatres throughout the United States.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Served on advisory committee to Under-
Secretary of War Patterson in the selection, production, and distribu-
tion of shorts to war defense plants during the war.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, U.S.O. National Drive, September, 1941; served
on Army and Navy Relief Fund Drive; helped organize Hollywood
Caravan; member of Program and Finance Committee, War Activities
Committee, Motion Picture Industry; chairman, Boy Scout Drive of
Motion Picture Industry, 1947; member, U.J.A. Drive Committees,
1947-49; first vice-president, member Executive Committee, Theatre
Owners of America; president, United Cerebral Palsy Associations,

Inc.; advisory council, National Institute of Neurological Diseases and
Blindness under U. S. Public Health; member Board of Directors,
Russeks Fifth Avenue; on board of Anti-Defamation League; member
of board, Home and Hospital of the Daughters of Jacob.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

AFTER many false starts stretching over several months, I have
concluded that I have been appalled by the scope of the matters

[401 ]

ec ince i nie tanner nnn nent een

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

that this questionnaire says my “Class wants to know.” Rather
than delay longer, I give this more abbreviated account of my
doings since being graduated from Harvard Law School in 1930.
Having gone through the usual trials and tribulations of a young
lawyer in the post-crash period, in July, 1933, I obtained a job
through Root, Clark, Buckner & Ballantine who were the at-
torevs for the trustees of Paramount Pictures, Inc. My specific
work was in matters connected with Paramount’s reorganization
and I was promptly sent off to Boston in connection with its New
England theatre holdings. Upon completion of this task, which I
had undertaken with the understanding that it was on a piece-work
basis, I had apparently come to the sufficient notice of Y. Frank
Freeman, vice-president in charge of Paramount’s theatres, that I
was invited to join the New York staff of the reorganized Para-
mount. I might interpose here that by this time I had become so
interesed in the theatre business that I accepted the offer with the
understanding that I would give up the law and become an execu-
tive. I was made assistant to the vice-president in charge of Para-
mount’s theatre operations and in the latter part of 1938, when he
took charge of Paramount’s studios, I was put in charge of Para-
mount’s theatre operations. In 1941 I was made vice-president of
Paramount Pictures in charge of its theatre operations and a year
later elected to its board of directors.
On January 1, 1950, when Paramount was again reorganized as
a result of an anti-trust decree, I became president of one of the
two resultant companies, United Paramount Theatres (which we
hope will soon become American Broadcasting—Paramount The-
atres as a result of a merger which is now awaiting approval by
the F.C.C.). It is that position I now hold.
In the eighteen years that have elapsed since I joined Paramount,
I] have come to know how fortunate I was when in 1938 I met and
Jater married Isabelle Weinstein. It is said that behind the success
of every man there isa good woman. So it has been for me. What
more could I say without taking volumes. We have three lovely
children — Genise, Loreen, and Maxine — with whom the hours
we can spend are all too few. The time required for business has
Leen far beyond the normal. For this I have only one regret, that

it has deprived Isabelle and me of the pleasures of a fuller family
life.

[ 402 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

As for my travels, my hobbies, and my social life, they have
all been connected with my business. There has been little time
for anything else. This is not to say that they have been lacking.
At first, Isabelle and I (and after our children, I alone) had visited
every section of the United States. It was always a “business
trip” but as a by-product I have come to know people and places
that otherwise would have been beyond possibility as pleasure
travel. I have become interested in charities and philanthropies
that would have been impossible but for my connection with the
motion picture industry. My interest in charities was further in-
fluenced by my former business associate, Barney Balaban, and by
my late father-in-law, Max Weinstein. Most of these charities are
listed above but one above all bears mention here. Three years
ago, Isabelle and I became interested in the formation of United
Cerebral Palsy Associations. By the time you read this, I am sure
you will all know what it is. I have been its president since its
formation and shall always cherish as our greatest achievement the
fact that we were its founders.

LIONEL GOLDFRANK, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 430 FE. 86th St. New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Clover Leaf Paint & Varnish Corp., 43-43 Vernon Blvd.,
Long Island City 1, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 9, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Lionel Goldfrank, Hilda
Abraham.

PREPARED AT: Columbia Grammar School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925.

MARRIED: Jean M. Mann, Oct. 21, 1938, New York, N. Y. cumpren: Lionel,
3d, Sept. 5, 1943; Jean M., Jr., Dec. 2, 1947; Joel M., Dec. 2, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Max Goldfrank, ’30.

OCCUPATION: Paint and varnish manufacturer; treasurer, member board of
directors, Clover Leaf Paint & Varnish Corporation.

OFFICES HELD! Member Executive Board, State Insurance Fund, 1946-52;
W. M. King Solomon Lodge No. 279, F. & A.M, 1950.

AFTER leaving college I entered the employ of the Clover
Leaf Paint & Varnish Corporation, with whom I have been
associated since. My duties are many, and I have little free time.
I do find time to work for charity, however, fish occasionally
and thoroughly enjoy my family.

[ 403 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

EDUARDO DAMASO GONZALEZ

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Central Jaronu, Prov. Camaguey, Cuba.

BORN: Dec. 11, 1903, Cruces, Las Villas, Cuba. Parents: Maximiliana
Gonzales Capote, Aurelia Rodriguez del Rey.

PREPARED AT: Porter Military Academy, Charleston, S. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: S.B. IN MECH. ENG., 1927; S.B. IN E. E,
(Massachusetts Inst. of Technology), 1928.

atarrieD: Anne Finlay Johnston, Jan. 31, 1934, Miami, Fla. cHi_pren:
Nancy, Dec. 21, 1934; June, Feb. 25, 1937; Eduardo Démoso, Dec. 10,
1941; William David, Dec. 31, 1946.

occupation: Chief Engineer, Central Cunagua S. A.

MEMBER OF: A.S.M.E.: Colegio Nacional Ingenieros Mecdnicos; Asocia-
cidén de Técnicos Azucareros de Cuba; Havana Biltmore Yacht &
Country Club.

AFTER graduation I went to M.I.T. for a year and obtained a
degree in electrical engineering. During the next sixteen years I
worked with the United Fruit Company, first at the Preston di-
vision as an electrical engineer and soon after at the Bames division
as assistant to the chief engineer. This company is better known
for their banana plantations and fleet of steamships, but they also
own these two sugar factories which are among the best in Cuba.

Seven years ago I came here with the Central Cunagua S.A. as
chief engineer. This company is a subsidiary of the American
Sugar Refining Company, which you in the eastern part of the
States will recognize better as the makers of Domino sugars, and
owns the two raw sugar factories, Cunagua and Jaronu, located
in the Province of Camaguey, Cuba. Jaroni, one of the two fac-
tories under my supervision, is the largest raw sugar factory i in the
world and one of the most modern.

My work is unusually interesting because it includes most
branches of engineering. I have come across problems of all sorts,
from installing a turbo-generator or a boiler to taking a sunken
freighter out of the water.

During the first few years after leaving college I used to go up
to Boston and New York quite often on the Fruit Company’s
Loats, The war put a stop to these pleasant vacations but not
Lefore I had met a red-headed girl in Boston, who was to become
my partner in life.

We have four children, two girls ‘and two boys, none with red
hair. Some were born in the States and the others in Cuba, but

[ 404 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

all of them are bilingual and feel as much a part of the United
States as they are of Cuba.

About hobbies, I do not have any in particular. I hunt and fish
when the prospects of a good catch are very evident. Playing
golf is my favorite pastime and I turn out a score anywhere from
80 to 100. I play bridge and Canasta, and still enjoy a party. I
have not learned to dance the raspa or the mambo, but occasion-
ally have found myself in a conga line towards the end of a party.

** WILLIAM GOODMAN, JR.

BoRN: Dec. 11, 1905, Cincinnati, Ohio. Parents: William Goodman, '96,
Mary Wilbur Healy.

PREPARED AT: Taft School, Watertown, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 10923-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1927(28).

MARRIED: Eleanor Whiting, June 12, 1929. cHILp: William, 3d, March 20,

1931.
piep: May 8, 1941, Cincinnati, Ohio.
WHILE at Harvard William Goodman, Jr., majored in French
literature and economics. He was a member of Kappa Sigma
Fraternity and the Dramatic Club, of which he was secretary
for part of his senior year. Due to his father’s sudden death,
Goodman did not take his Divisional Examinations in 1927 and
his plans for entering the Harvard Graduate School of Business
Administration were delayed. He studied abroad that winter
and spring and entered the Business School in the fall of 1928
for a one-year course. He was married the following June and
after several months of travel abroad he moved to Cincinnati
where he was engaged in research and statistical work for W.
H. Fillmore & Company. A few years later he and an associate.
formed their own real estate company.

JOHN HOOPER GOODWIN, JR.

“HOME ADDRESS: 1145 Colvin Ave., Kenmore 23, N. Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Columbus McKinnon Chain Corp., Tonawanda, N. Y.

BORN; May 3, 1906, Marblehead, Mass. parents: John Hooper Goodwin,
Maria Power Knowland. .

PREPARED AT: Marblehead High School, Marblehead, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1924-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; c.pP.A. (Massachusetts),

1931.
[ 405 ]

Sinemientemaccrtnieceneceescseeereect ces eeerco rezone cencmieenen mmr rane enrages

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

marriED: Irene Marion Pinney, Aug. 20, 1934, Holyoke, Mass. cHILpRen:
Nancy Jean, Feb. 14, 1936; Judith, May 30, 1939.

GocuPATION: Secretary, treasurer, controller, director (temporary chairman
of Executive Committee), Columbus McKinnon Chain Corporation,
manufacturers of chains, hoists, and cranes.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, 1940-41, president, 1941-42, director, member
Technical Information and Research, Social Security, Controllership
Foundation committees, Controllers Institute of America, Buffalo
Control; director, 1944-45, vice-president, 1945-47, president, 1947-48,
National Association of Cost Accountants, Buffalo Chapter; trustee,
chairman campaign for funds, 1948, member Executive Committee,
since 1949, United Community Fund of the Tonawandas, Inc.; member
State and National Affairs Committee, Business and Civic Association
of the Tonawandas, Inc., member Government Finance, Social Security,
Taxation Committees, National Association of Manufacturers; mem-
ber International Affairs Committee, Buffalo Chamber of Commerce.

MEMBER OF: A.F. & A.M. Philanthropic Lodge, Marblehead; Harvard
Club of Buffalo; Buffalo Athletic Club; Buffalo Chamber of Com-
merce; Business and Civic Association of the Tonawandas, Inc.;
American Institute of Accountants; Controllers Institute of America.

MY LIFE since leaving Harvard has been unspectacular but the
years have gone very fast. My first ten years were spent in the
practice of public accounting with E. H. Griswold & Company in
Boston. During this period I became a Certified Public Account-
ant (Massachusetts) and at its end was a partner in the firm. In
the fall of 1937 I left the field of public accounting to work for
Columbus McKinnon Chain Corporation as its controller, and I
am still with that company. My association there has been inter-
esting and stimulating. After a short time I became secretary and
treasurer of the corporation and of its American subsidiary,
Chisholm-Moore Hoist Corporation. A little later I became a
director of these two corporations and of a Canadian subsidiary.
I am at present chairman of the Executive Committee of Colum-
bus McKinnon Chain Corporation but on a purely temporary,
fill-in basis — while the president and general manager is in gov-
ernment service.

The fact that there are Canadian and South African subsidiaries ’
has contributed to the interest of my job. In the latter part of
1946 I visited our South African subsidiary and at that time saw a
good part of the Union of South Africa— Vereeniging, Johan-
nesburg, Cape Town, Port Flizabeth, Durban, Kruger National
Park, to mention a few of the places. The country, its people, and

[ 406 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

its problems are extremely i interesting. My connections have con-
tinued and are a constant source of interest.

I might mention that this trip was made by air, and during its
course I developed an extremely high regard for airplane pilots —
whether they be those who take the big planes across the ocean
and over the long routes or those who lift the little planes over
the less-travelled areas. There were a few nervous moments, but
those boys are real men.

Now as to my family. I am blessed with a good o one —a wife
and two daughters. Both of the daughters are pretty good figure
skaters. The elder one is in her second year at the Buffalo Semi-
nary and the younger one in her first year of Junior High School.
I do not have much opportunity to use the telephone when they
are home, but those of you with teen-age daughters will under-
stand. .

Our family outings have mostly been confined to summers on
the Canadian shore of Lake Erie, with a few shorter trips up into
Canada or back to New England. We have always thought that
we would take that trip to some new places we haven't seen, but
each year the good friends and the sun and sands of the Canadian
shore take us back there. My church affiliations are Episcopal.
My wife is more active than I in our church I am afraid, but it
still is a meaningful connection. I can hardly say that I have any
serious hobbies. I have at times done some sailing in small boats,
some fishing, and some photography. I still do, and while the
time spent on them is limited, I still enjoy them all.

Now I come to my politics. Hopefully, I am a Republican,
hopeful not only that some elections may be won, but hopeful too
that in the rough and tumble of politics some important concepts
be not lost from sight; hopeful that in the worthy pursuit of im-
provement in the material lot of man, the importance of each man
as an individual, rather than as merely one of a mass, be not for-
gotten.

AARON GORDON

HOME appreEss: 39 Nottinghill Rd., Brighton 35, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Camp Tevya, 426 Main St. Stoneham, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 14, 1906, Roxbury, Mass. parents: David Gordon, Fanny
Kaplan, |

[ 407 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; ED.M., 1928.

MARRIED: Blanche M. Gorfinkle, Aug. 30, 1936, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Amy Ellen, Aug. 10, 1937; Elizabeth Ann, May 19, 1943.

occupation: Director of Youth Activities, Temple Israel, Boston; senior
master, Social Studies, Boston Latin School; Director, Camp Tevya.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman Executive Board, Tributary Theatre, 1942-43.

MEMBER OF: American Camping Association; Jewish Big Brother Club,
Temple Israel Brotherhood, National Education Association.

IT JUST doesn’t seem possible that twenty-five years have
elapsed since we were welcomed into the society of “gentlemen
and scholars” — no one in those mad, carefree, bathtub-gin days
would have dared add, “and a good judge of whiskey.” I hope
that time, wisdom, and stomach linings unimpaired by the ravages
of the nectar of the twenties have rectified the omission.

During this past quarter-century, in spite of the failure of nor-
malcy to return, life has been fruitful and worth while. For some
reason, unknown to myself and even more so to my friends, |
chose teaching as a profession. Returning to Harvard in the fall
of 1927, I received a Master’s degree and started teaching immedi-
ately. Since 1929 I have been a member of the History Depart-
ment at Boston Latin School and for several years coached track
and tennis. Summers, almost without exception, were spent coun-
seloring at camp, and during the past five years I have been
director of Camp Tevya in New Hampshire. Just this past year I
accepted a part-time position as Youth Director of Temple Israel
in Boston. All this makes for a rather full program, but one that
is both interesting and rewarding. Working with adolescents is
provocative and trying but endlessly gratifying. Living with
them day after day and year after year, and trying to help them
with their hopes and frustrations, their loves and hates, their ideals
and disillusionments has somehow made the years pass all too
quickly. After twenty-five years of it I have but one piece of
advice to pass on — never make a prediction about any youngster!
And don’t sell them short!

Speaking of frustrations, I guess I had one of my own — to don
grease paint and tread before the footlights. Fortunately, a semi-
professional and neighboring stock company gave me the oppor-
tunity to rid myself of the inhibition, It was fun while it lasted,
the critics were kind, the temptation to try to make a living at it

[ 408 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

great, but better judgment and a fondness for eating regularly
proved too powerful deterrents. But the clippings are there for
the grandchildren —I hope —to leaf through.

The better judgment I referred to is my wife Blanche, a child-
hood sweetheart whom I had the good sense and fortune to wed
in 1936. We have been blessed with two lovely daughters, Amy,
nearly fifteen, and Liz, nine. They are attractive, normal young-
sters and a delight to us both. The lack of sons, we hope, will be
overcome when they bring home the men (Harvard, of course)
of their choice.

ARTHUR GORDON

HOME ADDRESS: 19 Woodstock Ave., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Liberty Mutual Insurance Co., 175 Berkeley St., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: Dec. 26, 1905, Brockton, Mass. PARENTS: Hyman Gordon, Anna
Segal.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927, 1947-1948. DEGREE: S.B. IN C.E., 1927.

MARRIED; Pearl Beatrice Wise, March 31, 1929, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Joel Harvey, March 3, 1943; Ruth Toby Cyrel, March 13, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Nathan Gordon, ’3o0.

occuPATION: Civil engineer in Loss Prevention Department, Construction
Division, Liberty Mutual Insurance Company; assistant to chief engineer,
home office.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, 1943-50, president, 1950-52, New Eng-
land Section, Harvard Engineering Society; member Board of Gov-
ernors, New York Section, Harvard Engineering Society.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society; American Society of Safety
Engineers, Professional Engineers, New York, since 1934.

PUBLICATIONS: Collaborated on “Ground Vibrations” with F. J. Crondell,
Boston Society of Civil Engineering, 1948.

HOW many of you have watched a construction job as “side-
walk superintendents” and been fascinated by the ingenuity of
the men who could design and direct such a project? You've
marvelled at the action of the power shovels biting into the earth
and rock, the derricks erecting the steel framing of a sky-
Scraper, or concrete pavers pouring slabs on new roadways.
There are some of us who are in the midst of this routine all our
lives as construction engineers. We see these jobs grow from an
original idea, plans, and construction to the finished structure.

[ 409 ]

Sea tei San Tac daar eee eee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

In reminiscing about the past from the days before Harvard
Engineering School to the present, I can truthfully say it has
always been interesting. During school vacation I worked on
some dams in New Hampshire and Conowingo, Maryland. After
graduation about ten years were spent in subway and tunnel
work in New York City on compressed air and rock tunnels and
heavy foundations associated with the Sixth and Eighth Avenue
system. Some of the well-known contractors whom I’ve been
with are Stone & Webster, Turner Construction Company, and
Fred Snare Company. Then, as reported in our fifteenth- and
twentieth-year Class books, I joined the Loss Prevention Depart-
ment of Liberty Mutual Insurance Company as engineer on con-
struction work. Since 1948 I have been transferred from New
England supervisor to assistant to the chief engineer in the home
office.

I have directed the safety measures on several special jobs —
one on the Delaware Tunnel in New York which is twenty-five
miles long. I assist in research on ground vibrations due to blast-
ing and pile driving, also the vibration of structures such as
mills —I’m almost an expert! This is all pioneering in a new
field. I don’t see as many projects as before, but I still follow the
largest ones. In addition to acquiring a Professional Engineer's
License in 1934, I have taken some graduate courses in soil me-
chanics with Professor Casagrande and in public health with Dr.
R. Macfarland. I still maintain my contacts at school through
the Engineering Society (I have since 1927); it certainly helps keep
up the scholastic attitude. My hobbies are still photography and
records, The family are still young and keeping us active with
their schooling.

EDWARD GORDON

Home appress: c/o Nashel, 256 W. Hudson Ave., Englewood, N. J.

BORN: June 12, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: Jacob Gordon, Anna
Kraskapf,

PREPARED AT; Englewood High School, Englewood, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: 8.B., 1927.

occupation: U.S. Employment Service.

[410]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LEWIS HENDERSON GORDON

HOME ADDRESS: Searingtown Rd., East Williston, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Newman-Crosby Steel Co., Room 1568, Woolworth Bldg.,
233 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BorN: Nov. 24, 1904, Flushing, N. Y. parents: Gordon Gordon, Lucy
Henderson Bullard.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: AB., 1927(28).

marrieD: Charlotte Elizabeth Carnahan, Dec. 14, 1929, New York, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Lewis Henderson, Jr., Oct. 6, 1930; Helen Hammond, Aug.
31, 1933-

HARVARD SON: Lewis Henderson Gordon, Jr., 754.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Alexander Gordon, ’24.

OCCUPATION: District sales manager, steel] manufacturing company.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Industrial Specialist, War Department,
Washington, D. C., 1942-45.

MEMBER OF: International Lawn Tennis Club, Eastern Tennis Umpires
_ Association; Piping Rock Club.

LOUIS MORRIS GOURD

HOME apprEss: 19 Church St., Charleston, S. C.

BORN: Aug. 21, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Henri Eugene Gourd,
Emilie Noél.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924.

MaRRiED: Margaret Lee Haggin, Sept. 3, 1927, Wakefield, R. I. cen:
Michael, May 21, 1928 (m. Josephine Stanley, Nov. 29, 1949, Great
Barrington, Mass.) cRANpcHiLD: Louis Michael, Aug. 7, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered Navy as lieutenant (j.g.) May 26,
1942, indoctrinated at Cornell; served as surface controller Sixth N. Ds
stationed at Arzen, North Africa, 1943; duty officer, 1944, assistant
captain, 1945, Charleston Navy Yard; rank lieutenant commander.

MEMBER oF: The Brook; Racquet & Tennis Club; Leash Club (New York);
Charleston Club; Carolina Yacht Club (Charleston); The Travellers
(Paris).

I WAS in the securities business from 1925 to 1938, except the

years 1932 and 1933, which spent in France and Austria. In 1938

I moved to Charleston, where I am not connected with any firm

but am quite busy handling investments. My main hobbies are

shooting in the fall and winter and golf in the summer. I am a

Republican and a Roman Catholic, neither of which is exactly

popular in the South, but I have managed to avoid the Klan.

[4rr ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

GERARD WILLIAM GOVAN

HOME ADDREsS: 15 Statler Rd., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Theatres, 260 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 15, 1905, Roxbury, Mass. parents: William Joseph Govan,
Marie Burke.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B, cum laude, 1927.

MarrieD: Grace Harrington, Jan. 15, 1931, Lowell, Mass. CHILDREN: John,
April 13, 1932; Judith, Aug. 16, 1936; Joan, July 3, 1938.

occupation: Buyer and booker of motion pictures for New England
theatres. .

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Member, War Activities Committee, Motion
Picture Industry; Belmont Auxiliary Police.

MEMBER OF: Cinema Club of Boston; Belmont Auxiliary Police; Win-
chester Country Club.

ANXIOUS to enter the production phase of motion pictures, I
was advised that the quickest and shortest route was through the
distribution and exhibition departments. This turned out to be a
twenty-two-year detour which has every appearance of being a
permanent one. At the present time we are in a position similar to
the manufacturer of buggy whips who predicted that the auto-
mobile was merely a passing fancy. We have been whistling in
the dark by making a similar bit of wishful prognostication with
reference to television. The latest approach to this colossus is to
join forces with it. Our classmate, Leonard Goldenson, has pio-
neered along these lines. At about the same time the Department
of Justice decided that what the industry needed was a major
operation. Instead of a cure this operation affected the entire
industry in a very debilitating fashion. The one redeeming feature
is that almost everyone else is griping too.

The constant wonder of the amazing changes of our children
into adolescents and gradually into young men and young ladies is
still the greatest satisfaction in our lives.

Bugs and beetles have eliminated my gardening so that now m
chief hobbies are golf and bridge—both mighty humbling
games. I believe I now know what philosophy is all about — to
miss a two-foot putt on the 18th hole for a win and smile — to
lose eight straight rubbers at bridge and then just say “too bad”
when your partner butchers the next hand.

(412 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DAVID JEFFERSON GRAFF

HOME ADDRESS: 352 Washington St., Forestville, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: SoundScriber Corp., 146 Munson St.. New Haven 4, Conn.

BoRN: Nov. 10, 1904, Chicago, Ill. parents: Samuel Taylor Graff, Elsie Anna
Crolius.

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: $.B. IN C. E. AND BUS. ADMIN. cu laude,
1928.

MARRIED: Marjorie W. Heacox, May 25, 1935, Unionville, Conn. crtrpren:
David E., Oct. 21, 1936, Deborah W,, Feb. 14, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Paul Taylor Graff, '22.

OccUPATION: Treasurer, SoundScriber Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Quinnipiac Club; Chippanee Golf Club.

JAMES MILLAR GRAVES

HOME ApprEss: 9 Abingdon Rd., Westmoreland Hills, Md., via Friendship
P. O., Washington 16, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Munsey Bldg., Washington 4, D. C.

BORN: Dec. 25, 1905, Washington, D. C. parents: Ernest Rutledge Graves,

Jane Henderson Millar.
PREPARED AT: McKinley Manual Training School, Washington, D. C.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: S.B. IN IND. CHEM. cum laude, 1927;
A.M. 1929; LL.B. (George Washington Univ.), 1933.
MARRIED: Louise Anna Hancock, Nov. 25, 1929, Rye, N. Y. CHILDREN:
James Millar, Jr., July 23, 1938; Thomas Albert, Dec. 13, 1941.
OccuPATION: Patent lawyer.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, D. C.; American Bar Association,
American Patent Law Association, Washington Patent Lawyer’s Club.
NOT too much has happened since our last Class Report. I’ve
had some bad luck during the past six years following an auto
accident in Virginia. Three operations on my left leg finally made
the bones knit but what with two eight-inch steel strips and
sixteen screws embedded in the leg, the X-rays look like a hard-
ware store! The whole business left me with a stiff left leg (per-
manent) and two eyes (each individually good) which do not
line up correctly.

But, all in all, everything has not been too bad, and I suppose I
have a lot for which to be thankful. I have a good wife and two
growing boys and a nice home I built in 1935 before inflation set
in. We get in our share of vacation trips — most every summer
to Rehoboth Beach, Delaware — and this past winter to Florida,

[413 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

where the boys hunted snakes. Jim, Jr., is very interested in
snakes and has two for pets. Thus we are very popular in the
neighborhood. Tommy is interested in electricity. He certainly
doesn’t take after his father. I never did know anything about
electricity.

As for hobbies, I have but one, and it takes all my spare time:
watching television! I have derived much pleasure from this
pastime, but some of the Harvard games I watched last year made
me scream. Let’s either buy a good team or play M.I.T.

I still practise patent law here in Washington on my own. I
have seen too many unhappy partnerships to become part of one.
Chemical patents are and have been my specialty ever since enter-
ing the field after graduation. The big corporations with their
resident patent attorneys just about have this field sewed up but
there is still enough stray work from rugged individuals and small
companies to keep me occupied,

WILLIAM PHILLIPS GRAVES, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Prescott Street, Pepperell, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Ames, Child & Graves, 50 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Oct. 13, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: William Phillips Graves,
Alice Myrick Chase.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Lydia Ballou Allyn, June 16, 1945, Waterford, Conn. ' CHILD:
William Phillips, 3d, Sept. 20, 1948.

occupation: Architect, partner, Ames, Child & Graves.

MEMBER OF: Boston Society of Architects; American Institute of Archi-
tects; Somerset Club.

AFTER a short career in Wall Street where I was supposedly
learning to be a banker, I went to architectural school at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology and have been practising
architecture in one form or another ever since. In 1939 I formed
a partnership with John W. Ames, Jr., 18, and Josiah H. Child,
25. The most interesting work I have done to date has been
designing the Boston Museum of Science which is still under
construction. I married Lydia Ballou Allyn and have one son
three and one-half years old and a stepson aged fourteen; I live
in an old house in Pepperell built by Colonel William Prescott.

[414]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My hobby: keeping it from falling apart. Politically I have al-
ways been a Republican but find my allegiance somewhat strained
after listening to the pronouncements of the more reactionary
wing of the party. Perhaps if Eisenhower gets the nomination I
shall be lured back to the fold.

JOHN LATHROP GRAY, JR.

HOME AppRESS: 370 N. Maple Ave., Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Root, Ballantine, Harlan, Bushby & Palmer, 31 Nassau
St., New York 5, N. Y.

porN: March 20, 1905, Elizabeth, N. J. Parents: John Lathrop Gray,
Harriet Hamilton Cornell Tyng.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; LL.B. cum
laude, 1930.

MARRIED: Eleanor Reynolds Snow, Aug. 23, 1928, Duxbury, Mass. CHILDREN:
John Lathrop, 3d, April 9, 1931; William Snow, May 24, 1935.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: President, Community Chest and Council of Greenwich, Inc.;
member, Grievance Committee, Association of the Bar of the City of
New York.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York; New York
County Lawyers Association, New York State Bar Association, Ameri-
can Bar Association; American Judicature Society; Harvard Club of
New York; Lunch Club, New York; Field Club, Greenwich, Conn.;
Belle Haven Beach Club, Greenwich; Indian Harbor Yacht Club; Edgar-
town Yacht Club.

WHEN I look back on my life since graduation from college, it

seems to me that there is very little to account for. I went from

college directly to Harvard Law School, was married at the end
of my first year, and was graduated in June, 1930. I took that
summer off and started practising law in New York City in

September, 1930, with the then firm of Root, Clark, Buckner &

Ballantine. I have been with the same firm ever since, and its

present name is Root, Ballantine, Harlan, Bushby & Palmer. I

became a member of the firm in January, 1942, and since that time

I have specialized largely in wills, estates, and trusts. I find that

practising law in a large firm (we have eighty-six lawyers) is an

extremely interesting and time-consuming occupation. When we
first came to New York, we lived in the city itself for about six
or seven years, but then moved to Greenwich, where we have

[415]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

been ever since, first living about ten miles from the railroad
station, and for the last three years, much closer to town.

Unlike so many of my classmates, I took no part in the war
other than to organize a local bus line to make it possible for me
to get to work without walking twenty miles a day. My elder
boy, John, is now a junior at Yale, and this, I think, calls for some
explanation on the part of a loyal Harvard graduate! He went to
Deerfield Academy for three years and when he started I told
him that I did not think he should feel that he had to go to Har-
vard just because I had gone there, and that as far as I was con-
cerned he could go to any good college he wanted to. As the
years went by at Deerfield, he and three other boys became good
friends and all decided they wanted to go to Yale and room to-
gether, which they proceeded to do. I might add, in my own
defense, that the father of one of the other boys was also a Har-
vard man! Our younger son is at Deerfield now and expects to
graduate in 1953. I have given him the same speech about college
that I gave our older boy, and at the moment he is torn between
Harvard and Yale.

I have recently become active in the Greenwich Community
Chest and Council, and am now its president. I find this takes a
great deal of time, but is very interesting and gives me a good
deal of satisfaction. I like to play tennis and bowl, but I am afraid
I don’t do either very well. As for my travels, I hardly go any-
where other than to Cape Cod or Martha’s Vineyard for the
summer. |

CLIFFORD SPENCE MONROE GRAYSON

HOME AppREsS: Old Lyme, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Federal Trade Commission, 45 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BoRN: March 14, 1905, Germantown, Philadelphia, Pa. PARENTS: Clifford
Mallet-Prevost Grayson, Anna Lewis Steel.

prepareD aT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MaArRiED: Maud Georgette Watts, June 19, 1941, New York, N. Y. (sepa-
rated). CHILDREN: Maud Mallet-Prevost, Aug. 24, 1942; Spence Watts,
Jan. 15, 1946.

occuPATION: Attorney-examiner at Federal Trade Commission, New York.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcoRD: Served in Panama as Intelligence Officer, 1941-
42; became Communications Officer, in charge of Communications at

L416 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Licata, Sicily, summer of 1943; on communications staff at Palermo
until August, 1944; executive officer at Harseille, France, during south-
ern invasion of France; legal officer at go Church St., New York, office
until June, 1946.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Washington, D. C.; University Club of Bos-
ton; American Bar Association.

AFTER leaving Harvard College, I went to the Harvard Law
School and was admitted to the Massachusetts Bar in 1932. The
following year I went to the Harvard Business School. I there-
after went to Washington, D. C., where I was finally hired as an
attorney by the Federal Trade Commission. I had settled down
to a pleasant bachelor’s life when, with the war clouds approach-
ing, I accepted a commission in the United States Naval Reserve
as lieutenant (junior grade). My first assignment was for a month’s
course of study in Censorship in New York City during the
month of June, 1941. At this time I married Miss Maud Watts of
New York. T.wo days after the wedding my wife bade me good-
bye as I boarded a naval ship for Panama, where I was stationed
for over a year. Upon my return to this country, I was indoc-
trinated into Naval Communications, and I took part in the inva-
sions of Sicily in the summer of 1943 and of Southern France a
year later — where I became assistant executive officer at the
American base at Marseille. Needless to say, the social life in
France at this time was very pleasant. Upon my return to the
United States in 1945, I became a legal officer at ninety Church
Street, New York City. It was my function to act as defense
counsel at the General Court Martial at the Brooklyn Navy Yard.
I was ordered to act as defense counsel at the Japanese War Crimes
trials in the Pacific in March, 1946, when, upon my request I was
permitted to become separated from the Navy. Instead, I ob-
tained an assignment as lawyer on the staff of the American Prose-
cutor for War Crimes at Nuremberg, Germany. I served as such
from July, 1946, to August, 1947. There I worked on several
briefs relating to the spoliation perpetrated by the Nazis in the
various occupied countries.

Upon my return to the United States, I went back to the Fed-
eral Trade Commission, and I have been assigned as attorney to
the New York Office at forty-five Broadway. My duties there
consist in investigating anti-monopoly and deceptive business

[417]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

practices. There is plenty of variety in the work, and it gives me
a chance to go to Boston and other sections of New England
fairly frequently, where I see several of my former college friends.

Just what I shall do in the future is quite uncertain at this mo-
ment. I have several ideas, some of which might take me back to
Furope. At forty-six I feel that life is just beginning.

RICHARD BAKER GREENMAN

HOME ApoRESS: 230 Cedar Ave. Swansea, Mass.

office apowess: Joseph Case High School, Swansea, Mass.

mes: April 26, 1905, Yonkers, N. Y. parents: Lyman Manchester Green-
man, ‘94. Elizabeth Young Baker.

perpamep AT: Phillips Excter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLELE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; ED.M. (Boston Univ.),

5939.
sarap: Eleanor Holden, Sept. 5, 1931, Concord, Mass. CHILDREN: Peter
Holden, April a, #933; Dorothy, May 12, 1937; David Baker, Dec. 20,

1940.

occupanion; Superintendent of schools, Swansea, Mass.

otekas nity: Chairman, Swansea March of Dimes, 1947-50, Swansea Salva-
tion Army Committee, 1948-51, Greater Fall River Community Fund
Drive, 1946-49 (Swansea chairman).

mueMnEM OF; American Association of School Administrators, Massachu-
setts Teachers Federation, National Education Association; New Eng-
land School Superintendents Association.

AFTER teaching eight years in private schools, I entered public
school work in Acton, Massachusetts, where I became high school
principal and superintendent of schools. In 1946 I became super-
intendent in Swansea, Massachusetts. For two years my chief
interest has been the planning and equipping of an $830,000
junior high school addituon to the existing high school. Growth
of the town and needs of the students called for more classrooms
and an adequate modern high school program.

Peter is at Phillips Exeter Academy this year and expects to
enter college in September if Uncle Sam permits. Dorothy, a
high school sophomore, is a basketball player and is preparing for
colleve, David, who is in the sixth grade, is a science fan. And
Tlcanor, Swansca suburban reporter for the Fall River F/erald
News, the diplomat who helps local organizations avoid con-
ficts an dates. | have found great satisfaction in promoting cer-

[418 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tain activities in our school department, especially the creation of
local scholarships. High school alumni, Parent-Teacher Associa-
tions, and many citizens have responded so well that seven schol-
arships worth nearly $1,000 were awarded last June. The scholar-
ship trustees now seek capital funds to establish annual awards.
Our music and audio-visual departments also have been greatly
expanded. Finally, the task of modernizing our high school pro-
gram to meet the needs of all students through curriculum study
and use of the new building facilities is the challenging but re-
warding road ahead.

AUSTIN GRIMSHAW,

HOME ADDRESS: 2626 11th St. N., Seattle, Wash.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 210 Commerce Hall, University of Washington, Seattle,
Wash.

BORN: Oct. 26, 1905, Weymouth, Mass. parents: Albert Harvey Grimshaw,
Bertha LeCain.

PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: S.B. IN CHEM. ENGIN. cum laude, 1927;
M.B.A. Cum laude, 1934; D.C.S.. 1938.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Thompson, Dec. 11, 1926, Providence, R. I. cHivpRen:
Anne, July 28, 1927 (7. John Kempers, June 14, 1948); Allen Day,
Dec. 16, 1929. GRANDCHILDREN: Natasha, March 16, 1949; Peter Jan,
April 8, 1951.

occuPATION: Dean, College of Business Administration, University of Wash-
ington.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Consultant, office of the chairman, War Pro-
duction Board; director, Civilian Relations Division, Office of Civilian
Requirements, War Production Board.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, director, Commodity Corporation, 1935-36;
educational director, Pacific Coast Banking School, since 1950.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society; Rainier Club; Inglewood Coun-
try Club; Beta Gamma Sigma; Sigma Iota Epsilon.

SEPTEMBER 15, 1951: this afternoon Beth (my wife) and I are
going salmon fishing, a relatively new sport for us, since we moved
to the Pacific Northwest only two years ago, after five years in
Indiana and Illinois. We have followed Horace Greeley’s advice,
although it has taken us twenty-three years to get from the east
coast to the west coast.

Looking back, it becomes apparent that our life pattern has
been one of constant change, of never going stale, of secking out

[419 ]

Initiale deanna

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

new and interesting things to do. For example, occupation. First,
five years, from 1927 to 1932, with a consulting engineering firm
in New York City; then back to school, 1932-38, this time busi-
ness instead of engineering, for a Master’s and then a Doctor’s
decree. During this time I got my first taste of teaching, started
to do some independent consulting with the Nashua Manufactur-
ing Company (textiles) and served for a year as vice-president
and director of a commodity investment trust. In 1938 came a
cross-roads decision: go back into business or stay on at Harvard
Business School as assistant professor in the field of management
and production. I stayed, but continued consulting, and from
1941 CO 1943 Spent much of my time in Washington, D. C., with
the War Production Board as consultant to the chairman and later,
as a division director, heading up a group charged with the task of
finding out whether the civilian economy had or had not been
squeezed too tight. In 1944 another cross-roads decision took me
back into business again, as assistant general manager of the
Auburn (Indiana) Clutch Company, manufacturer of all the jeep
clutches for both Ford and Willys. Four years later we sold the
company. Another cross-roads decision between teaching and
business brought us to Champaign, Illinois, where I served during
1948-49, as head of the management division in the College of
Commerce and Business Administration, University of Illinois.
The year 1949 brought us to the Pacific Northwest and my
present job as dean of the College of Business Administration at
the University of Washington. This summer (1951) has also
scen me dabbling in government again, this time as consultant
to the Salary Stabilization Board and temporary head of its pro-
gram policy office.

So much for my occupational back-and-forth among education,
Lusiness, and government. Geographically, we have changed just
as regularly as I have occupationally. From 1927 to 1944, the
¢ast coast, Boston, New York, and Washington, from 1944 to
1949, the Midwest, Indiana, and Illinois; since 1949, the Pacific
Northwest. Not that [ have stopped travelling; Pasadena and the
Rose Rawl, by automobile, in January, 1951; Alaska, by Army
freighter, in March, 1951; Savannah and Gainesville, in April, New
York and the first meeting of the American Assembly at Arden
House, in May; Washington, D. C., and ninety-five-degree heat

[ 420 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

coupled with one hundred-degree humidity in July and August,
1951; all by airplane, equipped with cocktail lounge.

Even in sports, the pattern of change is predominant. In high
school it was football, basketball, baseball; in college and the im-
mediately following years, tennis; then golf, and now fishing.
Next, who knows? Finally, our home life has never stayed the
same for long. Right after graduation, city lights, young children,
and cliff-dwelling; then suburban Belmont and high school for a
few years; another shift to small town life (Auburn, Indiana,
population 5,000), with Anne and Allen away at college and Beth
and I savoring the luxury of complete independence, able at the
drop of a hat to lock the door and go off to Chicago, Detroit,
Cleveland, New York, or Gulfport; all of which we did fre-
quently, often by company airplane. And now Seattle, a house
overlooking Portage Bay, with two yacht clubs right below us, a
thousand boats a day passing beneath our windows, the university
across the water, and as a backdrop, the snow-covered peaks of
the Cascades; and grandchildren to visit. Who could ask for a
better twenty-five years?

COURTLANDT SHERRINGTON GROSS

HOME ADDRESS: 3131 Antelo Rd., Los Angeles 24, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lockheed Aircraft Corp., Burbank, Calif,

BORN: Nov. 21, 1904, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Robert Haven Gross, Mabel
Bowman Bell.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE! A.B. 1927.

MarRigp:. Alexandra van R. Devereux, July 18, 1939, Oreland, Pa. c#HtLpREN:
Alexandra Devereux, May 17, 1941 (died Dec. 31, 1944); Courtlande
Devereux, July 3, 1947; Mary L. Wanamaker.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Ellsworth Gross, ’19.

OccuPATION: Vice-president, general manger, and director, Lockheed Air-
craft Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Lockheed Air Terminal, Inc.; director, Pacific
Finance Corporation; director and member of Executive Committee,
Los Angeles Welfare Federation; chairman, Citizens Committee on
Rehabilitation; vestryman, St. Alban’s Episcopal Church.

MEMBER OF: Bel-Air Country Club; Knickerbocker Club (New York City).

AFTER College I worked for two years at Lee Higginson &
Company in Boston; next for a company in New Haven, Con-
necticut, the Viking Flying Boat Company, which had been

[420]

np nyhenpete set scociin a .

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

started by my brother. From 1932 until 1940 I worked for the
Lockheed Aircraft Corporation as their eastern representative in
New York. In 1940 1 became president of a subsidiary of the
Lockheed Aircraft Corporation, Vega Airplane Company. This
company was subsequently merged into the Lockheed Aircraft
Corporation, and I then became vice-president and general mana-
ger and director of Lockheed.

Apart from one or two civic or philanthropic activites in which
I take a small part, my principal interests are boats, farming, and
gardening, in all of which my wife and family share.

ERNEST ARNOLD GROSS

HOME AppREsS: 178 Rockcrest Rd., Manhasset, Long Island, N. Y.

orFice aporess: U.S. Mission to the United Nations, 2 Park Ave., New York,
N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Arnold Gross, Caroline
Fleisher.

prepared AT: De Witt Clinton High School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: $.B., 1927; LL.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Kathryn Watson, Sept. 1, 19335 Washington, D. C. CHILDREN:
Suzanne, July 9, 1934; Peter, Feb. 10, 1936; Catherine, Sept. 10, 1946.
occuPaTioN: Diplomatic service — Deputy U.S. Representative to the United
Nations, Deputy U. S. Representative to the United Nations Security
Council, delegate to the Fifth General Assembly; U. S. Representative

to Peace Observation Commission.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcoRD: U.S. Army Aug. 5, 1943, to July 17, 1946, lieu-
tenant colonel, chief, economics section, Civil Affairs Division, War
Department General Staff; Legion of Merit; Order of British Empire.

ovrices HELD: Director, Woodrow Wilson Foundation; various offices in
Bar associations.

mesMueR oF: American Bar Associauon; New York State Bar Association;
Federal Bar Association,

puBLications: Numerous articles in legal periodicals, Department of State
Bulletin, newspapers.

AFTER leaving the Army in 1946, I returned to the Department
of State (my first professional roost following law school gradua-
tion) as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in charge of occupied
arcas. In addition to working on policics for Germany, Japan,
and Austria, this was my first connection with the problem of
Korea and Sovict intransigence with regard to achieving a Korean
(and other) setrlement. In 1947 T became legal adviser to the

(422 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Department of State under General Marshall’s administration and
in 1948 Assistant Secretary of State in charge of Congressional
relations, a post I held for a year—a crowded year: the North
Atlantic Treaty, the Military Assistance Program, the extension
of the ERP, and numerous other assignments which kept me on
the Hill many days and many long evenings and summer week-
ends.

In 1949 Congress amended the United Nations Participation Act
to establish the post of Deputy U. S. Representative to the United
Nations with rank of ambassador. I moved to New York in
November, 1949, and have been privileged since to work side by
side with the U.S. Representative, Ambassador Austin.

I believe in the workability of a collective security system and
I think that the historic infant mortality rate of international
organizations will not apply to the UN, which has shown the
power to make decisions and take action essential to its survival.

ERNEST WHITMAN GROSS

HOME aApprEss: 1 Arlington Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: John C. Dowd, Inc., 212 Park Square Bldg., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 30, 1905, New York, N. Y. Parents: Maurice Hans Gross,
Grethe Ornsten.

PREPARED AT: New Rochelle High School, New Rochelle, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.

MarRieD: Hedwig Treusch, May 16, 1929, Frankfurt/Main, Germany.
CHILDREN: Lilian Hedwig, April 6, 1930 (mm. Peter Michael Grosz ’s0,
May 12, 1951); Herbert Hallganss, May 26, 1936.

occupaTion: Advertising agency account executive; assistant to the president
and merchandising specialist of John C, Dowd, Inc., Boston, and Dowd,
Redfield & Johnstone, New York.

OFFICES HELD: Red Cross Campaign Publicity in Lowell, Winchester, Boston,
Mass., and New Haven, Conn., 1933-50; Community Fund Publicity in
Lowell and Boston, 1933-50; War Savings Campaign, Eastern Connecti-
cut, public information, 1942-45.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Wellesley Country Club.

PusBLications: Miscellaneous newspaper and trade paper writing; by-line
series for New York Herald Tribune theatre section from Germany,
1928, 1929, 1930 with few bits for Variety during this same period.

A SAILBOAT often leaves the protection of a harbor with a
good following wind and with a particular course carefully
charted by the skipper. Open water brings cross currents, shift-

[ 423 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

moored in a friendly harbor. At the moment the water is calm,
the wind is gentle, but the visibility is limited. Even if the haze
remains, we feel snug and happy in our little, gently rolling world.

WILLIAM LEONARD GROSSMAN

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Instituto Tecnoldgico de Aeronautica, Sao José
dos Campos, Estado de Sao Paulo, Brazil.

BorN: April 4, 1906, New York, N. Y. pArents: William Grossman,
Carolyn Basch.

PREPARED AT: Columbia Grammar School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; A.M., 1928; LL.B., 1931(32);
js. (New York Univ.), 1936.

marrieD: Mignon Soire, May 22, 1929, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Ruth
Carolyn, May 29, 1930; Elizabeth Ann, Aug. 11, 1937.

OCCUPATION: Professor of economics, chairman of economics department,
college-level school of aeronautical engineering.

PUBLICATIONS: Books: Air Passenger Traffic, Surface-Carrier Participation in
Air Transportation, War Economics (co-author); articles and book
reviews in New York Times, Yale Law Journal, Railway Age, New
York University Law Review, American Mercury, Air Transportation,
New York Journal of Commerce, and various other periodicals.

AFTER beginning law practice in New York, I worked in Wash-
ington and Hartford as legal secretary to the general counsel of
PWA and in other capacities, principally on public utility matters.
Back in New York in 1936, I resumed legal practice, did utility
research, and soon began teaching part-time in the New York
University School of Commerce, Department of Public Utilities
and Transportation, of which after some years I became a full-
time member. I moved to Brazil in 1948 as teacher and consultant
under a four-year contract with the Brazilian government.

My non-professional activities include the drafting of the New
York Savings Bank Life Insurance Law, which I helped put
through; and the translation of a classic Brazilian novel, As
Memorias Postumas de Braz Cubas, soon to be published in the
United States probably under the title Epitaph of a Small Winner.
I have been converted to Protestantism; for a time here in Brazil
I conducted adult Bible classes. Politically I have no party affilia-
tion; my position is close to center, with more than the usual
indignation over dishonesty in government. My hobby is still the
piano —chiefly Bach. Ruth is a senior at Barnard; Elizabeth

[ 426 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

attends the Spence School. Mignon and I plan to move back to
the States before September, 1952.

EDWARD GUDEMAN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 978 Euclid Ave., Winnetka, Ill.

orrice appress: Sears, Rocbuck & Co. 925 S. Homan Ave., Chicago, Ill.

Born: Oct. 9, 1906, Chicago, Ill. parents: Edward Gudeman, Clara Asher.

prepareD aT: Harvard School, Chicago, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927.

marrieD: Frances H. Alschuler, Oct. 12, 1932, Chicago, Hl. cttpren: Jon
Edward, July 12, 1936; Stephen Frederick, June 29, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard MM. Gudeman, ‘19, LLB. ‘21.

OccUPATION: Assistant to vice-president in charge of merchandise, Sears,
Roebuck & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Whirlpool Corporation, St. Joseph, Mich., since
1942, Seeger Refrigerator Company, St. Paul, Minn., since 1945, Sears,
Roebuck & Company, Chicago, since 1949, Stein, Roe & Farnham Fund,
Chicago, since 1949, American Rock Wool Corporation, Chicago, since
1949, Armstrong Rubber Company, Natchez, Miss. since 1950.

MEMBER OF: Chicago Executive Committee of the Anti-Defamation League;
member of Executive Committee, Chicago National Conference of
Christians and Jews; Northmoor Country Club, Harvard Club of
Chicago.

THE deadline for the autobiography entitled “My Last Twenty-
Five Years” is upon me and it is difficult to organize the years and
get started. |

As a graduation present an uncle took me to Europe in the sum-
mer of 1927, which delayed the decision as to a livelihood until
September. At that time I heard that Sears, Roebuck & Company
was looking for college graduates to train for the retail stores they
were just beginning to open. I needed a job and here seemed to
be a company that needed men. In fact, so desperately did Sears
require men for its retail expansion program, that anyone with a
college diploma was immediately hired. I started in the toy de-
partment — my career as a merchant was underway. After three
years of retailing in our Detroit, South Bend, and Louisville stores
and one year of constant travelling from coast to coast, I became
the buyer of those two famous household appliances, Kenmore
washing machines and Coldspot refrigerators. For five years I
struggled with engineering features, gadgets, manufacturing costs,

[ 427 ]

aout

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

and esthetic designs to prove that the advertising department was
correct when it said “more for your money when you buy Cold-
spot or Kenmore.” (Incidentally, this still holds true in case you
are in the market for a washer or refrigerator.) In 1937 I was
transferred to the general merchandise office where, two years
later, I became assistant to the vice-president, the position I hold
at present. Inasmuch as our company is concerned with all types
of merchandise, except foods, and has become international
through its expansion in Central and South America, I have been
able to work on many diverse problems and contact a wide vari-
ety of people. Interest never Jags and | can think of nothing else
I would rather be doing.

"Way back in February, 1932, I ran into a girl I had never seen
before. She was attending the University of Chicago. I knew
she was the right girl in February, but it took until October to
convince her that I was just the right guy for her. I still know she
is right and we now have two boys, Jon, fifteen, and Stephen,
twelve, who make us very proud. We moved from Chicago to
Winnetka some twelve years ago so that the boys could attend
the well-known Winnetka public schools, and Frances and I like
to think of ourselves as “progressive” parents. At the moment,
Frances is taking piano lessons so that she can accompany Steve
on the clarinet and Jon on the drums. I listen and occasionally
wave the baton. We think travel is educational for us all and have
motored to the Ozarks, New England, Arizona, Washington,
D. C., and many of the State Parks in the Midwest.

Athletically we are a tennis family. Frances is still tops, Steve
is developing his back hand, and I am slowing up. In fact, this
past summer, Jon was able to beat me and not too infrequently.

There has been no necessity and no time to develop a hobby.
Both Frances and I have been active in local community affairs
and currently are working for the Anti-Defamation League and
National Conference of Christians and Jews. These, coupled with
Cub Scouts, Boy Scouts, other parent activities, and the usual
suburban social ones, have occupied our spare time.

As to political convictions — right now I am a Republican. I
believe that the lack of integrity on the part of the present admin-
istration is scandalous. Assuming that I were in complete agree-
ment with the administration’s handling of domestic and foreign

[ 428 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

issues, I would still find it impossible to vote for Mr. Truman
because of his failure to “clean house.”

And there is the story of 1927 to 1952. Even though I went to
the oculist yesterday because the telephone book is getting hard
to decipher, my hair is thin and grayish, and tennis doubles is now
a better game than singles, I like to think I have just as much pep
as I ever had. Anyway I’m looking forward to the next twenty-
five years.

WILLIAM BRADFORD GUILD

HOME ADDRESS: 71 Lake Drive, Mountain Lakes, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New Jersey Bell Telephone Co., 540 Broad St., Newark, N. J.

BoRN: July 29, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Thomas Ezra Guild, Julia
Grace Allen.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.B.A., 1929.

MARRIED: Juliet Hanna Grosvenor (Vassar °27), Sept. 29, 1930, Fort Wayne,
Ind. cu1tp: Thomas Allen, March 21, 1943.

OccuPATION: District traffic superintendent, New Jersey Bell Telephone
Company; administration and operation of telephone central offices in
Bloomfield, Montclair, Caldwell, Livingston, Oranges, Millburn & Sum-
mit, N. J.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Harvard Club of New Jersey, 1944, 1945.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Jersey; Delta Upsilon Fraternity.

UPON graduating, I made a European tour with Dick Loud, ’27,
and on the way back met my future wife, Juliet Grosvenor, who
also was on a graduation tour of the Continent.

I spent two studious but most enjoyable years at the Harvard
Business School and graduated in 1929. On September 7, 1929, I
entered the employ of the New Jersey Bell Telephone Company
at Newark. On September 29, 1930, I married and we resided at
Asbury Park, New Jersey, for three years. From 1933 to 1950
we lived in Summit, New Jersey, while I was working in various
field and staff capacities for the telephone company in Newark,
Plainfield, and again in Newark.

In 1943 son T. Allen, my pride and joy, was born and he has
kept me stepping, often running, to keep up with him. We have
been doubly blessed with his sound health and sunny disposition.

On August 1, 1948, I assumed my present position as district

[ 429 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

traffic superintendent of the Orange district of the New Jersey
Bell Telephone Company. In May, 1950, my wife and I started
to build our dream house on the lake at Mountain Lakes, New
Jersey. On Labor Day I moved in, she and Allen following on
October 12th. Between my wife’s expert and almost religious
aptitude for house designing and gardening and my muscles and
often clumsy attempts at making things, we now, in one and a half
short years, have what I (and all our neighbors) consider a beauti-
ful home, complete with beautiful grounds, boat house, Cohasset
Sea Shell sail boat (made by me and a neighbor) for my son, and
our ideal of a ranch type home; also “Biddy” our springer, or
rather my son’s springer.

When first I left for business in New Jersey it was much like
taking the great trek to the Far West from the solid background
of Boston. Now, after twenty-three years, I am sold on New
Jersey and can heartily recommend it for climate, accessibility
(but not too close) to the great New York City, the shore, the
mountains of Pennsylvania, in fact to most anywhere.

Between my office work (twenty-four hours a day) and my
home activities, there strangely hasn’t been too much time left on
my hands.

We are twenty-five years older now but fortunately I'm in
good company. My best regards to all my classmates and best
wishes for a happy Reunion. P.S. Solid Republican.

MARTIN HENRY GURLEY, JR.

HOME appxess: gt S. Angell St. Providence, R. I.

OFFICE ApoRESS: 250 Esten Ave. Pawtucket, R. I.

Bown: July 30, 1905, Concord, N. Hi. parents: Martin Henry Gurley, Mabel
Viola Danforth.

rerpanep at: Concord High School, Concord, N. H.

VEARS IN COLLFGE! 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B, 1927.

MaAgwiso: Hiclen Hutton, Nov. 12, 1932, Concord, N. H. ciipren: Martin
Henry, 3d, Sept. 26, 1933, William Elutton, Nov. 21, 1934; Susan Michael,
Nov. 22, 1940; Prudence Helen, Sept. 9, 1944; Julie Gay, July 7, 1949.

vertpatios; Consultant specializing in chemical and physical problems in
the preparaden and use of fibrous materials, such as textiles, paper,
plastics, animal hair, vegetable fibers.

Mrsshem of: American Chemical Society, American Association of Textile
Chemists and Colorists, Textile Research Institute; Textile Insticute

[ 430]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

(Great Britain); Rheology Society; Harvard Club of Boston; Chem-
ists’ Club.

pusLicaTions: “Cellulose Industries,” chapter in Roger’s Manual of Industrial
Chemistry, with G. J. Esselen ’og; “Casein in the Textile Industry,”
chapter in Casein, now in preparation; articles in various periodicals.

THIS chapter started with a Harvard graduate persuading a
young man to go to Harvard and ends on the same theme. I was
the youngster in 1922.

In 1927 I started in the textile industry as an apprentice, and I
have been in or associated with it ever since. From learner I
progressed to chemist, director of viscose research, and then a
superintendent. Then a judge deciding that Dame Nature had
defeated Dumaine declared Amoskeag bankrupt. I went to work
as an inspector of health and tourist facilities for New Hamp-
shire. It was a year before I found a place as a chemist.

I liked the work and my associates and soon was recognized as
a textile consultant. I have retained that distinction even though
I have spent a lot of time on the problems of frozen orange juice,
Moxie, insulating board, tobacco, plastic bowling balls, fertilizer,
soil pipe, poultry feeds, and similar unrelated items. In 1946 I was
involved briefly as a vice-president of a small engineering firm,
spending its cash entertaining foreign visitors who hired our
engineers but not our firm. From this has grown my practice of
securing the contract and then the engineers.

Nineteen forty-eight was a most important year, for I decided
to go into business for myself. The plans were completed by
June, 1949; and in August I opened my laboratory in space rented
from my principal client. Starting with one assistant, I now have
four. This has been the most pleasing of my industrial experiences,
and I have been happy in this latest venture.

All this effort has been spurred (and I use the word politely)
first by a childhood sweetheart, now my wife, and then by an
ever increasing number of youngsters who looked exactly like
me at birth but developed markedly different personalities as the
years passed. My hobbies have always centered in my family and
have involved stamps, photography, model planes and boats, and
finally tropical fish. (Who'll buy some guppies, moons, or sword-
tails? )

As I have grown older my belief in God has deepened, and I

[431]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

hope that my neighborliness has improved accordingly. I still
have great faith in the future of mankind and Democracy. Right
now, however, I fear that the polls have decided to pass over the
real American, John Dulles. I have tried my best to arouse inter-
est in him but to no avail.

It is my opinion that Harvard offers to the young men of today
the same opportunities that it offered to me, but I am having the
most difficult time persuading my elder son that the general edu-
cation of an arts and letters college is the best preparation for a
graduate course of study in business or science and that the best
place for such is Harvard. Here the chapter ends and the young
man is my son.

+ HENRY HARTSHORN HACK

BoRN: Aug. 23, 1903, Taunton, Mass. parents: Harold Wright Hack, ’98,
Joanna Dixon Hartshorn.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.

pieD: Aug. 11, 1928, New Brunswick, N. J.

HENRY HARTSHORN HACK studied in the engineering
school at Harvard and during his undergraduate years was a
member of the S. K. Club and Hasty Pudding-Institute of 1770.
After leaving college he worked with his father at Stewart Hart-
shorn Company in New York City. He never married and his
home was in Short Hills, New Jersey.

BARNABAS BURROWS HADFIELD

HOME ADDRESS: Brantwood Lane, Stamford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Leve, Hecht, Hadfield & McAlpin, 50 Broadway, Brooklyn,
N.Y.

BORN: May 31, 1906, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Barnabas Burrows Hadfield,
Jane McDermott.

PREPARED AT: White Plains High School, White Plains, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927(28); LL.B. (Columbia
Univ.), 1930.

Marrigp: Mary Louise Haber, 1945, Dayton, Ohio. cHimtpREN: Mary Jane,
1946; Alicia Ann, 1948; Bridget Lucille, 1g5r.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Major, Army Air Force, 1942-46; received
Legion of Merit, Army Commendation Medal.

[ 432 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Lawyers Club; Reserve Officers’
Association; Legal Aid Society; Stamford Hills Association; Milbrook
Club; Farmington Country Club; Kappa Sigma; Phi Delta Phi.

AFTER graduation I entered Columbia Law School where I
toiled assiduously for three years as a student research assistant
and associate editor of the Columbia Law Review and, for the
most part, managed to stay out of trouble. On completing law
school, I took the Bar exams and spent the traditional summer in
Europe (oh happy days!). I started practice in 1930 with the
then firm of Rushmore, Bisbee & Stern and had the avowed ambi-
tion to become a trial lawyer. Time and a more mature appraisal
of my talents have decreed otherwise, so that now I struggle
mostly with corporate problems. My most interesting assignment
to date was the negotiation of an oil concession with King Ibu
Saud, which kept me in the Middle East for several months in
1949. Since 1939 I have been a member of my present firm.
Among my partners are Harold A. Felix, ’27, and Townsend M.
McAlpin, Law ’28. I’ve suffered most of the occupational dis-
eases from time to time, including coronary thrombosis, and I
expect ulcers any day.

I married while still in the service and started married life in an
apartment. One child necessitated the purchase of a house. Two
more kids demanded a much larger house, so my address after
July 1 will be Newfield Avenue, Stamford, Connecticut. Personal
opinions: (a) taxes are too high; (b) we should throw the rascals
out; (c) I like Ike.

ELLSWORTH CHARLES HAGGERTY

HOME ADDRESS: 108 Lee Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.

OFFIceE appress: Fieldcrest Mills, 88 Worth St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: July 7, 1905, Clinton, Mass. parents: Charles Haggerty, Mary
Elizabeth Clingan.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927.

MARRIED: Stephanie Veronica Zabriskie, September, 1936, New York, N. Y.
(divorced 1938); Dorothy Giaccone, Feb. 10, 1940, Hasbrouck Heights,
N. J. cumpren: Susan Evelyn, March 23, 1942; Kathleen Elizabeth,
April 3, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Salesman, Fieldcrest Mills, textiles.

[ 433 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

JAMES PHILLIPS HALL

HOME ADDRESS: Stetson Road, Norwell, Mass. (P. O. Hanover).

OFFICE AppREsS: Craftsman Insurance Co., 137 Newbury St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 10, 1905, North Pembroke, Mass. PARENTS: James Randolph Hall,
Adaline Simmons Phillips.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, South Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927.

MARRIED: Louisa Victoria Sylvester, Nov. 1, 1930, Hanover, Mass. CHILDREN:
Thomas Phillips, Oct. 14, 1931; Judith Sylvester, May 18, 1934; Dianne
Knowlton, June 4, 1935; James Peter, May 30, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Morrill Knowlton Hall, ’29, M.B.A., 731.

occupation: Director of sales, Craftsman Insurance Company — director of
sales activities and branch offices throughout twenty states in which
firm operates.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Norwell Badminton Club, 1937-39, Norwell Visit-
ing Nurse Association, 1938-39, Norwell Cub Scouts, 1950, St. Andrew’s
Episcopal Church, 1944-51 (vestryman, 1951), Plan Credit Union, 1946-
47; president, Norwell Parent Teachers Association, 1938, 1950; chair-
man, Norwell School Committee, 1940-49; vice-chairman, districts,
Boston Community Fund, 1940; agency supervisor, New England
Mutual Life Insurance Company, 1935-44; executive assistant, Massa-
chusetts Blue Cross, 1944-47; director of sales, Craftsman Insurance
Company, 1950-51.

MEMBER OF: Duxbury Yacht Club.

UP TO the time of my graduation in 1927, I had always inwardly
hoped to go into poultry farming, but knew full well ’'d end up
elsewhere. So when I was offered a job in actuarial work with
the New England Mutual Life, I jumped at the chance of using
my Harvard math courses. I soon decided that the agency and
sales end of the business was far more to my liking, so spent the
next seventecn years selling and managing salesmen of life insur-
ance throughout the New England states. With much reluctance
I refused a job coaching class crew for Ed Brown back at the
Newell boathouse in 1928. I still wish ’'d taken a crack at it; I
might have ended up as a rival for Tom Bolles! Who knows?

In 1944 1 was offered the position of executive assistant to the
director of the Massachusetts Blue Cross. This meant less travel
away from my growing family, so I made the change and learned
a lot about hospital insurance plans. By the spring of 1947 I fore-
saw the shakeup coming in Blue Cross, so resigned to buy half-
interest with my brother in our new venture, Hall Brothers Dry

[ 434]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Cleaning and Rug Cleaning Plant at Hyannis, Massachusetts. We
spent three years developing a very fine little partnership business
to cover Cape Cod and keep the Cape clean. In 1950 I decided to
go back into insurance and let my brother clean up in the clean-
ing business. He has done a remarkable expansion job, now that I
have left, and I am happy back in sales management with the
Craftsman Accident and Health Insurance Company.

My wife and four children are my chief interests in life. Wife
Louisa and I get a lot of pleasure as a team in duplicate contract
bridge — we still put up a fair battle as a mixed doubles tennis
team against many of the local youngsters, play badminton in the
winter, and a little ping pong. Our legs and wind don’t hold up
as well as they did fifteen and twenty years ago, but we still have
plenty of good years ahead. Our elder son chose Cornell and the
two daughters are at Walnut Hill School now; so for the next
few years we have only Peter, our eleven-year-old, at home in the
winter. Tom, the eldest, is showing us how soccer and tennis
should be played. Judy and Dinny are keeping us busy watching
their field hockey, basketball, and tennis, and the youngest, Peter,
is planning (so he says) on a career with big league baseball, after
Harvard or Annapolis.

What with business weekdays, gardening, lawn mowing, and
tennis weekends, the children’s interests, activities, and “dates,”
and trying to make two cars handle the needs of three teen-age
drivers and two adult drivers with a minimum of two and usually
more places to go at the same time, life in the middle forties is a
long way from being quiet and serene — but it’s the way I like it!

SAMUEL HAYDOCK HALLOWELL

HOME appreEss: Beverly Farms, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 160 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: May 15, 1905, West Medford, Mass. parents: Robert Haydock Hal-
lowell, ’96, Rebecca Borland Jackson.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.B.A., 1929(30).

marRigD: Julia Adelaide Barbour, June 29, 1946, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Samuel Haydock, Jr., Nov. 2, 1947; Thomas Barbour, Oct. 2, 1948;
Francis Jackson, 2d, Oct. 28, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Haydock Hallowell, Jr., ’25.

OccuPATION: Manager, entertainment bureau.

[ 435 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: 1St lieutenant, Rochester Ordnance District,
Feb. 12, 1941-October, 1942; captain, Detroit Ordnance District, 1943-
Jan. 2,1946. : .
AFTER graduating from the Business School by the skin of my
teeth, I entered R. H. Macy’s emporium in September, 1929, with
full expectations of making a salary of $5,000 — in at least a year.
The result, however, was quite the reverse. Pink slips kept ap-
pearing with alarming frequency in salary envelopes stating that
the management was deeply regretful, but current circumstances
forced them to reduce al] salaries by ten per cent. I endured the
department store rat-race for seven years and then took a short
but equally depressing fling at the brokerage business. The wolves
of Wall Street were most unappreciative of my talents.

The following five years spent in Rochester, New York, work-
ing in a company which manufactured glass-lined tanks for the
chemical and dairy industries, were as pleasant as anyone could
ask for. One of the five U. S. Army Ordnance District bases
was located in Rochester, and when the hand-writing on the wall
became increasingly more apparent, I merely walked across the
street and became an ordnance officer without benefit of any
military training whatsoever. In fact I didn’t know how to salute
correctly. The next six years were spent mainly in the Middle
West endeavoring to round up hard-to-get material for ordnance
contracts.

Upon being relieved of my military responsibilities, I assumed
those called matrimonial and amazed my friends, my wife, and
myself by becoming the parent of three male heirs in two years.
My better half and myself are now engaged in the entertainment
business, and although we shall never reach the status of a Rocke-
feller, we find that our racket is most interesting and entertaining.

MAURICE HYMAN HALPERIN

HOME AppREss: 194 Kelton St., Allston 34, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Boston University, 236 Bay State Rd., Boston 15, Mass.

Born: March 3, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Philip Halperin, Ethel Summer.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926. DEGREES: A.B. 1927(26); AM. (Univ. of Okla-
homa), 1929; DocrzuR (Univ. of Paris), 1931.

Marriep: Edith Frisch, Sept. 5, 1926, Nahant, Mass. cHiLprEN: Judith, Sept.
1, 1931; David, May 5, 1937.

[ 436 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: Theodore Herz] Halperin, G "33-34.

occupation: Teacher; director of Latin American regional studies at Boston
University.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Chief of Latin America Division, Office of
Strategic Services and Research and Intelligence Branch, Department
of State.

PUBLICATIONS: Several score articles and book reviews primarily concerned
with Latin America in a number of scholarly and popular publications
such as Foreign Affairs, Inter-America Quarterly, New York Times,
Books Abroad, Current History, New Republic, Woman's Home
Companion, Christian Century.

I HAVE been a teacher and student during seventeen of the past
twenty-five years. During the rest of the time, my work was
closely related to my academic interests. Most of my teaching
has been done in the Southwest. For a short period I served as a
consultant to the Economic and Social Council of the United
Nations. My travels, always related to my professional work,
have taken me to Central and South America, Europe, and North
Africa. My main hobby is music, both as listener and performer.
In politics I am a Democrat. In religion I am a member of a con-
gregation affiliated with Liberal Judaism. My wife is a teacher of
social studies in the Brookline public schools. My daughter is a
student at Oberlin College, and my son is a student at the Boston
Latin School.

MASAKATSU HAMAMOTO

HOME ADDRESS: 2758 Kichijoji, Musashino City, Tokyo To, Japan.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Shin Asahi Motors, Inc., 14 Shiba Kotahira Cho, Minato Ku,
Tokyo, Japan.

BORN: Sept. 16, 1905, Yoichi City, Hokkaido, Japan. parents: Otomatsu
Hamamoto, Take Takenouchi.

prepareD aT: McKinley High School, Honolulu, Hawaii.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1927.

MarrigD: Masako Sugata, Feb. 7, 1937, Tokyo, Japan. cuitpren: Masanobu,
April 9, 1938; Masaaki, May 30, 1940; Masahiro, March 3, 1942.

OccUPATION: Managing director, Shin Asahi Motors, Inc., Pontiac distributors;
director, Educational Films Exchange, Audio-Visual Film Distributors;
manager, Foreign Department, J. Osawa & Company, Ltd., exporter-
importers. .

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Member, General Headquarters, 14th Area Army
(Philippines); Aide to General Tomoyuki Yamashita.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Civilian attached to War Ministry; member,
Secretariat, Prime Minister’s Office.

[ 437 ]

ian katate blngchnanniaca ceanananiereniaienastasnasmaitste stant SiGe

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Tokyo Symphony Orchestra.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Japan.

AFTER graduation I returned to my native country, forgot my
diploma in the bottom of my trunk, and enrolled as a “grease ball”
in the Plant Service Station of the newly established General
Motors Japan, an assembly operation of General Motors Corpo-
ration. Much to my surprise, I found myself gradually headed
for more responsible positions until, at the outbreak of the
Pacific War, I was assistant sales manager of that operation. Due
rather to lack of personnel than to my versatility, I had filled
during this time the various posts of service manager, advertising
manager, sales promotion manager, Diesel manager, and even field
representative for General Motors in North China and Mongolia.

My activity after Pearl Harbor was confined to an inglorious
existence as a most un-military civilian attached to an ultra-mili-
taristic regime. Here again ] was catapulted, by strange circum-
stances rather than ability, to various posts (at that time quite
important), among others, member of the Cabinet Secretariat.
No historian in his right senses will report my part in losing the
war, but to put at least one item in the black book for the benefit
of the Class Historian, I should state that I wrote the English
version of the Articles of Surrender of the Yamashita Army to
General MacArthur. I also served on the defense counsel at the
Yamashita War Crimes Trial.

After repatriation, I was associated with the motion picture
industry, but with the reopening of the imported motor car busi-
ness, I have returned to that business, my original love. So, as
fate will have it, I have to start just where I began twenty-five
years ago. I only hope I shall have the same length of time and
perhaps better luck for the second half of the game.

NATHANIEL HAMLEN

HOME apprEss: Mainstone Farm, Wayland, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 11 Pemberton Sq., Boston 8, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 16, 1905, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Paul Mascarene Hamlen, 96,
Agnes Dorothy Devens.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: a.B. cum laude, 1927.

marriep: Evelyn Livingston Hollingsworth, Aug. 30, 1938, Milton, Mass.

[ 438 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHILDREN: Nathaniel, Jr., Jan. 13, 1940; Devens Hollingsworth, Jan, 27,
1942; James Mascarene, March 28, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Devens Hamlen, ’31.

occuPATION: Investment real estate and trustee.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S.AF., Aug. 6, 1942—Dec. 5, 1945, commissioned
1st lieutenant, 1942; returned to inactive status with rank of major.
OFFICES HELD: Member Park Commissioners, Town of Wayland, 1946; mem-

ber Vestry, St. Peters Church, Weston, Mass.
MEMBER OF: Somerset Club; Millwood Hunt.

ON RETURN from active service in the Air Corps, I rejoined
the firm of Minot, Williams & Bangs, real estate trustees, as part-
ner. In 1949 I resigned from that firm to reopen my own office,
primarily to conduct an investment real estate consultant and
brokerage business.

I spend such time as is left after business and moderate local
community activities in enjoying with my family and friends the
amenities of life provided by Boston and the pastimes such as
riding, and so forth, of the New England countryside.

EDWARD BURNETTE HANLEY, JR.

HOME apprEss: P. O. Box 748, Medford, Oregon.

OFFICE appRESS: 212 Leverett Bldg., Medford, Oregon.

BoRN: April 12, 1904, Portland, Oregon. parents: Edward Burnette Hanley,
Elizabeth Holliday Reese.

PREPARED AT: Santa Barbara School, Carpinteria, Calif.; Broadway High
School, Seattle, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: S.B. #agna cum laude, 19273 LL.B., 1930.

MarrieD: Ellen Kerr, Sept. 16, 1936, Seattle, Wash. (died May 10, 1940).

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II; entered U. S. Army Signal Corps,
1942; staff sergeant; served in Aleutian Theatre; discharged 1945.

MEMBER OF: Arctic Club, Seattle; Rogue Valley University Club, Medford.

EXCEPT for the time that I was serving in the Army, I have

been actively engaged in business and in practising law. I am in
private practice.

ARTHUR FREDERICK HANNA

HOME ADDRESS: Fox Meadow, Paoli, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Broadcasting Co., 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York,
N.Y.

BORN: June 23, 1906, Milton, Mass. PARENTS: James Frederick Hanna, Sarah
Frances Haley.

[ 439 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927.
MarrieD: Jean Victoria McClure, May 6, 1933, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Deirdre Brigid (Bryn Mawr), May 10, 1934; Colin Arthur, Dec. 3, 1946.
occupation: Free-lance, radio producer-director; also, farm owner-operator.

MEMBER OF: Radnor Hunt, Huntington Valley Hunt, Farmington (Va.)
Hunt; Whitemarsh Hunt.

CONRAD ALLISON HANSON, JR.

HOME ApprEss: R. D. Box 113, Parsippany, N. J.

OFFIcE AppREss: Ailanthus Hall, Inc. P. O. Box 267, Boonton, N. J.

BORN: Nov. 5, 1905, Chicago, Ill. parents: Conrad Allison Hanson, Mary
Alice Whelan.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.B.A., 1929.

MARRIED: Emily White Baldwin, Oct. 12, 1935, Troy Hills, N. J.

HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Alan Hanson, ’24, M.B.A., 726.

OCCUPATION: President and treasurer, hotel and convalescent home.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York (formerly).

A WALL Street career up to five years ago. Too hectic. Am
semi-retired now, ‘way out in the country. Have kept con-
tact with a few Exeter friends of yesteryear, but am out of touch
with my Harvard classmates. Consequently, I doubt if my travels
in Canada, etc., my social service work, and my Republican and
Protestant convictions would be of interest to the latter group.

+ CARLTON COOPER HARDING

BorN: Aug. 27, 1905, Allston, Mass. parents: Herbert Otis Harding, Estelle
Cooper.

PREPARED AT: Brighton High School, Brighton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH, ENGIN., 1927.

MARRIED: Margaret P. Genszler, June 17, 1933, Boston, Mass.

piep: March 23, 1942, Rutland, Mass.

CARLTON COOPER HARDING was awarded the Bright-
helmstone Scholarship in September of his freshman year at Har-
vard. He was a member of the Harvard Engineering Society
and the Kappa Sigma Fraternity. For a year after graduation he
worked on machine design and sales engineering in New York
City and thereafter joined General Motors Corporation to travel
in the interest of field service on their various automotive units.

[ 440 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DONALD FREDERICK HARDING

HOME ADDRESS: 16 Essex Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Scudder, Stevens & Clark, 10 Post Office Sq., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 25, 1906, Newtonville, Mass. parents: Frederick Williston Hard-
ing, Laura Elizabeth Restall.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newtonville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Investment counsel; consultant.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Liaison representative, China Defense Supplies,
Inc., February, 1942, to May, 1945; Deputy Chief, Far East and Special
Territories Branch, Foreign Economic Administration, May to August,

1945.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Scudder, Stevens & Clark and
Scudder, Stevens & Clark Common Stock Fund; treasurer, The James
Jackson Putnam Children’s Center.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.

EXCEPT for the four years of the war, I have been investment
counsellering it with Scudder, Stevens & Clark, ever since college.

During the war I joined the parade to Washington and even-
tually found myself shuffling back and forth across India and
occasionally over into China. My employer was the Chinese gov-
ernment, and my job to expedite the movement of their lend-lease
supplies. It was frustrating work but a highly stimulating and
interesting experience. The morning papers these days read like
Old Home Week. |

During the last few months of the war I worked for our own
government in the Foreign Economic Administration. My baili-
wick was what they were pleased to call The Far East and Special
Territories Branch. Special Territories equals Iceland, Greenland,
Afghanistan, and Liberia — don’t ask me why, and we had scarcely
been introduced anyway when the war ended. That meant back
to Scudder, Stevens & Clark, and Boston.

I have had two continuous hobbies since college — trying to
break 100 at golf and trying to find a wife. Fortune has frowned
on both, but I’m still pitching. Other hobbies include bridge,
reading, and music. I have dabbled in photography and still do.
The ski bug bit me but bad in the mid-thirties, It has lured me
over and forcibly onto all of the nearby hills and dales in New
England and Canada and twice to the mecca of Sun Valley. The

[440]

——_____ LL

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

ski-slopes seem to have supplanted Bermuda as my vacation situs
for the time being at least. I suspect it will not be for much
longer though.

My religion and politics are those with which I was born —
Episcopalian and Republican. [’'m afraid ’'m pretty much of a
backslider about both. I have only a nodding acquaintance with
the Church and must confess to having strayed off the Republican
reservation in the direction of FDR not once but twice. I’m back
in the fold now and but good.

KENNETH BELCHER HARDING

HOME ApprEss: Melwood Lane, Westport, Conn.

OFFICE AppRESS: Grace Line, 10 Hanover Sq., New York, N. Y.

BorN: Dec. 11, 1904, Worcester, Mass. PARENTS: Wilton Edwin Harding, Ida
Marion Belcher.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Myers, April 21, 1938, Brookline, Mass.

occupaTion: General passenger agent, Grace Line, New York.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U.S.N.R., April, 1942;
U. S. Naval Drydock, South Boston, Mass., April, 1942-October, 1943;
port director's office, New York, October-December, 1943; port direc-
tor, Treasury Islands, Solomon Islands, January, 1944—-January, 1945;
promoted lieutenant commander, March, 1944; cargo officer, Naval
Operating Base, Leyte Gulf, P. I, February-September, 1945; promoted
commander, November, 1945; inactive duty, January, 1946; since war,
active in Volunteer M.S.T.S. Port Office Company, New York.

AFTER graduation I tried chain department store work with the
W. T. Grant Company. While with them, I worked in their
Erie, Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Hempstead, New York, and
New York City stores. What hours we worked in those days and
with no overtime! It was interesting work, however, and gave me
some good experience in merchandising practices, etc.

I had always wanted to get into the steamship business, and
when the opportunity came in 1930 to work for W. R. Grace &
Company, a well-known export and import firm who did own a
steamship line, I didn’t hesitate. Later that same year I started to
work for Grace Line, first in their New York office and then as
assistant purser on one of their ships, where I became well ac-
quainted with the west coast of South America. In January,
1932, Grace Line opened a Boston office and I returned to these

[ 442 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

parts where I remained as New England manager for Grace Line
until March, 1942. At this time, since I had some shipping experi-
ence, the Navy seemed interested in having me, and although for
the first year I had no opportunity to use my experience, I eventu-
ally got into the Naval Transportation Service and later served as
port director and cargo officer at advanced bases in the South
Pacific. Returning to Grace Line after the war, I have been in
their New York office ever since and have been living in West-
port, Connecticut, for the past five years. This is a great spot
once you get used to the commuting.

EDWIN ADAMS HARPER

HOME ADDRESS: 2205 Link Rd., Lynchburg, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 301 Rivermont Ave., Lynchburg, Va.

BORN: Feb, 6, 1904, Chicago, Ill. parnts: Eugene Howard Harper, a.m.
95, Annie Lewis Adams,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. C471 laude, 1927; M.D. cum laude,
1931.

MARRIED: Margaretta Smedley Howe, Sept. 22, 1934, Weston, Mass. cHiL-
DREN: Edwin Adams, Jr., Nov. 2, 1935; Owen Howe, Sept. 27, 1937;
Faith Kendall, Nov. 18, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Physician, in private practice of pediatrics.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1946, secretary, 1951, Lynchburg Academy of
Medicine; president, 1943, secretary, 1940-42, Virginia Pediatric Society;
associate state chairman, 1950-51, state chairman, since 1951, American
Academy of Pediatrics, chairman, Educational and Benevolent Trust,
Kiwanis Club of Lynchburg, 1946-48; president, Sphex Club, 1951;
chairman of board, Lynchburg Guidance Center, 1950-51; member of
board, Piedmont Hospital Service Association (Blue Cross), 1939-41.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Pediatrics; American Medical Associa-
tion; Medical Society of Virginia; Virginia Pediatric Society; Lynch-
burg Academy of Medicine; active staff, Virginia Baptist Hospital,
Lynchburg General Hospital; Kiwanis Club; Sphex Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “An Electric Incubator for Premature Infants,” Virginia
Medical Monthly, vol. 66, July, 1939; “Cyanosis in Infants from Polluted
Well Water,” Virginia Medical Monthly, vol. 76:32, January, 1949.

I WENT directly from college to Harvard Medical School for
the four years, 1927 to 1931. Ours was the first class to enjoy the
comfortable rooms, squash courts, and other advantages of Van-
derbile Hall, all of which went far to make these among the best
years of our lives. In the fall of my senior year I spent three

[ 443 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

student with a back injury. I have already mentioned our two
months’ honeymoon in 1934 when we covered much of Colorado,
California, and the Southwest. Last May and June Margaretta
and I left the children at home and spent five weeks on a trip to
England, sailing both ways. We followed a leisurely schedule —
and consequently covered only a small portion of southern Eng-
land. Most of our time was spent in London, Oxford, Cambridge,
Burford in the Cotswolds, and the New Forest. I visited several
hospitals and asked many questions about the working of the
National Health Service, but most of our time was spent in seeing
the country.

I particularly enjoyed following the trail of John Harvard from
the Harvard House in Stratford-on-Avon to the room in Em-
manuel College at Cambridge which John occupied as a student
in 1635. The current occupant, a boy from Wisconsin who held
the Harvard Fellowship, showed us about the college and told us
something of his studies in the mechanics of socialism. At the
Tower of London one of the guards pointed out the spire of
Southwark Cathedral across the Thames where a chapel com-
memorates John Harvard. The guard didn’t say “Southwark”
however, he said “Suddick.”

Hobbies: I keep a garden—or it keeps me. I play tennis on
weekends and occasionally find time for a hike or camping trip in
the Blue Ridge. Politics: the phrase “a Jeffersonian Democrat”
describes my leanings as well as any label. Actually I have voted
Republican as often as Democratic. For next fall I am for almost
anyone who can beat Truman.

FRANCIS EDMUND HARRINGTON

HOME ADDRESS: 11 Elmdale St., Dorchester 22, Mass.

oFFice appRESS: Abraham Lincoln School, Fayette Street, Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 20, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: Timothy Henry Harrington,
Margaret Agnes Sheridan.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; CERT. D'ETUDES (Sorbonne,
Paris), 1930; M2. (Boston Teachers’ Coll.), 1934.

marnrigp: Alice Therese Sweet, June 24, 1933, Boston, Mass, cHiLprEN: Kevin
Jude, March 22, 1934; Patricia Mary, Feb. 29, 1936; Thomas More, July
11, 19373 Mary Alice, May 2, 1940; Sean Timothy, May 12, 1941; David
Sheridan, Sept. 29, 1944; Kathleen Frances, June 13, 1948.

[ 446 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD SON: Kevin Jude Harrington, ’55.

OCCUPATION: Teacher, submaster.

OFFICES HELD: President, Faculty Club, Francis Parkman School, 1937-39;
Thomas Gardner District Home and School Association, 1941-42;
director, Ashmont District, Greater Boston United War Fund, 1944;
president, St. Ann’s Holy Name Society, Dorchester, 1946-47, Abraham
Lincoln-Quincy District Home and School Association, since 1948,
member Executive Board, Boston Home and School Association, 1950-

51.

MEMBER OF: “ Submasters’ Club; Boston Home and School Association.

PUBLICATIONS: “A Summer Course in Paris,” published in Modern Language
Journal.

IN THE field of teaching I have had varied experience with
classes from the fifth grade where the pupils are about ten years
old to adult classes in English where my oldest pupil was seventy-
eight years old. As far as the subjects taught are concerned, they
include all those of grades five to nine, as well as College-Board
Latin, French, Americanization, English for foreigners, and Eng-
lish for business. As for the pupils, they have included represen-
tatives of thirty-eight nationalities in the day school in which I
am submaster (second in command); in all the schools considered
together, I have had scions of wealthy families, welfare recipients,
ministers, prospective priests, parental rejects, criminals, and
among my D.P. students, engineers, doctors, industrialists, and
actors. By day I often have the chance to give a word of praise
to a boy whose father has renounced his paternal rights and privi-
leges because they interfered with his devotion to Bacchus and
whose mother has lost the courage to struggle further for the
moral or physical welfare of the child. By night I hasten to praise
the university-trained engineer whose meager knowledge of the
English language stands as an ominous obstacle in the path lead-
ing from the position he held at the top of his profession before
the absorption of his homeland by the Communists to even the
lowest rung of his profession in the United States. While learning
English, these people, despite their culture and erudition, find
themselves obliged to do the most menial work in factories and
restaurants. Their appreciation of praise for their efforts is as
sincere and buoyant as a child’s. Why not? What they have at
stake is a way of life.

My four sons and three daughters range in age from seventeen
to three. Kathleen, the youngest, is the only one not going to

[ 447 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

school. For that reason there seems to be a tremendous difference
between her and her oldest brother, Kevin, a freshman at Har-
vard. She, however, never admits there is any difference.

In the past few years my travelling has not been extensive. It
consists of one trip to Canada and usually two trips to New York
each year.

As a Catholic, I have participated in the Catholic Action move-
ment by serving as president of the Holy Name Society in my
parish, by teaching Christian Doctrine one night a week to boys
from sixteen to nineteen years of age, and by giving talks at
congresses of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine.

HERVIE E. HARRIS

HOME AppRESS: Clarksville, N. Y.

OFFICE appREss: New York State Office Bldg., Dept. of Audit & Control,
Albany, N. Y.

porN: April 5, 1905, Flushing, N. Y. parents: Hervie Caleb Harris, Eugenie
Holmes.

PREPARED AT: Erasmus High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.; Flushing High School,
Flushing, N. Y.; Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; J.v. (New York
Univ.).

MarRiED: Florence Grimes, April 10, 1937, Jackson Heights, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Gene, June 27, 1941; Grais, April 30, 1943; Hervie Leonard, Dec. 28,
1945. ,

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

EDMUND WEBSTER HARRISON

HOME AppREsS: Box 54 M, Drake Road, Indian Hill, Cincinnati 27, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Harrison & Co., 720 Union Trust Bldg. Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

BorN: March 28, 1904, Cincinnati, Ohio, parents: Charles Learner Harrison,
"86, Bertha Bradshaw Webster.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

marriep: Mary Johnson Huntington, June 28, 1933, Rome, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Ruth, May 20, 1934; Henry Huntington, March 17, 1937; Edith, June
16, 1941; Anne, Jan. 28, 1947.

HARVARD BrotHERS: Charles Learner Harrison, Jr., 18, Robert Brandon Har-
rison, "32.

occuPATION: Stockbroker and real estate manager, partner in own firm;
president of a family corporation owning and managing downtown
office and loft buildings.

[ 448 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned second lieutenant, O.R.C., Novem-
ber, 1928; called to active duty, Ordnance School, Aberdeen Proving
Ground, February, 1941; transferred Cincinnati Ordnance District,
September, 1941; various positions and promotions until April, 1944;
overseas and assigned Hdatrs. S.O.S. in European Theatre; returned and
assigned Cleveland Ordnance District, March, 1945; separated as major,
September, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Fifth Third Union Trust Company, since 1938, Cin-
cinnati Terminal Warehouses, Inc., since 1936, Little Miami Railroad
Company, since 1937, Dayton & Michigan Railroad Company, since
1937; president and director, L. B. Harrison Estate, Inc., since 1937 (all
of Cincinnati); director, W. L. Maxson Corporation, New York, since
1946, secretary and director, Robert A. Cline, Inc., Cincinnati; council-
man and chairman of Finance Committee, Village of Indian Hill, Cin-
cinnati, since 1941; partner, Harrison & Company, Cincinnati, since
1945; chairman and trustee, War Veterans Memorial, Cincinnati, since
1947, Indian Hill Police Relief & Pension Fund, since 1948, treasurer
and trustee, since 1949, endowment fund advisory board, since 1950,
Cincinnati Country Day School; director, Cincinnati Post, American
Ordnance Association, since 1950.

MEMBER OF: New York Stock Exchange; New York Curb Exchange (Asso-
ciate); Midwest Stock Exchange; National Association of Security
Dealers; National Security Traders Association, Association of Stock
Exchange Firms; Chamber of Commerce; Cincinnati Stock & Bond
Club; Cincinnati Country Club; Camargo Club (board of governors
and chairman of house committee, since 1949); Bankers’ Club (board
of governors, 1949-51, vice-president, 1951); Commonwealth Club

' (treasurer, 1949-50); Military Order of the World Wars, Harvard
Club of Cincinnati (president, 1948); Harvard Club of New York.

TO COVER the story of one’s life over a period of twenty-five
years, humorously or seriously, in detail or in brief, or in any
other way is an appalling task. I guess the best thing to do is to
Start out and write, without any logical plan, hoping finally to
come to a reasonable and logical conclusion. So here goes.

June of 1927 found me headed for a job as counsellor at a boys’
camp in northern Vermont, a pursuit I had followed for many
years and one of which I was very fond. Came fall, and an unsuc-
cessful summer trying to fathom Taussig and Economics. I
entered the Graduate School of Business Administration. Al-
though the course was a fine one, I had been in Cambridge for
six years (two freshman years) and that was plenty long. So,
after one year of the two-year course, I called a halt to formal
education. After some months of looking over various prospective

[ 449 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

connections (?), my final decision was U. S. Playing Card Com-
pany, where I started as a machine operator’s helper at the large
sum of forty cents per hour, punching a clock and getting dirty.
Because part of my work was spent in a hot, drying sun, a
beneficial part of that period of my career resulted in my losing
forty unneeded pounds, (That is still a problem but there are few
among us now who don’t have a similar problem.) After a year,
I went into industrial engineering with the same firm and was all
over the plant in that capacity until the end of 1935. In 1932, .
when business was slack (anyone remember?), I took a few
months off to take a trip to the Orient, visiting Hawaii, Japan,
China, Philippines, Bali, Java, Malaya, and then home again. In
the fall of that year, two paths crossed, resulting, in June of 1933,
in a wedding as reported in the statistical section of this auto-
biography. Commutin’ and courtin’ at a distance of 650 miles was
not easy, but well worth while, made more so by the lapse of
intervening years. In 1936, after a vacation in Bermuda, my busi-
ness allegiance transferred to the real estate field, particularly the
management thereof. In December of that year my father died
and it developed upon me to undertake to carry on some of his
affairs, resulting in several of the positions noted above. All went
well until February of 1941 when Uncle Sam requested my serv-
ices for a year. (I had been a reserve officer since 1929.) Of
course, that “year” was purely fictitious and I was in uniform for
over four and one-half years, fortunately serving a large part of
that time in my home town. While rugged, a short stint in the
ETO was a never to be forgotten and worth-while experience.
September of 1945 brought an end to my military career, and I
slowly started gathering up the reins of civilian life again, even
undertaking a new venture by buying a New York Stock Ex-
change seat and forming a brokerage firm. The intervening years
have brought on many activities, some in line of business and
many extra-curricular. In 1949 my mother died, leaving the next
generation in complete control. That, in very general terms,
brings us up to the present, and concludes the factual story.
Perhaps a few random comments are in order about this or that.
For example: vacations. From the time of our wedding trip,
which was spent on a dude ranch in Wyoming, we have been
partial to that part of the country. Consequently, the magnet of

[ 450]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the West has usually drawn us, the most recent trip comprising
seven of us, three out of four of our own youngsters plus two
borrowed. We've tried other spots (Arizona, a charter cruise
through the Bahamas, a turkey hunt in Mexico, a cottage on Cape
Cod), but we always resolve that there’s nothing like Out West.

Sports: In the active line, golf, baseball, and riding. In the
spectator line, hockey and baseball.

Spare time: There’s darned little left after the news is covered
and the odd repair jobs around the house are completed. With
kids, and living in the country, there’s plenty of driving to do
what with dentists, dancing schools, visiting friends, etc., ad
infinitum.

Hobbies: Woodworking and sports. No great proficiency in
either, but they do produce a reasonable amount of relaxation.

This is long, and I’m sure quite boring. Perhaps the editor will
blue pencil, but I must confess that writing it has been fun, be-
cause it is only rarely that one reviews the high spots of a span
of a twenty-five-year period. Doing so has brought back many
pleasant memories as well as heartaches. I don’t recall whether
fifty-year memoirs are a custom, but I’m looking forward to doing
the same thing a quarter of a century hence.

JOHN RANDOLPH HARRISON

HOME ApDREsS: Rancho 45, Chihuahua, Chih., Mexico.

OFFICE ADDRESS: P. O. Box 551, El Paso, Texas.

BoRN: March 15, 1904, New York, N. Y. Parents: Bernard Johnston Harri-
son, Jane Dashiel Randolph.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Emily Barclay McFadden, Nov. 30, 1929, Villa Nova, Pa.; Eliza-
beth Cary Fox, Dec. 9, 1950. CHILDREN: Josephine Clement, Sept. 3,
1930 (72. Maxwell Evarts, ’42, June, 1950); Randolph, May 28, 1932;
Robert Carter, April 30, 1938. GRANDCHILD: James Maxwell Evarts, Aug.
17, 1951.

HARVARD SON: Randolph Harrison, ’55.

HARVARD BROTHER: Bernard Johnston Harrison, Jr., ’29.

occuPaATION: Ranching.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant U.S.N.R., January,
1942; served in West Indies, 1942, Pacific, 1943-45; separated with rank |
of commander, 1945.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

[451 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

FOLLOWING graduation, and after eight or ten months work-
ing in cargo ships, I spent six years in the banking and brokerage
business in New York, four of them as a member of the New
York Stock Exchange. In 1934 I moved to Texas and engaged in
the cotton business in various parts of the South until the start of
the war. I returned to the cotton business in New York after a
tour of duty of almost four years in the Navy. In the summer of
1949, I retired from business and took a job in government service
in Washington for one year. Since leaving Washington I have
been looking at ranches in the Southwest and have recently
bought one in northern Mexico.

++ FRANCIS RUSSELL HART, JR.

BorN: Oct, 6, 1902, Milton, Mass. parents: Francis Russell Hart, Helen
Bronson Hobbey.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924. .

MaRRIED: Priscilla Baird, Jan. 16, 1926, Newton Center, Mass. (died De-
cember, 1936); Muriel Williams, 1939. CHILDREN: Francis Russell, 3d,
March 23, 1927; Frederica, May 11, 1930.

pieD: Dec. 14, 1949, Newton Center, Mass.

FRANCIS RUSSELL HART, JR., left college after his fresh-
man year and following a succession of jobs with the Old Colony
Trust Company, the American Trust Company, and Lee Higgin-
son & Company, he returned to his first employer, Kidder, Pea-
body & Company, with whom he was associated for many years.

He was actively interested in the theatre and wrote and directed
several plays for the Harvard Dramatic Club. Later he wrote a
play, Straight Scotch, and acted in others. During the late ’30’s
and early ’40’s he backed several successful productions on Broad-
way and he assisted Richard Aldrich, ’25, in producing four plays.
In 1938 he was press representative for the Cape Playhouse in
Dennis; he became president of the group in 1940 and managed
the summer theatre.

GILBERT BYRD HART

HOME ADDRESS: 1223 Kemble St., Utica 3, N. Y.

 oFFice Appress: Utica Insurance Co., Utica, N. Y.

BoRN: July 8, 1904, Whitesboro, N. Y. parents: Henry Gilbert Hart, Jr,,
‘or, Grace Byrd.

[452]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Pawling School, Pawling, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

mMarRizD: Mary Catherine Baker, July 4, 1942, Utica, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: Stephen Moylan Hart, °33.

occupation: Casualty insurance, underwriting department.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Oneida Historical Society, Utica, since 1947.
MEMBER OF: Oneida Historical Society.

AFTER leaving college, I worked for several years in Wall
Street, starting in the New York office of Kidder Peabody &
Company, going from there to Taylor Ewart & Company, Inc.,
where I peddled unlisted bonds. It wasn’t long before I discovered
that whatever way I was destined to make a living, it was not as a
bond salesman. Before the financial holocaust of 1929, I went to
work for the New York Trust Company in the personal trust
department and several years later got into fiduciary accounting
at the Bankers Trust Company just around the corner. I lived in
Westchester County from 1927 to 1933, in New York City from
1933 to 1935, and in West Norwalk, Connecticut, from 1935 to
1938. I managed to get in some travelling during those years to
the Middle West and also Florida, with numerous sojourns in
Boston and New England.

In 1939 I left New York and vicinity never to return except on
visits to my parents who have lived for several years in the East
Nineties. I spent a year in Boston on the trail of a business oppor-
tunity which did not work out and attended an off-year Class
Day in the Yard in June, 1940. For many years I cherished hopes
of going back to central New York State where I was born and
lived the first fifteen years of my life. These hopes were fulfilled
in 1941. Since then I have lived and worked in Utica. Like all
places it has undergone many vicissitudes in three decades of
social and economic upheavals plus two world wars, but all in all
I find it a nice place to live. My wife, who has always lived here,
wonders how I can be content after living so much of my life in
the world metropolis. And I can truthfully say that she is the
principal reason for my contentment.

My principal interest is history, but there are many others too
numerous to mention. As to politics I can best describe my posi-
tion by saying that the leftists think I'm a rightist and the rightists
think I’m a leftist. But since I have no aspirations towards run-
ning for any office, I’m not worried.

C453]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

JONATHAN LUTTON HARTWELL

HOME ADDRESS: 5038 Massachusetts Ave., N.W., Washington 16, D. C.
oFFicE apprEess: U.S. Public Health Service, Bethesda, Md.
BorN: Feb. 21, 1906, South Boston, Mass. parents: John Frederick Hart-
well, Mary E. Lutton.
PREPARED AT: Moses Brown School, Providence, R. I.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1927(28)3 A.M., 19333 PH.D., 1935.
marriED: Henrietta Dailey, Aug., 1933, Elkton, Md. (died December, 1933),
Ann Katherine Goebel, Oct. 28, 1943, Washington, D. C.
OCCUPATION: Chemist.
MEMBER oF: American Chemical Society; Alpha Chi Sigma.
PUBLICATIONS: Comzpounds Which Have Been Tested for Carcinogenic Ac-
tivity, 1941, second edition, 1951; scientific papers in chemical and other
journals.

THE Goads finally did it, and I shall now try to condense twenty-
five years into a few sentences.

Career: My work as a research chemist has been interesting and
satisfying. My first job after graduation was with the duPont
Company in Wilmington, Delaware, where I developed new
dyes. Whenever I see the red ethyl gasoline in the gas stations,
I am reminded of my first assignment: to formulate an identifying
red dye for the new ethyl gasoline; apparently the result of
those labors is still good. Leaving duPont’s, I returned to Harvard
to study for my Ph.D. under Professor Fieser. Another job with
a printing ink firm in New York led in 1938 to what was to be
probably my permanent position: with the National Cancer In-
stitute of the United States Public Health Service in Bethesda,
Maryland, just outside of Washington, D. C., where I am at
present in charge of a small group of chemists. Fourteen years of
research in the chemistry of the cause and cure of cancer find me
still optimistic that chemical agents will be found which will be
effective against this scourge.

Family: Where else but in Washington could Texas and Massa-
chusetts meet so easily? Ann and I have had a lot of fun together
and expect to have a lot more.

Travels: Travel has been mainly limited to vacations. Auto-
mobile driving vacations have been favorites. Trips to the West
have been punctuated by trips to New England.

Hobbies: My first hobby, miniature camera photography, has
yielded to phonograph record collecting, but still persists in the

[454]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

less virulent but more socially pleasant form of taking record
color shots of vacation trips, projection of the slides affords many
pleasant evenings later. Music has always been a hobby; this is
indulged in by attending many “live” concerts and recitals as
well as by collecting favorite classical recordings. The latest
hobby has come with the purchase of a house a year and a quarter
ago, namely, flower gardening. The characteristics of our lot
are such that we have at least small areas of several types of
gardens such as rock garden, shady pine woods, and moist bog,
besides regular open sunny beds. The evident possibilities for
growing different flowers will engage our energies and ingenuity
and afford needed physical exercise for some time.

HAROLD LEE HARVEY

HOME ADDRESS: 337 E. North St., Marshall, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bellamy & Harvey, Farmers Savings Bank Bldg., Marshall,
Mo.

BORN: Sept. 29, 1905, Marshall, Mo. parents: Thomas Hudnall Harvey,
Melinda Montague.

PREPARED AT: Marshall High School, Marshall, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 19273; LL.B., 1932.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, Military Intelligence, G-2, AAF, War
Department General Staff.

JOHN HENRY HARWOOD

HOME ADDRESS: 208 Village Ave., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lewando’s French Dyeing & Cleansing Co., Watertown,
Mass.

BORN: Sept. 24, 1905, Newton, Mass. Parents: John Henry Harwood, ’93,
LL.B. ’96, Anne Bowlend Reed.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.B.A., 1929.

MaRRIED: Margaret Hamilton Martin, Feb. 25, 1933, Watertown, Conn.
CHILDREN: Clare Martin, Dec. 17, 1934, Sydney, 2d, Sept. 3, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Reed Harwood, ’29, M.D., 734; Sydney Harwood, ’32.

Occupation: President and general manager, Lewando’s French Dyeing and
Cleansing Company, retail dry cleaning and laundry service; partner,
George S. Harwood & Son, Worcester, Mass., manufacturers of textile
machinery.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Country Day School, 1933-38, Dedham Country
Day School, 1939-50, Dedham Country and Polo Club, since 1946, Har-
vard Class of 1927, since 1946; director, dozen small businesses and

[455]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

NORMAN ABRAHAM HASKELL

HOME ADpRESS: 22 Craigie St. Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Air Force Cambridge Research Center, 230 Albany St., Cam-
bridge, Mass.

BORN: June 30, 1905, Alton, Ill. parents: John Abraham Haskell, Ruth
Hanna.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude, 1927; A.M.,

1935; PH.D., 1936.
MARRIED: Rose Golden, Nov. 30, 1933, Everett, Mass. CHILDREN: Peter, Oct.

15, 1934; Nancy, Sept. 25, 1937.

occupation: Geophysical research, project scientist with Geophysics Re-
search, U. S. Air Force Cambridge Research Center.

MEMBER OF: American Physical Society; Society of Exploration Geophysi-
cists; American Geophysical Union; American Association of Petroleum
Geologists; Seismological Society of America, American Geographical
Society; Boston Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Contributions on various geophysical topics in physical and
geophysical journals.

AFTER a somewhat protracted stay in Cambridge as a graduate

student in physics and geology, broken by a trip to Honduras

with an archaeological expedition, 1 moved to Los Angeles in

1936 to enter the field of geophysical exploration for oil. I re-

mained in this work, partly in the field and partly in research,

until the summer of 1941. During the war years I was with the

Columbia University division of War Research and at California

Institute of Technology working on various problems relating to

anti-submarine warfare and the ballistics of underwater projec-
tiles. After the war I spent two years as chief geophysicist with
the U. S. Smelting Refining and Mining Company of Boston, then
entered government service as a civilian scientist with what has
now become the Geophysics Research Division of the Air Force’s
Cambridge Research Center.

My chief hobby at present is sailing, lately resumed after
nearly twenty years ashore.

MONROE WILSON HATCH

HOME apprEss: 1210 Calhoun St., New Orleans, La.
OFFICE AppRESs: New Orleans Public Service, Inc. 317 Baronne St., New
Orleans, La.

[458 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BoRN: May 25, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Edward Sparhawk Hatch, ’97,
Blanche A. Baxter.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Lulu E. Brown, Dec. 26, 1928, New Orleans, La. cuitp: Monroe
Wilson, Jr., Nov. 20, 1933.

OCCUPATION: Assistant credit manager, New Orleans Public Service, Inc.,
electric, gas and railway company.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1939, secretary, 1940, vice-president, 1941, New
Orleans chapter, National Institute of Credit; president, 1942, director,
1943-50, New Orleans Credit Men’s Association, committeeman, Boy
Scouts of America, 1950-51.

MEMBER OF: New Orleans Lawn Tennis Club; Round Table Club; Harvard
Club of Louisiana.

MY FIRST job after graduation was with a local bag manufac-
turing company. After a short stay, I joined up with the Good-
rich Rubber Company and, after working in the office for a
while, was sent to Jackson, Mississippi, as a salesman. This job
promised enough’ money for two to live on and enough time had
also elapsed to win my bet with John Leekley (that I would be
married within a year from date of graduation), so I brought my
six-year courtship to a successful conclusion, with John as best
man. I soon found out that the stories of travelling salesmen were
not based on fact and could also see that the Depression was not
going to make the salesman’s bed one of roses, so I came back to
New Orleans and joined the New Orleans Public Service, Inc.,
where I have been ever since.

One of the major events of my life was a “sub-total gastrec-
tomy,” performed in 1939 as a cure for an ulcer which was caused,
I’m sure, by four years of worry over those comprehensive final
exams. The family is now down to a lonesome twosome as the
boy entered the U. S. Naval Academy last July. A year ago I
was getting a real Dad’s thrill watching him play quarterback for
his high school team. He lasted two days on the Navy squad this
fall—_ what coaching! My travel has been limited to various
convention trips and a few visits to New York to see the shows.
My spare time is divided among tennis, bridge, and reading. The
order, however, should be reversed, as I must admit the tennis is
beginning to lose its appeal.

_ To sum things up, I'll quote a piece of poetry I recently read
in the Detroit Credit Digest:

[459]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

I'm jes’ a keepin’ even, which is doin’ purty good.

Haven't made the fortune that I used to hope I would;
Haven’t caused the trump o’ fame o’er distant hills to sound,
But kin allus face the music when the lanlord comes aroun’.
I’ve had my share of sunshine; and I seen the flowers smile;
Have had the Rheumatiz, but only for awhile,

An’ when I come to quit the scent o’ hope and likewise doubt,
I'll hardly leave enough for lawyer folks to fight about.

I’ve had my disappointments, an’ I’ve had my silent fears,
But I reckon that the laughs will easy balance all the tears.

It ain’t a brilliant record but I want it understood,
That I’m still a keepin’ even, which is doing purty good.

RICHARD SYLVESTER HAWKES

HOME AppREss: 174 Longfellow St. Portland 5, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 47 Deering St., Portland 4, Maine.

BORN: March 24, 1906, Swans Island, Maine. PARENTS: Edgar Sampson
Hawkes, Lida Frances Morse.

PREPARED AT: Moses Brown School, Providence, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923~1927. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927; M.D. Cum
laude, 1931.

marriep: Ellice Almeda Drew, April 20, 1932, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Carolyn Myra; Stephen Edgar.

occuPaTioN: Physician; private practice of internal medicine.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Local Board Medical Examiner.

OFFICES HELD: Formerly, director, Portland Family Welfare Society, Portland
Community Chest; senior attending physician, Maine General Hospital,
since 1946; governor for Maine, American College of Physicians, since
1948.

MEMBER OF: American College of Physicians; Cumberland County Medical
Society; Portland Medical Club.

PUBLICATIONS: A few medical reports.

FOUR years at Harvard Medical School were followed by eight-
een months’ internship on the medical services at the Massachusetts
General Hospital. Then in April, 1933, one month after the bank
holiday, and in the very worst of the depression, we moved to
Portland. Due to the faith of my family and of Walter K. Shaw
of Boston, and the friendship of Ted Bramhall (M.D. ’29), who
made me his assistant in the city welfare department, we were able
to survive. Shortly the load of work and of other responsibilities
increased and it has never stopped increasing.

[ 460 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I was not in military service during the war, having been re-
jected by both Army and Navy for medical reasons.

My greatest interest besides my own practice is the Maine Gen-
eral Hospital and the new Maine Medical Center which is born
but is still an infant. At present I am chairman of the medical
staff’s planning committee.

Life is mostly work, and there is too little time for my wife and
children. About twice a year we take time off for a few days to
commune with nature at some place where there is at least a hope
that a trout, or salmon, or even a bass will rise to a fly.

GESSNER GOODRICH HAWLEY

HOME AppREsSsS: 390 Woodward St., Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Reinhold Publishing Corp., 330 W. 42nd St., New York,
N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1905, Glens Falls, N. Y. parents: William Goodrich Hawley,
Alix Duret Berthel.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., I927.

MARRIED: Frances M. Weaver, Jan. 20, 1935, New York, N. Y. (divorced
1945); Alice Monet Wright, Oct. 15, 1945, Reno, Nev. CHILDREN:
Gessner, Nov. 10, 1936; William James, April 30, 1941.

occuPATION: Scientific and architectural book publishing; editor-in-chief,
Book Division, Reinhold Publishing Corporation (editorial, production,
procurement.)

MEMBER OF: Chemists’ Club of New York; Authors’ Club of London;
“Who’s Who in the East,” American Chemical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Seeing the Invisible: The Story of the Electron Microscope
(Knopf); Atomic Energy in War and Peace (Reinhold); Simall Won-
der: The Story of Colloids (Knopf); popular science articles in various
publications.

MY SINGLE claim to distinction, other than having achieved a
six-year mileage of about 150,000 on the New Haven Railroad, is
that I am a perfect example of an educational hybrid. Both before
and during college the trend of my abilities was literary, with a
corresponding dislike of all things mathematical and scientific.
Yet from the very day of graduation until now (except for two
depression years when I taught English in a small high school),
my life and work have been oriented towards chemistry and
related sciences.

It has been my good fortune that I have been able to combine

[ 461 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1[927

the two, the product being my present position, modest though it
be, in the scientific publishing fraternity. The contrast between
education and life-work in my case is worth underscoring: con-
centration field, English, with generous side servings of classics
and philosophy; then immediate transference to the tenebrous
confines of a rubber factory and laboratory, wherein I must
needs re-educate myself completely. Thence by a happy turn of
the Wheel, into the publishing business. ‘Thus in a peculiarly
literal sense my education for life began at graduation, andi still
continues. I recall once epitomizing this situation by observing
that “the authors (of the manuscripts I was working on) know
the meaning of the words they use but don’t know how to spell
them; with me, the reverse is true.”

Of course that isn’t quite all there is to the job of a technical
editor: he must be able to talk intelligently about all manner of
scientific subjects, or at least listen intelligently when others are
talking about them; this is a technique in itself. He must have some
executive ability and some knowledge of printing and bookmaking
(actual books, that is!). The stimulus, or “updraft,” of the job is
frequent and sometimes a fairly intimate association with men of
true scientific nature. For one whose natural interests lie in words
and in writing, it is not too bad a combination. But had it not
been for the one odd turn of that world-weary Wheel, this in-
tellectual schizophrenia might well have been fatal. Yet it has
been possible to rescue a certain amount of literary independence
from the flood of distressingly bad composition with which I have
had to deal for lo, these many years. I have managed to achieve
three small “science-for-the-layman” volumes, whose titles are
detailed above, and have ghosted several others. Also, I have been
reading fairly extensively among the modern novelists, with the
idea of evaluating them without benefit of the official critics.

To borrow a couplet from a poet-friend of mine, when at
Harvard:

I conquered every evil habit —
I took a course with Irving Babbitt.

Since then I have had to unlearn much that the zealous old
mossback imparted. I have become more tolerant of the romantic
imagination in literature (it exists in science, too). There is, after

| [ 462 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

all, a good deal of the child in most of us, and it is not to be
derided. The will to refrain may be a necessary adjunct of life,
but even more fundamental is the will to will.

As to religion, I presume my rating must be that of an agnostic.
There seems to be little intelligence or logic in the dogma of
established creeds. The mind of man has not, nor ever can have,
the ability to comprehend the vast truth of the universe he lives
in; as well expect a chipmunk to undertake a problem in calculus.
There is left a definite possibility of a belief in God, which saves
me from atheism no doubt, though I have no tenable idea of what
such a Being could be like.

The high railroad mileage aforesaid is due to a necessary geo-
graphic hyphenation. My residential home is in Waban, Massa-
chusetts (don’t tell the income tax people), but my daily moiling
is done in New York. This necessitates a round trip weekly.
Believe me, despite the disadvantages of this living arrangement,
I have had an ideally happy six years of marriage. Each year four
weeks’ vacation with my wife, ideally spent in Vermont and
eastern New York — an area to which I am deeply attached for
both emotional and aesthetic reasons — helps to compensate for
my enforced absence from home a large part of the week.

To conclude, I have two fine sons of whom I am properly
proud. Though neither as yet is of college age, I am hopeful that
one or both may eventually go to Harvard.

+ JULIAN PHELPS HAYWARD

BoRN: Nov. 8, 1905, Keene, N. H. parents: Robert Peter Hayward, Ina
Kitteridge Phelps.

PREPARED AT: Keene High School, Keene, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Mrs. Dorothy Sykes Edwards, Aug. 26, 1934, Cambridge, Mass.
cHiLp: Deborah B. Edwards (stepchild).

DIED: Jan. 11, 1941, Boston, Mass.

wipow: Mrs. Julian P. Hayward, 7 Garden Ct., Cambridge, Mass.

WHILE a freshman at Harvard, Julian Phelps Hayward was a
staff member of the Red Book and rowed on the 150-pound
Crew Squad. Also, he held memberships in Circolo Italiano and
the Falcon Club. Following graduation he studied one year at the
Harvard School of Architecture and then started work as

[ 463 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

draftsman in the offices of two Boston architects. In 1931 he
went to Europe where he remained for several months. The
following year he went to California. Upon his return to Cam-
bridge in 1934, he became associated with William L. Galvin, ’24,
architect, with whom he worked until his death.

RICHARD FOLSOM HAYWARD

HOME apprEss: 43 \{cKinley Pl., Grosse Pointe Farms 30, Mich.

OFFICE appREss: Valley Brewing Co., 1520 Guardian Bldg., Detroit 26, Mich.

BORN: June 17, 1903, Cincinnati, Ohio. parents: Philip Hayward, ’98, Nelle
Abbott Underhill.

PREPARED AT: University School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926, 1930-1931. DEGREE: S$.B., 1927(31).

MarRRIED: Ruth Morison Faulkner, July 13, 1933, Keene, N. H. (divorced
1946); Mary Elizabeth Hart, Aug. 9, 1946, San Francisco, Calif. cam-
DREN: Ellen, Jan. 16, 1935; James Duncan Hurd, July 20, 1937; Timothy
Yeatman, Sept. 9, 1941; Richard Folsom, Jr., June 3, 1947; Philip Cary,
Oct. 4, 1949; Geoffrey Kales, Oct. 17, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Finance and manufacturing.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Appointed captain, Air Corps, U. S. Army,
April, 1942; Class A Officers’ Training School, Miami Beach, served as
Sub Depot Commander at various air bases overseas — South Pacific,
zoth Air Force, XXI Bomber Command, combat maintenance officer,
General LeMay’s staff; separated August, 1945. Commendation Ribbon,
Asiatic Pacific Ribbon, three battle stars, American Theatre, etc. Re-
entered active duty U.S. Air Force as major October, 1948; served with
Occupation Forces in U. S. Zone, Germany; Occupation Ribbon with
Berlin Air Lift Device and Compassionate Medal.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and trust officer, Bank of Commerce and
Trust Company, Cincinnati, 1926-30; director (at present), General
Discount Corporation, Interstate Distributors, Inc., Interlakes Distrib-
utors, Inc., A. Z. Candy Manufacturing Company, Ann Arbor Life In-
surance Company, all of Michigan; treasurer and general manager,
Brewery Enterprises, Inc. Detroit, Valley Brewing Company of Flint,
Mich.; director and treasurer, Cosmopolitan Corporation of Detroit.

MEMBER OF: Bay View Yacht Club; The Players; University Club, Detroit,
City Club of Cleveland; Shrine, San Francisco; Sons of the American
Revolution, Aztec of 1847; Military Order of the Loyal Legion; Military
Order of the World Wars; Cincinnati Tennis Club.

THERE'S not much to record. I’ve accomplished little in these
past twenty-five years. I have travelled much, gathered little of
the worldly goods, but only hope I’m a better citizen than in 1927.

Political Experience: I left college firm in the resolve to con-

[ 464 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tribute to the greatest good for the greatest number. In our day,

then one would be a Democrat. I voted for Al Smith and in 1930

managed Wallace Espy’s (Yale ’28) campaign and got him elected

to the Ohio State Senate — with more votes than Robert Taft.
Then (God help me!) I voted for F.D.R. four times. Even had
the temerity in 1940 to run for Congress — result unsuccessful.
In 1948 I hit the sawdust trail and managed the Republican Pri-
mary Campaign in San Mateo County, California. Due to cross
filing, we elected all but one candidate in the primary. I’m afraid
it may be too late for me and my kind to atone for our political
sins. However misguided many of us may have been, we were
not guilty of the deliberate offenses of classmates who have not
escaped notoriety for their communist and left-wing defections
that border on treason.

Education: Some of my classmates may know that I attended
M.L.T. two years before entering Harvard. [I left college in 1926,
returned in February, 1931, and got my S.B. in June, 1931, as of
1927. Then I entered the Graduate School of Business Adminis-
tration. During the years, I attended courses in law at the Uni-
versity of Cincinnati and the Y.M.C.A., and studied economics
at Western Reserve Universi

Business: I tried my hand at banking in the ’20’s, and became
vice-president and trust officer of a Cincinnati bank, I then tried
mortgage banking in Cleveland, and entered the Army Air Corps
in 1942. I lived in San Francisco for three glorious and unproduc-
tive years from 1945 to 1948. Back in the Air Force again, I
was in Germany with the Berlin Airlift. We have a son, Philip,
born in Bavaria. In 1950 we moved to Detroit; the object: to
earn a living for six children—a daughter, Ellen, seventeen, at
school in New Hampshire, two sons at Milton Academy, and
three sons (all under five) by my second marriage. My main

occupation at the present time is operating a brew: ery in Flint,
Michigan. If I can do so successfully enough, some day I'd
like to return to San Francisco or somewhere in 1 the Bay area.
Hobbies: Too old for squash and tennis — too young for golf.
Photography, collecting beer steins, and enjoying my friends.
Classmates: I have seen very little of my classmates since 1927.
In 1930 I was secretary of the Harvard Club in Cincinnati. Since
then I’ve had the pleasure of occasionally secing Burton Foley,

[ 465]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Steve Strong, Quimby Brown, Holland Beal, John Quayle, Mush
Donald, and Perry Baldwin.

Of Harvard: I am one of those who firmly believe that Mr.
Conant, The Scientist, has been responsible for the deterioration
of the quality of teaching and the decline of moral values at
Harvard. Mr. Conant has permitted an unbalanced program dis-
tinctly devoid of ethics and particularly has encouraged a decline
in religion. Today no greater force is needed than a vigorous
renascence of moral values under divine guidance. The moral
timber of American youth had declined constantly for many col-
lege generations under the malignant influences of men like Frank-
furter, Roosevelt, 2d, Dean Acheson, Alger Hiss, and a few of
our classmates. I’m for a return to Christo et Ecclesiae.

P.S. And now who’s bitter about The Little Red Schoo] House on
the Charles? Not I. There’s hope aplenty. I still want my five
sons to go to Harvard. May they assimilate all that Harvard
offers, contribute their best and go forth to make this a better
world.

MAURICE HELLMAN

HOME appress: 10 Park Ave., New York 16, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 37 Wall St. New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 17, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Louis Bernard Hellman,
Ida Sonia Garblick.

PREPARED AT: Brooklyn Boys’ High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1927; LL.B., 1930.

marrieD: Laura Spivack, Aug. 17, 1947. CHILD: Jane Eddy, Aug. 25, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer, conducting own practice.

OFFICES HELD: Various positions in professional and political organizations
and committees thereof.

MEMBER oF: American Bar Association, New York County Lawyers Asso-

ciation.
THE first three years after graduation from college were taken
up by attendance at the law school. Since my graduation from
the law school in 1930 and my admission to the New York Bar
in 1931, I have found the practice of my profession practically
all-absorbing. I have, however, done some travelling, mostly in
this country, and from time to time have managed to do some
golfing and skiing. Golf, miscellaneous reading, and attempting
to keep a pictorial record of my young daughter by means of

[ 466 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sixteen-millimeter movies are my principal hobbies at the present
time.

_ WILLIAM ARTHUR HENDERSON

HOME ADDRESS: 35 Russell St., Melrose, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Bridge Div., Massachusetts Dept. ‘of Public Works, Boston,
Mass.

sorN: April 22, 1905, Everett, Mass. parents: James Arthur Henderson,
Marion Locke Fiske.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922, 1923-1925, 1925-1928. DEGREE: S.B. IN GE., 1927.

MARRIED: Meretta McMann, Oct. 14, 1931, Winthrop, Mass. cHILpReEN:
William Arthur, Jr., Oct. 5, 1932; Ralph James, Dec. 12, 1935.

HARVARD SON: William Arthur Henderson, Jr., °54.

OCCUPATION: Principal structural engineer (chief designer) of Bridge Divi-
sion, Massachusetts Department of Public Works.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Massachusetts Engineers’ Association, 1940-
42 (resigned for leave of absence); registered professional engineer; first
secretary-treasurer, Harvard Club of Eastern Middlesex, 1936-38.

MEMBER OF: Society for the Preservation of Covered Bridges (honorary
member); Harvard Club of Eastern Middlesex; Massachusetts State
Employes’ Association.

BACK in 1930, after a year as assistant engineer of the Worcester
Consolidated Street Railway, I was asked to report, with drawing
instruments, to the Bridge Division of the Massachusetts Depart-
ment of Public Works for two weeks’ work. Those two weeks
are not up yet. After about six months of drafting, I was given a
try at design and worked until five years ago as designer and
checker on all types of bridges. In 1946 the Division appointed
me principal structural engineer (chief designer) for all their
bridges. The position being under Civil Service, an examination
was required, and I am rather proud that in that examination
which only four out of ten were able to pass I led the list by eight
per cent. A year ago I was made assistant bridge engineer, a
rating that combines much administrative work with an unofficial
standing as chief designer emeritus. The pressure is heavy lately.
We design about eight million dollars’ worth of bridges annually,
with another twenty-five million dollars’ worth being done for
us by consultants. We in the office must review them all. Then
there are inspections of weak or damaged bridges, with reports,
recommendations, and estimates. It’s loads of w vork but loads of

[ 467 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

fun. Lately I’ve done a bit of consulting work on the side, but it’s
too much. I’m quitting.

We don’t see many of the engineering school class now except
Arnold Engborg. Asa matter of fact he was an usher at my wed-
ding, but I don’t hold that against him. I have a fine family —
two boys in their late teens (one at Harvard) and a grand wife
who is mighty active in community affairs. We take our vaca-
tions together in Canada each year for camping, fishing, and just
plain loafing. Personally I’m just an idler at heart with a consum-
ing ambition to be retired. (Come on, boys! Finish school so
father can quit work and go trout fishing.) May the next twenty-
five years be as kind to us all as have the last.

ROBERT MOUNTAIN HENSCHEN

Born: Dec. 12, 1904, Chicago, Ill. parents: Henry Samuel Henschen,
Edith M. C. Mountain.

PREPARED AT: Francis W. Parker School, Chicago, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

DIED: July 27, 1935, near Milwaukee, Wis.

DURING his undergraduate years Robert Mountain Henschen

was a member of the Freshman Musical Clubs, the Glee Club for

four years, Deutscher Verein, and the Falcon Club, and he was

active in social service work. After graduation he spent one year

in banking and another in commercial aviation with the Universal

Air Lines. He entered the Government Flying School at March

Field, California, and became a licensed pilot in 1929. He was

active in politics in Chicago and at one time was a candidate for

the City Council and also ran for State Legislature. At the time

of his death he was credit manager of the Commonwealth Edison

Company in Chicago, He was killed in a plane crash with our

classmate William H. Ennis.

JOHN WINSHIP HERR

HOME AppREss: 1425 St. Paul St, Denver 6, Colo.

OFFICE AppRESs: Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co., 306 Colorado
Bldg., Denver, Colo.

BorN: Dec. 8, 1904, Guanajuato, Mexico, parents: Irving Herr, ’or, Luella
Parker Winship.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. EI.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DFGREE: A.B., 1927.

[ 468 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MarRieD: Edith Randolph Howell, March 4, 1929, Cincinnati, Ohio (divorced
1948); Beverley Marie Kirk, Oct. 2, 1949, Greeley, Colo. cumpren:
Penelope Winship, Dec. 23, 1933; Carol Anne, Dec. 25, 1950.

HARVARE BROTHERS: Robert Woodmansee Herr, ’28, Richard Herr, 743.

occupaTION: Life underwriter; field agent for Massachusetts Mutual Life
Insurance Company.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Denver; Rocky Mountain Harvard Club,
Denver; Denver Exeter Club.

MY CAREER since I left college has been too checkered for even

me to follow. I started out in July, 1927, as a steel mill hand with

Republic Steel at Youngstown, Ohio. One year later I moved to

Cincinnati, as assistant production manager of a window shade

manufacturing company. Then I got married for the first time, .
and life began to get complicated. The need of a larger income

drove me back to the steel business, this time in the distribution

end. That business was a depression casualty in the summer of
1931 — so-o-o- broke and out of a job, I decided to start my own
company, the Cincinnati Steel Products Company of Cincinnati,
in August, 1931. This went very well, and by Pearl Harbor Day
we had built up a very respectable business. Too much work
(I wonder), however, or something broke my health in the fall of
1942. The next six and a half years were spent in and out of
hospitals or trying to run a steel business by remote control.
Don’t ever try it.

Anyway, by the summer of 1948 my personal picture was a
mess. Doctors told me I must live in the West; my business and
my family were both in Cincinnati, and neither could be moved.
This led finally to a divorce and was responsible for my living the
better part of a year in Carson City, Nevada — the smallest of the
State capitals. It was a worth-while experience, however, as I
learned a lot first hand about how the gay divorcee spends her
six weeks while she “takes the cure.” Also I learned the inner
workings of how to fleece the suckers in the gambling halls.
Fortunately, neither lesson was very expensive.

From Carson I went to Phoenix, Arizona, and, after another
short fling at the steel business, found myself again in a hospital,
for what I now hope was the last time. When I was released in
the spring of 1949, I went to Wickenburg, Arizona, and in Octo-
ber, 1949, married a girl from Greeley, Colorado. We tried the
gift shoppe racket for a few months but both loathed it. So, with

[ 469 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

a baby on the way, we sold out and took off for Greeley. As had
happened before—again no job. Then some smart joker sug-
gested insurance. Being at loose ends, I gave it a whirl, and
strangely enough find myself very enthusiastic after fifteen
months of it. Anyway, it’s a living, my time is my own, and if |
can just get that big pension case I may turn up for my ‘T'wenty-
fifth Reunion. Here’s hoping.

JOHN THEODORE HERSTROM

ApprEss: P, QO, Box 122, Essex Sta., Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1927; LL.B. (Boston
Coll.), 1933.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Real estate; attorney-at-law.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U, S. Army, World War II.

AT HERSTROM’S urgent request the Secretary has omitted
from the table above the usual statistical information.

JOHN PRAY HERVEY

HOME AppREss: Falls Road, Brooklandville, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Biophysics, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore 18,
Md.

BORN: Jan. 17, 1905, Montclair, N. J. parents: Everett Pray Hervey, Alice
Galbreath Hastings.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1927(28); S.M., 1929.

MARRIED: Ruth Anne Sheldon, Oct. 5, 1943, Swarthmore, Pa.

occupation: Associate professor of biophysics.

FROM 1935 through 1948 at the Johnson Foundation, University
of Pennsylvania, I was variously occupied as research fellow,
assistant professor of biophysics, ete. — except for a year (1940
to 1941) at Cornell University Medical College as assistant pro-
fessor of biophysics. Since then I have been at Johns Hopkins.
During all this time I have been working chiefly on the instru-
mentation aspects of biological research, in the war years under

the auspices of O.S.R.D.

PAUL M. HERZOG

HOME Appress: 3101 Garficld St. N. W., Washington 8, D. C.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Chairman’s Office, National Labor Relations Board, Wash-
ington 25, D. C.

[ 470 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

porN: Aug. 21, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Paul Max Herzog, Elsie
Lowenstein.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln School of Teachers College, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude, 1927; A.M.
(Univ. of Wisconsin), 1930; tL.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1936.

marrieD: Madeleine S. Schafer, April 11, 1929, Washington, D. C. cuttpren:
John Paul, May 7, 1937; Andrea Elsie, Oct. 11, 1939.

occuPATION: Government administrator and lawyer, chairman, National
Labor Relations Board.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant, U.S.N.R., 1944-45, stationed at Wash-
ington, D. C.; at present, lieutenant commander, Volunteer Reserve.
OFFICES HELD: Director, New York Legal Aid Society, 1941-50, American
ORT Federation; trustee, Hobart and William Smith Colleges (Geneva,
N. Y.); member, Harvard Overseers’ Committee to Visit the School of
Public Administration; vice-president, Harvard Alumni Association,

I I-j2.

MEMBER or Metropolitan Club; National Press Club; Cosmos Club (Wash-
ington); Harvard Club of New York; City of New York Bar Associa-
tion; New York State Bar Association; American Bar Association;
Federal and District of Columbia Bar Associations.

MOST of the years between 1927 and 1937 were devoted to

university teaching and to the study and practice of law. Since

then I have been an incessant burden to the taxpayers, in the

field of labor law administration. From 1937 to early 1944 I

served as a member—and finally as chairman—of the New

York State Labor Relations Board, which administered the “little

Wagner Act” of that State. This was followed by a year and a

half in uniform, sailing a desk for the Navy during World War II.

The big adventure began in 1945, when President Truman ap-
pointed me chairman of the National Labor Relations Board.
Reappointment in 1950 has kept me on that job to the time of
writing. Until 1947 my colleagues and I operated under the
original Wagner Act; since that year administration of the Taft-
Hartley Act has been our assignment. As neither statute has been
conspicuously non-controversial, and as both have brought
thousands of cases to the Board each year, we have never had a
dull moment. Sometimes I think I would enjoy one immensely;
sometimes I wonder.

The hubbub of Washington has left little time for hobbies or
travel, or even for ample social and family activities. However, as
our son starts off on the long road to Harvard via Milton Acad-
emy, and as our daughter becomes more insistent on lengthening

[471]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

her skirts and shortening her hair, I tend to question the wisdom
of continuing too intensely on the earlier course. I hope, rather,
to concentrate less on the career side of life during the years
immediately ahead — providing that the world situation gives
any of us the necessary option.

+ NELSON SHOEMAKER HESSE

BORN: Jan. 22, 1905, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: William Charles Hesse,
Nellie Shoemaker.

PREPARED AT: Chestnut Hill School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923~1927.

pieD: March 29, 1944, New York, N. Y.

WHILE a freshman at Harvard, Nelson Shoemaker Hesse was a

member of the Musical Clubs, the Football Squad, the Basketball

Team, and he was on the staff of the Red Book. Other member-

ships during his undergraduate years included the Crimson staff,

Stylus Club, Speakers’ Club, Iroquois Club, Owl Club, and Hasty

Pudding-Insticute of 1770. He took part in the production of the

Hasty Pudding shows in his junior and senior years.

Upon leaving college he started work on the Philadelphia Public
Ledger. After five months he joined the staff of the Philadelphia
Inquirer where he did every type of reporting, at the same time
covering sports on Saturdays for the United Press and the Inter-
nation News Service. In the fall of 1930 he went to New York
and was hired by the Columbia Broadcasting System. His first
assignment was to publicize Lowell Thomas, who had just started
on the air as successor to Floyd Gibbons for the Literary Digest.
He also wrote and sold several magazine articles. Later he pub-
licized Bing Crosby, Morton Downey, Colonel Stoopnagle and
Budd, and other artists whom the network was building up.

In April, 1932, Nelson left CBS, opened his own business, and
became representative and personal manager for Stoopnagle and
Budd, later adding Walter O'Keefe and others. In 1936 he joined
with William McCaffrey and they established the firm of Hesse
& McCaffrey, Artists’ Representatives, managing in addition to
Stoopnagle and Budd and Walter O’Kecfe Frank Fay, Robert
Emmett Dolan, Russ Morgan, and John McCormack. Nelson
continued to write comedy material and, in collaboration, turned

[ 472]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

out the scripts for an entire 15-week series of programs for Beatrice
Lillie. At the time of his death he was representative for many
well-known personalities: Madeleine Carroll, Cornelia Otis Skin-
ner, Roland Young, Ralph Bellamy, Melvyn Douglas, Edward
Arnold, and many others. He also represented several writers and
music conductors.

ALOIS ANDRE HETTWER

HOME AbprEss: 516 Gilpin Rd., Willow Grove, Montgomery Co., Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hettwer Bedding Co., 166 W. Columbia Ave. Philadel-
phia 22, Pa.

BoRN: May 7, 1905, Milwaukee, Wis. PARENTS: Paul John Hettwer, Eliza-
beth John.

PREPARED AT: Marquette Academy, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.

MARRIED: Ruth Claire McCaffrey, June 30, 1934, Milwaukee, Wis. CHILDREN:
Paul Frederick, Jan. 25, 1936; Ronald Quentin, March 11, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Paul Hettwer, a.M., 17, PH.D., 21.

OccuPATION: President and treasurer, Hettwer Bedding Company, manufac-
turers of the famous spring air mattress and box spring.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Standard Bedding Company, Inc., Milwaukee, 1932-
1936; technical representative and consulting engineer, Spring Air Com-
pany (formerly Charles Karr Company), Holland, Mich. 1936-39;
president and treasurer, Hettwer Bedding Company, Philadelphia, since
1939; treasurer, Cub Scouts, Willow Grove, 1945-49; trustee, Scout
Fathers, Inc., Willow Grove, 1949-51.

LIVES there a man with soul so dead that he can take the
pathetic pleading on those Goads George Russell sent and not
respond? Well, I took it until the Swan Song with its awful
threat to write my “Life” for me came along. This one did the
trick. It really wrenched me away from my lethargy and set
me reminiscing on paper. If you can take that, I can. So here
goes.

Hard upon graduation I went to Europe and North Africa
with my parents and sister. Thanks to the history and fine arts
courses still fresh in my mind and the languages then still at my
command, that trip took me as much into a dream world as the
years at college proved to be. It was perhaps the most delightful
episode in my life. Hyperthyroidism overtook me while in
Europe, so upon my return, I insisted on spending another year

[473]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

HENRY IDE HEWITT

HOME AppreEss: 4128 W. 45th St., Minneapolis 10, Minn.

oFFice appress: Northwestern National Bank, Minneapolis, Minn. -

BORN: June 26, 1905, Springfield, Mass. PARENTS: William Eugene Hewitt,
Florence Lydia Ide.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.B.A., 1929.

marRieD: Clara Ann Rishoff, Sept. 21, 1935, Minneapolis, Minn. cHiLpreNn:
Sara Ann, June 6, 1940; Peter Rishoff, May 10, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Investment officer, Northwestern National Bank.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Volunteered January, 1942, entered active service
August, 1942, as rst lieutenant; graduated Fighter Command School as
controller August, 1942 — limited service — assigned Air Materiel Com-
mand; Renegotiations, Chicago (chief district office and chairman of
district board); Army-Navy War Readjustment School, Harvard Busi-
ness School, 1944; Army Commendation Ribbon; retired lieutenant
colonel, 1947.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Financial Advertisers Association of New England,
1933-41; chairman, Civil Defense, American Legion, Minneapolis,
1949-51.

MeMBER OF: Shakespeare Club of Boston, 1933-41; Lufbery Post, Minneap-
olis, since 1947.

WILLIAM MACE HICKEY

HOME AppREss: 15 Dogwood Lane, Larchmont, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The United Corporation, Grand Central Terminal Bldg., 70
E. 45th St., New York 17, N. Y.

BORN: July 2, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: William Fred Hickey, Frances
Mace. ,

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: S.B. IN E.E. summa cum laude, 1927.

marrieD: Lucy Murphy, June 18, 1929, Framingham, Mass. CHILDREN:
Frances Eleanor, June 5, 1930; William Mace, Jr., Jan. 2, 1933.

HARVARD SON: William Mace Hickey, Jr., ’54.

HARVARD BROTHER: Fred Mace Hickey, '24 (deceased).

OccuPATION: President and director, The United Corporation, investment
company; licensed professional engineer, New York and Ohio.

OFFICES HELD: President and director, The United Corporation, since 1943;
director, Brockton Gas Light Company, since 1943, United Gas Im-
provement Company, 1943-46, Public Service Corporation of New
Jersey, 1944-47, Columbia Gas & Electric Corporation, 1944-45, Niagara
Hudson Power Corporation, 1944-49; member Schools Committee, Har-
vard Club of New York, since 1950; member Schools and Scholarship

[ 476 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Committee, Harvard Club of Westchester, since 1950; member Finance
Committee, Friendly Sons of St. Patrick, New York, since 1948; member
Public Utilities Committee, Catholic Charities of New York, since
1944; assistant director, Public Utilities Division, Securities & Exchange
Commission, 1935-36; consulting engineer, Cleveland Transit System,
1942-435 editor, Federal Utility Regulation, Annotated, 1941-43; con-
sultant, International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 1948.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Westchester; Harvard Engi-
neering Society; New York State Society of Professional Engineers,
Manhattan Club; Winged Foot Golf Club; Larchmont Shore Club;
Merion Golf Club, Philadelphia; Racquet Club, Philadelphia; Pine
Valley Golf Club, New Jersey.

THE year twenty-five of Harvard ’27 finds me, like nearly all
my classmates, working mainly for the government. However,
America is still a great place and even the diluted take-home pay
allows me to live comfortably, if with inconspicuous consump-
tion of wealth, with my family in a Westchester suburb of New
York City. The family consists, in addition to Mrs. Hickey and
myself, of a daughter, Nan, and a son, Bill, Jr. Nan is twenty-one
and a senior at Manhattanville, majoring in music. Bill is nineteen
and a sophomore at Harvard, majoring in football, baseball, the
Marine Corps and, on occasions, English.

Our home gets its mail from the Larchmont post office, pays
taxes to the City of New Rochelle, and is pleasantly located on a
slight rise of ground in salt marshes adjacent to Long Island Sound.
In addition to a fine water view, this somewhat odd location, just
outside New York City, provides a variety of interesting wild life.
In particular, we have many birds, including the usual ones plus
pheasants, ducks, night herons, marsh hawks, kingfishers and even
great blue herons. While I haven’t yet joined the Late George
Apley’s bird watchers, it is necessary to admit that I’m weakening.

My business over the twenty-five years has been varied and
rather hectic. In the spring of 1927, after I completed my major
in electrical engineering, the outlook seemed to be for a profes-
sional life, perhaps in the design of electrical machinery. Follow-
ing graduation came the Harvard Summer School and then the
start of a graduate year. But the sudden loss of my father resulted
in my going to work in Boston late in 1927 with Stone & Webster
in the management of public utilities. This was followed by work
in New York in the New Properties Department. But Stone &

[477 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

delphia and back to Westchester. Our roots now seem to be pet-
ting rather firmly established in the New York area, and in recent
years I have begun to undertake some of the normal community
activities.

In sports there were several years of baseball and hockey on
industrial teams (in the early years, needless to say), some tough
football, followed by tennis and then golf. The last occurred by
accidentally locating ourselves in Westchester near the Winged
Foot Golf Club and suddenly finding myself surrounded by
champs. My first year there was marked by the club pro win-
ning the National Open and a member winning the National
Amateur. With this inspiration, I struggled studiously at the
game and arrived at a Metropolitan handicap of eight (a triumph
of perseverance over awkwardness), While in Philadelphia, I
joined two fine courses, Merion and Pine Valley, which are now
a somewhat distant and expensive luxury.

While young Bill was growing up, there were many years of
football and baseball with him, but as he was on the Harvard
Freshman teams last year and spent the summer at Parris Island
in the Marine Corps, for reasons of physical safety I now play
tennis with Nan.

In connection with the Reunion, I have recently had the good
fortune to get in touch with a number of members of the Class
and I am looking forward to June.

GEORGE HIGGINSON

HOME ADDRESS: 545 Hammond St., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

oFFice appress: Day Trust Co., 111 Devonshire St., Boston 9, Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 21, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Francis Lee Higginson °63,
Corina Shattuck.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.; Santa Barbara School, Car-
pinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.

marrigp: Virginia Oakes, Dec. 8, 1928, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Virginia,
Sept. 27, 1929; Patricia, Sept. 27, 1938; Corina Shattuck, Aug. 27, 1942;
George, Jr., May 31, 1947.

occupation: Trust officer, in charge of investments in Trust Department,
Day Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary and treasurer, Colorado Certified Potato Seed Asso-
ciation, 1932-34; member, Agricultural Board of Chamber of Commerce,

[ 480 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Colorado Springs; vice-president and joint master, El Paso County
Hounds, 1932-35, chairman, Red Cross of Colorado Springs, 1932-33;
staff secretary, Greater Boston Community Fund, 1937-38; general vice-
chairman, assistant to chairman of Greater Boston Community Fund,
1943; treasurer, 1945-50, president, since 1939, Board of Directors,
Denison House; treasurer and member Board of Trustees, Vincent
Memorial Hospital, since 1951; member Board of Governors, Singing
Beach Club, Manchester, Mass. 1951; chairman, House Committee,
Manchester, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New York; El Paso
Club, 1932-36; Cheyenne Mountain Country Club, Canadian Alpine
Club; Essex County Club, Manchester, Mass.

THROUGH college I had an above average opportunity to

travel. After my freshman year, Lawrence Coolidge, Joseph

Johnson, and I spent a whole summer in western Canada without

any realization that we were walking over vast properties of lead

and oil. We had an excellent summer mountain climbing, how-

ever, and joined the Canadian Alpine Club of which I remain a

member. We also made three first ascents and had a generally

good time tying scalps to our belts. Later 1 made two trips to

Europe and also spent a summer after my senior year in Mexico,

where I attended the summer school of the University of Mexico

for a while, spending the rest of that season travelling through
the hinterland by train and horseback. In those days the world
was my oyster. Since then life has been divided into two almost
wholly unrelated parts. After two practice starts and having
pretty successfully avoided the 1929 crash, early in 1931 I bought
a cattle ranch in the Black Forest district between Colorado
Springs and Denver. In fact, I was so eager that I bought one
hundred cows, all bred, in late 1930, before I even had a ranch to
put them on. Ginny and I drove off in high gear from Boston
for the great adventure of which I had grown up dreaming. As
we went west, cattle prices began to slip, and then we were
snowbound in Kansas City and saw innumerable animals along the
fence lines lying feet up in snow drifts — a very impressive entry
into a new business.

The first offer I got on my calves was fourteen dollars a head,
or around three to four cents a pound, and I was really in the
cattle business — sewed in. Little did I realize at the time that
along with everybody else I was taking part in the great American

[481 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

JOHN CHISHOLM HINKLE
HOME ADDRESS: 209 Kenwood Ave., Delmar, N. Y.
oFFice Appress: Dept. of Audit & Control, State Office Bldg., Albany, N. Y,

BORN: Feb. 28, 1906, New York, N. Y. PaReNTS: Terry Hinkle, Jean Chis-
holm Stewart.

PREPARED AT: Blair Academy, Blairstown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; LL.B., 1930; J.S.D. (New
York Univ.), 1935; Lum. (ibid.), 1948.

MarrieD: Marjorie Gaisford, June 2, 1943, London, England. cnuitp: Heather
Gaisford, Dec. 23, 1944.

occupation: Attorney, Municipal Affairs Division, Department of Audit &
Control, State of New York.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted private, May 15, 1942; assigned to Co.
H, 175th Infantry, z9th Infantry Division, sent to England, October,
1942; transferred to Division HQ, J. A. Office; campaigns in Normandy,
Brittany, Holland, Germany; commissioned 2nd lieutenant, assigned to
8znd Airborne Division, J. A. G. D.; occupation of Berlin, separated
January, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Member Board of Governors, 1940, 1941, 1942, secretary of
board, 1942, New York Young Republican Club; secretary, Kappa
Sigma Alumni Chapter of New York, 1940-42; president, Men’s Club,
St. Stephen’s P. E. Church, Delmar, N. Y., 1950-51.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Albany; New York Young Republican
Club; New York State Bar Association.

A LAWYER contemplates the brown hair still remaining among
the gray. He thinks back twenty-five years. He wonders whether,
if he had known then what he knows now, he would have become
a lawyer. I went to Harvard Law School and became a member
of the New York State Bar. My apprenticeship was with an
admiralty firm. My journeyman’s experience was with other
lawyers. I liked the work — so much so that I went to New York
University Law School at night and became a doctor of juridical
science in 193§.

In 1932 politics were messy in the city of New York. Then IJ
had only glimmerings of what was going to happen to the people
of the nation under the New Deal. So I worked as a ward heeler
for the Republicans (not handing out cigars or kissing babies),
and joined the New York Young Republican Club. Let me inter-
ject here that one will go far to find a sounder, more intelligent
group of young men. I found real pleasure in other groups in the
city, such as St. Bartholomew Community House Club and the
alumni chapter of Kappa Sigma, my fraternity. In 1938 I hung

[ 484 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

out my own shingle. This proved to be interesting but not
feasible. My rationalization is that I was of help to some people.
Political work was continuing with me. In a small way I was
getting on to be one of the younger, not elder, statesmen because
I was chosen a member of the board of governors of the Young
Republican Club in 1940, 1941, and 1942.

In early 1942 I discovered that I could be a soldier even if I
did wear glasses, So into the Infantry I went. Two years of
military science at Harvard didn’t mean a thing then. Nor did
the fact that I was a lawyer until a year later, in England, when
some commanding officers decided that they needed a lawyer in
the division’s J. A. G. office. Military law occupied me thereafter.
In England I saw Marjorie Gaisford, whom I had known before.
We fell in love and were married. She joined the British Red
Cross Ambulance unit. We were together on a few occasions
before the Twenty-ninth Division hit Normandy. When on the
border of Germany, I learned of the birth of our daughter,
Heather, by cable from England to New York and from New
York to me.

After the fighting stopped I was in a parade up Fifth Avenue
with the Eighty-second Airborne. Then my active military serv-
ice ceased. I am now in the inactive reserve, being rather over-age
in grade. My G. I. bride and Heather then flew to New York.
We managed to buy a home in Scarsdale. Then I tried not to be
bureaucratic as a regional compliance attorney with the U. 5.
Civilian Production Administration in enforcing housing and
priority regulations. This job lasted until, quite rightly, Congress
swung the economy axe and also permitted business to buy what

it needed.

I decided to be a tax lawyer and again I worked hard at New
York University Law School nights. Enough A’s came my way
to make me a Master of Laws in taxation. But clients did not
flock to me. So I entered the government service again, this time
with the Comptroller of the State of New York, and moved to
Albany. As a member of the legal staff I advise municipalities on
their financial and governmental rights and duties and help draft

legislation when such rights and duties should be better defined or
changed. There is only one answer to the question with which I
began this history, and that is a definite and resounding YES.

[485 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

JOSEPH DELANO HITCH, JR.

HOME apprEss: Red Coat Road, Westport, Conn.
oFFicE appress: Dorr Co. Engineers, Barry Place, Stamford, Conn.

BoRN: Jan. 31, 1904, South Orange, N. J. parents: Joseph Delano Hitch
"95, Adeline Van Nostrand Dorr.

PREPARED AT: East Denver High School, Denver, Colo.; Cheyenne
Mountain High School, Colorado Springs, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.

MARRIED: Katherine Dexter Dalton, June 6, 1928, Milton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Joseph Delano, 3d, Jan. 13, 1930; Henry Higginson, Oct. 16, 1931; Joan
Van Nostrand, Aug. 13, 1936; Katherine Dalton, July 7, 1939; Philip
Delano, Jan. 23, 1945.

HARVARD SON: Henry Higginson Hitch, °54.
HARVARD BROTHER: John Van Nostrand Hitch, ’30.
occuPATION: Executive vice-president and director, Domestic and Inter-

national Organizations of the Dorr Company, an “association of
engineers.”

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Informal work with Army and Navy Intelligence
on Far East matters, 1941-44; sent to Kunming and Chungking, China,

as engineering adviser to Office of Strategic Services, early 1945; assisted
16th Air Force in industrial target evaluation.

OFFICES HELD: In Westport: Town Representative, qth District, Westport;
chairman, Facilities Committee of School Study Council; vice-chairman,
Sewer Commission; various offices, various Parent Teacher Associations;

vice-president, chairman, Employment Committee, Harvard Engineering
Society.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Mining & Metallurgical Engineers; Har-
vard Engineering Society; Machinery-Metals Export Club; Harvard

Club of New York; Silver Spring Country Club; American Club of
Tokyo; Weston Field Club.

IN SPITE of being an engineer and in engineering work continu-
ously, it seems to me that my life has been involved with people
and places rather than with things. Starting in the Dorr Com-
pany, engineers, in the summer of 1927, I travelled over a good
part of the United States the first year trying to help people in
various plants understand their plants. The Dorr Company is an
“association of engineers” specializing in certain large-scale equip-
ment and engineering used throughout the world in the process
industries including the chemical, metallurgical and_ sanitary
fields. We have seven wholly owned foreign subsidiaries and the
work is primarily done by a total of some 250 graduate engincers
in different countries. In June of 1928 I returned to Milton,
Massachusetts, where Katherine Dalton took on the job of being

[ 486 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

an outstanding wife, carrying out the assignment in a number of
countries around the world.

The following year we started our foreign travels by going to
Tokyo for the company with the whole of the Far East as a terri-
tory. My work there was with all the Oriental peoples, both
private and government, sitting in on their industrial and munici-
pal planning and having the tremendous satisfaction of seeing
many projects planned, built, and operated before we left in
1937. Our eight years with headquarters in Japan gave Katherine
and me opportunities for learning the language (?), studying
woodblock prints, collecting dagger handles, having two boys
and a girl born, playing a lot of tennis, knowing and working and
playing with twenty-nine different nationalities — in fact when
we returned to New York in 1937 we were experts in nearly
everything foreign and admitted it — particularly things Japa-
nese. This mental state gradually wore down until December 7,
1941, when, in spite of our having said the Japanese wouldn’t,
they did. Since then we have again taken to learning, not telling
about people.

On our return here in 1937 my work in the Dorr Company was
broadened to cover supervision over our foreign work in all parts
of the world, except Europe. This called for further travelling
and knowing people, in Central and South America and included
the confusion of mixing Japanese verbs with Spanish adverbs.
After a short stop in Westchester County we came to Westport,
Connecticut, to live, as it was close enough to New York to com-
mute and yet far enough to have a life of its own. Another girl
and another boy brought us to a total of five children. We luckily
built our own house in 1940 and were not caught in the squeeze
during the war. We both have participated in numerous phases
of town life — educational — civic — professional — and enjoy it
thoroughly.

When the war came on and Lend-Lease was going, my job
included working with many foreign purchasing commissions
(including the Russian) and endeavoring to sell them engineering
and equipment for their plants. From the middle of 1941 to late
in 1944 I worked informally with Army and Navy Intelligence
on Far East matters. They seemed to feel that since I was an
engineer and had helped to build industry for eight years in Japan,

[ 487 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Korea, Manchuria, China, etc., I could assist in its destruction.
Early in 1945 the Office of Strategic Services sent me to Kun-
ming and Chungking, as engineering adviser to this startling and
extraordinary outfit. While there, I also assisted the 16th Air
Force in their industrial target evaluation. It does something to
you to find yourself earnestly destroying large enterprises which
you sweated to develop and build. One eye-opener in the case of
the Russians was the shrugging subservience of the Russian engi-
neer when a petulant cable from Moscow ignored a sound tech-
nical decision. I spent the last few months of the war in China
for the OSS where I learned what happens to someone in civilian
clothes on a secret assignment in a theatre of war. Each year my
stories get better.

Since the war my responsibilities in the Dorr Company have
increased. In 1946 I was made a director and vice-president in
charge of foreign and domestic sales and in 1951, executive vice-
president. We moved the head office with some 350 people from
New York to Stamford in 1949, and my commuting is now by
car on the Merritt Parkway, which is certainly the easy way. Of
our five children one boy is in the Class of 1954 at Colorado Col-
lege; the second, Class of 1954 at Harvard; the third, a girl, at
Concord Academy, and the last two at home. My travels include
fifty-one countries and all forty-eight states with more countries
in prospect. As hobbies: stamp collecting, playing the piano,
reading, golf, tennis, and landscaping our several acres. ‘These take
so much time that the passing of the days and weeks is hardly
noticed. All in all a full life and only just started!

WALTER SCOTT HOBART, JR.

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 1293 Pacific Ave., San Francisco, Calif,

BoRN: Aug. 9, 1903, Paris, France. parents: Walter Scott Hobart, °97,
Hannah Neil Wiliams.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1023-1925.

WALTER SCOTT HOBART, JR., has been carried as a “lost”

man on our records since August, 1951.

[ 488 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT YETTER HOEH

HOME AppREss: 971 Walnut St., Newton Highlands, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pulpboard Products, Inc. 5 Mindoro St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Oct. 1, 1904, Boston, Mass, parents: Charles Hoeh, Katharine
Yetter.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; M.B.A., 1929.

MarRRiED: Marcia Priscilla Smith, Sept. 7, 1935, Melrose, Mass. cHILpREN:
David Charles, Dec. 1, 1937; Roger Smith, May ro, 1942.

occupation: Treasurer, Pulpboard Products, Inc., paper board converting.

GRADUATION from Harvard was followed by the Business
School which I left with an M.B.A. two years later. his was the
questionable year of 1929. I was in the investment department of
the old Atlantic National Bank and shortly thereafter helping out
with a couple of small investment trusts. Then came the storm
making the corporation the first casualty of the combined situa-
tion. In the credit department of the same bank I witnessed the
final throes of a once successful banking enterprise.

For a short time thereafter I did various things until the com-
pany for which my brother worked discontinued operations.
Together we pooled many ideas, with meagre resources, in a
venture of our own. In those days you went to the savings bank
and said, “Please may I have my money?” It was handed over if
you promised to spend it according to a formula. This we did.
At any rate we had a partnership for about two years when we
included my brother’s former boss, along with some of his money.
He too had become separated from his company. Then we in-
corporated and have so far remained solvent. We do paperboard
converting, catering to the beverage, textile, and assorted indus-
tries in the northeastern area. It is a small operation and gives us
an interesting diversity of experiences and headaches, but it also
provided an independence of action and conduct which is really
appreciated.

In 1935 I married Priscilla Smith, Wellesley 26, and for about a
year and a half we lived in Boston. Our first boy, David, was
born in 1937 in Newton Highlands, where we have been ever
since. In 1942 the second boy, Roger, came along to add to the
fun. The war years were spent doing civil defense “and scrambling
for materials, supplies, and labor. Two weeks over age plus two

[ 489 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

small children separated me from a crucial draft registration. At
present I am happily ensconced in a lively and interesting family
with music, mechanics, and reading primary activities for winter,
and Vermont with small village life, two calves, haying, and a
small Jake for summer interests. I wonder constantly where time
goes and regret that there is not more of it for more things. I like
my home and my family and feel that a happy experience there is
of the highest importance. We four have many joint excursions
which are educational, recreational, and lots of fun. My wife is
active in the League of Women Voters while I often take part in
Community Fund work and take active part in Boy Scout activi-
ties. The Reunion has come all too soon and finds me thoroughly
bewildered by the present state of national and world affairs. I
hope I can keep a sense of proportion, justice, and humor for the
next twenty-five-round bout.

MAURICE JEROME HOFFMAN

HOME apprEss: 185 Cornell Rd., Fairfield, Conn.

OFFICE apprEss: Michael Hoffman Fuel Co. 156 E. Washington Ave.,
Bridgeport, Conn.

BORN: May 3, 1906, Bridgeport, Conn. parents: Michael Hoffman, Ida
Kasden.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Bridgeport, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927.

MarriED: Edna Sonya Ranow, Sept. 15, 1940, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Elisabeth, Oct. 22, 1942; Constance, May 10, 1944; Lawrence Kasden,
April 21, 1948; Bruce William, April 16, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Michael Hoffman Fuel Company.

EDWARD WINFIELD HOLLAND

HOME AppREss: Mousam Road, Springvale, Maine.

OFFice aDpress: 28 Winter St., Sanford, Maine.

BORN: May 17, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: Edward Holland, Mary
Duncan Henderson.

PREPARED AT: Colby Academy, New London, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1928. peckres: $.8., 1927(28); M.v, (Yale Univ.),
1932.

maraiep: Edith Van Der Werker, June 21, 1932, Wyckoff, N. J.

occupaATION: Physician, surgeon.

[ 490 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered U. S. Army Medical Corps as captain,
April, 1941; active duty at 67th General Hospital, Fort Bliss, Texas,
until September, 1942; overseas, England, November, 1942; promoted
major; chief, septic surgery, 22nd General Hospital, 1944, Regimental
Surgeon, 351st Engineers, 3rd Army; Chief Polyclinics, Fort Lewis,
Wash.; discharged, May 2, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, York County Medical Association, 1951-52,
past president, Sanford-Springvale Rotary Club, chairman, Red Cross
Fund Drive, 1951.

MEMBER OF: York County Medical Society; Maine Medical Society; Ameri-
can Medical Association; Holstein-Friesian Association of America;
Maine Audubon Society; Goodall-Sanford Country Club, American
Legion; Reserve Officers’ Association.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Effect of Antitoxin on the Septic Phase of Scarlet
Fever,” 1932.

LIFE seems to move fairly logically from one phase to another
and from one set of circumstances to another. It isn’t until some-
one like George Russell writes to ask what you’ve been doing for
the past twenty-five years, that it is apparent that other considera-
tions than choice have influenced your present place in life. If any
of my classmates are surprised to read here that I am a physician
and surgeon in southwestern Maine, they are no more surprised
than I would have been in 1927 if anyone had told my fortune,
accurately.
Not knowing how my future would be influenced by women,
depression, and war, I said my farewells, folded away my cap and
- gown, and enrolled in the Graduate School. I took all of the
courses available in anthropology and day-dreamed of going on
an ethnological expedition such as Professor Hooten described.
My mother had her heart set on my becoming a physician, so I
postponed my expedition and enrolled at Yale School of Medicine
in 1928. The day before I graduated in June, 1932, I married an
instructress, who was on the staff at the Yale School of Nursing.
It did not seem that an anthropological expedition would support
a wife, so I invested in some white coats and began my internship
in the Atlantic City Hospital. During my rotating internship, I
became interested, chiefly, in surgery. When I finished my year,
I took a surgical residency at Christ Hospital, Jersey City.
In view of the state of my finances and the general depression,
a city practice scemed to be out of the question, so I travelled into
Maine, where I'd spent many summers camping, and I met friends

[491 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

who influenced me to settle in Springvale. I practised from 1934
to 1938; then my wife and I took a second honeymoon to South
America with the Medical Assembly. After visiting Brazil,
Uruguay, Argentina, Chile, Peru, Equador, the Canal Zone, and
West Indies, we returned to Maine, purchased six acres of wood-
land and built a log cabin summer home. Life was serene with my
office downtown, and my spare time taken up with the develop-
ment of a garden, swimming pool in the river which runs through
our land, the raising of dogs, ducks, and a herd of Holstein cattle.
But in 1942 came the war.

I went overseas with the 67th General Hospital, organized by
the Maine General Hospital in Portland. Later I became chief of
Septic Surgery in the 22nd General Hospital, and after thirty-
three months in Europe, without home leave, returned to the
States to be assigned to a combat outfit readying for the coming
assault on Japan. I got as far as Fort Lewis, Washington, when
hostilities ceased. I served as chief of the Polyclinic until my dis-
charge.

Back in civilian life with the old familiar patients, the cabin and
farm and gardens, Rotary lunch on Fridays, and other civic activi-
ties, we are building our life at home and in our community from
where we'd been interrupted. We've enlarged the Log Cabin
into a Log House, with all the modern conveniences. We've
added an orchard to the flower and vegetable gardens. I can
almost forget the unrest in the world outside when I’m pruning
and spraying my trees or walking the dogs through the woods on
the old logging road across the river.

I hope it will not be necessary for us, in the Class of ’27, to go
on active duty again, but if the Air Corps, in which I am a Re-
serve, is called up, I shall go again to protect our way of life. I
shall go again, knowing to what I shall return. In time I shall
grow even greyer and my sapling trees will become big enough
for us to sit in their shade, while birds look for nesting sites in
their branches. Country doctors and gardeners learn to take,
philosophically, the changes of time and each new season. Yes, I
have found life good these last twenty-five years and I have every
faith and hope for the future of the practice of medicine and for
the American Way of Life.

[ 492 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PAUL NORMAN HOLLAND

HOME ADDRESS: 1458 Longfellow Ave., South Bend, Ind.

OFFICE ADDREsS: VU. S. Rubber Co., Mishawaka, Ind.

Born: April 14, 1905, Brookline, Mass. parents: William Timothy Holland,
Lillian Gertrude Greene.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926,

MaRRiED: Helene L. Hawkes, Sept. 20, 1930, Brookline, Mass. cHILpREN:
Virginia Marie, June 28, 1931; Patricia Ann, Nov. 3, 1934.

occupation: Merchandise manager, Latex Foam Division, U. S. Rubber
Company.

FRANKLIN HOLLIS

HOME ADDRESS: § Hillside Rd. Concord, N. H.

OFFICE apprEss: Sulloway, Piper, Jones, Hollis & Godfrey, 3 Capitol St.,
Concord, N. H.

BorN: March 26, 1904, Concord, N. H. parents: Allen Hollis, Amoret
Nicholson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927.

MaRRIED: Eleanor Anna Slaker, June 22, 1929, Scarborough, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Allen, Jan. 8, 1932; Eleanor Amoret, Oct. 14, 1933.

HARVARD SON: Allen Hollis, ’53.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chairman, Civilian Defense for Concord,
N. H.; Selective Service Advisory Board, Concord, N. H.

OFFIcES HELD: Concord School Board, 1936-48, chairman, 1939-48; State
Board of Education, 1948-51; president, New Hampshire School Boards
Association, 1946-48; member Board of Governors, Concord Community
Chest, 1936-39; member Board of Trustees, Concord Hospital, 1948-51;
president, Concord Teachers Benefit Trust, 1946-51; chairman, Ward
4 Republican Club of Concord, 1936-40, member Board of Directors,
Public Service Company of New Hampshire, 1939-51, Concord Electric
Company, 1941-51, Exeter & Hampton Electric Company, 1948-51,
Mercantile Realty Company, 1938-51, Chase Realty Company, 1938-51,
Monadnock Realty Company, 1938-48, Coca Cola Bottling Company of
Laconia, 1936-51; member Board of Directors and president, Concord
Steam Corporation, 1948-51, member Board of Directors and secretary,
Concord Country Club, 1941-1951, president, 1942; clerk of numerous
corporations.

MEMBER OF: Bow Brook Club (secretary 16 years); Concord Snowshoe
Club; Concord Canoe Club (treasurer for several years); Concord
Country Club; New Hampshire Bar Association; American Bar Associa-
tion; Newcomen Society in North America.

[493 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

I JOINED the law firm of which I am now a member in 1930.
My practice for many years has been chiefly corporation and
public utiliry work. This has involved a substantial amount of
labor law work and Jabor contract negotiation. I have always
voted the Republican ticket. I should undoubtedly be classed as
a conservative Republican engaged as a lawyer in representing
capitalistic interests. At the same time I believe that the social
changes that have taken place have been in the right direction but
wonder where they are leading us.

Public education has been and continues to be my chief in-
terest outside my family and business. I play golf all summer
and badminton all winter. I find that my back now prevents
indulging as much as I would like to. I built a nice home in 1940
and enjoy fixing everything that goes wrong. I have done little
travelling since marriage.

I believe I have had a very successful marriage. My two chil-
dren are growing up successfully. My son is now at Harvard
and my daughter at Mount Holyoke. I seldom go to church and
have little formal religious conviction. I do believe that each of
us owes something to his community beyond just living in it and
have enjoyed contributing my bit.

DONALD ADAM HOLMES

HOME appress: 4922 Aldrich Ave. §., Minneapolis 9, Minn.

OFFice AppRESS: Stinchfield, Mackall, Crounse & Moore, 1100 First National
Soo Line Bldg. Minneapolis 2, Minn.

BORN: Nov. 1, 1904, St. Paul, Minn. parents: Adam John Holmes,
Georgina Catherine Woodland.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 19273; LL.B. (Univ. of Minnesota),
1930.

MarrieD: Harriette Ann Hatcher, June 11, 1932, St. Paul, Minn.

occupATION: Lawyer—partner in firm of Stinchfield, Mackall, Crounse
& Moore, general practice.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Major, U. S. Marine Corps Reserve, active
duty from Oct. 27, 1942, to Jan. 8, 1946, overseas from May, 1944, to
Sept. 14, 1945; legal officer, deputy commanding officer, communications
officer, adjutant, personnel officer, MAG 34; 3rd MAW; VMB 52.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Acting chief, rationing enforcement, OPA,
February to October, 1942.

orrices Help: Chief justice, Mitchell Chapter, Phi Alpha Delta (law);

[ 494 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

chairman Minneapolis Municipal Charter Committee and member
Legislation, Administrative Law, and Tax Committees, Hennepin County
Bar Association, chairman Non-profit Corporation Committee, mem-
ber Legislation Committee, Minnesota State Bar Association; chairman
Thirteenth Ward Republican Committee; adjutant, Lufbery Post,
American Legion; various offices, Good Government Groups; chair-
man, Armed Forces Committee of Chamber of Commerce.

MEMBER OF: Order of Coif; Minnesota Law Alumni Association;
American Bar Asociation; St. Paul Academy Alumni Association;
Harvard Club of Minnesota; Grace Presbyterian Church (deacon,
1951); Marine Corps Reserve Officers Association (executive com-
mittee); Minneapolis Athletic Club, Citizens Charter Committee.

REFERENCE to the list of organizations to which I belong,
plus a slight quantity of imagination, should suffice for this por-
tion of the Report. On the lighter side, I have tried to learn to
play the accordion and to do a little square and folk dancing.
Since my wife is an expert in the dance field, I have practically
abandoned that activity. Gardening and fishing keep me outdoors
in the summer. Being a Republican supplies me with “the hope
that springs eternal in the human breast.” All in all, the life of
one who engages in the general practice of law is full of variety
and interest. I find it much too easy to be too busy.

ALAN HOLSKE

HOME ADDRESS: 264 Doyle Ave., Providence 6, R. I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 201 Marston Hall, Brown University, Providence 12, R. I.

BORN: Feb. 27, 1905, Pleasantville, N. Y. pARENTs: Louis Robert Holske,
Edna Marguerite Barringer.

PREPARED AT: Pleasantville High School, Pleasantville, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927; A.M.
19333 PH.D., 1936.

MARRIED: Lucie Jeannette Wertheimer, Aug. 21, 1937, Princeton, N. J.
CHILDREN: Harold Stephen, Dec. 7, 1940; Helen Elizabeth, March 5,
1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Everard Holske, 734.

occupation: Associate professor of German, Brown University.

I HAVE not done or thought anything particularly original. My
significance is undoubtedly purely functional, as a unit of
measurement in social statistics and a group component: included
in last census; employable; member of white-collar class now
being painfully done in; retrenching and planning to move to the

[ 495 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

country; observing more in sorrow than in anger trends, actions,
grotesqueries of the pseudo-great.

CHARLES EDWARD HOLSKE

HOME appress: East Street, East Foxboro, Mass.

BoRN: Sept. 1, 1905, Saxonville, Mass. parents: Charles Edward Holske,
Jennie Lincoln Butler.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924, 1930-1931.

marriep: Marion Graham, Sept. 25, 1937, Foxboro, Mass. cHitp: Edward
Graham, Sept. 10, 1939.

FREDERICK PAUL HOUCK

HOME ADDRESS: 517 Sherwood Pkwy, Westfield, N. J.

OFFice appress: Hydrocarbon Research, Inc, 115 Broadway, New York,
N. Y.

BorN: April 19, 1905, Buffalo, N. Y. parents: Oscar Frederick Houck,
Elsa Lydia Geyer.

PREPARED AT: Nichols School, Buffalo, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: S.B. IN C. ENG. 1927(28).

marRrieD: Dorothy Marion Austin, June 5, 1931, South Wellfleet, Mass.
CHILDREN: Judith Austin, May 18, 1934; Philip Austin, Oct. 22, 1936;
Oliver Austin, April 20, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: David William Houck, ’29 (deceased).

occupation: Chemical engineering; business manager, Hydrocarbon Re-
search, Inc.

orFices HELD: Public Library Board, Tuckahoe, N. Y., scoutmaster,
Tuckahoe, N. Y.; Board of Governors, Harvard Engineering Society,
Community Players, Westfield, N. J.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society; Westficld Community Players;
Westfield Tennis Club, Echo Lake Country Club,

AMID the clatter and cataclysm of the past twenty-five years
my personal career has followed conventional lines. I married
within a few years of graduation, have lived for the most part in
the suburbs of New York City, and am participating in the
raising of three children. Inspired by the desire of seeing the
world and working in out of the way places, I had studied civil
engincering. I never crossed the bridges 1 was going to build.
Instead, it was my good fortune to be one of the original
employees of Todd & Brown, Inc., the builders engaged for the
restoration of colonial Williamsburg. The project was in its
initial stage, and we made progress together. Not only was

[ 496 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the work fascinating in its variety; it brought abiding interests in
American history, archaeology, and craftsmanship.

After five years of reconstructing antiquity, I swung to the
modern Rockefeller Center, then under construction, and was
employed in the management organization of the development,
until December, 1941. During this period we lived in Westchester
County, and there our children were born.

The war brought problems to Washington, D. C., and so did
I, from the Jersey City plant of the M. W. Kellogg Company.
Our family migrated to New Jersey, which to our friends in
Westchester was tantamount to relinquishing U. 8. citizenship.
Kellogg took a part of the Manhattan District Project, placing
me in the organization and management of the Kellex Corporation.

Since the war I have been in the management end of Hydro-
carbon Research, Inc., a young engineering company with large
ideas. Our activities in petroleum and chemical processes are

international, and have taken me to Furope on two occasions.

Our children presently encompass nearly the full range of
adolescence and are completing our education. As a family we
leaven our enjoyment of music by performing on a variety of
instruments with an enthusiasm which compensates for lack of
proficiency. Several years ago, my wife and I joined the local
amateur theatrical group in which we perform all manner of
chores in the name of fun, even to the point of braving an
audience. Other hobbies embrace photography, woodworking,
and moderate participation in seasonal sports.

JOHN DENISON HOUGHTON

HOME ADDRESS: 636 Dedham St., Newton Center 59, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Pathology Laboratory, Veterans Hospital, West Roxbury,
Mass.
BORN: Nov. 17, 1903, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Clement Stevens Houghton,
Martha Gilbert Colt.
PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. Cu latide, 19273} M.D 1932+
MARRIED: Elizabeth Sherburne, June 13, 1942, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Sylvia, July 2, 1945; Natalie Topliff, Nov, 30, 1946,
HARVARD BROTHERS: VWVilliam Maxwell Houghton, '22; Samuel Gilbert Hough-
ton, '24.
occuPaTION: Pathologist; chief of Laboratory Services, Veterans Administra-
tion Hospital, West Roxbury, Mass,

[497 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant, Aledical Corps, U.S.N.R., December,
1941; lieutenant commander, May, 1943; commander, November, 1945;
pathologist and laboratory officer, U. S. Naval Hospital, Portsmouth,
N. H., two years; at U. S. Naval Medical School, Bethesda, Md., four
months; at U.S. Naval Training Station, Newport, R. I, three months
as epidemiologist and sanitary officer; to Philippine Islands in charge
of Epidemiology Unit, November, 1944; stationed at Jinamoc Island one
month, in Manila seven months; separated December, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in pathology and bacteriology, Tufts College Med-
ical School, 1936-37; assistant pathologist, Boston City Hospital, 1937-41;
chief of laboratory service, Veterans Administration Hospital, West
Roxbury, since 1946.

MEMBER OF: College of American Pathologists, American Association of
Pathologists and Bacteriologists; New England Pathological Society;
Massachusetts Medical Society; Appalachian Mountain Club; Harvard
Travellers Club; Harvard Club of Boston; The Country Club; New
England Historic Genealogical Society; Trustees of Public Reservations,
American Forestry Association, Massachusetts Horticultural Society,
National Audubon Society; American Museum of Natural History; Bos-

ton Museum of Science; Railroad Enthusiasts; Railway and Locomotive
Historical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: About ten highly miscellaneous short papers in various medical
journals.

IN EARLY youth I was ideologically a hermit — loved the wide
open spaces, birds, trees, shrubbery — and regarded mankind as
an unwholesome barbarous gang of self-seekers, relentlessly bent
on the pursuit of pleasure, riches, power. In college I concen-
trated in zodlogy with the hope of going on collecting expedi-
tions to South America, Africa, New Guinea. But the futility of
pure classification and the petty feuds of rival eminent authorities
drove me into the clutches of medicine, fertile with the possibility
of new and exciting discoveries. A year of necessary chemistry
in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences was made tolerable
by simultaneous enjoyment of Professor Fernald’s botany course.
A taste of landscape architecture (formal) proved intolerably dull.

After the four-year grind at medical school, encouraged by
early easy success with the microscope, I was lured up the harm-
less necessary alley of anatomical pathology, in which I am still
bogged down. For your information a pathologist is a denizen of
the hospital laboratory; there he spends his time listening to com-
plaints of the technicians or looking down his microscope or
disemboweling the remains of his defunct fellow-citizens in that

[ 498 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ritual known as a “Post.” The doctors lately in charge of the
unfortunate patient breeze in and look and say “Oh,” “Ah,” or
“Well I'll be damned!” and breeze out again, the more rapidly if
the patient is found to be riddled with tuberculosis. This form of
investigation has the advantage of observing Nature at first hand
from an angle which most people find revolting (and make faces
about accordingly). Yet it is seeing truth and therefore beauty.
I confess I have been moved to whistle, laugh, and even sing while
elbow-deep in the body juices of the latest jolly alcoholic. One
also becomes exposed to all possible bacteria viruses, and disease-
producing protozoa, with an unexcelled opportunity to become
immunized to same providing one survives said exposure. Age
cannot wither nor custom stale the infinite variety of things wrong
with our wretched mortal flesh, but, alas, the procession is endless,
detail inexhaustible, work never finished. I still envy any man
who can honestly write upon his income tax return “Occupation:
Hermit.” :

You inquire as to my social, political, and religious convictions?
I say the hell with all such — they are the root of all the trouble
in the world today. I agree with Voltaire: “Cultivate your
garden.” As to hobbies, I still experience the irresistible drive to
identify birds and their songs wherever I happen to be; I like to
see a trout zoom out of the depths after a fly; and I love to feel
the slosh and plunge of a canoe through the waves and rapids of a
northern New England stream in the early spring. I have travelled
to England, the Tyrol, New Zealand, Tasmania, Alaska, and the
West Indies. I have a small, inexplicably loyal wife who is efh-
cient and sometimes a pepperpot, but thoroughly delightful when
relaxed; and two adorable small fry. I like to lie passively on the
bed the whilst they sit or gambol upon me, as in “Bear with
Cubs” or comparable family group. This is the fulfillment of
destiny.

WILLARD HOWARD

HOME AppREsS: 25 Highgate Rd., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: United Shoe Machinery Corp., 140 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 15, 1906, Boston, Mass. paReNts: Nelson Willard Howard,
Helen Margaret Willard.

PREPARFD AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

[ 499 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1927(29).

marriep: Darthea Davis Bryant, May 3, 1930, Newton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Sally, April 5, 1932; Barbara, April 4, 1936, Willard, Jr.. May 13, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Nelson Howard, 2d, "31.

occupation: Assistant general manager, United Shoe Machinery Corpora-
tion — development, manufacture, and distribution of shoe machinery
and shoemaking supplies.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Celastic Corporation, John A. Lowell Bank Note
Company, Boston Boot and Shoe Club.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline; Kittansett Club, Marion;
Pre-Seniors’ Golf Association.

SINCE graduation, my only business connection has been with
the United Shoe Machinery Corporation, where I have had
various responsibilities leading up to my present position as
assistant general manager. My family life has consisted of main-
taining a residence in Wellesley Hills, where my wife and I have
attempted to perform the responsibilities of parents in raising
our three children. We have left our home in Wellesley Hills
only infrequently for limited trips and excursions to such points
as Florida and Canada. Our principal recreation is golf, in which
my wife has been able to attain a moderate degree of distinction
in the New England area.

ALBERT SPAULDING HOWE, JR.

HOME appress: §21 Flaxhill Rd. South Norwalk, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Howe & Fant, Inc., 521 Flaxhill Rd., South Norwalk, Conn.

BorN: April 24, 1906, Brookline, Mass. parents: Albert Spaulding Howe,
Belle Alden Forbes,

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: A.B. c17 laude, 1927; M.B.A. Cum
laude, 19209.

marrieD: Isabel Sproul, May 3, 1924, Cranston, R. I. (divorced 1934);
Dorothy Hutchinson, July 19, 1935, Anchorage, Ky. cuipren: Albert
Spaulding, 3d, Feb. 11, 1926 (7m. Jean Knox, Feb. 5, 1949); Julia Forbes,
Aug. 3, 1939; Thomas Hutchinson, May 30, 1941; Doria Waller, July
18, 1948.

occupation: President, Howe & Fant, Inc., machine tools,

orrices HELD; Instructor, Harvard Business School, 1929-30; assistant Cub-
master, Rowayton, Conn., Cub Scouts, 1950-51; fund chairman, Norwalk
Red Cross, 1950-51.

MEMBER oF: Congregational Church, Darien, Conn.; Wee Burn Country
Club, Darien; Harvard Club of New York.

[ 500 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I WAS in the banking business in New York City from 1930 to

1935, then swapped over to the telephone business where I

remained until 1943. During that period I thought it was im-

portant to have a big salary, a liberal expense account, and

impressive titles. Having acquired them, I decided they didn’t
mean much and that I should start a business of my own. Since
1943 I have started two— Autoflight Corporation, which de-
signed and manufactured new types of aircraft instruments for
the government during World War II, and Howe & Fant, Inc.,
which since 1946 has manufactured and sold a new type of turret
for drilling machines — incidentally, the only one that works.
Less security, but a lot more fun than conventional jobs. I have
a wonderful wife and four fine children ranging in age from
twenty-five down to three. I am awfully proud of them and
mighty thankful I have them. Raising a really good family may
be difficult, but it is certainly the most important and rewarding
job there is.

Travels and hobbies: I have travelled enough in this country
and abroad so that I don’t really care whether I do any more.
Living out of a suitcase can become a pain in the neck. As to
hobbies, I have the usual run, like golf, swimming, bridge, dancing,
and reading —also piano, which I took up at the ripe age of
forty-three and which now occupies most of my spare time.

Finally, as to my convictions: First, social —the only kind of
help that does the other fellow any good is helping him to help
himself. We don’t have enough of that kind. Second, political
—the best government is the least government, and you can
judge from that how I think things stand. Third, religious — the
world is over-due for a spiritual revival and I have no doubt
that God will see that it happens.

JOHN HOWE

HOME appress: R.F.D. 3, Gouverneur, N. Y.

BORN: May 10, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: John Edward Howe,
84, Florence Duryce.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B, 1927.

MARRIED: Beatrice Cousins, Aug. t, 1936, Edwards, N. Y. ciitpren: Sandra,
Jan. 11, 1939; Marcia Roselle, Sept. 18, 1949.

occuPATION: Owner and operator, tavern and tourist cabins.

[ sor ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcoRD: Enlisted Regular Army July 12, 1935; separated
from service Dec. 24, 1946.

UPON leaving Harvard I took the conventional “continental
tour” and then started my business career at R. H. Macy’s, New
York. The shipping business lured me into the employ of the
Munson Steamship Line until the beginning of the depression,
when I made some feeble efforts to recoup what small fortunes
the family possessed. Not being able to accomplish much along
these lines, I proceeded to acquaint myself with the western
portion of these United States, running the gamut of employment
from sheepherder to cowboy. In 1935, as I did not seem to be
progressing very quickly towards a stable existence, I enlisted
in the Third Cavalry at Fort Ethan Allen, Vermont. I remained
with this organization until October, 1940, when I was com-
missioned and sent to the Ninth Reconnaissance Troop, Ninth
Infantry Division, at Fort Bragg, North Carolina. When the
division started to train for overseas duty, somebody checked my
age, and I found myself transferred to the Second Service Com-
mand, where I performed the duties of a glorified clerk until
December, 1946.

I met my future wife early in my Army career, while on
maneuvers near Pine Camp, New York. We have had two
daughters, who, in our opinion, are extremely beautiful and
talented in all departments. In 1947 we bought a country tavern
near Gouverneur, New York, and in 1950 we constructed some
tourist cabins in the outskirts of the same town, where it seems
we shall be “dug in” for some time.

GEORGE RANDOLPH HUBBARD

HOME ApprEss: Kearsage, N. H.

OFFice ApprEss: North Conway, N. H.

BORN: Feb. 22, 1904, Plainfield, N. J. parents: Henry Reed Hubbard,
’oo, Helen Mabel Hill.

prepareD AT: Plainfield High School, Plainfield, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; D.M.D., 1931.

MarriEeD: Vivian Laura MacDonald, March 28, 1936, Boston, Mass. cHitp:
Jane Hill, May 29, 1944.

occupation: Dentist.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U. S. Naval Dental
Corps, May, 1942; lieutenant commander, 1944, commander, 1945; active

[ 502 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

duty, U.S. Naval Air Station, Quonset Point, R. I.; returned to inactive
duty, October, 1945.
OFFicEs HELD: Member Board of Directors, Eastern Slope Region Associa-
tion; president, Eastern Slope Tennis Club, 1949.
MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Dental Society; New Hampshire Dental Society;
Harvard Odontological Society; Harvard Dental Alumni Association,

CLOSE on the heels of graduation from college came four more
years of study at the Harvard Dental School, and in the spring
of 1931, I commenced the practice of dentistry in the city of
Boston, accepting at the same time a teaching position at the
Harvard Dental School and a position on the dental staff at
Stillman Infirmary. I was married in 1936 and my wife and I lived
in Belmont. In 1939 we bought a home in Kearsage, New
Hampshire, which was to become our permanent residence
after the war. In the spring of 1942, I was commissioned a lieu-
tenant in the dental department of the United States Navy, and
served active duty at the U. S. Naval Air Station at Quonset
Point, Rhode Island, and in the fall of 1945, after receiving the
commission of commander, returned to inactive duty. It was
then that the decision was made to live in the White Mountains
of New Hampshire and enjoy the out-of-doors and the beauty
of this great area with our daughter, Jane, born in 1944. Our
renovated farmhouse looks directly out upon the slopes of Mount
Cranmore a mile away, and my office window in North Conway
affords a magnificent view of Mount Washington sixteen miles
to the north. We ski and skate in the winter, and thrive on
climbing and tennis in the summer, and work hard always! Only
a four-hour drive from Boston, we have frequent visitors who
drop in after an afternoon of skiing to discuss life in the city or
what has happened to the Harvard football program. (At the
present writing we have just eked out a one-point victory over
Army at last, and the situation looks some better! )

My religion is the out-of-doors; my politics calls for a quick
change and clean-up of a governmental mess gone altogether too
far; and my hobbies, almost too many to enumerate, include fine
arts, photography, and all sports. Aly keenest desire at the moment
is a winning Harvard football team; my greatest disappointment
— not having one!

In a more serious vein, I have come upon a library of rather

[ 503 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

old books, a few dating as far back as the late seventeenth and
early eighteenth centuries. 1 am now occupied in arranging it.

And last, but not least, there is my profession which is my
avocation as well as my vocation.

RICHARD SOUTHARD HUESTIS

HOME AppRESS: 79 Park St., Portland, Maine.

OFFICE apprEss: American Consulate, Turin, Italy.

BORN: Feb. 6, 1904, Ticonderoga, N. Y. parents: George Milton Huestis,
Jessie Beatrice Southard.

PREPARED AT: Ticonderoga High School, Ticonderoga, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATIoN: United States Foreign Service Officer.

MEMBER OF: Appalachian Club; French Alpine Club; Italian Alpine Club.

CLIFFORD IRVING HUFF

HOME ADDRESS: 2881 Aguado, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Neumaticos Goodyear S. A., Buenos Aires, Argentina.

BoRN: Jan. 17, 1905, Randolph, Wis. parents: Irving Edgar Huff, Nellie
Foley.

PREPARED AT: Randolph High School, Randolph, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1927.

MARRIED: Louise Zimmerman, June 30, 1932, Erie, Pa. (died Jan. 19, 1946);
Louise Drennan, March 17, 1950, Montevideo, Uruguay. CHILDREN:
Louise Christine, Aug. 3, 1933; Brenda Jane, March 16, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, managing director, manufacture and_ sales,
Goodyear products in Uruguay, Paraguay, and Argentina.

MEMBER OF: American Society of the River Plate; American Club of

Buenos Aires, Harvard Club of New York, San Andres Golf Club;
Hurlingham Club.

I CHOSE foreign service for my career long before graduation,
and long before the end of 1927 I was in South America learning
Spanish and attempting to obtain a job abroad with one of the
big American corporations. Those were the “good old days,”
I] suppose, when we “foreign traders,” “exporters,” “tropical
tramps” wandered over South America with a great deal more
abandon than business acumen, representatives of great corpora-
tions, but definitely on the romantic fringe thereof. “Mail days”
came only once every two weeks —it was eighteen days’ mail
time from Santiago, nineteen from Buenos Aires. Visitors were

[ 504]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

rare. Office hours were “informal” — after all, every experienced

trader knew that in Lima business was done over pisco sours at the

Maury, and in Guayaquil no one would attempt to negotiate

except over gin and tonics, preferably at a sidewalk café, with

time for reflection, and another round until dinner time at ten.
Those were the days when a landslide on the railroad between

Quito and Guayaquil would keep us, the usual motley crew of

empire builders, immobilized for a month in that malaria-ridden

swamp. How anyone avoided the fever I don’t know, unless it
was the five grains of quinine each morning with your toothbrush

— and also, perhaps, the quinine in the “tonics.” Those were the

days when we rode muleback over the “paramos” to name

distributors for tires in little Andean villages, where vehicles came
in SKD — carried by Indians over the zigzag trails at 14,000 feet.
As an American, you were regarded in Buenos Aires as some
kind of “inglés” of questionable legitimacy. The Critica seldom
was put to bed without at least an editorial reference to the
“colosos del Norte” — dollar-chasing interventionists. To go to
the States was to go to “Europa.” After a while, one gave up
_ explaining and found that one might as well say “Europa” in the
first place. Times have changed, It started with Franklin Delano
Roosevelt, with able ambassadors like Robert Woods Bliss,
Norman Armour, with superior American goods — the Germans
never were popular or powerful in Argentina in spite of many
reports to the contrary — better American representatives, not
of the O. Henry school. The United States came to occupy here,
too, the position of absolute leadership — though similarity of
products and great similarity of character resulted in clashes at
many levels, including the diplomatic.

Those good days are gone forever, But in spite of it I find great
satisfaction in the present and keen anticipation of the future
here. I’ve never had it so good. Also, I am in love with my wife,

who is behind me pushing, and who spoils me badly. I find myself
interested in “output per man hour,” “bargaining units,” “incen-
tive systems.” My evenings are more likely to be spent warming
a bench waiting for an “audiencia” in the Central Bank than
watching the sunset as I used to see it lighting up the spires of the
cathedral in the Plaza de Armas. I seldom find time to have a
drink at a street café—my samba, which I used to think was

[ 505 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

almost of the indigenous variety, is definitely more restrained.
With a daughter at Bryn Mawr and another to start in a few more
years, I have trouble amassing sufficient depreciated pesos. But J
still think this is “the best of all possible worlds.” I think foreign
trade is still the most interesting field in spite of the fact that in
these twenty-five years everything has happened to hinder it.

It is a thrilling experience to see America play its big part —
definitely the leader’s part here. One becomes terribly patriotic
living abroad. True, we don’t export from home as much as
we'd like, but to circumvent national barriers, we have built
factories in the important markets for automobiles, radios, tele-
phones, penicillin, industrial equipment, tires. Able ambassadors
and other government officials — capable leaders of industry —
men who can win the confidence and respect of South Americans,
have come to replace those “hail-fellows-well-met” of other
days. We have learned tolerance for other people and their
governmental systems in these countries, and our nationals have
learned to play the part of true leaders and with patience to
look forward confidently to a greater contribution from our
work with the peoples of these magnificent lands.

FREDERICK SEYMOUR HULSE

HOME ADDRESS: 5014 18th Ave., N-E., Seattle, Wash.

OFFICE ADDRESS: University of Washington, Seattle, Wash.

BORN: Feb. 11, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Hiram Richard Hulse,
Frances Barrows Seymour.

PREPARED AT: Ridgefield School, Ridgefield, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; A.M., 1928;
PH.D., 1934.

MARRIED: Leonie Robinson Mills, Aug. 28, 1934, Pasadena, Calif. CHILDREN:
Richard Seymour, May 29, 1936; Christopher Robert, March 17, 1938.

occuPATION: Associate professor of anthropology, University of Washington.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Office of Strategic Services.

MEMBER OF: American Anthropological Association, Far Eastern Associa-
tion; Seattle Zoological Society; other academic and scientific groups.

pusLications: Articles on Japanese society and culture in scholarly journals,
appendices on osteology in archaeological reports.

THE essentials of my life since graduation are contained in
previous Class Reports. My career as a migratory laborer has
continued: after two years at Colgate I moved back to Seattle

[ 506]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

where I had taught temporarily, in the mid-thirties. From now
on, being settled in one place will suit me; provided, of course,
that some trips to any place which pleases me are thrown in.

Since I make my living by doing what I want to do anyway,
to wit, being inquisitive about human beings in general, my
research is my hobby. At present 1 am directing a study of
genetic characteristics of Northwest Coast Indians, especially
their blood types and am also busy dreaming up other projects
in human biology, especially the effects of culture upon human
evolution. Trying to figure out how to test this sort of thing is
rather fun.

My chief social, political, and religious conviction is that too
many of us are busy telling other people what to do. It seems to
me that this tendency has grown, is still growing, and ought to
be diminished. I don’t have any pet panacea to offer for this
sad state of affairs, perhaps the best thing Harvard ever did for
me was to make me suspicious of all panaceas, anyway.

HENRY CORDELL HUMPHREYS

HOME ADDRESS: 71 S. Main St., Middleboro, Mass.
OFFIcE appREss: Middleborough Savings Bank, 7 S. Main St., Middleboro,

Mass.
Born: Dec. 5, 1905, Webb City, Mo. parents: Cordell Humphreys, Emma

Frances Patch.
PREPARED AT: Rindge Technical School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

MarRiIED: Louise D. Keith, April 18, 1939, Lynn, Mass. cxitpren: Keith
Cordell, March 20, 1940; Warren Prescott, March 3, 1943; Nathaniel
Davis, June 21, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Savings bank treasurer.

MEMBER OF: White Mountain Ski Runners, Boston; Lions Club.

A TWO-YEAR man is at best a half-caste and as such (like
children visiting with Mother and Dad) is better seen than heard.
So let’s be brief.

If the inability to make money or amass money ever becomes
an outstanding achievement, then I may expect to ripen into
one of Harvard's Greats. For the present I am content to operate
as a small town savings banker endeavoring to spread the gospel
of saving one’s pennies while the Great White Father’s disciple
continues to throw away one’s dollars. Primarily a home body,

[ 507 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

I seek to duck all outside commitments as much as possible,
allowing myself to assist only on Y.M.C.A., Salvation Army,
P.T.A., Boy Scouts, Cub Scouts, Defense Bond, Red Cross, and
seven other worthy cause drives.

A vacation or weekend at my log cabin (no john) in southern
New Hampshire with Louise and the three boys is my idea of
real fun; fun loading and unloading baggage and bird cages and
wondering how to fill the respective bellies of three growing
boys; fun collapsing with the little woman on Sunday night when
you're back home with the bairns bedded down wondering why,
by the next Friday afternoon, you long for the pine woods and
inconveniences all over again.

Once an ardent skier, we have put away the boards until the
lads are old enough to take out the Old Man for the final kill.

I've stopped thinking about the future, life has become a
day-to-day proposition. My philosophy is to enjoy my family
while I may, and if at some future date my home is blown apart
and my boys marched off as cannon fodder, at least I can say I
savoured every moment of their childhood and youth. There will
always be within me a quiet pride in having gone to Harvard.
If I hadn’t, Pd always have blamed my failure to “go places” on
the fact that I hadn’t been to a top college. Perhaps my whole
reason for being can be summed up in my epitaph: “Here lieth

the ashes of H.CLH.—he was a lover of children and penny
candy.”

JARVIS HUNT

HOME appress: 51 High St., North Attleboro, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Associated Industries of Massachusetts, 2206 John Hancock
Bldg., Boston, Mass. .

BoRN: March 28, 1904, North Attleboro, Mass. parENts: Harry Draper
Hunt, Jennie Mildred Jarvis.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 19273 LL.B., 1930.

marrieD: Philomena Blaine, Sept. 12, 1927, Putnam, Conn. cHILpREN:
Jarvis Hunt, Jr., Feb. 24, 1933; Harry Draper, 3d, Jan. 25, 1935;

_ Melinda, June 9, 1944.

HARVARD SON: Jarvis Hunt, Jr., ’5s.

OccUPATION: Attorney; general counsel of Associated Industries of Massachu-
setts, Associated General Contractors of Massachusetts, Inc., and
Interstate Transit Corporation.

[ 508 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: President, Massachusetts Senate, 1941-44; president, Massachu-
setts Republican Club, 1942-44, Middlesex Club, since 1950, Bristol
County Bar Association, 1948-50, Bristol County Republican Club,
1932-34; vice-president, Middlesex Club, since 1950; trustee, Bristol
County Veterans Charitable Foundation, since 1949, State Library of
Massachusetts, 1941-44; member Harvard Law School Council, 1942-44.

MEMBER OF: Elks; Knights of Pythias, Royal Arch Chapter; Nava Grotto;
Society of Sons of American Revolution; Bristol Lodge of Masons
(32nd degree); Aleppo Temple; Grange; Ancient and Honorable
Arullery Company, Charitable Irish Society; Massachusetts Bar Associa-
tion; Bristol County Bar Association; Harvard Law School Association;
American Judicature Society; Newcomen Society in North America,
Massachusetts Legislators Association; Middlesex Club; Algonquin Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Contributions to State Government, Industry, and other
industrial publications,

NINETEEN TWENTY-SEVEN was an important year in my
life. Not only did I graduate from Harvard, but I married and
entered the Law School. By virtue of this, twenty-five years
hence I find myself a husband, a father, and a lawyer. Upon
graduating from Law School in 1930, I listened intently for an
offer from an established law firm in Boston which might need
an up-and-coming young attorney. Hearing no such call, I
opened my own office in my home town of North Attleboro.
The rush of clients to my door was so moderate that I had
plenty of time to get into local politics — which I did, becoming
secretary and then president of the local Republican Town
Committee. In 1931 I was elected to the Board of Selectmen
and in 1933 I became its chairman. Still finding time for politics,
I ran for the state Senate and was elected in 1936. In 1941 I
was chosen president of the Senate and served in that office
through 1944. During this time my son Jarvis was born, in
1933, and he is now in his first year at Harvard. My second
son Draper was born in 1935 and is now in his first year at
Phillips Exeter Academy. My daughter Melinda was born in
1944 and according to very good authority (her own) is now
the boss of the second grade.

In 1944 it became apparent to me that the demands of my
increasing family would not be satisfied with the salary paid
by public office and I felt that I must either advance politically
or retire gracefully. The next step in the political ladder was
that of Lieutenant Governor, and unsuccessfully I sought to climb

[ 509 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927.

up to that rung. Unfortunately, another Harvard man, Robert F,
Bradford, Class of 1923, got his hands on the rung before I did,
and the fall of 1944 found me looking around for the two clients

I once had. That year I became legislative counsel of the

Associated Industries of Massachusetts, a voluntary organization

composed of Massachusetts manufacturing concerns representing

approximately ninety-five per cent of the industrial payroll of

the state. My duties entailed attempting to explain industrial

problems to the Legislature and legislative problems to industri-

alists. Later I became general counsel of the association and also

general counsel of the Associated General Contractors of

Massachusetts, Inc., a similar organization composed of concerns
in the construction industry. Because of the fact that I have an
additional dependent besides my immediate family, to wit, one
Uncle Sam, it is necessary for me to carry on a private practice
as well. In my private practice I represent such varied interests
as a bus company, a race track, several manufacturing concerns,
estates and individual clients. I have tried cases in every court
available, from the local district court to the United States Su-
preme Court and before a great many governmental bureaus.
All this has taken up a great deal of time and given me a variety
of interests.

The few hours during the week I am able to get away from
my clients, | spend at a camp on a nearby lake where I have a
somewhat battered single shell and a diving tower sixty feet
high (honest!), by means of which I try to keep my expanding
waistline within bounds. The last few years I have managed to
get a few days in Florida every winter. I hope sometime to spend
more time in these pursuits and less in the practice of law. With
growing inflation and increasing taxes, however, this looks
doubtful. If people ever return to my way of thinking, I may
get back in politics. Incidentally, as you may have surmised, I am
a Republican and so conservative that compared to me Calvin
Coolidge was a radical. I happen to be one of those people who
do not believe that the government owes every man a living
but I believe that the citizen has a responsibility to himself, his
family, and the government to provide an economical, efficient,
and honest administration of governmental affairs. I shall now
put away the soap box and look forward to seeing you in June.

[ 510 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN HUNTINGTON
(formerly Duryea Huntington Jones)

HOME ADDRESS: Gipsy Trail Rd., Carmel, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Spa Summer Theatre, Saratoga Springs, N. Y.

BporN: May 8, 1904, Melbourne, Australia. parents: Arthur Winslow
Jones, Elizabeth Huntington Elwell.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1027. DEGREE: $.B., 1927(28).

MARRIED: Constance Hanley, Sept. 7, 1940, Amesbury, Mass. CHILDREN:
John Hanley, Jan. 13, 1947; Elizabeth Elwell, July 2, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alfred Winslow Jones, ’23.

occupATION: Theatrical producer; summer theatre operator.

OFFICES HELD: President, Stock Managers Association, Inc., 1950.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Adirondack League Club,
Honnedaga Lodge, Forestport, N. Y.; Gipsy Trail Club, Carmel, N. Y.

TO BEGIN with, I had better explain that after forty-three years
of going around with the name of Duryea Huntington Jones (and
often staggering under it), 1 had it changed to a mere and simple
John Huntington. There were several reasons for this, among
them the fact I have always felt that those rootin’-tootin’ family
names preceding the simple and perfectly good surname of Jones
constituted one of the greatest anti-climaxes in history, and for
another, when I got immersed in the professional theatre almost
twenty years ago, I couldn’t very well use Ribby Jones or
Johnnie Jones, and I would not use the name that they murmured
when they sprinkled me. So I hit upon John Huntington and
that is how it has been ever since 1933, until 1947, when I got
tired of leading a double life and bade my lawyer get a court
order making the change legal.

I suppose the passing of the years has brought most of the
men in my Class some terrific rewards, but I am loath to claim
them for myself. I haven’t made much money, nor have I left
behind me a trail of broken hearts and weeping women, nor
have I left any really firm imprint of my massive brain power
in the sands of time. My progress has been marked by one or
two gratifying highlights; my happiness has been normal and
fairly steady; there have been the usual periods of black depression
and despair (didn’t Thoreau say something about most married
men leading lives of quiet desperation? ); but in general the years

[str]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

have gone by steadily and very swiftly, and it is extremely hard

for me to realize that now I am an old grad. The swiftness of

the passing of the years is, I think, indication enough that they
have been happy and satisfactory for me.

The professional theatre beckoned me in 1933 out on the west

coast where I was staying that fall with a classmate, George R.
Russell, and another fine friend, E. F. Gilbert, of the Class of
1926. I worked all that winter season as an actor with the
Pasadena Community Playhouse. ‘Then I came east to start my
search for a Broadway job, acting, and it was finally rewarded
by one of the kindliest of men, the late great Brock Pemberton,
who gave me, a complete unknown and unheard-of actor, a fairly
large part in his production of Ceiling Zero, wherein I made,
my professional début in April, 1935, on Broadway. I shall
never forget Brock’s wonderful kindness to me and his blind
faith in a complete unknown whose acting he had never even
seen. In my later years, in the past ten or twelve that I have run
my own summer theatres, I have been constantly in mind of his
interest in and kindness to newcomers and youngsters in the
profession, and I feel that possibly my greatest contribution to the
theatre can be measured in what I, too, like to do for my young-
sters who work for me, as a part of my reverence for the memory
of this wonderful man.

After some five years of acting sporadically and getting no-
where in particular, I started operating a series of summer
theatres: the Cambridge Summer Theatre in staid old Brattle Hall
from 1940 to 1947, then the Boston Summer Theatre at New
England Mutual Hall in 1946 and 1947, and finally, in 1947,
the Spa Summer Theatre in Saratoga Springs, New York, where
now, at the end of our fifth very successful season, I find that
my brother summer theatre managers have conferred a signal
honor on me in electing me president, as of April, 1950, for a
two-and-a-half-year term, of the Stock. Managers Association,
Inc. While this honor means a lot of unpaid and rather trying
work, I am glad of the credit and kudos that have gone with it.
One of the most gratifying highlights of my career to date has
been the production on Broadway of a hit called Dark of the
Moon, which opened in March, 1945, and ran there and on the
road for a subsequent sixty-seven weeks. (I am also, and gratify-

[512]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ingly, sull getting royalties on this production and probably
will continue to as long as it remains popular with summer and
winter stock audiences.)

I think I must say a word about my good wife and the two
fine youngsters who have brought so much happiness and
satisfaction to me. Connie and I got married sort of late in both
our lives, in 1940, and it wasn’t until 1947 that young Master
Johnnie-cake Huntington arrived, followed by a small butter-
ball of a daughter whom we named Elizabeth Elwell, for her
paternal grandmother, but whom Johnnie-cake dubbed Libessy,
which was as close as his young mouth could get around the
difficult word, Elizabeth.

And so, there it is, the short and simple annal of an average
man and his family: one hit (on Broadway), a good long run so
far with a good wife and two swell kids. May it continue with
only those usual minor errors which shouldn’t count too much
against a guy when they add up the final score.

GEORGE HAYDN HUNTLEY

HOME appRESS: 109 Fourth St., Wilmette, IIL.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Northwestern University, Evanston, IIl.

BORN: July 14, 1905, Endicott, Wash. parents: George Henry Huntley,
Martha Logsdon.

PREPARED AT: Broadway High School, Seattle, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude, 1927; A.M.,
19303 PH.D., 1933.

MaRRiED: Nella Davigo, July 13, 1934, Paris, France. cHipren: John
Davigo, April 29, 1937; Mary Frances, Sept. 29, 1938; Margaret Nella,
March 27, 1942.

occuPATION: Professor of history of art, Northwestern University.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1944-45, secretary, 1946-47, Midwestern College
Art Conference; member Board of Editors, The Art Bulletin, since
1940; editor, 1942-44, advisory editor, 1944-48, The College Art Journal;
director, 1944-48, vice-president, 1947-49, College Art Association.

MEMBER OF: Delta Upsilon Fraternity, University Club of Evanston; Col-
lege Art Association; American Society of Architectural Historians.

PUBLICATIONS: Andrea Sansovino, Harvard University Press, 1935; Andrea
Sansovino em Portugal, University of Coimbra, Portugal, 1940; articles
and reviews in various learned journals and encyclopedias.

I HAVE quietly been preaching the beauty of aesthetic pleasures
in the Middle West; first, for six years at Washington University

[513 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

in St. Louis, then for eight years at the University of Chicago,
and since 1946 at Northwestern in Evanston. My special fields
of research, Italian renaissance art and the development of style
in the nineteenth century, have taken me to Europe nine times.
In fact I have just returned from a year’s residence in Florence,
where I worked on the art and writings of Giorgio Vasari with
the aid of a Fulbright research grant.

My hobbies are largely connected with my work. I collect
drawings, prints, and other modest works of art when I find
the rare bargains that a professor can afford to consummate. I
like gardening and have become an amateur expert in plumbing,
wiring, lock repair, etc., as well as in Canasta. Also I am something
of a photographer.

JAMES GILLOTT HURD

HOME AppREss: 714 Chestnut St., Ashland, Ohio.
OFFICE AppREsS: F. E. Myers & Bro. Co., Fourth & Orange Sts., Ashland,
Ohio.

BORN: Nov. 2, 1902, Winter Quarters, Utah. pareNTs: Reuben Arthur
Hurd, Ann Gillott.

PREPARED AT: East High School, Salt Lake City, Utah.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREE: S.B. #agna cum laude, 1927.

MARRIED: Laura Catherine Kelso, Sept. 20, 1927, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Ann Kelso, July 8, 1928 (7. Donald W. Graveson, Sept. 10, 1949);
James Gillott, Jr., Oct. 24, 1929; Lee Kelso, June 14, 1933; Joan Margaret,
Aug. 17, 1940.

HARVARD SON: Lee Kelso Hurd, ’55.

occupaATION: Credit manager, F. E. Myers & Bro. Company; manufacturer
of pumps, power sprayers, etc.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Credit Men; Cleveland Association of
Credit Men; The Executives Club; Ashland Chamber of Commerce;
Ashland Home Workshop Club.

FROM 1928 to 1932 I was civil engineer on grade-crossing
elimination with the New York Central Railroad, New York
City; from 1932 to 1934, civil engineer on railroad location with
the Delaware & Hudson Railroad at Saratoga Springs, New York;
and from 1934 to 1937, civil engineer on the construction of
prade-crossing elimination for the same company at Windsor,
N.Y. From 1937 to 1938, I was civil engineer on construction for
the B. F. Goodrich Company at Akron, Ohio.

In the spring of 1938 I gave up construction engineering and

[514]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

started on the road selling and servicing farm pumping and
spraying equipment for the F. FE. Myers & Bro. Company of Ash-
land, Ohio. In the summer of 1942 I was called to the home office
to set up a personnel department and implement their new labor
contract. The war years were spent in a tangle of federal red
tape and labor negotiations. After nine years I was more than
ready for a change and transferred to the credit department with
the same firm. A recent promotion made me credit manager with
the problem of trying to handle almost twenty thousand accounts,
with a staff of four. I find a great similarity between personnel
and credit work. There is the same need to get along with people
who sometimes feel that they have a grievance. The major differ-
ence is that now they are at the other end of a telephone or a
letter instead of pounding on my desk. It is a pleasant difference.
Too, I find that our dealers can be dealt with on a reasonable
basis which is unfortunately not always true of labor representa-
tives.

My spare time is occupied with cabinet making, fishing, read-
ing, and plain and fancy loafing. Our son, Lee, converted his
parents into basketball fans, rabid to a degree that only middle
westerners understand. Our regret is that we cannot follow his
progress with the Harvard freshman squad as we followed him
through high school. Ann is married. Jim, Jr., is in the Signal
Corps studying radar repair. With only Joan left, the house is
much too quiet.

+ JAMES WOOLSON HURLBUT

BORN: June 15, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Byron Satterlee Hurlbut,
"87, Eda Adams Woolson.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

DIED: Sept. 11, 1928, Peaches Point, Marblehead, Mass.

DURING his college years James Woolson Hurlbut belonged
to the Harvard Instrumental Clubs, Iroquois Club, Hasty Pud-
ding-Institute of 1770, Speakers’ Club, of which he served as
secretary-treasurer during his senior year, and he was chairman
of the Senior Nominating Committee. He was the son of the late
Byron S. Hurlbut, former dean and professor of English at
Harvard.

[515]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

RENWICK WASHINGTON HURRY

HOME aApprEss: Harbor Road, Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Heywood, Benedict & Hurry, 49 Wall St., New York 5,
N. Y, .

BoRN: Aug. 27, 1905, Rye, N. Y. parents: Renwick Clifton Hurry, Lucy
Washington Morss.

PREPARED AT: Hempstead High School, Hempstead, Long Island, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; jv. (New
York Univ.), 1934.

marrigp: Anna Bailey Stoddard, Dec. 5, 1936, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Eleanor Sherburne, Aug. 20, 1937; Lucy Washington, June 4, 1942.
occupation: Lawyer, partner in firm of Heywood, Benedict & Hurry.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active member, Squadron A, torst Cavalry,
New York National Guard, 1934-37; member, U. S. Coast Guard
Temporary Auxiliary, Oyster Bay, Long Island, World War II.
OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, School District #11, Cold Spring Harbor, since
1946; director, Cold Spring Harbor Village Improvement Society,
since 1945; chairman Admissions Committee, 1947-48, member of
council, since 1948, chancellor, since 1950, Society of Colonial Wars
in the State of New York; master, 1945-46, member, Hunt Committee,

since 1946, honorary whip, 1940-44, Buckram Beagles, Brookville, Long
Island,

MEMBER OF: National Beagle Club, Aldie, Va.; Piping Rock Club, Locust
Valley, N. Y., Harvard Club of New York; Down Town Association
in the City of New York; Lloyd Neck Bath Club; Cold Spring Harbor
Beach Club, New York State Bar Association; St. Nicholas Society of
the City of New York; Association of Ex-members of Squadron A.

IN 1949 I was admitted to partnership in the old-established
law firm of Heywood & Benedict, which became known as
Heywood, Benedict & Hurry. Previously I had been associated
with Delafield, March, Porter & Hope, and Hurd, Hamlin &
Hubbell, also downtown New York law firms. Among the
clients I serve are several corporations, including two life insur-
ance companies, and numerous families, trusts, estates, firms, and
individuals. Prior to becoming a lawyer I was with the Associated
Press as an editor in New Jersey and worked in a firm specializing
in American art, collecting which is one of my hobbies.

Beagling, golf, and fly fishing for trout in some of the famous
eastern streams have been sources of relaxation. Recently I shot
a hole-in-one at Piping Rock. As some of you already know,
this feat of luck more than skill brings with it a Jarge collection
of certificates, medals, and cases of such articles as razor blades

[516 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and Wheaties. We enjoy family life in Cold Spring Harbor
where water sports and simplicity predominate. Living in an old
house with antiques collected by or given to us, we often hear
the gulls and wild ducks in the harbor below. The latter have
never cooperated sufficiently to land on the dinner table.

Here my critical elder daughter interrupts to say I have been
serious long enough, and suggests some dubious verse, for
instance ...

The day is here to plan to go

Back to the Jand of crimson glow,

And dream again those hours of yore

When we were young and immature;

‘Those years at Harvard when things easy were,
And time was never costlier;

But beckoned for us more to grow —

Yes, here we are, back looking in,

The same old guys but not so thin.

WILLIAM BUTLER HUTCHINSON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1940 Lewis Lane, Highland Park, IIl.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pure Oil Co., Room 1688, 35 E. Wacker Drive, Chicago, Ill.

BorN: April 4, 1906, Michigan City, Ind. parents: Wialliam Butler Hutchin-
son, Grace Van Deusen.

PREPARED AT: Port Huron High School, Port Huron, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B. IN C.ENG., [927.

MARRIED: Lucille A. Maloney, March 19, 1933, Chicago, II]. CHILDREN:
Nancy, June 3, 1937; William Butler, 3d, May 27, 1943.

occupation: Sales promotion and bulletin service, Pure Oil Company.

ANTHONY ARTHUR IAVAZZO

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 227 Laurel Hill Ave., Providence, R. I.
BORN: June 29, 1902, Naples, Italy. PARENTs: Emilio Iavazzo, Angelina
Olivieri.

PREPARED AT: La Salle Academy, Providence, RI.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.D. (Boston Univ.), 1931.

MarRieD: Mary H. Testa, Nov. 11, 1933, Medford, Mass. cuitpren: Ronald
_ Eugene, Sept. 16, 1934; Emil Robert, Dec. 8, 1935.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

[517]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Examining physician, Draft Board #7, Provi-
dence, R. I.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant immunologist, Division of Child Hygiene, Rhode
Island State Department of Health, 1942~50, chief immunologist since

1950,
MEMBER OF: American Medical Association, Providence Medical Associa-

tion; Rhode Island Medical Society; Harvard Club of Rhode Island.

AFTER receiving my sheepskin from Harvard in 1927, I entered
Boston University Medical School from which I received my
M.D. in 1931. The next two years I spent at Cambridge Hospital
where I received valuable medical training. In April, 1933, I
started general practice in Providence in the midst of a bad
depression, and because two can live as cheaply as one, so I was
told, I married Mary H. Testa, of Medford, Massachusetts, and
thus my family started. Ronald, our first-born, is a young man
now, with a brilliant mind and a pleasing personality. At the
present time, he is all agog getting ready for football — you see,
he is on the varsity team at Classical High School. I expect him to
enter Harvard in the fall of 1952. We call our next son, Emil; he
was named for his grandfather. He, too, has a charming person-
ality but he is more of a mixer than his brother. He is a fine tennis
player; we often play together and just as often he trims me.

What do I do with my spare time? I haven’t much of it
during the day, but in the evenings, when not attending profes-
sional meetings, I sit around and try to catch up on my reading or
look at television for a while. My wife sometimes takes me at gin
rummy. On the weekends I go off to my camp with the family
and indulge in a little fishing. I find this sport very relaxing and,
believe me, it’s my best hobby. While the children were small,
we seldom took any vacation, except for short trips. However,
last February Mary and I flew to Miami for a two-week vacation
and a little fishing, too. We enjoyed every day of it, and plan to
do it again.

In retrospect, I must say that 1 enjoyed my college days at
Harvard. 1 enjoyed listening to Professors Rand, Parker, and
Grandgent, eminent teachers in their respective fields. I am
looking forward to renewing old acquaintances and visiting old
familiar places. Here's looking forward to the next twenty-five
years.

[518 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ HENRY EUGENE ALEXANDER ILSLEY

BORN: Sept. 17, 1905, Staten Island, N. Y. parents: John Parker Ilsley,
Annie Davenport Alexander.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

pieD: Jan. 4, 1926, New Brighton, N. Y.

HENRY EUGENE ALEXANDER ILSLEY studied for two
years in the Engineering School and one year in the College. He
died suddenly at New Brighton, New York. His home was in
Milton, Massachusetts.

GEORGE HOWARD INGALLS

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1025 Terminal Tower Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio.

BORN: Aug. 13, 1904, Cincinnati, Ohio. parents: George Hoadley Ingalls,
’93, Katherine Hinkle.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925.

GAGE HENDERSON IRVING

HOME ADDRESS: 360 S. Grand Ave., Pasadena 2, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Convair, P. O. Box 1547, San Diego ro, Calif.

BORN: Nov. 29, 1905, Riverside, Calif. parents: William Gage Irving, Maude
Louise Gage.

PREPARED AT: Santa Barbara School, Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Eleanor Salisbury, June 2, 1932, Pasadena, Calif. cHt~pREN:
William Gage, April 13, 1933; Marion M., May 30, 1936, Ann G,
Nov. 23, 1943; James S., Aug. 29, 1947.

occupation: Manager, Guided Missile Division, Consolidated Vultee Air-
craft Corporation, San Diego and Pomona.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Los Angeles; Valley Hunt Club of Pasa-
dena; La Jolla Beach & Tennis Club.

THE year following graduation was spent regretting that I had
not studied more intelligently at Harvard — I was a master, at my
old prep school, teaching history, government, and elementary
economics! My next year out of college saw me endeavoring to
become a securities salesman —a year of this was enough too!
In 1930 I started what turned out to be a long and varied asso-
Ciation with the aircraft industry. From this date until the fall
of 1947, I held jobs ranging from inspector and test pilot to
director and vice-president of manufacturing in companies headed

[519]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

by John K. Northrop. By 1947 I had what I thought was my fill
of industry and resigned my position with Northrop Aircraft, Inc,

Some years before, I had acquired a modest cattle ranch near
Paso Robles, California. After leaving the aircraft industry, I
moved to the ranch and during the next three years took over
its operation directly.

In the fall of 1950, it became apparent that those inclined
should return to defense work. I joined Consolidated Vultee
Aircraft at San Diego, as assistant to the president, Mr. LaMotte
T. Cohu. Since March, 1951, I have been manager of Convair’s
Guided Missile Division — while endeavoring to ride herd on my
registered Angus cattle by remote control —a rather difficult task.

P. S. Reference “Social, political or religious convictions”: 1 am

. o 6b ” 6 f£ ”,

opposed to unrestricted traffic in “mink coats” and “deep freezers ;
and, to the best of my knowledge, 1 am a Christian!

JUDAH ISAACS

HOME ADpRESS: 545 West End Ave., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 60 E. 42nd St., New York, N. Y.

BorN: March 26, 1906, Cincinnati, Ohio. parents: Abraham Isaacs, Rachel
Friedman.

prepareD aT: Hughes High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927.

marrigD: Fannie Shapiro, June 7, 1931, London, England. CHILDREN: Raél
Jean, June 17, 1933; Allen J. (“Kim”), Aug. 6, 1936, Donna Abigail, June
21, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Elcanon Isaacs, 3.J.p., 27; Asher Isaacs, A.M., 26, PH.D., '33.

OCCUPATION: Insurance.

orrices HELD: Director, M. Wimpfheimer & Son, Inc., vice-president, Her-
bert H. Gutmann & Company, Inc.

MeMBER oF: Phi Beta Kappa; Menorah Association; Panel, American Arbi-
tration Association.

FATHER’S NOTE: A postcard marked GOAD No. 3 and ad-
dressed attention of “his nearest Female Relative” demanding
action in connection with the submission of a biographical sketch
fell into the hands of my daughter who is a student at Barnard
College. The following is the result:

My father is a Frustrated Intellectual. Ife may not know it,
and he certainly would deny it, but the symptoms are unmistak-

[ 520]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

able. My earliest recollections are quotations from Shakespeare
which I thought for years were original compositions. Finally |
heard one of my father’s favorite remarks on the radio and flew
to my parents in righteous indignation to report this case of
flagrant plagiarism on the part of the broadcaster. My disillusion
was complete when I discovered through my own reading that
many of the passages were misquoted. My father was quick to
point out that these were deliberate improvements upon the
original, which his status as a former student of Professor Kit-
tredge allowed him to make. There is a continuing feud in the
family as to whether the following actually represents an advance
upon the commonly accepted version:

If lust can mutine in a matron’s bones
To flaming youth let virtue be as wax,
And melt in its own fire.

My mother insists that this one out-Shakespeares Shakespeare:

. . that holy priests do shrive her
_ Even though she be riggish.

I don’t want to give a false idea of the quotations he thought
suitable for three-year-old children, but there were many others
of a similar nature.

Another symptom is a sporadic desire to read the Septuagint.
I, of course, must struggle with the Greek while he sits in the
safety of an English translation. If one more symptom is needed
it may be found in the glazed look which comes to his eyes when
he reads of the latest archaeological discoveries in Iraq or Iran
and the wistful note which creeps into his voice as he asks me if
there isn’t still time to change my chosen field from English to
something worthwhile. This might involve tracing some of the
ramifications of the Legend of Achiacharus, an intensive study of
which might incidentally lead to the discovery of evidence prov-
ing my father’s theory concerning the dispersion of the Ten Lost
Tribes,

But enough of symptoms. Let us get down to the disease.
What does a Frustrated Intellectual do, day by day, and year by
year? He works harder than any slave of antiquity whose relics
he would like to uncover, in the archacologically barren field of
insurance. The fact that he is a slave-driver as well as slave

[521]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

allows him to make his business a Cause (with a capital C). He
even pretends that it is a highly exciting and stimulating profes-
sion. There may be an exotic element in insuring a shipment of
manganese ore from Vizagapatam and even a certain amount of
danger (for the insurance company), but I personally discovered
no particular thrill when I went to the office to file correspond-
ence or send out statements regarding delinquent accounts.

What does a Frustrated Intellectual read in his off moments
(assuming that he takes a short respite from his inspiring work)?
The answer is, nothing at all. 1 have defied him on numerous
occasions to name a single book that he has read since graduation.
So far he has mentioned no titles but he turns off the question —
neatly by saying that books are all very well for the stale academic
world, but they are out of ‘place in the life of a hard-headed prac-
tical man of affairs. How all this fits in with the accumulation of
a large library is difficult for a mere daughter to fathom.

After this diagnosis of symptoms and disease all that remains is

to suggest a remedy. Perhaps the cure may result from seeing
the achievements of his classmates at the Twenty-fifth Reunion.
They surely have made their Harvard educations the basis of
truly intellectual careers, On his return to New York in June, I
would not be surprised to find him investigating the plane sched-
ules for Nippur where exciting Sumerian relics seem to be had
for the digging. The effect closing his insurance office would
have upon the family fortunes is another question. Frustration
does pay the rent after all. Perhaps there are cures worse than
the disease.
FaTHER’s Note: I don’t recognize the above sketch of myself any
more than I did some of the proofs submitted by the Sargent
photographers. I shudder, however, when I think how closely
it must describe many of my classmates.

HENRY BIGELOW JACKSON

HOME appress: 56 Smith Rd. Milton, Mass.

orrice appress: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

porn: April 12, 1906, Milton, Mass. parents: Walter Jackson, Gertrude
Antoinette Raymond.

preparrp AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEKEE: A.B. 1927(28).

[ 522]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Mary Augusta Field, June 27, 1931, Lenox, Mass. cnitnren:
Marjorie Field, April 18, 1932; Frederick Walter, July 20, 1933,
Thomas Raymond, Feb. 25, 1940; Barbara Sloane, June 11, 1943.

occuPATION: Teacher of mathematics; executive secretary, Milton Academy
Fund.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant commander, U.S.N.R.; in aviation
gunnery training program of U. S. Navy, 1942-45.

MEMBER OF: Century Association, New York; Harvard Club of New
York; The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.

THE last twenty-five years have brought satisfaction from two
main sources: from an unusually congenial wife and children
and from my job. Having four children, ranging from twenty to
nine at the moment, has kept us involved for a good many years
with the problems of younger children as well as those of older
ones in recent years. With a daughter now at Smith and a
son at Yale has come the first shrinkage in the family circle
that makes us all the more grateful for the two younger ones.
My association with Belmont Hill School and with Milton
Academy has been extremely rewarding, if not financially at
least in many other ways. In each instance my job has been
partly teaching mathematics and partly administrative. At Bel-
mont I was business manager of the school for several years, and
at Milton I am executive secretary of the Milton Academy Fund.
To me, working with people rather than with things has great
appeal, and it is intensely interesting to see succeeding generations
of school boys develop, however little or much I may have had
to do with them as individuals.

My tour in the Navy was remarkable only because I got into
a job in which my previous teaching experience was helpful.
The aviation gunnery program started from scratch at the
beginning of the war and pedagogically, it was interesting to
see an extremely complicated mathematical problem reduced and
simplified to the point where non-high school graduates could cope
with it. Tennis and golf occupy a good bit of my spare time, the
latter begun seriously some years ago in an effort to prevent
too much of a slaughter at the hands of my wife. I soon got the
“bug,” and as a result have spent the last twenty years more or
less in a sand trap. Acquisition of a house at Osterville on Cape
Cod a couple of years ago has eliminated the necessity of looking
fora place of retirement when the time comes,

[ 523]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

+ HENRY NORMAN JASPER, JR.

porn: Aug. 5, 1906, Akron, Ohio. parENts: Henry Norman Jasper, Mabel
Temperance.

PREPARED AT: Mount Kisco High School, Mount Kisco, N. Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: S.B. IN E.E. cw laude, 1928.
marrieD: Marjorie Eleanor Baughman, Feb. 26, 1931, Lakewood, Ohio.
CHILDREN: Henry Norman, Dec. 31, 1931; Marjorie Elaine, Aug. 6, 1933.
pep: Dec. 3, 1945, Parma, Ohio.
AFTER graduation Henry Norman Jasper, Jr., entered the em-
ploy of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, in
the Long Lines Department. He held various engineering posts
in the Cleveland and Detroit offices. He specialized in transmis-
sion problems and was associated with program and telephoto
transmission in the earlier stages. Also, he did extensive work in
the field of cable carrier message channels. Given a leave of
absence from his company in 1942, he engaged in many govern-
ment projects until 1945. With the Division of War Research of
Columbia University he did anti-submarine warfare research,
pioneered in the electro-acoustic field, and contributed to the
development of the radio-sono buoy at the U. S. Navy Under-
water Sound Laboratory at New London. Early in 1942 he
served for a short time on the faculty of Case School of Applied
Science for the training of military personnel in the field of
electronics. After the fall of Germany in 1945, he became asso-
ciated with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in its radia-
tion laboratory to make experiments in radar development. He
was a member of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers.
In the fall of 1945 he returned to the American Telephone and

Telegraph Company at Cleveland, where he was working at the
time of his death.

MYER GERALD JASPER

HOME ADDRESS: 21 Creswell Rd., Worcester, Mass.
orFice appress: Worcester Woolen Mills Corp., Cherry Valley, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 14, 1905, Worcester, Mass. parents: Morris Jasper, Sarah
Friedman.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Classical High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B, 1927; LL.B. (Northeastern
Univ.), 1932.

[ 524 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Irene Ellen Shapiro, Oct. 28, 1934, Worcester, Mass. CHILDREN:
Suzanne, May 12, 1938; Michael, Jan. 5, 1941.

OccuPATION: President and treasurer, Worcester Woolen Mills Corporation.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Manufactured cloth for the Philadelphia
Quartermaster Depot, U. S. Army, during World War Il.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Worcester Jewish Welfare Fund, 1944-51; trustee,
Temple Emanuel, 1945-51; director, Jewish Home for Aged, 1946-51;
president, Brotherhood of Temple Emanuel, 1950-51.

MEMBER OF: Worcester Harvard Club, Mount Pleasant Country Club,
Rockport Country Club; Worcester Art Museum; Worcester Natural
History Society; Worcester Economic Club; B’nai B’rith, Worcester
Civic Music Association.

THE fact that my father was a partner in a small woolen mill
started me off as a mill hand in 1927. I had the opportunity to
learn the fundamentals of the business during the next eight years.
I studied Jaw at night during this period and received my LL.B.
degree at Northeastern University in 1932. I married Irene Ellen
Shapiro on October 28, 1934, at Worcester and from that date,
life began to mature.

In 1936, I started my own woolen mill and watched it grow to
a complete but comparatively small woolen mill, processing
wool in the picking, carding, spinning, weaving, yarn dyeing,
and piece dyeing to the finished cloth.

Suzanne was born May 12, 1938. She has grown to be a very
pretty young lady. Michael was born January 5, 1941. He is
now looking forward to becoming a Harvard varsity man.

_We spend our summer vacations at Bass Rocks, Gloucester. I
became a permanent summer resident in this rugged and pictur-
esque environment in 1936. In 1944, I purchased the Moorland
Hotel at Bass Rocks, which I operate during the summer by
remote control.

In 1949, I enjoyed a trip to Europe and visited England,
France, Belgium, and Switzerland. I recommend this type of
travel and vacation most highly. In March, 1951, I took the
Caribbean cruise on the Nieuw Amsterdam and visited Haiti,
Colombia, Panama, and Cuba.

I have enjoyed all the aches and trials of a small individual
business for the last twenty-five years and hope to continue until
our Fiftieth Reunion.

[525]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

ALLEN CLIFFORD JEFFREY

HOME apprEss: 14 Park Ave., Wellesley Hills, Mass.

OFFICE ApprESs: A. C. Jeffrey, Inc., 780 Beacon St., Newton Center, Mass.

BorN: April 11, 1906, Allston, Mass. parents: Allen Erban Jeffrey, Mary
Helena Clifford.

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

MarRIED: Ernestine L. Friars, June 17, 1929, Tarrytown, N. Y.

OccuPATION: President and treasurer, A. C. Jeffrey, Inc., Studebaker Sales
and Service.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Army, Armored Force, Fort Knox, Ky,

1943 and 1944.

I WAS employed by the Chevrolet Motor Division of General
Motors for seventeen years after leaving college. I served for a
short time in the Army and upon leaving it went with the Packard
Motor Car Company. I remained with them until 1950 when I
went into business for myself in Newton Center.

* CHARLES GLENTWORTH JENKINS

Born: Feb. 15, 1904, Buffalo, N. Y. paRENTs: William James Jenkins, Mary
Gertrude Rosa.

PREPARED AT: Lafayette High School, Buffalo, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREE: s.B. cum laude, 1927-

marrieD: Ruth Mabel Martin, March 30, 1932, Clarence, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Jean, Nov. 22, 1936; Judith, Jan. 4, 1940; Jill, July 24, roqr.

DIED: Sept. 9, 1950, Buffalo, N. Y.

wiwow: Mrs. Charles G. Jenkins, 64 Washington Highway, Snyder 21, N. Y.

CHARLES GLENTWORTH JENKINS joined our Class junior
year after studying for two years at the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology. Following graduation he went into the advertis-
ing business where he became associated with the Melvin F. Hall
Advertising Agency in Buffalo. He later did commercial writing
on a free-lance basis. His home was in Derby, New York.

WILLIAM MacINTYRE JEWELL

HOME ApprEss: 37 Dana St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFIcE ADDRESS: Boston University, 723 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 9, 1904, Lawrence, Mass. parents: Ernest Clarence Jewell, ’96,
Elizabeth Galbraith MacIntyre.

[526]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Barbara Dailey, September, 1939, Brockton, Mass. critpren:
Thomas Newman, May 19, 1946; Lydia Reed, June 17, 1949.

OccuPATION: Associate professor of fine arts, College of Liberal Arts, Boston
University.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Civilian teacher of camouflage; teacher of
engineering drawing to Navy V-8 men and students in the AS.TP.
program during World War II.

MEMBER OF: Guild of Boston Artists, Boston Society of Water Color
Painters; St. Botolph Club; Copley Society; American Association of
University Professors.

PUBLICATIONS: Few articles on art and art education; almost yearly exhibi-
tions of paintings in invitation or one-man shows since 1935.

THERE is little to add to the last report except that I am now

an associate professor of fine arts at the College of Liberal Arts

of Boston University, where I enjoy my work and associates
thoroughly. Our family increased to four in the early summer of

1949, with the birth of Lydia, who is now a charming two and

one-half, while some Class daughters are already college grad-

uates (I am shocked to find).

I have had moderate success with my water colors which,
through the years, have found their way into private collections
and a few museums, including the Fogg; on three occasions |
have won the Milton Gold Medal and cash award for water
colors in the New England Artists Show at the Jordan Marsh
Store. This past summer I spent three and one-half months tour-
ing England, Spain, France, and Italy, where I gathered material
for much future work in painting. The trip was most stimulat-
ing to my teaching, and I was particularly touched by the good
will and optimism of people generally. Spain seemed to me the
most depressed of all the countries I visited, but the air of anxiety,
So manifest in our own country, seemed quite absent in European
places. Perhaps the grimmer realities of war have given people
there a capacity to live happily during relatively peaceful days.
While photographing the doors of the Baptistry in Florence, I
jostled a fellow-photographer who turned out to be Haydn
Huntley, ’27. He and I had shared a locker back in 1923 in the
attic of Sever Hall while enrolled in Professor Pope’s Fine Arts
Ia course, and we had a week of pre-reunion, with many pleas-
ant jaunts in his minute edition of an automobile.

[527]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

It is impossible to teach without feeling the rather fatalistic
attitude of today’s students, In retrospect our own youth seems
much gayer and more filled with high hopes, but I think today’s
students are more mature and more capable of taking responsi-
bility than we were at their age. I am really impressed with the
good morale and good scholarship of youngsters facing such an
obviously unpredictable future.

I sull take great pleasure in my hobbies of singing and violin
playing and am still the tenor in the quartet in Dr. Pomeroy’s
church in Milton. Tommy seems definitely of a scientific turn
of mind, but the musical outbursts of Lydia allow me hope that
I may yet find someone in the immediate family to play my
accompaniments, All in all, I advise couples to have their chil-
dren young, but honestly I can’t imagine how I could have
endured the inroad on time and emotions that little ones make

without that blissful resignation that is apt to hit us in the middle
span.

BURDETTE AUSTIN JOHNSON

HOME aporEss: 185 Oakley Rd., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: New England Gas & Electric Association, 727 Massachu-
setts Ave., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 6, 1905, Hampton, N. H. parents: Joseph Austin Johnson,
Annie Abbie Shaw.

PREPARED AT: Weston High School, Weston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1023-1927. DEGREE: A.B. Cum laude, 1927.

marrieD: Helen Eunice Richardson, June 26, 1929, Weston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Burdette Austin, Jr. Aug. 27, 1930; Lorraine Bertha, Nov. 10, 1934.

occupation: Public utility accountant; comptroller and director of New
England Gas & Electric Association, service corporation, and comp-
troller of eleven operating subsidiaries.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Civilian Defense work,

OFFICES HELD: Member Executive Committee, Suffolk West Association,
1951-53; Town Meeting member, Belmont, since 1948; president,

Meredith Rotary Club, 1936-37; president, Meredith Chamber of
Commerce, 1935-36.

member or: Boston Control; Controllers Institute of America, Harvard
Faculry Club, New England Committee of Newcomen Society of
England, Associates of Harvard Business School, Masonic bodies,
Boston Congregational Club, New England Gas Association; Account-
ing Section, American Gas Association and Edison Electric Institute.

[528]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

TO ANYONE seeking a life in a gold-fish bowl, I heartily recom-
mend the public utility business. Buffetted among the public,
regulatory authorities, stockholders, and labor unions, it often
presents a harried type of existence, but nevertheless it offers a
real opportunity to the stout-hearted public-service-minded
individual. I landed in the utility game via Arthur Stone Dewing,
the bewhiskered professor of corporation finance at the Business
School. This wizard of corporate finance acquired a group of
small utilities in central and northern New Hampshire, and after
a year’s apprenticeship in Boston, I was shipped off to Meredith,
New Hampshire, to nurse along the accounting and financial
aspects of these companies, subsequently merged into the White
Mountain Power Company. Upon the sale of the New Hamp-
shire interests of Professor Dewing in 1930, I remained as treas- _
urer with the new owners.

In 1937 I left White Mountain Power Company to become
associated with New England Gas and Electric Association in
Cambridge. I have served in various capacities with this utility
system and am presently comptroller. While my office is in the
less hallowed atmosphere of Central Square, I am very happy at
the not too distant exposure to the old haunts and influences of
my Alma Mater.

Turning to my family life, I married in 1929 the girl whom I
escorted to the Freshman Jubilee and subsequent college social
functions. Helen and I settled down in Meredith, New Hamp-
shire, where we were later joined by Bud and Laurie in 1930
and 1934, respectively. The life of a country squire is very
pleasant, even in the turmoil of the utility business. My activ-
ities in Meredith included Rotary Club, Chamber of Commerce,
Boy Scouts, and various Masonic organizations. I also partici-
pated in out-of-door activities, particularly mountain-climbing,
swimming, and skiing. These I have continued over the years
since leaving New Hampshire, although to be frank, I am now
tapering off a bit, especially on the skiing. Our pride and joy on
the male side, Bud, is now a sophomore at the University of New
Hampshire. Time sure marches on. Thanks probably in part to
our out-of-door activities over the years, Bud is interested in
forestry, his present college major. No accountant’s life nailed
to a desk for him. Our other pride and joy, Laurie, is matricu-

[ 529]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

lating at Belmont High School, presently in the junior class.
She likewise is the out-of-door type. If blame there be on this
score, I now turn to my better half, who has been wrapped up
in Girl Scout activities for a number of years. In fact, some-
times I feel a little Girl Scoutish myself, as a result of the Girl
Scout activities in our household. But, seriously, it is all very
much in a good cause.

Over the years, I have been very active in Congregational
Church work, serving as a deacon for two terms and on numer-
ous committees. Suffice it to say that in the present world situa-
tion there is a crying need for revived morality in individuals
and government, and the church should supply the motivating
force to this end. As a utility executive, my political beliefs
should speak for themselves. There is no industry that has been
more harassed in the past twenty years by the social planners.
Their first objective has been to put across government owner-
ship of utilities, knowing full well that this would simplify the
task of socializing all industry. Personally, I believe the trend is
now in the other direction and that the American people will
confirm this in November, 1952.

To conclude my ramblings, may I say that life has been very
kind to me. I can still eat three squares a day without nursing
ulcers, even struggle up Mt. Washington, although I admit after

some urging by my family, and I am looking forward to the
Fiftieth.

JOSEPH ESREY JOHNSON

HOME AppRrEss: 460 Riverside Drive, New York 25, N. Y.; Buxton, North-
west Hill Road, Williamstown, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, gos W. 117th
St., New York 27, N. Y.

Born: April 30, 1906, Longdale, Va. parents: Joseph Esrey Johnson, Jr,
Margaret Hill Hilles,

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: 8.B., 1927; A.M. 19323 PH.D. 1943;
LL.D. (Williams Coll.), 1951.

marriep: Catherine Dabney Walker Abbot, Dec. 31, 1930, Lynchburg, Va.
CHILDREN: Anne Scaisbrooke, Jan, 29, 1935; William Richardson Abbot,
Jan. 4, 1939.

occuPATION: Foundation exccutive; president, Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace.

[ 530]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Officer, Department of State, 1942-47; adviser
and expert on U, S. Delegations at Dumbarton Oaks, Mexico City,
and San Francisco Conferences, 1944-45; acting chief, chief, Division of
International Security Affairs, 1945-47; member, Policy Planning Staff,

1947.

OFFICES HELD: Deputy U. S. Representative on Interim Committee of UN
General Assembly, 1948; trustee, World Peace Foundation, American
Institute of Pacific Relations, director, Council on Foreign Relations.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club; American Alpine Club (New York); Alpine
Club (London); American Historical Association; Academy of Political
Science; Society of American Historians.

PUBLICATIONS: Scholarly articles and reviews.

WHEN I left college, I had every intention of doing graduate
work in engineering and then making a career in the iron and
steel industry as a metallurgical engineer. This plan fell through
when, after a year in Pittsburgh studying at Carnegie Tech and
working for the Carnegie Steel Company, I underwent an
extended period of illness from which I did not fully recover
for about two years. Developing a keen interest in history while
in the hospital, I entered the Harvard Graduate School in the
fall of 1931 determined to become a student and teacher of his-
tory. There followed an appointment as instructor at Bowdoin
(1934-35) and then fourteen years of membership in the history
department of Williams College, beginning with an instructor-
ship in 1936 and ending in 1950 when I resigned my post as pro-
fessor to undertake my present assignment.

During almost five of those years (from 1942 until 1947), I
was on leave of absence from Williams to work in the Depart-
ment of State. It was this work, which for more than half the
period was devoted to problems of the United Nations both
before and after the Charter was signed at the San Francisco
Conference, which shifted the focus of my interest and led quite
directly to my present work.

The aim of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace,
as defined in Andrew Carnegie’s original letter of gift in 1910,
is “to hasten the abolition of international war, the foulest blot
upon our civilization.” The present state of the world does not
give much reason for hope that I shall have worked myself out
of a job before old age gently enfolds me. The job is frustrating
in its complexity and magnitude. But it is also fascinating in the

[531]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

problems it presents, and particularly welcome to me for the
opportunity it offers to keep in close touch with both the aca-
demic and the official worlds, It also gives me a chance to do

what I can to help the American people assume intelligently the
tremendous responsibilities which history has thrust upon us.

There is little worth adding. My private life has been neither
spectacular nor sordid, merely highly satisfactory. Although 1]
am now trying to adjust to life in New York City, my heart,
like my children’s and their mother’s, is still in Williamstown
where we have kept our house for a summer home.

PHILIP CORTELYOU JOHNSON

HOME apprEss: New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 205 E. 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y.

BORN: July 8, 1906, Cleveland, Ohio. paReNTs: Homer Hosea Johnson,
Louise Pope.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927(30); B.ARCH,
1943.

OccUPATION: Architecture.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Private, Engineer Corps, 1943-44.

RAYMOND EDWIN JOHNSON

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 1082 Walnut St., Newton Highlands 61, Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 12, 1903, South Acton, Mass, parents: Albion A. Johnson,
Linnea Jungbeck.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.D. 1932.

marRiep: Priscilla Marion Marshall, Aug. 14, 1937, Waltham, Mass.
CHILDREN: David Raymond, Nov. 5, 1938; Gail Marion, Oct. 17, 1940
(died Oct. 21, 1940); Linda Gail, July 26, 1946; Sally Torr, July 16, 1948.

occupaTION: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Navy, September, 1942, to November,
1945; served at National Naval Medical Center, Bethesda, Md.; Farrugut,
Idaho; South Pacific, Boston; discharged commander; received “Com-
mendation” from Army, Unit Commendation from Navy.

offices HELD: Member Board of Directors, Newton Nutrition Center;
member Medical Advisory Committee, Newton Red Cross Blood
Program and Newton District Nursing Association; member Board
of Directors, Newton Tuberculosis and Health League.

[532]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Newton Medical Club; Middlesex South Medical Society,
Massachusetts Medical Society; American Medical Association; active
staff, Newton-Wellesley Hospital, Dalhousie Lodge, F. and A. M.,
Newton; Men’s Club of Newton Highlands.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on medical subjects in Newton Hospital Medical
Bulletin.

AFTER college I studied medicine. My interest in this field
began in my early ’teens in the country town of South Acton,
Massachusetts. There while grinding out ten-hour days on our
neighbor’s farm, I was frequently enthralled by the sight of the
family doctor trudging along the winding stream with a fish pole
in his hand. Outside of the most centrally located house in town
hung his sign, “Dr. George Tuttle, Office Hours 2-4 P.M.” In
those short hours, he could absolve all those major and minor
tragedies that disrupted the country life of our neighbors. He
was a Harvard man. Somewhere in the mysterious depths of my
gray matter a goal was set — be a doctor.

I finally got my M.D. from Harvard Medical School in 1932.
After two years in the Massachusetts Department of Public
Health, I took an internship at the Newton Hospital intending
to round out my clinical experience and then return to public
health work. However, during my internship I became addicted
to Newton and to a Newton nurse. So I took over the going
practice of Dr. Fred Withee, who died suddenly just as I grad-
uated from the hospital. After two more years of bachelorhood
and night-and-day duty, I felt established. So I “built me a house
and took me a wife.” The former was designed by none than
Bill Jewell of our Class.

David, our first-born, is now a thirteen-year-old junior high
school pupil. He is voluntarily active in the Boy Scouts and
involuntarily active before the piano. His hobbies are making
radios, hamster raising, and swimming. Gail Marion was born
two years after David, but died in infancy. There then was a
lull on the reproduction front because of wartime separation,
until Linda Gail came along in 1946, and Sally Torr, in 1948.
These two are now six and four, respectively, and are very active.

My travels, aside from most of the United States, include the
South Pacific theatre of World War II, Guadalcanal, the Rus-
sells, Tulagi, Florida in the Solomon Islands; also Espiritu Santo,

[533]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

New Caledonia, and Australia. We formed a Harvard-Yale-
Princeton Club on the Russell Islands. I have one hobby. That
is my family. 1 love to play with the children, to take them
swimming, sailing, picnicking, visiting the grandparents, or just
playing ball. My photography is very amateurish, but I do putter
with that, and while in the South Pacific I painted some water
colors of the local water, coconuts, and mud. But art requires
more time than my Newton practice will allow, so as yet I cannot
paint a New England tree.

I am a Protestant and a member of the very fine active Con-
gregational Church, which seems to thrive despite only occa-
sional personal appearances by me. Politically, I am a Republican
from a Republican family and town. I believe the two-party
system is essential to obtain responsible governmental action and
consequently, have always voted for the whole slate.

The career of medicine is to me a way of living. The hours
are long, and the responsibility is always sobering, but the satis-
faction is priceless. Social activities, hobbies, sports, are crowded
into too few hours of each year. That wonderful vision of short
working hours and leisure time for fishing along the shaded

brooks of Acton remains just a vision and a reminder of how
idyllic life can be.

CHARLES HARLAN JOHNSTON

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 4820 Grand Ave., Des Moines 12, Iowa.

BORN: July 18, 1905, Des Moines, lowa. parents: Josiah Updegraff Johnston,
Caroline Myrtle Harlan.

PREPARED AT: West High School, Des Moines, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.D. (State Univ. of Iowa),
1933-

MarRieD: Margaret A. Diesner, May 13, 1939, Nashua, Iowa. CHILDREN:
Charles Harlan, Jr., Aug. 19, 1940, Margaret Caroline, March 20, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Physician and surgeon; medical director, John Deere Des
Moines Works, Des Moines, Iowa.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, Medical Corps, Dec. 12, 1940; overseas
Sept. 5, 1942, to Dec. 21, 1944, with 8th Air Force in England and Ire-

land; released March 31, 1946, rank colonel, Medical Corps, flight sur-
geon.

orFices HELD: Chairman, Health & Safety Committee, Tall Corn Area Coun-
cil, Boy Scouts of America, 1949-52.

[534]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Iowa State Medical Society;
Polk County Medical Association, Medical Forum Study Club, Des
Moines; American Association of Industrial Physicians and Surgeons;
Central States Association of Industrial Physicians and Surgeons, Des
Moines Club. .

PUBLICATIONS: “Varicose Veins,” Journal of the American Medical Associa-
tion, October, 1937.

FOLLOWING graduation, I spent several months in the lumber

business in Oregon; then I returned to Des Moines for one year

of pre-medical work at Drake University. From 1929 to 1933 I
studied at the State University of Iowa Medical School and then

interned at lowa Lutheran Hospital, Des Moines. I served as a
first lieutenant in CCC work in North Dakota and Minnesota
from 1933 to 1935, and the following year opened private prac-
tice in Des Moines. On May 13, 1939, I was married. When I
entered the Army on December 12, 1940, I was stationed first
at Camp Robinson, Little Rock, Arkansas, then at Carlisle Bar-
racks, Carlisle, Pennsylvania, Camp Grant, Rockford, linois,
and Daniel Field, Augusta, Georgia. I went overseas with the
8th Air Force and served seventeen months in Ireland and ten
months in England before returning to the States in December,
1944, to attend Flight Surgeons School at San Antonio. I was
next assigned to Geiger Field, Spokane, Washington, as base sur-
geon. On March 31, 1946, I was released, and returned to private
practice in Des Moines. I became medical director of John
Deere Des Moines Works upon the creation of the new plant in
Des Moines on October 1, 1947.

I have made many long motor trips, all in rugged fashion with
tent, camping out and cooking of all meals en route. In 1946 I
went to the Black Hills, Bighorn Mountains, and Yellowstone
Park, and repeated the trip the following year, adding Glacier
Park, Banff, and Lake Louise. In 1948 I took the same trip add-
ing a drive to Fairbanks and Anchorage, Alaska, via the Alaska
Highway and including Jasper National Park. In 1949 I motored
to Rocky Mountain National Park, Teton National Park, Yellow-
stone, and Bitter Root Valley, Montana. I took a motor and
fishing trip to Red Lake Road Country, Ontario, the following
year, and last summer went to Mesa Verde National Park.

[535]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

LEWIS IRWIN JONES

LAST KNOWN appress: 210 E. 68th St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: May 27, 1903, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Arthur Bacon Jones, Ida
Irwin.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927(28).

LEWIS IRWIN JONES has been carried as a “lost”? man on our
records since February, 1937.

DURYEA HUNTINGTON JONES
(See John Huntington)

(GEORGE) LOUIS JOUGHIN

HOME ADDRESS: 73-12F 35th Ave. Jackson Heights 72, N. Y.
OFFICE apprEss: The City College, New York 31, N. Y.; American Civil Lib-
erues Union, 170 Fifth Ave, New York 10, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 8, 1906, Montreal, P. Q., Canada. parents: James Louis Joughin,
Eva Maude Brickley.

PREPARED AT: De Witt Clinton High School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; A.M., 1930; PH.D., 1932.

MarRiED: Beatrice Lawrence White, June 25, 1927, Boston, Mass. (divorced
1941); Jean Ann Templin, May 26, 1942, Galveston, Texas. CHILDREN:
Beatrice Maude, Jan. 18, 1929 (m. E. P. Black, 1950); Lucy White,
Dec. 16, 1939; William Louis, Dec. 16, 1938. GRANDCHILD: Victoria
Beatrice Black, Feb. 28, 1951.

occupation: Lecturer in English, City College; director of research, Amer-
ican Civil Liberties Union.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, member of board, University Federal Credit Union,
Austin, Texas; member National Academic Freedom Committee, Amer-
ican Civil Liberties Union.

MEMBER oF: American Association of University Professors, American Civil

Liberties Union, The English Institute, Modern Language Association
of America.

PUBLICATIONS: Basic Reference Forms, F. S. Crofts, 1941; The Legacy of
Sacco and Vanzetti (with E. M. Morgan), Harcourt, Brace; articles and
reviews in New York Times, New York Herald Tribune, Springfield
Republican, Nation, Antioch Review, South Atlantic Quarterly, Chicago

Law Review.
EMERGING from the Yard, I was met by the suggestion that
“It was time someone in this family made some money.” The
result was a year in Wall Street as a brokerage house statistician;
my employers soon discovered that, although a Harvard man, I

[536]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

could bring them no accounts. I soon learned that my bosses
were either two-legged adding machines or rather pathetic spec-
ulators. In 1928 I returned to Harvard as a graduate student
with a major interest in English literature. It was a curious
experience. I was forced to drag my way through a number of
stupid courses taught by incompetent professors; on the other
hand, I had the extraordinary luck to work with and assist both

Irving Babbitt and John Livingstone Lowes. By the time I took

the Ph.D. in 1932, I had a few areas of real critical perception,

a lot of unorganized factual material, and a breadth of ignorance

which would almost support a charge of criminal negligence

against the system that had guided me. Of one thing I am sure:
the present-day preparation of college teachers of English at

Harvard is infinitely more comprehensive and intelligent than

in 1927.

From 1934 to 1946 I taught at the University of Texas. My

interest gradually shifted from the mechanics of literary history
to concern about the relationship of literature to society, the his-
tory of ideas, and the values of critical judgment. A natural
result of this change in point of view was the writing, with E.
M. Morgan of the Harvard Law School, of the Legacy of Sacco
and Vanzetti, which appeared in 1948. The domination of the
University of Texas by reactionaries and anti-intellectuals pro-
duced a major blow-up; Texas is still on the “list of censured
administrations” of the American Association of University Pro-
fessors. Since even a scholarly interest in the Sacco-Vanzetti
case was unclean, and since I saw no point to going down in his-
tory as a martyr, I threw up my tenure job and came home to
New York to live by my wits. Retrospectively I can say this:
Texas partakes of the tragedy of the South — it would be diffi-
cult to find a larger number of splendid and cultivated men and
women perpetually intimidated by the gross fears of those who
rule in the spirit of vested material interest.

The New School for Social Research and Sarah Lawrence
College gave me work as a teacher and time to grow in knowl-
edge and critical power between 1946 and 1951. The spirit of
adventure and the realistic educational processes at these two
places warrant characterizing them as genuine centers of Jearn-
ing. My present appointment at the City College is too recent

[ 537]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

to permit a judgment. In 1946 I became a member of the
national Academic Freedom Committee of the American Civil
Liberties Union. This work led to my accepting, in 1951, the
post of director of research at ACLU. My charge is to super-
vise research, handle the academic freedom area, and write the
major pamphlets. The holding of what amounts to two full-
time jobs, at City College and at ACLU, specialized courses at
the New School, and a little writing adds up to an eighty-hour
week but a very satisfying program. My books serve as a phil-
osophic counterweight to my ACLU work, and the grim real-
ities of civil liberties check any tendency to literary preciosity.
Of course I get physically tired, but what of it. I have no com-
plaint at all.

My travels and hobbies are either unimportant or non-existent.
Social and political convictions are adequately implied by my
career and present activities. As for my private life, a few sum-
mary comments are in order. For many years I suffered indig-
nities out of all proportion to my personal failings. For an equal
number of years I have had happiness far beyond my just deserts.
Apparently the distribution of pains and rewards is pretty largely
beyond one’s control. I am inclined to think that men our age
ought to accept the view that it is best, as soon as possible, to lose
interest in one’s fate. There are more important things in life.

ABRAHAM HIRST KALISH

HOME ADDRESS: 1345 Saratoga Ave., N.E., Washington, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: State Dept, Rm. 201, 1778 Pennsylvania Ave., Washing-
ton 25, D. C.

BorN: April 6, 1906, Boston, Mass. pARENTs: Louis Kalish, Rachel Kahn.

prepArED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; A.M., 1929.

MaRRIED: Hilda Fox, Jan. 26, 1931, Boston, Mass. cHILDREN: George Lewis,
March 19, 1943; Emily Ann, Oct. 23, 1945.

occupation: Labor information specialist, State Department.

OFFICES HELD: President, Local 731, American Federation of State, County
and Municipal Employees, 1945-48, delegate, Boston Central Labor
Union, Conventions of Massachusetts Federation of Labor; member
Education Committee, Massachusetts Federation of Labor; editor, Fed-
eration’s Reporter,

MEMBER OF: Government and Civic Employees Union, CIO, Local 1; Amer-
ican Federation of Government Employees, Lodge 65.

[ 538 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

puBLicaTions: Why Not Get Married?, Dutton, 1937; articles in Forum and
various library and labor publications.

AFTER twenty years of library work, I celebrated my second
commencement. Previous to that event, I took part in a number
of projects, three of which may be worthy of note. I was instru-
mental in having the Boston Public Library start a special service
to trade unions, which I headed. I helped the Massachusetts
Federation of Labor launch a monthly paper, which I edited. I
organized at the Boston Public Library one of the few library
unions in the country. Of these three, the first and second took
root and have been continued since I left Boston. While the
Union wound up its affairs with my departure, it played an
important part in improving employee conditions.

I am now on the Labor Desk of the State Department’s Inter-
national Information Program. Here I write articles on the lat-
est developments in U.S. labor relations for the Labor Air Bulle-
tin. This is sent overseas for the use of the Department's public
affairs officers to help them in their work of showing how
important democracy is; in this case, for the life of free trade
unions.

From the above it may be gathered that my chief interest has
been and continues to be the labor movement. To my mind, the
organized labor movement has been one of the most important
agencies through which American democracy has advanced dur-
ing the past generation. Labor’s steady progress without fanfare
or slogans into what previously had been management’s prerog-
atives has given content and the very important feeling of partic-
ipation to millions.

My contacts with labor leaders have been especially stimulat-
ing. Because of a basic responsibility to his membership who in
turn are forced by necessity to keep close to the realities of life,
the typical labor leader in his grasp of current events and his
understanding of such problems as the real nature of Communism
is, for my money, a generation ahead of most news commen-
tators and other great minds. This fact has often made me
wonder how important college training is for the attainment of
true education.

My other activities are quite limited. I like to read. I prefer
walking to riding. I play a poor game of chess but enjoy it,

[ 539 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

especially when George, now eight, beats me. Emily, almost
six, has not yet beaten me, but then she has been playing for only
a year.

ih politics I have remained a New Deal Democrat. I suspect
that I am one of a rapidly diminishing minority so far as Harvard
graduates are concerned; but there are compensations. Though
I picked Truman for 1948, 1 must say with much regret that I
could not find any of those 15 to 1 odds that everybody was
supposed to be offering. Three to one was the best I could do.

For what it is worth, I pick Truman or any Democrat for 1952;
and so thereafter. My only hedge would be if the Republicans
nominate a Wayne Morse. The reason? Elementary. Sixteen
million trade unionists with their families mean a potential reser-
voir of about thirty million votes. It takes twenty-five million to
win. So long as the Democrats keep going in the direction of

social progress and the membership of trade unions continues to
grow. ...

JOHN JACOB KAROL

HOME appress: McClelland Place, Chappaqua, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREss: CBS Radio Network, 485 Madison Ave., New York 22, N. Y.

BORN: July 26, 1904, Portland, Oregon. parents: Aaron Karol, Eve Yurk.

PREPARED AT: Washington High School, Portland, Oregon.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: AB. 1927; 8.M. (Univ. of California),
1928.

marriep: Ann Harlan Hale, June 3, 1930, Richmond, Ind. cripREN: Kathryn
Hale, April 4, 1931; John Jacob, Jr., April 1, 1935.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president in charge of network sales, CBS Radio Network.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, American Marketing Association, president, Radio
Executives’ Club, Market Research Council.

memaBer oF: Alpha Delta Sigma, Harvard Club of New York.
PUBLICATIONS: Two papers in field of zodlogy, 1928, articles in trade journals.

FOLLOWING graduation, I went to the University of Cali-
fornia on a Carnegie Fellowship. I was stationed at the Scripps
Instirute of Oceanography in La Jolla, California, and conducted
research in the field of genctics and physiology. I returned east
in the fall of 1929 and, instead of entering medical school, joined
the firm of Crossley, Inc., an independent market research organ-
ization, as New York manager. In this organization, I pioneered
work in radio research and joined the Columbia Broadcasting

[ 540 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

System as director of research in December, 1930. I have been
with the Columbia Broadcasting System continuously since that
date and am now vice-president in charge of network sales.

While there have been occasions when I felt that I should have
continued in scientific research, I must confess in all frankness
that I have been very fortunate during the past twenty-five
years. My business life has been a happy one and our family has
enjoyed life in northern Westchester County. My wife, being
a very patient woman, finally got me on a horse, and each week-
end we enjoy hacking through beautiful trails of Pocantico Hills.

| My daughter is a junior at Oberlin College and my son is a junior
at Deerfield Academy. John, Jr., is very much interested in things
mechanical and naturally I hope that he will carry on where I
left off in the field of scientific research.

Aside from serving as Class Marshal at a Commencement last
year, I’m afraid I haven’t kept up very well with Harvard affairs.
However, I am looking forward to the Twenty-fifth Reunion as
an opportunity to renew old friendships.

ABRAHAM LOUIS KARP

HOME AppRESS: 11 Kerwin St., Dorchester, Mass.

OFFIcE ADDRESS: Beethoven School, West Roxbury, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 2, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: David Karp, Lena Dobkins.

PREPARED AT: East Boston High School, East Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927, DEGREES: A.B. 19273; ED.M. (Boston Univ.), 1931.

MARRIED: Rose Nanes, Oct. 11, 1932, Portsmouth, N. H. cuttpren: Richard
Manning, Jan. 3, 1935; Robert Thomas, May 22, 1939, David Allen,
May 9, 1944; Carolyn Susan, June 10, 1948.

HARVARD SON: Richard Manning Karp, ’55.

OCCUPATION: Submaster, Boston Public Schools.

MEMBER OF: Boston Teachers’ Alliance; Submasters’ Club of Boston; New
England Council of Teachers of Mathematics,

WHEN I realize that I am writing an account of the twenty-five
years that have flown by since I walked out of Harvard Yard
with my sheepskin clutched in my hand, my first feeling is one
of thankfulness and gratitude to God for having been so kind to
me and those dear to me; my second, a sense of dismay to think
that these priceless ycars have passed so swiftly.

I settled down to a teaching career in 1931 by starting at the
Boston English High School as a teacher of mathematics, and

[s4t]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

since that time have taught in the high, junior high, and elemen-
tary schools of the Boston school system. In January, 1946, I
was appointed submaster at the Beethoven School where I am
teaching at the present ume.

The usual hobbies of tennis, swimming, fishing, etc., have
been secondary to the raising of my family, and my greatest joy
came with the birth of my daughter in 1948. Raising my family
has provided me with my fair share of thrills and trials. One of
the highlights of my life came when Richard was one of forty-
eight in the country to receive a Harvard National Scholarship.
Visiting with him at Grays and talking with some of the new
“frosh” makes me forget temporarily that my hairline has receded
and my waistline has expanded slightly —well, maybe not so
slightly.

Robert expects to be the quarterback of the 1959 eleven, with
David to follow in his footsteps in the 1960’s. As for Carolyn,
she says she’s going to marry a “Harvard man,” so you can see
where my loyalty lies. God willing, we'll see you all in June.

MILTON KATZ

HOME ADDRESS: 515 S. Wilson Ave., Pasadena 5, Calif.

OFFIce ApprEss: The Ford Foundation, 914 E. Green St., Pasadena 1, Calif.

BoRN: Nov. 29, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Morris Katz, Clara Schiff-
man,

PREPARED AT: New Utrecht High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: AB. suvmna cum laude, 1927; LLB
magna cum laude, 1931.

MarRieD: Vivian Greenberg, July 2, 1933, New York, N. Y. cHitpreN: John,
Aug. 2, 1938, Robert, Jan. 29, 1941; Peter, Nov. 29, 1947.

OccUPATION: Associate director, Ford Foundation.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant commander, U. S. Naval Reserve;
on active duty in Mediterranean and European war theatres, 1944-46;
awarded Legion of Merit, Commendation Ribbon.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Solicitor, War Production Board, 1941-433
USS. executive officer, Combined Production and Resources Board,
1942-43.

OFFICES HELD: Byrne Professor of Administrative Law, Harvard University,
1940-50 (with leaves of absence 1941 to January, 1946, and 1948-50);
US. special representative in Furope with rank of Ambassador Extraor-
dinary and Plenipotentiary — Marshall Plan Roving Ambassador, July 1,

1950, to Sept. 10, 1951; U. S. Representative on the North Atlantic

[542 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Treaty Defense, Finance and Economic Committee, July, 1950, to
Sept. 10, 1951; U. S. Representative, Economic Commission for Europe,

July, 1950, to Sept. 10, 1951.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Travellers Club, Boston; Harvard Club of New York.
PUBLICATIONS: “Cases and M{aterials in Administrative Laws”; articles in
legal, business, and other periodicals,

LOUIS KAUFMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 147 Columbia Rd., Dorchester 21, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Slate Co., 1210 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 7, 1905, Russia. PARENTS: Julius Kaufman, Mary Kaufman.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Florence E. Stearns, Dec. 17, 1939, Boston, Mass.

occuPATION: General merchandise manager for the Slate Company, whole-
sale tobacco company.

OFFICES HELD: Chancellor commander, Bay State Lodge, Knights of Pythias,

1948.
MEMBER OF: Knights of Pythias; Temple Bech El; Temple Beth E] Brother-

hood; Big Brother Organization; Boston Tobacco Table.

Mirror, mirror on the wall,

Now is not the time to stall,

But to portray things old and new
That occurred from ’27 to ’52.

After graduation it seemed that I was best fitted for teaching
mathematics and German. Such a job was not long in coming,
but my parents’ desire to have me nearer home forced me to give
up this work and brought me back to Boston. The next ten
years were probably the most trying period in my life: an odysscy
of travelling from one job to another trying to find my niche in
this world of ours. Then about twelve years ago, a job with one
of my classmates, Herb Flashman, became the “Open Sesame”
that has led to my present position, that of general merchandise
manager for the Slate Company, a wholesale tobacco house in
which I have a financial interest.

In 1939 I married a charming and talented girl whose brother,
Carl Stearns, is a member of the Class of 1926. Our home is a
happy and cheerful one, because of her vibrant personality. She
is very much interested in the fine arts and dramatics and in addi-
tion is quite a culinary artist. Looking at me, you would see that

[ 543 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

the latter is quite evident. Business demands have kept me from
travelling too far from home, but during the past ten years we
have managed occasional short trips to New York, Canada, Wash-
ington, and throughout New England. One of our favorite spots
is Lanesville, Massachusetts, where we usually spend our summer
vacations and weekends. It is here, on the beautiful rocky shores
of Cape Ann, that I first began to take an interest in scenic
photography, now one of my pet diversions. The only other
hobby I indulge in is a game of chess now and then.

During these past twenty-five years I have had no personal
political aspirations, but did for a while try to further the ambi-
tions of one of my friends until “his head became too big for his
hat.” As a result of this brief taste of politics behind the scenes
as it were, I diverted my interests to active work in one of the
lodges of the Knights of Pythias, a benevolent and fraternal order,
and am at present a past chancellor commander of that lodge.
Within the past few months I have become very much interested
in the work that the Big Brother Organizations are doing in this
country and am doing my utmost as a Big Brother to set some
youngster on the right road. All my life my religious convictions
have remained unchanged. I was born and still am an Orthodox
Jew. As a member of the Temple Beth El and of the Temple

Brotherhood I am vitally interested in “Peace on Earth, Good
Will Toward Men.”

KENNETH A. KAZANJIAN

HOME AppRESS: 27 Stone Rd., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 475 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

BORN: March 15, 1906, Worcester, Mass. PARENTS: Alexander H. Kazanjian,
Helen Vartabedian.

prEPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1927; M.D. 1931.

marrigp: Roxie Papaz, March 27, 1934, New York, N. Y. cumpren: Andrea,
Dec. 22, 1936; Robert K, May 5, 1938; Richard K. and Donna L.
(twins), Sept. 29, 1945.

occuPATION: Physician; private practice, specializing in plastic surgery, some
dermatology.

OFFicEs HELD: House officer, Maine General Hospital, 1931-32; resident
physician, Massachusetts General Hospital, 1932-33, New York Skin
and Cancer Hospital, 1934-35.

[ 544]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; New England Dermatology
Society.

I VENTURE to say my four years at Harvard Medical School
were little different from those of my classmates. Life was a
little more serious than it was in college but reading, study, and
a modicum of thinking were always enjoyable to me in them:
selves so that there never was anything in the way of drudgery
in my school years. Similarly the ability to work fast and fairly
efficiently even if in spurts has always been with me so that my
hospital years passed easily.

Since leaving school I have always known some leisure and
I never understood those people who are always “rushed” or say
so. In fact a sheet anchor of leisure, in the midst of everything
is the best part of life. Through it all one must have spells of
reading or what people call hobbies. The word “hobby” as far
as my reading is concerned is quite inadequate.

My great tutor was my uncle, Dr. V. H. Kazanjian, renowned
plastic surgeon, for whom I worked from 1937 to 1945 in his
terrific and very busy practice of plastic and cosmetic surgery.
I broke away to be completely on my own in this field and count
it a great blessing that my own work is a source of enjoyment
and satisfaction.

My family and children have been a similar satisfaction. All
mankind is hard to love but it is difficult to starve for affection
when one is surrounded by one’s own.

I, too, have suffered from two wars, the great depression, and
now this Korean business and wish that I were more naive polit-
ically so that the nonsense I read in the papers and hear from the
politicians bothered me less. Current events are a trial to con-
template.

REGINALD STEPHEN KAZANJIAN

HOME ADDRESS: 35 Kay St., Newport, R. I.

OFFICE appREss: American Embassy, Lisbon, Portugal.

BoRN: Aug. 7, 1905, Newport, R. I. parents: John Kazanjian, Vart Har-
pootlian,

PREPARED AT: Several schools and by private tutors.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192371927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

OCCUPATION: Secretary of American Embassy, Lisbon.

[545]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

AMBROSE FRANCIS KEELEY

HOME ADDRESS: 644 Prospect St., Fall River, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 404 Anawan St., Fall River, Mass.

BORN: June 10, 1906, Fall River, Mass. parents: Ambrose Augustine Keeley,
Elizabeth Doran.

PREPARED AT: B. M. C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927.
MarrieD: Helen Frances Harrington, Dec. 30, 1938, Fall River, Mass. cHiL-

preN: Ambrose Francis, Jr., July 26, 1939; James Edward, April 9, 1941;
Elizabeth Ann, Dec. 13, 1943; Susan, Sept. 1, 1951.

occuPATION: Administrative assistant to superintendent of schools, Fall River
Public Schools.

OFFICES HELD: President, Fall River Teachers Association, 1935-37; director,
Massachusetts Teachers Federation, 1937-40; president, Little Theatre
of Fall River, 1940-42; various posts, Fall River Harvard Club.

MEMBER OF: Local and state teachers organizations; Fall River Harvard Club;
Fall River Little Theatre.

LIFE in the Keeley household has taken on added interest since
the arrival last September morn of baby Susan. Not even a
Twenty-fifth Reunion can top that event for fascination. Just
ask the other youngsters! Since our last Class Report, my work
in public school administration has continued, always challenging
and rewarding. I try to maintain an interest in things cultural
(television notwithstanding) and at the same time keep an eye on
professional literature to be sure the schools of education are not
hiding something from us— even teach in one of them in what
is referred to as my “spare time.”

Present aims and objectives center pretty much about a grow-
ing family. Summers at the beach are memorable and give scope
to a persistent photographic hobby. Harvard contacts have been
limited to local Harvard Club activities, but my work on the

Schools Committee has given me a chance to steer some good
prospects towards Cambridge.

DAVID MANNING KEISER

HOME aAppreEss: Blossom Hill, Cannondale, Conn.

OFFICE apprEss: 347 Madison Ave., New York 17, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 13, 1906, Milwaukee, Wis, parents: George Edward Keiser,
Mary Camp.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

[ 546 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrigeD: Sylvia S. Kodjbonoff, Aug. 11, 1938, Middlebury, Vt. cuitpren:
Basil Edward, Dec. 7, 1939; David Spencer, Oct. 1, 1942; Florence,
Sept. 19, 1944; Peter Camp, June 22, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Camp Keiser, ’24.

occuPATION: President, Cuban-American Sugar Company, producers and
refiners of raw and refined cane sugar in Cuba and Louisiana.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcoRD: Squadron A, New York National Guard, 1932-
36; New York State Guard, 1940-42.

OFFICES HELD: Officer, Order of Carlos Manuel de Cespedes of Cuba; treas-
urer and director, Philharmonic Symphony Society of New York; presi-
dent and director, Cuban-American Sugar Company, Guantanamo Sugar
Company, George E. Keiser and Company, Inc., Sugar Association,
chairman, United States Cuban Sugar Council; director, Western Brick
Company; vice-president, governor, Wilton Riding Club, Conn.

MEMBER OF: University Club of New York; Harvard Club of New York,
Century Association; Down Town Association; Wilton Riding Club.

SINCE our Twentieth Anniversary Report, I have continued
active in the sugar industry, and what I had expected would
amount to a two-year term in this field is now approaching the
quarter-century mark. Although spent in one field, these have
been years of constantly varied and often unexpected types of
activity in an industry of American ownership and financial
support with the colorful background of the Spanish language,
culture, and tradition as transferred to the New World. My
visits to Cuba have exceeded thirty in number, and I hold in great
esteem the friendships made and the courtesies received in the
“Pearl of the Antilles.” The past five years, with their post-war
readjustment, have brought me into industry-wide activities in
addition to those of a particular company, and I shall always be
grateful for the wider interests that have resulted therefrom.

Music continues to be my avocation, and to that art my family
and I owe many hours of pleasant relaxation and entertainment.
Beginning with this year, I have had more opportunity to indulge
that avocation, and I am looking forward to devoting still more
time to it in the future.

Beyond music, my interests have been centered upon horse-
back riding, walking, and boating in the mountainous country
of Vermont where we are privileged to visit each year. Except
for our trips to Cuba, we spend our remaining time on our Con-
necticut “farm” from which we hope, when Icisure is available,
to remove the quotation marks.

[ 547]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

JEROME LOUIS KELEHER

LAST KNOWN Appress: Mill Pond Cottage, Oyster Bay, L. I., N. Y.

porN: March 30, 1905, Hartford, Conn. parents: William Francis Keleher,
Elizabeth Angeline Douns.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

JEROME LOUIS KELEHER has been carried as a “Jost” man
on our records since October, 1947.

JOHN SAMUEL KELLEY

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 812 Centre St., Jamaica Plain, Mass.

BorN: Nov. 29, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Jeremiah Joseph Kelley, Julia
Buckley.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.D. (Boston Univ.), 1933.

MarRieD: Mary Penelope MacIntyre, June 26, 1941, Boston, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Samuel Joseph Arthur Kelley, °17.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered Army Medical Corps as captain, May,
1942; assigned to Fort Dix for a month, then to Camp Kilmer, N. J., in
June, to open up the Station Hospital; assistant chief of surgery there
with rank of major until June, 1945; chief of surgery, U. S. Army
hospital ship Louis A. Milne, between Charleston and England and
France and later to Honolulu and Manila; commander, medical detach-
ment, Honolulu, separated at Fort McArthur, Calif., Dec. 28, 1945, as
lieutenant colonel.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; American Medical Association; Massa-
chusetts Medical Society; Norfolk District Medical Society; West Rox-
bury Medical Society; John T. Bottomley Medical Society.

UPON receiving my degree in 1927, I found myself at loose ends
as to what to do, so I worked for two years at Sears, Roebuck
for fun and money. It finally came to me that I had always
wanted to be a physician, which landed me in Boston University
Medical School in 1929. After I was graduated from there in
1933, 1 entered the Carney Hospital as resident surgeon for
two years, I went into the practice of surgery in 1936 and joined
the staff of that hospital, where I have been since, except for
four years in the dear old Army of the United States.

During my tour of duty I had the pleasure of seeing some of
the United States (as who didn’t) and the dubious pleasure of

[ 548 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

seeing Europe and the Pacific in wartime. At camp I learned
always to walk in the corridors with a paper in my hand, which
gave the vast impression of business. As everyone knows, few
doctors make good Army men, unless they suffer encephalo-
malacia——I prefer to think of myself as among the majority,
although some of my friends oft times allude to my cerebrations
as closely connected to one who has that big word above. (Look
it up.) Well, sir, I was separated from the armed forces in De-
cember, 1945, returned to Boston, bought a new house, and started
again the practice of surgery. Since 1940 I have been associated
with our classmate Frederick R. Sullivan, sheriff of Suffolk
County, as physician to his Suffolk County jail. One can gather
easily from this that I must be a good Boston Democrat, which
I am (oompah).

My hobbies, I suppose, . would be considered golf, at which I
am awful, and home carpentry, at which I am little better. I am
a Roman Catholic, and I try to give my best to that church and
abide by its tenets.

THOMAS FRANCIS KELLY

HOME ADDRESS: 12 High Plain Rd., Andover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Department of Labor & Industries, 301 Essex St., Lawrence,
Mass.

BORN: Sept. 26, 1894, Pendleton, England, parents: Thomas Kelly, Mary
Alice Whitehill.

PREPARED AT: Manhattan College Preparatory School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE! S.B., 1927.

MarRiED: Helen V. Heinz, July 20, 1941, Lawrence, Mass. CHILDREN:
Thomas F., April 8, 1943; Daniel G., Aug. 11, 1946.

occuPATION: Senior industrial inspector, Division Industrial Safety, Massa-
chusetts Department of Labor & Industries.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Chemical Warfare, U.S. Army, World War I.

MEMBER oF: Andover Harvard Club; American Legion; St. John’s Guild;
Massachusetts Industrial Safety Associates; National Geographic So-
ciety; St. Augustine’s Men’s Club; Holy Name Society.

IN THE year of my graduation, teaching positions though not
so lucrative were more difficult to find than nowadays. So the
fall of 1927 found me hounding New York City radio stations
for a spot on the “national airwaves.” Alas! Tenors like teachers
were as plentiful as were falling stocks in ’29, Aly name mean-

[549]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

while dotted many a teachers’ employment agency register whilst
awaiting prospective calls that never materialized into a job.
Then the theatre beckoned another hopeful balladeer. And at
least travelling theatrical productions gave me a most enjoyable
opportunity to see most of the more populous cities of Canada and
the United States, during the period 1927-33, whereat my finan-
cial status hit a new low. And as my vocal color blindness cleared
I soon noted the grass at home was just as “Kelly green” as ’twas
in Texas.
State Civil Service pointed to a career in the Public Service and

a way out of the depression doldrums. Certification followed the
1934 exams; appointment also, to an industrial safety inspector
vacancy in the Division of Industrial Safety, by the then Massa-
chusetts Commissioner of Labor and Industries. Since then I have
had a wide and varied experience in making Massachusetts indus-
trial establishments much more safety conscious and more aware
of the values of “Accident Prevention Programs.” Now super-
visor of the Lawrence branch office of the department, my desk
name plate reads Senior Industrial Inspector. Meantime my help-
ful wife and two atomic youngsters share my fruitful interest in
amateur gardening, Scout work, sports, and music. When time
permits, historical biographies give me most interesting reading i in
this era of chaos and confusion, plus peace of mind.

SETH LOW KELSEY

HOME appress: Kelsey Road, East Boxford, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Harlan P. Kelsey Inc., East Boxford, Mass.

BORN: March 30, 1906, Salem, Mass. parents: Harlan Page Kelsey, Flor-
ence Low.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1927(28).

marriep: Penelope S. Ridgeway, Aug. 12, 1928, Newton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Seth Low, Jr., March 27, 1929; Joseph Ridgeway, Jan. 6, 1933.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harlan Page Kelsey, Jr., 26.

OCCUPATION: Nurseryman, landscape architect; vice-president, treasurer,
Harlan P. Kelsey Inc., operating Kelsey-Highlands Nursery.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Horticultural Club of Boston, 1947-49, member
School Committee, Boxford, 1940-45, past president, New England
Nurserymen’s Association and Massachusetts Nurserymen’s Association;
Planning Board chairman, Boxford, 1946-51, trustee, Public Library,
Boxford, since 1947, Massachusetts Horticultural Society, 1949-50.

[550]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Oldtown Country Club (Newbury),

Ipswich Bay Yacht Club; Horticultural Club of Boston.
IN TWENTY-FIVE years I have gained a wife, two fine sons,
one automobile, one-half of a twenty-eight-foot sport fishing
boat, thirty-five pounds, some experience, and liabilities too
numerous to mention. Our elder son, Seth, Jr. attended Purdue
University (shades of John Harvard), left last year to enlist, is
now an Aviation Cadet in advanced training at Enid, Oklahoma,
and will, we are confident, be commissioned a lieutenant in the
Air Force in May, 1952. He has inherited his father’s appreciation
of lovely women and plans to marry a most charming Me.
Holyoke senior as soon as possible thereafter. Our younger son,
Joseph, is a freshman at the University of Massachusetts, majoring
in horticulture, and so far has given every indication that he will
make better use of his opportunities at college than did his father.
It is hoped that he may some day come into the family business
and support his parents in their declining years. He is quite a
quarter-miler, too. My wife keeps extraordinarily busy in garden
club affairs and as chairman of the mid-Essex area Girl Scout
Council, and still finds time to be the best housekeeper of my
knowledge.

Having two years ago caught six tuna from one hundred and
fifteen to six hundred and twelve pounds on chartered boats, I
last year bought a fishing boat with a friend, figuring that our
annual catch at ten to twenty cents a pound would pay all ex-
penses. Last year our total score was seven sharks, sixty-eight
mackerel, and no tuna. No profit, much fun. Besides fishing and
cruising my principal outside activities are travelling, color
photography, garden club lecturing, and an occasionally profit-
able fortnightly poker game. Canasta and samba have reared their
ugly heads, but still take a back seat to bridge.

The request for a statement of political convictions prompts
me to classify myself as an independent, thoroughly disgusted
with both political parties. I can see little hope of an opportunity
to vote for a candidate under whom we might expect human
welfare to come before selfish partisan considerations. Economic,
religious, racial, and social intolerance are characteristic of an ap-
pallingly large percentage of office holders and voters alike. The
primary system is malodorous; public desires and public interest

[ss1]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

are largely ignored by the ins who are afraid of going out and the
outs who hope to get in. A real housecleaning in both parties is
needed if our system is to survive. Enough is too much.

%* MORTON ELIOT KENT

BorN: Nov. 1, 1901, Minsk, Russia. paARENTs: Lasor Borisovitch Kaufman,
Pessie Hochstein.

PREPARED AT: Gymnasia, Minsk, Russia.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MarriED: Peggy Duffy, 1933, New York, N. Y. cuttp: Joyce Micaela, Nov.
4, 1935:

pieD: June 4, 1949, Washington, D. C.

wipow: Mrs. Morton Kent, 2520 14th St., N.W., Washington, D.C.

MORTON ELIOT KENT was with a United States firm in New
York which was engaged in rehabilitating metallurgy in the
U.S.S.R. He was admitted to the New York Bar in 1933 and
practised in that city and in France. During 1934-35 he was with
the Federal Surplus Relief Corps in Washington, later with the
Resettlement Administration, and he became associated with the
Department of Labor in the 1940's. He was a member of the
Federal Bar Association, the American Civil Liberties Union, and
was a charter member of the Lawyers’ Guild.

BAYARD LIVINGSTON KILGOUR, JR.

HOME AporeEss: Drake Road, Box 54Q, R.R. 1, Cincinnati 27, Ohio.

OFFICE AppREsS: Cincinnati & Suburban Bell Telephone Co., 225 E. Fourth
St, Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

BorN: Feb. 27, 1904, Cincinnati, Ohio: parents: Bayard Livingston Kilgour,
Virginia Morton Ernst.

PREPARED AT: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Kate Ellena Gray, April 25, 1931, Syracuse, N. Y. CHILDREN: David
Gray, Nov. 15, 1941; Bayard Livingston, 3d, Aug. 11, 1943.

OccuPATION: President of the Cincinnati & Suburban Bell Telephone Com-
pany and Citizens Telephone Company, Inc.

OFFices HELD: Director, Central Trust Company, since 1934; director, Cin-
cinnati Street Railway Company, since 1939; director, Ohio Bus Lines,
since 1944; trustee, Cincinnati Museum Association, since 1941; trustee,
Herman Schneider Foundation, since 1947; director, Cincinnati & Sub-
urban Bell Telephone Company, since 1930; director, Citizens Tele-
phone Company, Inc., since 1930; director and vice-president, Harrison
Telephone Company, since 1937; member, Visiting Committee to Har-

[552]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

vard University Library, 1950-52; director, Cincinnati May Festival,

1939-50.
MEMBER OF: American Institute of Electrical Engineers, Engineering Society

of Cincinnati; Harvard Club; Commonwealth Club; Commercial Club;
Queen City Club, Camargo Club; Bankers Club, all of Cincinnati; Har-
vard Club of New York, Twenty-Nine Club of New York; Brook
Club of New York; Bohemian Club of San Francisco.

AFTER graduation I had a trip abroad, which included some of
those countries now behind the so-called Iron Curtain, to re-study
some aspects of their methods of operations which now have
disappeared completely. The late John O. Rosecrans, ’27, my
roommate, could not go at the last moment, so that the only Har-
vard man I found was the plaque denoting the burial place of John
Reed, ’10, in the Kremlin wall. I returned late that fall to start
work as a statistician with the American Telephone and Tele-
graph Company in New York City. I went through various
departments in that communications company until the fall of
1929, when I took a leave of absence to make a quick trip abroad.
The beginning of 1930 found me transferred to the Cincinnati
and Suburban Bell Telephone Company in its plant department.
After working in practically all departments of this company, I
was elected president in 1946.

We have been happily married since 1931 and two boys, David
and Bayard, 3d, keep us very active. Vacations have been spent
in various locations, wherever it was most beneficial for our
boys, which ‘has been the west coast since the war. Senator
Robert A. Taft is our good neighbor, honest and intelligent;
need I say more regarding the subject of politics? Hobbies are
confined to book collecting, reading, and the taking care of our
home. Social activities are confined to various clubs and the
usual committee work in organizations found in our complex
and complicated life of today.

ARTHUR VINCENT KING

HOME ADDRESS: 3 Perkins Sq., Jamaica Plain, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: E. H. Rollins & Sons, Inc., 75 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

Born: May 4, 1905, South Boston, Mass. parents: Frank Sylvester King,
Mary Agnes Harris.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

[553]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MARRIED: Marguerite Richardson, Dec. 30, 1936, Chestnut Hill, Mass. CHIL-
DREN: Charles Richardson, Feb. 2, 1938; Kevin Richardson, Feb. 16, 1945.
occupation: Salesman, E. H. Rollins & Sons, Inc.

% FRANCIS BOLAND KING

BoRN: Dec. 28, 1903, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: William Fenwick King, Eliza-

beth Ethel Boland.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; M.D. (Tufts

Coll.), 1934.

marrige: Dorothy Okey, May 15, 1930, Cambridge, Mass. (died April,
1946); Dorothy Woollett, Oct. 21, 1946, Peterborough, N. H. cuirpren:
Susan Duff, June 2, 1939; Bruce Edward.

DIED: July 9, 1949, Boston, Mass.

wipow: Mrs. Francis B. King, 59 E. Broadway, Derry, N. H.

DURING his senior year at college Francis Boland King was
enrolled in the Harvard Medical School. After receiving his
A.B. degree in June, he attended the Graduate School from 1927
to 1928. A few years later he resumed his medical studies at Tufts
Medical School from which he received his M.D. in 1934. He
interned at the Harper Memorial Hospital in Detroit. Until 1938
he was at the Boston City Hospital and later at the Pratt Diag-
nostic Hospital. At the same time he was district physician at the
Boston Dispensary. For three years he had offices in Cambridge
and in 1941 he moved his family to Derry, New Hampshire, where
he practised up to the time of his death.

LESTER SNOW KING

HOME apprEss: 4204 N. Greenview Ave. Chicago 13, Ill.

OFFICE apprEss: I|linois Masonic Hospital, 836 W. Wellington Ave., Chicago,
Il.

Born: April 18, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Myron Louis King, m.,
98, Sophie Snow.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1027. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927; M.D.
cum laude, 1932.

Marrigp: Marjorie C. Meehan, Dec, 23, 1931, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Alfred Meehan, Oct. 31, 1933; Frances, July 23, 1935.

Harvard son; Alfred Meehan King, ’54,

HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Gustave King, °26.

[554]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Physician (pathologist).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned captain, A.U.S. Medical Corps,
1942; separated as lieutenant colonel, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Clinical associate professor of pathology, University of Illinois
College of Medicine.

MEMBER OF: Numerous medical societies.

pusLicaTions: About forty scientific publications, principally in anatomy
and pathology.

WHEN younger men in my profession occasionally ask my
advice, I usually tell them to figure out what it is they really
want, and then go after it. My own life has been a shining
example of not following this advice. I was never sure, for more
than a few years at a time, what I was really trying to do. As
an undergraduate, my interests were largely in philosophy, and
originally I intended to enter the ministry. When shortly after
graduation that seemed no longer reasonable, and a career in
teaching also failed to appeal, I decided, belatedly, to study med-
icine. Neuro-psychiatry was the specialty which attracted me.
While preparing myself for a career in neuro-psychiatry, the
two subjects which I loathed with greatest intensity, were
anatomy and pathology. It is perhaps not to be wondered at
that, following graduation and internship, instead of continuing
with neurology or psychiatry, I accepted a fellowship in anat-
omy, and soon shifted over to pathology. For a period of about
seven years I devoted myself primarily to research, in this coun-
try and abroad, during which time I accumulated several pounds
of publications. But pure research did not seem to be entirely
rewarding, so I shifted to hospital pathology and teaching. Then
came the war. For four years I served in the Army as pathol-
ogist. Since the war I have been settled in Chicago, where I am
a clinical associate professor of pathology at the University of
Illinois, and director of laboratories at the Illinois Masonic Hos-
ital,
r Just about the time when my interests might seem definitively
established, I find myself drawn back to my first concern, philos-
ophy. After many years in scientific research and the practice
of laboratory medicine, I feel impelled to interpret medicine in
its broader philosophic aspects. At the present all my spare time
is devoted to preparation of a book on the philosophy of medi-
cine. Here’s hoping it will be finished within three years; by then

[555]

AN AA Nantes

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

my interests may veer again. However, that is a sure way to
keep young .. . not to stay in an intellectual rut.

THEODORE OVINGTON KINGSBURY

HOME Appress: R. F. D. 1, Kennebunk, Maine.

OFFICE appress: Goodall-Sanford, Inc., Sanford, Maine.

BoRN: Nov. 2, 1906, Framingham, Mass. parents: Edmund Winchester
Kingsbury, Helen Dart Ovington.

PREPARED AT: Framingham High School, Framingham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.B.A., 1929.

Maraiep; Nan Catherine Noyes, Oct. 19, 1935, Brooklyn, N. Y¥. CHILDREN:
Nicholas Noyes, Sept. 2, 1939; Henry Ovington, June 11, 1943.

occupation; Textile manufacturing; chief accountant, Goodall-Sanford, Inc.

oFFices HELD: Treasurer, Kennebunk Unitarian Church, 1945-51, Maine
Chapter, National Association of Cost Accountants, 1947-49; president,
Kennebunk Parent Teachers’ Association, 1949-50.

MEMuHER oF: National Association of Cost Accountants.

AFTER graduating from Harvard Business School in 1929, I
entered the investment business, as so many others were doing at
that time. My career in this field of endeavor was cut short by
the well-remembered collapse of the stock market, and in 1931 I
entered the accounting field, which has been my means of liveli-
hood since that date. .

From 1931 to 1939 1 worked in New York, first with Oving-
ton’s Store and later with California Texas Oil Company. The
high point of this period of my life was my marriage which took
place in 1935. Even with a pretty wife, however, life in the big
city was not too appealing, and in the fall of 1939 we moved to
Kennebunk where we have remained since. We live in a large
house which was built in 1730 and which has been in the family
since the year 1800. My first business connection in Maine was
with J. G. Deering & Son, lumber manufacturers in Biddeford,
where I worked for about six years before making my present
connection with Goodall-Sanford. Our house is a large one (my
great-great grandfather brought up his fifteen children in it),
and for several summers we used the vacant space by taking in
summer guests. We found this very interesting, but it did not
allow us sufficient time to engage in our favorite summer activ-

ities with our two sons, and we have given it up, temporarily at
least.

[556]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Our present diversions include gardening, swimming, and
sailing in the summer, and some skating during the cold weather.
We have a small cottage located on Gott’s Island, Maine, where
we usually spend about two weeks’ vacation. With a house as
old and as large as ours is, there are always jobs of painting,
papering, and other such repairs to be attended to, and we con-
trive to do as many of these ourselves as is possible. While some
might not consider these activites in the category of amuse-
ments, there is a good deal of fun attached to them. Our prin-
cipal project of the past year was the painting of the exterior of
the house and papering the front hall. I have not seen as much
of my college classmates as I would have liked during the past
twenty-five years, but am hoping to make amends at the Reunion
in June, 1952.

GEORGE KINSLEY

HOME ADDRESS: 20225 Renfrew Rd., Detroit 21, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 909 Kales Bldg., Detroit 26, Mich.

BORN: Sept. 3, 1906, Sanford, Maine. parents: Simon Krinsky, Annie Albert.

PREPARED AT: York High School, York, Maine; Dorchester High School,
Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. Cu7# laude, 1927; M.Ds 1931.

MARRIED: Lillian D. Margolis, Oct. 15, 1946, Plainfield, N. J. cuizp:
Michael E., March 9, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Private practice, general surgery.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active duty, U. S. Army, as major, Medical
Corps, 1942-46; surgical service, station hospital, Fort Eustis, Va.,
1942-43; European Theatre, 203d and 198th General Hospitals, 1943-45;
Normandy and Northern France Campaigns.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Surgery (diplomate); American College
of Surgeons (fellow); Michigan State and Wayne County Medical
Societies; American Medical Association; Masons.

AFTER graduating from the College, I continued on at Har-
vard for four years at the Medical School. Then followed sev-
eral years of internship and residency training in surgery in Bos-
ton and New York. Finishing a residency with resources rather
low and in the midst of the depression, I was attracted by the
regular salary of a government job. I entered the Medical
Department of the Veterans Administration in Milwaukee, and
later was transferred to the Aspinwall Veterans Hospital in

[557]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Pittsburgh. I remained there until I entered active duty with
the U.S. Army. Most of my travelling has been on Uncle Sam —
two years in the European Theatre of Operations in France and
England. After getting out of the Army, I was married and
entered the private practice of general surgery in Detroit. At a
time when many of my classmates are grandfathers, I have
just begun to rear a family —a year-old son and another child on
the way. At the present time my home is my hobby inasmuch as
whatever leisure time I have is spent there. As for religious
convictions, I remain true to the Jewish religion of my birth.
Although I’ve been very inactive religiously, now that [ve
become a family man I’ve joined a Reform Temple and have
good intentions of becoming more active in the future. Polit-
ically, I've been a Democrat since college days and admire
F.D.R. as much as some of my good friends dislike him. It 1s
still a frequent subject of controversy. My working schedule
places limitations on our social life, and my wife and I prefer to
spend free time in the company of a few congenial friends.

‘+ THOMAS DEAN KIRMAYER

Born: Aug. 11, 1905, Far Hills, N, J. parents: Frank Henry Kirmayer, ’oo,
and Catherine Anne Dean.

PREPARED AT: Kirmayer School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: S.B., 19273 D.M.D., 1932.

MarRieD: Louise Naclerio, Dec. 7, 1935, Cliffside Park, N. J. camp: Thomas
Dean, Jr., Nov. 21, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Deane Kirmayer, ’26.

pieD: Sept. 12, 1951, Englewood, N. J.

wwow: Mrs. Thomas D. Kirmayer, 765 Anderson Ave., Cliffside Park, N. J.

SHORTLY after the death of Thomas Dean Kirmayer on Sep-
tember 12, 1951, his brother, Francis Deane Kirmayer, ’26, sent
to the Secretary the following obituary:

“After graduation Tom worked for about a year at the Corn
Exchange Bank in New York and then decided to return to the
Harvard Dental School. He took his degree of D.M.D. in 1932
and opened his practice in Cliffside Park, New Jersey, that same
year, For nineteen years he practised dentistry in his home town.
At the time of his death his popularity was such that he had
difficulty in handling his growing appointment list.

[558]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

“I little thought last year at my own Twenty-fifth Reunion
_ that I would have to report for my brother a year later. For the
sake of his son (good potential Harvard material) and his lovely
widow, I would like to say a few things to his classmates.

“No one loved life and people better than Tom. Eloquent
testimony to this was furnished by the hundreds of people, old
and young, great and small, who literally filled a room with
flowers at his funeral. The comment most frequently heard was
that he was so kind and considerate — a man of whom the town
was proud.

“Tom’s great outlet outside of his work was fishing. We both
loved the sport but he soon outstripped me in the use of the fly
rod. We had spent too few happy hours together whipping the
water for trout or bass. Always we promised each other that
some day we would take a real fishing trip. Strangely, I feel that
sometime we'll keep that date.

“To me and to those of you who knew him, Tom’s passing
represents a great loss. Of one thing I am sure and that is when
the Sons of Harvard get together for their great reunion in the
hereafter it will be good to know that Tom has gone ahead —a
fine example of what a Harvard man can be.”

Thomas D. Kirmayer was a member of the American Dental
Society, the New Jersey State Dental Society, the Bergen County
Dental Society, and the Lions Club, and he was vice-president of
the Board of Health of Cliffside Park.

DAVID NATHAN KLARFELD

HOME Appress: 1712 Northampton St., Holyoke, Mass.

OFFIcE appress: Charles Belsky & Sons, Inc., 532 Main St., Holyoke, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 21, 1905, Roxbury, Mass, PARENTS: Berys Peter Klarfeld, Lena
Bedrick.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1927; LL.B. (Boston
Univ.), 1931.

MarriepD: Gloria K. Belsky, Nov. 17, 1935, Springfield, Mass. CHILDREN:
Jonathan Michacl, Dec. rt, 1937; Peter James, Aug. 19, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Klarfeld, '29.

occupation: Lawyer; manufacturing business,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Springfield, Mass.; Elarvard Law School Asso-
ciation of Massachusetts.

[559]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

child that rings sweeter than a lovely bell; the words and prom-
ises of friendship. . . . these are everlasting. Lack of success in
business vanishes with the wind of circumstance. A moment of
success in a law case, to see some people happy thenceforth, is
cheering. An increased appreciation of human dignity, the devel-
opment of mutual respect, have given life its reason for being. I
have discovered that I can learn by listening to the stars, the
night wind, the early sun, the edge of the new moon, the next
moment of incipient time. Friendship needs no perfume, mem-
orjies need no song. Ideas and ideals, thoughts and opinions,
may be expressed, exchanged; but they are not negotiable. Some
enthusiasms may cool while others grow more intense.

Often do I think of the following verse, clipped from some-
where, which I pasted into a freshman notebook in 1923:

This of a friend

Is the final test::

The faith of the ones

Who know him best. (Anon.)

I am also a collector of memories, hopes, and dreams.

HOWARD KLEIN

HOME ADDRESS: 1735 Commonwealth Ave., Brighton 35, Mass. ,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1101-2 Exchange Bldg., 53 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: June 25, 1906, Chelsea, Mass. parents: Martin Klein, Helen Lillian
Hoenig.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 19273 LL.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Norma Navisky, June 27, 1933, Boston, Mass. cHILDREN: M. Mark,
Dec. 30, 1934 (“Mike”); Alan H., Dec. 11, 1937 (“Spike”).

HARVARD BROTHERS: Arthur Klein, ’32; Leonard Milton Klein, ’36.

occupation: Attorney-at-law, general practice.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Air raid warden, fire watcher, and plane plotter
at communications report center.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Noddle’s Island Lodge, A. F. & A. M., East Boston,
since 1950.

MEMBER OF: Noddle’s Island Lodge, AF. & A.M.; St. John’s Royal Arch
Chapter; Boston Council of Royal and Select Masters; Scottish Rite
Bodies of the Valley of Boston, Willena Benton Chapter, O. E. S. #218;
Aleppo Temple; A. A. O. N. M. S.; Bostonian Society; Massachusetts
Bar Association; American Bar Association; Commercial Law League of
America.

[ 562 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

puBLicATIONS: “Forms of Interrogatories” (in process for final revision pre-
paratory to publication).

AFTER graduation from Harvard Law School in 1930, I served
two successive law apprenticeships totalling five years and then
went into general practice for myself which has continued on
uninterruptedly down to the present. Although I am practically
a teetotaler (except for an occasional sip of wine), I anomalously
collect liquor minjatures, “nips,” of which I now have a fair-
sized collection to which I am constantly adding. My number-
one son, a senior at Boston Public Latin School, is taking
entrance examinations for Harvard so that he may come under
the jurisdiction of our classmate “Will” Bender.

LOUIS KLEIN

HOME ADDRESS: 515 Shortridge Drive, Wynnewood, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 222 W. Washington Sq., Philadelphia, Pa.

BORN: March 24, 1907, Brockton, Mass. PARENTS: Morris Klein, Clara
Goldin.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927.

MARRIED: Josephine Seibert, Aug. 6, 1948, Philadelphia, Pa. cHitpren: Lois,
Aug. 20, 1950; Jeffrey, Nov. 30, 1951.

occuPATION: Chemical manufacturing; vice-president, director, vice-chair-
man, Executive Committee, Rohm & Haas Company.

LUCIUS JAMES KNOWLES

HOME ADDRESS: 274 Beacon St., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 18, 1904, London, England. parents: Lucius James Knowles,
Laura McGinley.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; A.M., 1932.

OCCUPATION: Writer.

+ JOHN RAYMOND KOCHENDORFER

BORN: June 16, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: John Kochendorfer, Helga
Quortrys,

PREPARED AT: Jamaica High School, Jamaica, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; LL.B., 1930.

MaRRIED: Elizabeth Cornell, June 10, 1933. cin: Jane Elizabeth, May 13,

1938.
piep: Jan. 3, 1949, New York, N.Y.

[ 563 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

JOHN RAYMOND KOCHENDORFER won a Harvard Club
of New York Scholarship for his freshman year. After gradua-
tion he attended the Harvard Law School, received his degree in
1930, and was admitted to the New York Bar in 1931. Thereafter
he was admitted to practice before the United States Circuit
Court of Appeals, Second Circuit, the United States District
Courts for the Southern and Eastern Districts of New York, the
United States Treasury Department, the United States Board of
Tax Appeals, and the Interstate Commerce Commission. He was
a member of the Harvard Legal Aid Society.

For ten years he was with the law firm of Kellogg, Emery &
Inness-Brown in New York City and thereafter, until his death,
he was associated with his father in the general practice of law.
He was a member of the Downtown Harvard Lunch Club, the
New York County Lawyers’ Association, the Young Men’s Re-
publican Club of Hempstead, New York, and the Richmond Hill
Republican Club.

% LOUIS HENRY KOHN, JR.

BORN: Jan. 12, 1907, Chicago, Ill. parents: Louis Henry Kohn, Caroline
Hart.

PREPARED AT: Harvard School, Chicago, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

pieD: Dec. 7, 1944 (missing and presumed dead), Southwest Pacific Area.

LOUIS HENRY KOHN, JR., studied for one year at the Uni-
versity of Chicago before entering Harvard. Following gradua-
tion he attended the University of Chicago Law School and began
the practice of law in Chicago, During World War II he enlisted
in the Signal Corps and reported for active duty September,
1943. A year later he left the United States for foreign service in
the Southwest Pacific Area and was officially reported missing
December 7, 1944, on a flight from Biak to Morotai Island. At
the time of his presumed death he was a corporal with the sth
Air Force Service Command.

JOHN KORMENDI

appress: 60 Broad St., New York 4, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 13, 1907, Tata, Hungary. parents: Lajos Kormendi, Folan
Kellner.

[ 564 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: St. Stephen Gymnasium, Budapest, Hungary.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

occUPATION: Finance.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered U.S. Army as private, Quartermaster
Corps, 1942; discharged captain, Intelligence Corps, 1945.

+ DAMODAR DHARMANAND KOSAMBI

BORN: July 31, 1907, Goa, India. parents: Dharmanand Damodar Kosambi,
Balahai Lad.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924, 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B. sunrma cum laude,
1927(29).

DIED: June 4, 1947.

VERY little is known about Kosambi’s career after he left college.

He returned to India and was reported to be teaching at Bhan-

darkar Institute Colony in Poona in 1937. He had not been heard

from directly for any of our Reports. It is believed that he was

married. The Secretary has been unable to obtain further infor-

mation.

HARRY LEO KOZOL

HOME ADDRESS: 35 Kenilworth St., Newton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 115 Bay State Rd., Boston, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 2, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Louis Kozol, Rebecca Schneider.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: S.B. mragna cum laude, 1927; M.D.
1934.

MarrieD: Ruth Massell, Dec. 29, 1927, Nashua, N. H. cumpren: Barbara
Lou, June 9, 1932; Jonathan, Sept. 5, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frank Louis Kozol, ’24.

OccuPATION: Physician, specializing in practice of neurology and psychiatry;
clinical associate in neurology, Harvard Medical School; visiting neurol-
ogist, Neurological Unit, Boston City Hospital.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Office of Scientific Research and Development
Research in Brain Injuries.

OFFICES HELD: Clinical associate in neurology, Harvard Medical School;
member Legal Committee, American Psychiatrie Association; member
Corporation, Washingtonian Hospital; member of Board, Jewish Family
and Children’s Service.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; American Psychiatrie Association
(fellow); American Academy of Neurology (fellow); American Board
in Psychiatry and Neurology (diplomace),

( 565 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

tional ways: a theatre, a game, a book, a work of art, a brief trip,
a game on our badminton courts, an evening with friends. Last
summer, while Barbara was at the Harvard Summer School, Ruth
and Jonathan and I climbed Mount Washington by way of
Tuckerman’s ravine. At our age (excluding Jonathan) we felt it
wasn’t too poor an accomplishment. I participate somewhat more _
formally in community affairs as a member of the Board of the
Jewish Family and Children’s Service and the Corporation of the
Washingtonian Hospital.

Like others I am much concerned about social and political
matters. These should be everyone’s concern. I have no patience
with those who claim that the only way to improve is to destroy.
Within the framework of our traditional American way of life
there are adequate provisions for change. As all progress ulti-
mately depends on the contributions of individuals, I feel strongly
about the preservation of that society — our present America —
which offers the greatest incentives for individual contributions
to human welfare. All in all these years have been full ones for
me — sometimes hectic, sometimes trying, sometimes discourag-
ing, often exhilarating, always interesting. And I don’t know any
man who is happier than I.

GERALD KRECH

HOME appreEss: Knots Fosse, Great Chishill, near Royston, Herts., England.

BoRN: May 12, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: Alvin Wilhelm Krech,
Angeline Sherwood Jackson.

PREPARED AT: Lake Placid, Fla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.

OccuPATION: Fruit grower, personal representative.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Voluntary factory work; food growing.

MEMBER OF: St. James's Club; Royal Society of St. George.

pusLications: Story of Europe in Metaphor (unpublished).

CHARLES ERNST KREMER, JR.

HOME appReEss: 2920 Taylor St., Corvallis, Oregon.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 301 Crees Bldg., Corvallis, Oregon.

Born: April 6, 1904, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Charles Ernst Kremer, Elsie
Rebecca Kerbaugh.

[570]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: William Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREE: M.D., 1929.

MarRIED: Frances Elizabeth Peter, Sept. 23, 1931, Narberth, Pa. cuitpren:
Karolyn Frances, Sept. 28, 1933; Charles Ernst, 3d (Peter), March 8,

1940.
occuPATION: Physician and surgeon; private practice limited to urology.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: A.U.S. Medical Corps, 1943-46; major, Chief

Urology Section, 126th General Hospital, Leyte, PI.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Oregon State Medical Associa-
tion; Benton County Medical Society; Oregon State Urological Society;
Lions Club; National Association of Amateur Chamber Music Players,

PUBLICATIONS: Case reports and short papers for medical journals.

I COULD hardly wait for my internship at Presbyterian Hos-
pital, Philadelphia, to end because at long last LIFE was to begin
with marriage and practice.

Frances and I lived in Charlotte, North Carolina. That is
where Kay was born and Frances was baptized, Frances didn’t
need the submersion (she was a Lutheran in good standing) but
her courage made us both members of the Baptist Church. I was
engaged in general practice. Part-time employment as City
Clinician helped me provide $100.00 each month for the family
budget. Rent was $35.00 a month and most of the rest went
for food and clothing. In 1934 I became a self-endorsed anes-
thesia specialist and introduced the new gas cyclopropane to
the doctors and some of their patients. It was during this period
. that my gluteal muscles cried for padding and a serpentine-
tongued salesman sold me a worthless encyclopedia.

My great opportunity came in 1935 when I was offered a
residency in urology. The residency turned out to be about as
valuable as the afore-mentioned encyclopedia. However, I was
provided with time for study and I gradually accumulated suffi-
cient knowledge to grow in my chosen specialty. For a few years
it was general practice with special interest but rare opportu-
nities in urology. We lived at 5048 Larchwood Avenue in West
Philadelphia and Petey (gencalogically known as Charles Ernst,
3d) introduced himself.

The children were delighted when T appeared in uniform. I
became a hero overnight. I spent the usual six weeks at Carlisle
Barracks. Next came nearly a year with the ayth Airborne Divi-
sion at Camp Mackall, North Carolina. Frances and the children

[s7:]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

had become veteran camp followers. They lived under some
very novel conditions, including a skirmish with bedbugs. The
bugs provoked a move to Pinehurst where our apartment shared
bath facilities with nineteen persons.

A transfer west was free and beautiful. I joined the 71st Evac-
uation Hospital and the family joined the Congregational Church
in Corvallis, Oregon. Camp Honeman and then New Guinea.
The ztst got down to cases.on Noemfur Island but the C.O.
knew best and I was transferred to the 857th Engineer Aviation
Battalion. At the time I was depressed but when we operated on
Leyte about one month later I had a feeling of definite achieve-
ment. The battalion really carried the ball for a time.

Things quieted down and the 126th General Hospital needed
a urologist. I was assigned. A year later 1 was home and acquired
an Oregon license and an Oregonian’s disregard of rain.

These last five years have been happy ones. I practise urology
exclusively and have won the confidence of our new community.
Last year I was president of our County Medical Society and
this year I am president of the hospital staff. We have travelled
along the scenic Pacific coast as far south as Ensenada, Baja.
Until Frances’ serious illness two years ago we were very active
in social and religious circles. At present we confine our activities
to a small dance club and evenings at bridge. I spend consider-
able time attending to my duties as president of the Lions Club
of Corvallis. I also cultivate a lifelong interest in music by tak-
ing ’cello lessons. Frances and I enjoy ceramics and we read
many historical novels. This fall Kay entered Willamette Uni-
versity.

FREDERICK ALBERT KULLMAN

HOME apbpreEss: 77 Versailles Blvd., New Orleans 15, La.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kullman & Lang, Whitney Bank Bldg., New Orleans, La.

BORN: July 20, 1906, Natchez, Miss. parents: Bernard Jacob Kullman,
Bertha Mohr.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: A.B, 1927; LL.B. 1930.

marrige: Marjorie Isaacs, Sept. 4, 1935, New Orleans, La. cuitpren: Fred-
erick Sidney, March 21, 1937; Paul Irwin, July 21, 1939; Lawrence
Stephen, June 8, 1948.

[572]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Lawyer, partner, Kullman & Lang.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Ensign (T), Coast Guard Auxiliary.

OFFICES HELD: President, B'nai B’rith Lodge, 1945, Jewish Federation of New
Orleans, 1948-49, Touro Synagogue, 1949-51; vice-president, South-
eastern Region Council of Federations & Welfare Funds, 1948-49, co-
chairman, National Conference of Christians & Jews, campaign chair-
man, 1949, trustee, 1950-51, New Orleans Jewish Welfare Fund; direc-
tor, Mark Isaacs Company; Pontchartrain Hotel Corporation.

MEMBER OF; New Orleans Bar Association; Louisiana Bar Association; Amer-
ican Bar Association; American Philatelic Society; Lakewood Country
Club.

AFTER finishing the Law School in 1930, I was undecided as
to where to commence the practice of my profession. The for-
tunate presence of a brother in New Orleans brought me to that
city after a few months of Jaw clerking in my home at Natchez,
Mississippi. Not finding any firms in New Orleans clamoring for
the services of a Harvard Law School graduate in 1930, I went
to work for the Union Indemnity Company as a bond under-
writer. In 1931 I was admitted to the Louisiana Bar, but con-
tinued on my first job until its final liquidation in 1934. I then
started my law practice as an associate with a local firm, with
which I remained until 1941. That year I hung out my own
shingle and in 1946 formed a partnership with Samuel Lang.
That partnership has been a happy one. While our practice is
general, a substantial part of it is devoted to representing the
interests of employers in labor matters.

In 1935 I was married and now have a family of three boys,
ranging in age as my wife says, “from high school to high chair.”
Our household is a rough and noisy one, constantly threatened
by my eldest son’s experiments in various fields.

During the past ten years I have devoted a substantial amount
of time to communal affairs— primarily in the religious and
philanthropic fields. I manage to find time for a little golf, but
am and will remain a duffer. In odd moments, I add to a collec-
tion of United States and British North American stamps, which
I started a few years ago.

While we have managed to have some very enjoyable vaca-
tions in various parts of this country and Mexico, I am looking
forward to the Reunion for my first return to New England since
leaving Law School.

[ 573 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

+ HERBERT MERVIN KULLMAN

Born: Nov. 28, 1906, Natchez, Miss. parents: Michael Kullman, Caroline
Ruth Dreyfus.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926. DEGREES: A.B., 19273 LL.B., 1929.
pep: June 26, 1932, New York, N. Y.

HERBERT MERVIN KULLMAN was a member of the Sigma
Alpha Mu Fraternity and throughout his undergraduate years
was on the wrestling and lacrosse teams. After completing his
college course in three years, he entered the Harvard Law School
and received his LL.B. in 1929. He began practising law in New
York City, first with the firm of McAlpin, Kauffman, Merle-
Smith & Smart, and afterwards with Patterson, Eagle, Greenough
& Day. He never married.

NATHAN LABOVICH

HOME ADDRESS: 103 Ash Drive, Great Neck, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREss: Boy-Crest Clothes, Inc., 160 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: July 22, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Benjamin Labovich, Mollie
Finkelstein.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923—1927. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1927; LL.B., 1930.

marriep: Fanny Fisher, Oct. 28, 1934, Brooklyn, N. Y. cup: George
Robert, Sept. 23, 1938.

occupation: Manufacturing of boys’ clothing.

FOR several years I made my contribution to society in the pro-
fession for which I was trained — the law. By 1937 a combina-
tion of circumstances and a change of interests had led me into a
different field of activity, the manufacture of tailored clothing
for boys. I formed the firm of Boy-Crest Clothes, Inc., which
has grown and is now a factor in the industry. I have been and
continue to be active in the affairs of this firm, which I now serve
in the capacity of treasurer.

My social, political, and religious activities have been locally
centered; I like to think of myself as a conservative liberal. Most

of my spare time I have spent with my wife and son who are my
only real hobbies.

[574]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT WATSON LADD

HOME ADDRESS: Centre Street, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Investors Trust, 200 Berkeley St., Boston, Mass,

Born: Dec. 20, 1903, Milton, Mass. parents: Alexander Haven Ladd, ’97,
Elinor Ware Merriam.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928.

MARRIED: Helen Richmond, April 16, 1937, Milton, Mass. cHiLpREN: Robert
Watson, Jr., Feb. 28, 1940; Carleton Richmond, Feb. 19, 1942; Elinor,
Oct. 22, 1946,

HARVARD BROTHER: Alexander Haven Ladd, Jr., ’23.

OccuPATION: Secretary and treasurer, Massachusetts Investors Trust and
Massachusetts Investors Second Fund, Inc.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Three years: First Motor Squadron, Massachu-

setts State Guard.
MEMBER OF: Delphic Club; Dedham Country and Polo Club; Sakonnet
Yacht Club; Sakonnet Golf Club.

HAVING worked for a summer in a bank prior to leaving
college, I found that the banking business interested me, and in the
winter of 1928 I began my business life with the State Street Trust
Company in Boston, where I stayed for seven years. In the
course of this period I became very familiar with the mechanical
operation of an investment company, which resulted in my being
offered a position with Massachusetts Investors Trust which I
gladly accepted. My work with this Trust was first to assist the
chairman in answering government questionnaires, and this has
led to my being responsible for the preparation of registration
statements and prospectuses and other mechanical operations of
the Trust. It has been interesting to watch the development and
improvement in the law regarding rules and regulations affect-
ing the investment company industry, and to see how the many
problems of a legal and technical nature have been solved.

Since I was too elderly to be drafted for active service, I
enlisted for a three-year term with the First Motor Squadron,
Massachusetts State Guard, and after that term I became a volun-
teer orderly at the Massachusetts General Hospital to be of serv-
ice where I could in that short-handed institution. All other
spare time at home was spent in growing as much food as could
be stored in one freezer or canned. For pure pleasure and main-
tenance of health and happiness I have played at those games

[575]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

which members of my family could also enjoy according to their
age and ability.

AUSTIN LAMONT

HOME AppREss: 7801: Huron St., Philadelphia 18, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 3400 Spruce St., Philadelphia 4, Pa.

BORN: Feb, 25, 1905, Englewood, N. J. parents: Thomas William Lamont,
’g92, Florence Haskell Corliss.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1927; M.A. (Univ. of
Oxford), 1931; M.o. (Johns Hopkins Univ.), 1934.

marrieD; Nancy Lloyd Sullivan, Dec. 17, 1930, Peapack, N. J. CHILDREN:
Lavinia Lloyd, March 23, 1934; Austin Ferguson, Nov. 20, 1936, Nicholas
Stilwell, May 29, 1938; Nancy Sullivan, May 24, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Thomas Stilwell Lamont, ’21; Corliss Lamont, ’24.

occupation: Doctor of medicine specializing in anaesthesia; assistant pro-
fessor, Medical School and Graduate School of Medicine, University
of Pennsylvania; anaesthetist, Hospital of the University of Pennsyl-
vania.

orFices HELD: Fellow in surgery, 1934-38, instructor, 1938-43, associate in
surgery (anaesthesia), 1943-45, associate professor of surgery (anaes-
thesia), 1945-46, Johns Hopkins University; physician-in-charge of
anaesthesia, 1943-46, assistant visiting surgeon, 1943-44, Visiting surgeon,
1945-46, Johns Hopkins Hospital; president, Philadelphia Society of
Anaesthetists, 1949-51.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association (fellow); American College of
Anaesthetists; College of Physicians, Philadelphia, American Board of
Anaesthetists (diplomate); American Society of Anaesthetists, A.A.A.S.;
Philadelphia County Medical Society; Society Sigma Xi; Harvard Club
of New York; Century Association, New York; Philadelphia Cricket
Club; Pulpit Harbor Yacht Club; Cruising Club of America; Cruising
Association; Oxford University Yacht Club (U.K.); American Geo-
graphic Society; United World Federalists; Foreign Policy Association;
Society for Nautical Research (U.K.).

PusLicaTions: An occasional paper in medical journals, several on experi-
mental tetanus, several on anaesthetic problems.

DURING my senior year at Harvard I persuaded the authorities
at New College, Oxford, to admit me as a student of Latin and
Greek. Some months later on the steamer to England I changed
my mind and decided to study science, for of the various branches
of learning, I was least acquainted with science. I felt that if
I did not find out something about it then, I probably never
would.

[576 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I started in with elementary biology, physics, and chemistry.
Liking the stuff, I determined to take the course in physiology
at Oxford. At that time the Oxford school of physiology was
the most distinguished in the world. Having an American’s idea
of the proper purpose of college vacations, I spent them in travel,
unlike most of my British colleagues who used them more for
study. In all, I managed to spend four very pleasant and inter-
esting years at Oxford. I ended up with a second-class honors
degree in physiology and an American wife whom I had married
just before Christmas of my last year at Oxford.

We returned to America, to Baltimore, where I studied at the
Johns Hopkins Medical School. I received my M.D. degree there
in 1934. They gave me an appointment as a fellow in surgery, a
capacity in which I served as a research assistant in various
projects. Life was interesting and pleasant, with a growing circle
of family and friends. We had good summer vacations, in Maine
and once or twice abroad. I continued my interest in sailing and
developed a liking for walking when I could not sail, and for
listening to music when I could not walk.

When, owing to the growing threat of war, William Allen
White formed the Committee to Defend America, I joined its
Baltimore branch and spent a year working for them. At about
this time the Johns Hopkins acquired a new professor of surgery,
Dr. Blalock, who asked me if I would care to interest myself in
anaesthesia with a view to developing a professional department
there. I spent about a year and a half alrogether gaining experience
in anaesthesia at the Wisconsin General Hospital in Madison and
at Bellevue in New York, with shorter visits to several other
centers. In the spring of 1943 I entered upon my new duties in
Baltimore.

I spent three very busy years there in anaesthesia. The pro-
fessional problems were always interesting, especially after Dr.
Blalock began to operate on “blue babies”; and there were a
number of administrative problems new to me, for I had never
before tried to manage a group of fifteen or twenty women.
During this time I also persuaded the physician anaesthetists
practising in Baltimore to form a section on anaesthesia in the
city medical society and to interest themselves as a group in the
status of the specialty.

[577]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

After the war was over and when young doctors again became
available, I submitted a plan for the development of a professional
department of anaesthesia at the Johns Hopkins. ‘The authorities
opposed the plan and said they saw no need for a change. Since
I was not interested in serving indefinitely as the director of a
department of technicians, I resigned my position and took a job
with a friend who is head of the department of anaesthesia at the
University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. I am happy to be
associated with a department which is, I believe, recognized as
one of the two or three best in the country.

In 1947 we moved to the suburb of Chestnut Hill, a change
which proved to be highly popular with all members of the
family. We have gradually grown into the very pleasant com-
munity life of the neighborhood and have made a number of new
friends. For exercise I walk whenever I can, preferably where
there are birds to observe. In the summers we visit my mother at
her place on Penobscot Bay in Maine where I continue to learn
how to sail and try to teach the children to sail.

My work in the medical school and hospital is mostly teaching
the fundamentals of anaesthesia to medical students and interns —
an interesting task. I spent two rather frustrating years as head
of our local society of anaesthetists. Since we are a fairly new
specialty and since so much of the work we do has in the past
been done by nurses, we have difficulty in convincing our friends,
especially those who run the hospitals and some of the health
insurance plans, that we really are doctors of medicine like other
doctors of medicine. Our differences with these organizations,
although outwardly largely economic, will, unless composed, have
an increasingly bad effect on the quality of anaesthetic service
given to patients. One unexpected effect of my working on this
kind of problem has been to give me something I never had before:
a practical knowledge of what it means to be a member of a
minority group which suffers from discrimination.

I imagine that the pattern of our lives will soon undergo
another change, for during the past ten or fifteen years most of
our decisions have been made with the children’s welfare upper-
most in mind. But by next fall we shall have probably only one
child left at home.

This in skeleton form is the outline of my life since 1927. As

[578 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I read it over, I am struck by the inability of any skeleton to do
more than caricaturize the living form.

ALEXANDER LANE

HOME ADDRESS: 7991 Prospect Ave., La Jolla, Calif.

Born: Nov. 7, 1905, Chicago, Ill. parents: John Beach Lane, ’98, Sara Isabel
Currie.

PREPARED AT: San Diego High School, San Diego, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1927(28); a.m. (Claremont Coll.),

1932.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Graduate student in medieval history.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of San Diego, Southern California, Tokyo (for-
merly); Stade Frangais, Paris (formerly); Tennis Club de Paris.

AFTER a short period of loafing, interrupted by a short bout at
farm work near Fresno, I became a depression fugitive. My
Harvard degree proved to be a liability in the West where
chauvinism was strong. Occasionally Harvard Business School
degrees were recognized by firms to which I applied, but one
needed at least a magna cum laude to get into research work (and
then the openings were about non-existent). On top of all this
I was not eager for a business career, blandly deceiving myself
with the naive delusion that I had the seeds of another Somerset
Maugham or Thomas Wolfe deep beneath my melancholy exterior
(strange blend of the academic and quixotic that it was and is! ).
So I decided to sell out temporarily to the Academicians and be-
come one of their select sodality. Somehow I managed to acquire
a teaching credential and a Master’s degree. But the recommend-
ing office in a spirit of pure fun told everyone that “Mr. L. 1s
more fitted for research than for teaching”; so you can imagine
how many schools were clamoring for my services. Inasmuch as
research institutions usually require a Ph.D., I was gulled into
this blind alley. So far I’m still running the maze, having had
one failure and one “near-miss” in the search for this life-consum-
ing Holy Grail. During the many interims when my appetite
drove me into gainful activities, I did about everything — even
tried soliciting for the San Francisco Examiner (which I detest
along with all Hearst papers).

During the war I worked for three aircraft concerns but pre-

[579 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

The Catholic Church in France is far closer to this ideal than it is
in the United States. |

It is with a feeling of sadness that I view the hopeless prospect
of attendance at our Reunion. Right now I could not take a trip
to the Isle of Jersey. Although I do have a faint prospect of a
job in the near future, there is no telling whether it may dissolve
into thin air like some of the others that have almost been in my
grasp. Sometimes, too, when I look at some of the “fat cats”
around the government agencies and embassy here, I am almost
glad I don’t have a job. Perhaps the miracle might happen and I
could plane in at the last minute, but I am not banking on it with
prices here at an all-time high. But at least I send on my best
wishes for a fine and happy Twenty-fifth Reunion to the entire
Class,

ARTHUR COOK LANE

HOME ADDRESS: 10 Summit Ave., Wakefield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 44 School St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 14, 1905, Salem, Mass, PARENTS: Ernest Pinkham Lane, Mary
Olive Meade.

PREPARED AT: Salem High School, Salem, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927(28).

MarRRiED: Anne Genevieve Frawley, Nov. 22, 1931, Concord, Mass. cHIL-
DREN: Marian Frances, June 19, 1934; Samuel Arthur, Dec. 31, 1942.

occupation: Dealer in postage stamps.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Wakefield School Committee.

NO CLASS member has had a more prosaic, less interesting life
since graduation than I. In July, 1927, a family friend got me a
job in the stamp business which I held until March, 1930. Then
I went into the business on my own, and have been on Brom-
field or School Street ever since. The draft in World War II
missed me by two months. So I really have little indeed to report
about myself. In November, 1931, I married Anne Genevieve
Frawley. Our daughter, seventeen years old, was graduated cum
laude from Abbot Academy last June and is now in her freshman
year at Radcliffe. Our nine-year-old son is in the fourth grade of
grammar school. My chief source of relaxation and pleasure is
the stamp business.

[ 582 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALFRED ALBERT LAUN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 502 River Terr., Kiel, Wis.

oFFICE ADDRESS: A. A. Laun Furniture Co., Kiel, Wis.

BORN: Feb. 14, 1905, New Holstein, Wis. parents: Alfred Adam Laun,
Bertha Rodenbaeck.

PREPARED AT: West Division High School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude 1927; MBA. 1920.

MARRIED: Sue Burgess, June 16, 1928, Fort Worth, Texas. cHitpren: Alfred
Albert, 3d, Dec. 9, 1937; John I, May 15, 1941. .

occuPATION: President and general manager, A. A. Laun Furniture Company,
furniture manufacturers, vice-president, A. A. Laun Company, New
Holstein, Wisconsin, building materials; vice-president, State Bank of
Keil.

OFFICES HELD: Member Wisconsin State Board of Vocational and Adult Edu-
cation, since 1946; director and vice-president, Kettle-Moraine Council
Boy Scouts, Sheboygan, 1943-45; director, Wisconsin Wholesale Furni-
ture Salesmen’s Association, 1943-47, Manitowoc County Red Cross,
1942-46, Furniture Club of America, Chicago, 1948-50; alderman, 2nd
Ward, Kiel, 1945-47; president, Kiel Chamber of Commerce, 1948.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Milwaukee; Harvard Business School Club
of Milwaukee: F. & A.M., Lodge No. 336, Kiel; Milwaukee Valley
Consistory and Tripoli Shrine; Milwaukee Athletic Club; Flying Fisher-
men; Presbyterian Church.

AFTER graduating from the Business School in 1929, I worked
for Pacific Mills in New York until the fall of 1930; came back
to Milwaukee to work for the Kiel Furniture Company for a
year, then Waukesha Lime & Stone Company, Waukesha, until
1935 when with my father I organized the present furniture
manufacturing company. My job until 1945 was sales, which
gave me opportunity for considerable travel, chiefly Chicago —
East. Since 1945 I have bought the lumber, which has taken me
on numerous trips to the South and Southwest. Because I married
a Fort Worthian, we also travelled annually to Texas and several
times into Mexico. Outside of the ordinary civic activities, I
have been very active in Republican politics in the state, my
main hobby. We have a cottage seven miles from here at beau-
tiful Elkhart Lake where we spend the summer, with golf, and
water-skiing back of our Higgins runabout. Membership in
the Flying Fishermen Club of Milwaukee has taken me on a
number of very fine fishing trips into Montana, Wyoming, and

Canada.
[ 583 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

PHILIP LAVINE

HOME apprEss: 308 Hollis St., Framingham, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 20, 1905, Worcester, Mass. PARENTS: David Levine, Sarah
Valentic. ,

PREPARED AT: Framingham High School, Framingham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926, 1927-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1927(28); M.B.A., -

1937-
OccUPATION: Proprietor, mobile canteen serving factories, construction jobs,
etc.

IT DOES not seem twenty-five years, but it must be since it is
1952 and simple arithmetic makes it that many years since 1927.
It doesn’t seem that long because the things I wanted to do still
appear to be so far away. Maybe by the Fiftieth Reunion I shall
be able to do something to vary the outline of earning a living.
After leaving Harvard and becoming a victim of the depression
(and a number of jobs), I was graduated from the Business
School in 1937 with a Master of Business Administration degree
in financial statistics, which led to a job as statistician with a
Boston Stock Exchange firm. When I was reasonably happy and
secure, the advent of war closed our shop for the duration of
Uncle Sam’s call.

Unfortunately, because of family problems, I was forced to
stay home. I became the head of a governmental contract-holding
company, a position which lasted until 1945 when our contract
expired. The rapid expansion of industry in our suburban town,
the result partly of a movement from city to suburbs and partly
of a post-war rise in production, created a demand especially
among the smaller factories for the serving of food from mobile
units. With this idea as a background, I have built up a fair busi-
ness serving most of the available situations in the area. Spare
time is something I know about only through hearsay, since all my
available hours with the exception of possibly one or two nights
a week are spent in my business.

My pleasure comes from playing chess with an old sea captain
who has been beating me regularly. 1 hope some day to turn the
tables, however. Unfortunately I am a confirmed New Dealer
living in an era of (to me) political reaction and waiting for the
wheel to turn full circle. Hence I cannot bring myself to discuss
politics or politicians, So all in all, the rolling around of the

[ 584]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Twenty-fifth Report finds me a lot older, a bit more weary, and
greatly disillusioned.

HERBERT FRANCIS LAWRENCE

HOME ADDRESS: 96 Mt. Vernon St., Boston 8, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Keystone Custodian Funds, Inc. 50 Congress St., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: Jan. 19, 1902, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Boswick Lawrence,
Alice Anne Noonan.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927, DEGREE! A.B. 1927.

MarRiED: Wilma Grace Miller, Oct. 5, 1935, New York, N. Y.

occupaTiON: Fund executive—supervision of common stock investment
funds.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: War Finance Committee, Third War Loan,
Banking and Investment Division, New York.

I JOINED the staff of the Boston News Bureau as a cub reporter
in 1927 and later transferred to Barron’s Financial Weekly in
Boston. In 1934 I moved to New York, still with Barron’s and
as assistant editor wrote investment articles and a weekly column
on foreign affairs. I resigned in 1943 to go with the War Finance
Committee for the Third War Loan. At the end of that cam-
paign I went with E. F. Hutton in New York, but resigned six
months later to take a position in Boston with Keystone
Custodian Funds.

I have developed an interest in color photography which added
spice to our trips to Europe in 1948 and 1951 and through the
West Indies in 1950. Mexico is our next objective, probably
early in 1952.

PHILIP EUGENE LAWRENCE

HOME ApprEss: 16 River St., Boston 8, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 210 Newbury St., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: June g, 1904, Minneapolis, Minn. parents: Edwin Lawrence, Coral
Thomas,

PREPARED AT: East Aurora High School, East Aurora, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B, 1927; LL.B. (Northeastern Univ.),
1940.

[ 585 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MarrieD: Elizabeth Mackie, January, 1933, Portsmouth, N. H. (divorced
1938); Helene Poland, July 16, 1938, Quincy, Mass. (divorced 1947).

OCCUPATION: Investment counselor; director of accounts for United Invest-
ment Counsel, Inc.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve,
May, 1942; active duty: Quonset Point, R. I. (training); staff, ComAir-
Pac; Marine Advanced Bases; Funafuti (Ellice Islands); ComAirPac
second time; office of Chief of Naval Operations; U.S.S. Randolph,
USS. Suwannee through Okinawa and Balkipapan (Borneo) opera-
tions; released to inactive duty November, 1945; present rank, com-
mander. Decorations and mbbons: Bronze Star with Combat V; Presi-
dential Unit Citation; Asiatic and American Theatre, Philippine Defense,
Occupation, and Victory Ribbons.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Boston Bar Association; Reserve
Officers Association; Naval Order of the United States; U. S. Naval
Reserve.

THIS will be a short one. I spent the first three years after leaving
college in New York, first with a bank and then with a public
utility holding company. With no realization of the imminence
of the Big Depression, 1 took off for Europe in mid-1930 and
returned in the fall to find the wheels really slowing down.
Fortunately, I shortly made a connection which developed into
my present profession — investment counsel — and for the past
eighteen years I have been holding my clients’ hands and my own
head.

The idea of taking a few law courses occurred to me in 1936,
and from sheer momentum as much as anything else, this move
developed into an LL.B. in 1940. The Bar exam seemed logical
after that, and I was lucky enough to pass it at first crack. So
far, my “practice” has consisted of drafting a few wills for friends
(fees paid in liquid media).

The 1930's were highlighted for me by another European trip
and some cruising in New England waters (resulting in a good
dousing when the yawl Rondenella sank). Then came the war,
and after some delay, because of high blood pressure (transitory),
I] was commissioned by the Navy and sent into training. Subse-
quent active duty took me to Pearl Harbor, Fiji Islands, Tonga,
Samoa, Gilbert and Ellice Islands, Guadalcanal, the Philippines,
Borneo, Ulithi, and Okinawa. Between tours in the Pacific, I had
a taste of Washington and Norfolk, and a short cruise down to
Trinidad. Since the war, travelling for my firm, plus Naval

[ 586 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Reserve activities, seem to take up so much time that I haven't
yet got around to reading all those books that were on the post-
college agenda. “Let him who... .”

MAURICE HENRY LEAHY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1955 Commonwealth Ave. Brighton, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 4, 1905, Boston, Mass, parENTS: Maurice Henry Leahy, Katherine
Hallahan, —

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Facilities officer, U. S. Government.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S. Army Air Force, Ground Forces.

MEMBER OF: American Legion.

ISTARTED with the federal government in 1933 and it appears
that I shall remain with it. Nothing eventful since graduation
except the war and, like all others, I wish to forget it. However,
these twenty-five years have passed so rapidly that I trust the
next twenty-five will proceed at a more leisurely rate.

+ HOLLIS AVERY LEE

BORN: Oct. 15, 1904, Dover, N. H. parents: Arthur Lee, Lucie Avery
Carter.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Dover, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927.

MARRIED: Helen Remington, June 19, 1929 (died Dec. 28, 1936).

DIED: Jan. 29, 1941, Boston, Mass.

AFTER graduation Hollis Avery Lee studied for two years at
the Harvard Business School and in July, 1929, he became an
accountant for the Turner Construction Company. He travelled
abroad the following spring and upon his return he worked for
the Western Electric Company in New Jersey. He began study-
ing for the Foreign Service in 1932 but all appointments and ex-
aminations were cancelled shortly thereafter because of the ad-
ministration’s economy policy and in 1933 he became auditor and
industrial engineer with Cooley & Marvin of Boston. At the
time of his death he was assistant treasurer of Amoskeag Fabrics,
a rayon textile mill.

[ 587 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

JOHN DARWIN LEEKLEY

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Spaniard’s Neck Road, Centreville, Md.

BORN: Nov. 12, 1905, Muskogee, Okla. paRENts: Harlow Audleigh Leekley,
’96, Harriett Georgia Curtis.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927; LLB.
(Marquette Univ.), 1934.

married; Mary Joan Hettinger, Dec. 31, 1938, Burlington, Iowa. CHILDREN:
John Darwin, Feb. 16, 1942; Edward Harlow, July 21, 1943; Joan Curtis,
Feb. 8, 1946, Mary Ann, June 27, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; American Institute of Accountants.

AFTER graduation I went to Milwaukee, for a few days. I
worked a year for a public accounting firm, obtained a C.P.A.
certificate from Wisconsin in 1930, New York in 1934, and
Maryland in 1950. In 1928 I went into investment advisory work,
forming my own company with Allen W. Williams, ’27, in 1932.
I was admitted to the Bar of Wisconsin in 1934 and Maryland in
1950. Since 1938 I have been a partner of Leekley & Williams,
Milwaukee. In October, 1949, I moved to a farm near Centreville,

Maryland.

STANLEY WARD GARBER LEHMAN

HOME appress: Asha Mahal, 46-B Peddar Rd., Bombay, India.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Standard-Vacuum Oil Co., Imperial Chambers, Wilson Road,
Ballard Estate, Bombay, India.

BoRN: Aug. 24, 1904, Napanee, Ind. parents: Noah A. Lehman, Anna
Garber.

PREPARED AT: Nappanee High School, Nappanee, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREE: A.B. Cum laude, 1927.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Mary MacFarlane, June 30, 1939, New York, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Christopher MacFarlane, Jan. 14, 1941; Philip Andrew, Nov.
4, 1946,

occupation: Oil merchant, assistant general manager for India, Standard-
Vacuum Oil Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Manila Polo Club.

AS AN expatriate for about twenty of the twenty-five years since
1927 I look back on this period of voluntary exile and call it a
happy one. My choice of occupation was listed in the Album
with splendid simplicity as Foreign Trade. Just what that was I
could not say but did volubly when given a chance. The steps in

[ 588 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

quest of this grail led first to Amoy, China. The Standard Oil
Company of New York paid my way, and there among the exotic
felicities of Kulangsu I started my career abroad. Ever since I
have been a foreigner and in trade.

In that time I have perforce added to my undergraduate know]-
edge of foreign trade. I have learned that it can be exciting.
There was that time on a small coasting vessel in a typhoon off
Zamboanga when the captain said we were seventy per cent gone,
and we did not founder. It can be dull: the humdrum May days
in Manila when the temperature and humidity both ride high. It
can be gratifying: the signing of the impossible contract after
months of work. It can be confining: thirty-seven months of
internment in Santo Tomas as a guest of the Imperial Japanese
Army. It can be rewarding: the girl on the round-the-world tour
whose ship touched at Manila, who with our two sons is also in
foreign trade. It can have its moments of beauty: the flying fish
striking sparks in the phosphorescent water at midnight about
Bantayan Island. It can be fun: home leave through Europe on
the Pacific every three years.

For the most part the Philippines have been my home. Now a
stretch in India is proving to be most stimulating before my
eventual return to Manila. In 1950 I spent a delightful and in-
structive three months on the far side of the Charles as a member
of the eighteenth session of the Advanced Management Program.
The return to Harvard was something of a return to youth.
The academic unveiling of the mysteries of business as performed
by the Business School at the same time added years to my experi-
ence. If anyone is interested there are no qualifications to my
recommendation of this course. And that would seem to be full
circle, from Harvard back to Harvard and another Harvard back,
I hope, in the person of my elder son, Christopher, in about seven
years.

ALEXANDER LEMCKE LEICH

HOME ADpREss: 1107 Harrelton Court, Evansville, Ind.

OFFICE apprEss: Charles Leich & Co., qzo N.W. Fifth St, Evansville, Ind.

BORN: Feb. 21, 1907, Evansville, Ind. PARreNts: Herbert Leich, Marcella
Jacobi.

PREPARED at: Central High School, Evansville, Ind.

[ 589 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927,

marrieD: Lois Marie Bauman, Sept. 24, 1938, Evansville, Ind. cHiLoren:
Martha, May 17, 1941; Lots Alexandra, May 30, 1944; Gertrude Ann,
Feb. 6, 1948.

occupation: Wholesale druggist.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer and director, Charles Leich & Company; secretary,
O.K.I. & M. Drug Club, since 1945; president, Evansville Chapter,
National Office Management Association, 1950-51; deacon, 1938-46,

elder, since 1947, clerk of the session, 1949-50, First Presbyterian Church
of Evansville.

MEMBER OF: National Wholesale Druggists’ Association, Indiana Pharma-
ceutical Association; Steamship Historical Society of America; National
Office Management Association; Evansville Blind Association; Evans-
ville Chamber of Commerce; Evansville Public Museum; Evansville
Musician’s Club; Automobile Club of Southern Indiana; Y.M.C.A.
Health Club; First Presbyterian Church of Evansville.

DURING the twenty-five years since 1927 I suppose that I have
had as little contact with Harvard and Harvard men as any
member of the Class. In this community of 126,435 souls there
is only one other Harvard College graduate, although we boast
of several Harvard Law and Business School men. The closest
contact I have had in these years came during World War Il,
when the College Office wrote asking if Mrs. Leich and I would
be willing to entertain in our home Harvard men located in
nearby Camp Breckenbridge, Kentucky. We found that there
were two such men at the camp, both from near Boston and
both like fish out of water in the unpromising surroundings of
rural Kentucky. It was a pleasure to do for these boys what we
could to provide them with a home atmosphere on weekends
and they responded most enthusiastically to our proffered
hospitality. Of classmates I have seen only my roommate of
three years, William E. Wilson, with any degree of regularity.
Ed Parks and Dick Miller have been here for short visits.

In trying to comply with the request of our Class Report
Chairman, I find that my life since 1927 has been comparatively
placid and uneventful and while I could fill quite a volume of
local lore which might be of interest to my family and immediate
descendants, it would not be appropriate for a report of this
kind. The elapsed time breaks down roughly into two periods:
the first ten years of bachelorhood corresponding roughly with
the depression years and the next fifteen years of married bliss

[ 590 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

which began about the time of the revival of prosperity, to be
followed closely by the hot and now by the cold war.

They have been happy and satisfying years, considering the
catastrophic nature of the times, a fact which often makes me
pause to wonder why I have been so blessed when millions of
fellow-beings have known nothing but misery, want, injustice,
or death.

Since graduation I have labored in the family wholesale drug
business which will soon celebrate its one-hundredth year of
service to this community. The daily exigencies of a business
which stocks 35,000 different items, buys from over 2500 sup-
pliers and sells 1000 retail outlets are sufficiently exciting and
sometimes even explosive to make me feel that my days are very
full. Upon the death of my father in 1948, I succeeded him as
treasurer and director of the company, a post in which I have
learned at first hand about such matters as keeping a set of books,
meeting a payroll, issuing financial statements, dealing with
lawyers, bankers, and impecunious customers, and above all, pay-
ing income taxes and trying to understand government regula-
tions. These are all things they didn’t tell me about at Harvard.

Outside of business hours I am kept quite busy by my family,
my church, and a limited number of civic organizations. We live
beyond city limits on a place which is large enough to provide
all the outdoor exercise I need between April and November
in its maintenance and improvement. We grow fruits, vegetables,
berries, flowers and —cats (!) in great abundance, enough for
ourselves and some left over to give our friends. Other summer
pastimes are swimming and motoring which, in a responsive open
car, I still consider as one of life’s greatest pleasures.

In the winter months I still pursue my lifetime hobbies of
collecting pictures, books and all possible information on North
Atlantic liners, and antique and classic automobiles. I have almost
enough ship models, prints and books by this time to add a
museum room to the house. Although unlike James Melton I can’t
afford to collect real automobiles, I could show you in my scrap
book collections some wonderful Rolls-Royces, Locomobiles,
Pierce-Arrows, Mercedes-Benz, Duesenbergs, Bugattis, Hispano-
Suizas, and other magnificent creations of a vanished golden

age.
[sor]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

As for travel, we are doing more of it since our children are
old enough to be taken along. We are possessed by a strong
“Drang Nach Osten” and except for a trip to Natchez, New
Orleans, and the Gulf Coast last year, all of our trips have been
to Washington, New York, Boston, and the New England sea-
shore and mountains. We love Nantucket and Martha’s Vineyard.

We always include Cambridge and Wellesley in these trips.
Harvard looks to me more glamorous now than it did twenty-
five years ago. The grass looks greener, the bricks in the old
buildings in the Yard look rosier, and the prospect of Harvard
along the Charles River Esplanade looks nobler than I had re-
membered. The Business School, brand-new in our time, has
mellowed with the growth of trees and ivy-covered walls. Per-
haps it is really more glamorous now — perhaps I am looking
through rose-colored spectacles.

I am not sure at this point whether or not I shall come to the
Reunion. In any event I shall look forward with great eagerness
to reading about the doings of my classmates during the past
twenty-five years.

HUGH FRASER LEITH, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 91 Main St., Concord, Mass.; 428 E. 83rd St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE appRESS: Cohi & Co., 1 Wall St., New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 11, 1904, Concord, Mass. PARENTS: Hugh Fraser Leith, Edith
Hurd Brown.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.B.A., 1932.

MARRIED: Jane Baxter, Oct. 21, 1937, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN: Hugh
Fraser, 3d, Jan. 2, 1940 (died March 28, 1944); Stuart Duncan, May 26,
1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Donald Merriam Leigh, ’29 (deceased).

OccuPaTION: Underwriting and new business for Cohti & Company, banking
and brokerage firm.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served with 13th Air Force in Pacific, 1942~45;
squadron commander, rank of major; served in Solomon Islands, New
Guinea, Dutch East Indies, and Philippines with refreshment and relaxa-
tion in Australia and New Zealand.

MEMBER OF: Concord Country Club.

I TRAVELLED in the Canadian Northwest and in Alaska after
graduation in 1927, then went to work for Hornblower & Weeks

[ 592 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in Boston in October, 1927. I was transferred to the Cleveland
office in 1928 and spent an incubation period there long enough
to see the forthcoming starvation period beginning in 1931. I
attended the Harvard Business School from 1930 to 1932 and was
spewed out into a drab business world at the close of two inter-
esting years. I formed a small brokerage firm in 1932 which
eventually became a member of the New York Stock Exchange
in 1933; it went through five years of slow growth until 1938.
After I married in 1937 my activities became more identified with
banking and private placement. As a result I joined the New
York Stock Exchange firm of Swinnerton & Company and trans-
ferred my activities to New York in 1939. After two and a half
busy years I became involved with the Air Force and spent the
next three years seeing too much of war at first hand for anyone
of my age and temperament.

Following the war I joined the Bankers Trust Company in New
York in their bond department, where I did my bit towards sup-
porting the railroads to the Middle West through frequent trips
to customers of the bank in Chicago, St. Louis, and way stations.
In 1948 I transferred my activities to Coht & Company where |
spend my time trying to select a few projects where our customers
can lose the least money after taxes, shake-downs, etc. The work
is interesting, frustrating, and occasionally profitable enough to
lure me on to further effort.

At present my main object is to keep my one remaining son
from following too closely in my pattern and to try to get time
enough for occasional winter sports and the acquisition of enough
leisure to get out of Wall Street. My political convictions are
largely confined to a search for the strongest possible disinfectant
for a substantial segment of our present governing bodies.

ALFRED FRANKLIN LEMMON

HOME Appress: qgo1 Moran St., Reno, Nev.

OFFICE AppREss: National Air Products, Valley Road, Reno, Nev.

BORN: May 21, 1902, Carson City, Nev. parents: Henry A. Lemmon, Hed-
ley French.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.

[ 593 J

HARVARD CLASS OF I92 7
MaRRIED: Bernadette Pendergast, April 15, 1931, Boston, Mass, CHILDREN:
Martha, Sept. 14, 1932; Susan, Aug. 22, 1934.
occuPATION: Production control, National Air Products.
MEMBER OF: Lions Club; Footprinters,

JULY 5, 1927, employed by the Blackstone Valley Gas and
Electric Company, Pawtucket, Rhode Island. Twelve years there
as safety supervisor, claim agent, advertising manager, assistant
sales manager and — stalemate. A vacation to childhood home of
Reno, Nevada, made it seem good enough to move back there.
Opened own business; electrical appliance repairs and commercial
refrigeration, electrical contracting and a cabinet shop turning out
high class gambling equipment. Business was good but the wrong
business associates wrote finis after eight years. Two years at
Harold’s Club, “The Biggest Gambling Club in the World,” took
me all the way from the “slots” to purchasing agent and —
“craps.”

Now, a complete change of scenery and pace. Maintenance
engineer at Stovepipe Wells, a resort in the middle of glorious,
desolate Death Valley. Four wonderful months and a transfer to
the Dow Hotel as assistant manager, the Dow at “The Foot of
Mt. Whitney.” After hotel hours, I bossed a shift at a dolomite
quarry which was making roofing chips. My, how those hundred-
pound sacks have increased in weight during the past twenty-
five years.

A year of that and homesickness brought me back to my family
in Reno and a job with the Isbell Construction Company, as a
shovel operator (the kind that the WPA’ers used to lean on). A
grand summer. My weight the 185 it was at Harvard. Blood
pressure 135. All my hair where it should be and all of it still
brown. I don’t even wear glasses, although my wife makes snide
remarks when I stumble over a high curb. Why doesn’t she
write to the city about them?

Annual income for the past twenty-five years from $1750.00 to
$35,000.00 and down. Still married to the same gal. Twenty-two
years come this April and in the “Divorce Capital” yet. One
daughter in the University of Nevada and the other one getting
ready to enter a school of design. Both of them marvelous skiers
who just about live on “The Mountain” during the winter.

With the advent of cold weather, I got a job in production

[594]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

control with a new, local concern manufacturing airplane parts
on subcontract for Douglas. The work is interesting but I noticed
this morning that my weight is going up again, and there was just
a touch of spring in the air as I drove to work. 1 could almost
smell the hot, perfumed breath of the desert and see the sand
dunes twisting in the heat rays.

GEORGE JOHN LENESS

HOME ADDRESS: 1185 Park Ave., New York, N. Y.

oFFice ADDRESS: Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Beane, 70 Pine St, New
York, N. Y.

BORN: May 17, 1903, Springfield, Mass. Parents: George Leness, Ellen
McInnerney.

PREPARED AT: Springfield Technical High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924, 1926-1927. DEGREES: s.B. (Massachusetts Inst.
of Technology), 1926; A.B. (Harvard Univ.), 1927.

MARRIED: Christine Crawford Gibbs, April 27, 1934, New York, N. Y.
CHILDREN: John Gibbs, Dec. 18, 1934; George Crawford, Oct. 10, 1936;
Anthony Vanderneth, Feb. 18, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Partner, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Beane, in charge of
underwriting.

OFFICES HELD: President, Bond Club of New York, 1948-49; vice-chairman,
New York Group Investment Bankers Association, 1947; trustee, St.
Bernard’s School, New York, since 1940; alumni term member, Cor-
poration of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, since 1950.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club; University Club; M.L.T. Club; Downtown Asso-
ciation, New York; National Golf Links of America; Quogue Field
Club; Tau Beta Pi.

AFTER leaving college, I entered the Underwriting Department
of Harris, Forbes & Company in New York City. This was the
beginning of the long and often discouraging job of learning
the many facets of the underwriting business as conducted by
the investment banking industry. Harris, Forbes & Company
and its successor were eventually merged into The First Boston
Corporation, an organization of which I became vice-president.
In January, 1944, I became a member of the firm of Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Beane in charge of that firm’s under-
writing activities. This whole field of the issuance and under-
writing of new securities of corporations is a broad and fasci-
nating one.

After college I spent a large part of my spare time cruising

[595 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

and racing in small off-shore boats and in playing squash rackets.
In recent years, however, the game of golf seems to have taken
precedence over sailing. I have lived on Manhattan Island since
graduation. We have found it possible to raise three small boys in
a city such as New York in spite of many opinions to the con-
trary. Our two older boys are at Phillips Exeter Academy,
and the youngest boy is at school at home. In recent years we
have spent our summers in the Village of Quogue on the south
shore of Long Island.

Having also graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, I have in recent years devoted a certain amount of
time to the affairs of that institution. Over the years I have
served on a number of committees in the investment banking
industry and among other things served as president of the
Bond Club of New York in 1948 and in 1947 served as vice-
chairman of the New York group of the Investment Bankers
Association. As I observe the highly competitive scholastic
and business worlds of today, I cannot help thinking of the com-
paratively easy time our generation had. The boys of today, it
strikes me, will do a better job of it than we did.

+ PHILIP MANTON LENHART

BORN: June 26, 1905, Brownsville, Pa. parents: William Leonard Lenhart,
Ann Jacobs.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

DIED: July 25, 1941, South Nyack, N. Y.

DURING his undergraduate years Philip Manton Lenhart was a
member of Pi Eta Club and Hasty Pudding-Institute of 1770.
As a freshman, he played on the Freshman Squash Rackets Team
and the Freshman Tennis Team. Throughout his college career
he continued to play tennis and squash, he was a member of the
teams that won national squash racquets championships for Har-
vard and he was the number two man on the Harvard tennis and
squash teams.

One year after graduation, in November, 1928, he was severely
injured in an automobile accident so that he was confined to a
wheel chair for the rest of his life. At the time of the accident he
was employed by Husband & Davis, an advertising firm in New

[596 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

York. Rather than allow this misfortune to commit him to an
inactive life, he turned his talents to journalism in 1931; he re-
viewed books and conducted a column called “Wheeling Around”
which first appeared in The Journal-News and which he con-
tinued to write for nine years. Unable to continue participation
in court games, he remained an expert at table tennis despite his
injuries.

He was always interested in young people; he tutored some,
received great pleasure from their accomplishments, and he
worked with the Boy Scouts. He was a popular lecturer and in
1940 the public speaking classes at Nyack High School unani-
mously voted him as the best speaker and the one they liked most
at their auditorium programs. At the request of the Nyack
Library he taught English classes which were so popular that there
was scarcely space enough in the library classroom for all those
who wished to attend. He arranged a series of lectures for these
classes at which well-known writers in the county spoke.
Throughout those thirteen years he led an active life —as a lec-
turer, teacher, and writer.

HENRY SIGGINS LEONARD

HOME ADDRESS: 2099 Hamilton Rd., Okemos, Mich.

OFFIcE appREss: Dept. of Philosophy, Michigan State College, East Lansing,
Mich.

BORN: Dec. 19, 1905, Newton, Mass. PARENTS: Edwin Palmer Leonard, Lillian
Siggins.

PREPARED AT: Needham High School, Needham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. Ct? latide, 1927; A.M, 1929; PH.D.
1931.

MARRIED: Priscilla Lermond Packard, Oct. 2, 1929, Brookline, Mass. cHtvp:
Henry Siggins, Jr, Oct. 12, 1930.

HARVARD BROTHER: Clair Thomas Leonard, ’23, A.M., °24.

OccuPATION: Professor and head of department of philosophy, Michigan
State College.

OFFICES HELD: Member teaching staff, departments of philosophy, Harvard,
1931-34, 1935-37, University of Rochester, 1934-35, Duke University,
1937-49, Michigan State College, since 1949; chairman of department
of philosophy, Duke University, 1948-49, Michigan State College, since
1949; member Executive Committce, Association for Symbolic Logic,
1937-40, American Philosophical Association, Eastern Division, 1948-49.

MEMBER oF: Association for Symbolic Logic; American Philosophical Asso-
Ciation.

[597]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

PuBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous reviews of books in philosophy; “Logical Posi-
tivism and Speculative Philosophy” in Philosophical Essays for Alfred
North Whitebead, ed., Otis Lee. Longmans, 1936; “Gestalt Psychology
and Physicalism” in Journal of Unified Science (Erkenntnis), 1939;
“The Calculus of Individuals and its Uses,” with Nelson Goodman,
Journal of Symbolic Logic, 1940; “Ethical Predicates” in Journal of
Philosophy, Sept. 19, 1949; “Two-Valued Truth Tables for Modal
Functions” in Structure, Method and Meaning, eds., Langer, Henle,
and Kallen, Liberal Arts Press, N. Y., 1951.

IT WAS a good many years after Commencement, 1927, before
I wandered both far and for long from the Harvard Yard. In
fact, only two of the next ten years were spent away from it.
In September, 1927, I was back in Emerson Hall taking graduate
work in philosophy. While still a graduate student, I married
Priscilla Packard, the girl who had gone with me to the Freshman
Jubilee and to many a Harvard dance thereafter. Immediately
after the wedding in October, 1929, we went to Munich, Ger-
many, where I attended lectures in philosophy on a travelling
fellowship from Harvard. In September, 1930, we were again
in Cambridge. Getting my Ph.D. the next January, I settled
into a succession of years at Harvard, first as tutor and assistant,
later as tutor and instructor in philosophy. This succession was
only briefly interrupted by the occupancy for one year (1934
to 1935) of a similar position at the University of Rochester.

In 1937 we moved to Durham, North Carolina, where I was
to assume a position in the Department of Philosophy at Duke.
When we moved away from Cambridge, it was fourteen years
since I had first come to Harvard as a freshman. In that period
of time, the Harvard Yard had become a second home. When-
ever I have looked back recently upon those years in Emerson
Hall I have realized — more completely than I ever did at the
time — how profoundly the long association with such men as
Professors Whitehead and Lewis affected the pattern of my
thought and outlook. Some of these influences were a long time
in maturing.

The move to a new scene had, however, its rewards. The
mid-South was a part of our land with which neither Priscilla
nor I had any previous acquaintance. For twelve years, until
1949, we lived in Durham, learning to appreciate and to enjoy
the pattern of life and the people that one finds in the mid-South.

[598 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Yet for all of that, I suspect that Priscilla and I remained to the
end transplanted Yankees. This outcome was perhaps ensured
by the fact that as often as was possible we spent our summers
in Waldoboro, Maine, where we had acquired a farm for a
summer home. It was quite otherwise with our son, Henry, Jr.
Born in October, 1930, he had hardly more than reached school
age when we moved to North Carolina, and he had finished the
first year of college (at Duke) before we moved away. Thus
North Carolina was his childhood home, and his love of the
South is as natural as anyone’s love of home. Yet his summers
in Maine perhaps served to give his affections a more catholic
scope than those of his parents.

Our Class Report in 1946 provides ample evidence that it was
my classmates whose war service supplied material worth writing
about. My own humble contribution was made by year-around
teaching in the V-12 program at Duke. It was not demanding
much, if anything, in the way of heroic or courageous sacrifice.
Yet I gave what was mine to give to a project that had worth
and merit, and I hope that the gift was not without its value. In
any case, by the end of three years without a vacation (the
civilian program at the Woman’s College at Duke was always
in session during vacations in the V-12 program, and vice
versa) I was ready for a rest, a part of which I took in the
hospital. |

In September, 1949, we moved to Michigan where I assumed
the position as head of the Department of Philosophy at Michigan
State College in East Lansing. You have probably heard of our
football teams. But let me assure you that there is a good deal
more here than just a football team. The new scene and the new
responsibilities offer a challenge that I take up with zest. Hobbies?
The farmhouse in Maine taught me the joys of puttering. Here in
Michigan we bought a little old house in the little town of
Okemos, three miles from the campus. It provides the perfect
object for the loving attentions of this weekend amateur ham-
merer and saw-er —oh, yes, and painter. Politically, I am an
independent Democrat, who would vote for Eisenhower if he
ran.

I have said nothing about the trials, tribulations, and _satis-
factions of my professional life as a teacher and student of

[ 599 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

philosophy. The even balance between my rdle as teacher and
my role as student has been rather consistently maintained. I
would not easily give up either role. But to expand upon them,
the joys to be found in them and the import of these vocations
for America today, would Jengthen these jottings beyond the
limits of propriety.

STEWART WALLACE LEONARD

HOME ApprESS: 1714 Windsor Pl., Louisville 4, Ky.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1983 Douglas Blvd., Louisville 5, Ky.

Born: Nov. 15, 1905, Louisville, Ky. parents: William Kirkland Leonard,
Lena Rivers Stewart.

PREPARED AT: Louisville Male High School, Louisville, Ky.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: M.D. (Univ. of Louisville), 1931.
MarRieD: Beatrice Thomasia Goodmonson, April 14, 1944, La Jolla, Calif.
CHILDREN: Cathryn Gail, June 15, 1945, Linda Lee, May 22, 1947.

OccuPATION: Physician, private practice of medicine.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, Medical Corps, July, 1942; chief of
Laboratory Station Hospital, Camp Callan, Calif., October, 1942, to
December, 1943; chief of Septic Surgery, assistant chief of surgery,
Camp Callan, January to December, 1944; promoted major, Decem-
ber, 1945; member of gist Field Hospital, served as laboratory and
pharmacy officer, chief of surgical service, sanitation officer, officer of
information and education, president, Hospital Fund, Unit Fund, and
commanding officer, December, 1944, to June, 1946.

MEMBER OF: Jefferson County Medical Society; Kentucky State Medical
Association; American Medical Association; Southern Medical Asso-
ciation; staff of Sc. Anthony’s Hospital, Kentucky Baptist Hospital,
St. Joseph’s Infirmary, Norton Memorial Infirmary.

IN SEPTEMBER, 1927, I entered the University of Louisville
School of Medicine from which I graduated in June, 1931.
After my graduation I served postgraduate internships and resi-
dencies in pathology, internal medicine, and surgery at the
Louisville General Hospital, the teaching hospital of the Uni-
versity from 1931 to 1937.

Armed with my degree and my certificates of postgraduate
training, I went forth confident that the world would be waiting
with open arms for a man of my attainments. But, like many
another embryo physician who had commanded the respect of his
subordinates and who had developed a false sense of his impor-
tance to society during his residency in a teaching hospital, I was

[ 600 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to learn very shortly how inconsiderate and unappreciative the
cold, cruel world can be. Not only was my enthusiasm cooled,
my confidence shaken, and my ego deflated—I was thoroughly
defrosted.

My first disillusionment came when I attempted to obtain
office space. I selected a very desirable suite of rooms opposite
the elevator in one of our most popular downtown office
buildings. While I was negotiating for this space, a business
executive, whose tastes evidently were similar to mine, rented
this suite right under my nose!

Stunned by such blitzkrieg tactics I made a strategic with-
drawal. I nursed my wounded pride with the consolation that
I was a bit wiser and that I had not spent the time negotiating
in vain. Having heard many a person passing along the hall, while
I was considering this particular suite, complain bitterly of the
parking situation in the center of town and of the difficulty of
taking a patient to a physician in a downtown office building,
I decided to investigate the possibilities of an office in one of the
suburban areas.

Through a friend I learned that one of our larger banks had
under consideration a plan to build an annex to one of its suburban
offices. When I contacted the banker, he received me most
cordially, advised me that the bank wanted a physician and dentist
to occupy space in the new building, requested plans for my office,
and submitted them to his architect. After two months of dis-
cussion, however, the banker’s enthusiasm seemed to wane. Until
then I thought that medical students and interns had a monopoly
on the development of ingenious arguments and excuses for not
doing something. But never can I recall any medical student
or intern, or any group of medical students or interns, who could
develop as many and as varied ingenious arguments and excuses
for not carrying out a plan as this banker did develop, during
the next four to six months, for not building the proposed annex
to his suburban bank building. Finally, after waiting eight or
nine months, exasperated, I took the bull by the horns and girded
for a showdown with my banking friend. I learned at this session
that he had had to abandon his plans for building the proposed
annex because of the heavy real estate commitments the bank
already had. In the summer of 1928, I ended my quest for office

[ 6o1 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

thought that all my patients would have made new contacts
during my absence, and that I would have to begin anew. To
my astonishment and surprise, many had not even consulted a
physician while I was gone, and as a result, were suffering from
more than one malady. Others who had sought medical atten-
tion elsewhere returned as soon as they knew that I had reopened
my office. Within six to twelve months after my return I found
myself surprisingly busy. In May, 1947, those days of adjustment
to civilian life were lightened and brightened still further by the
birth of our second daughter, Linda Lee.

I am now practising medicine in the same office and living in
the same house I occupied before the war, watching our children
romp and play and develop, and hoping that they will not have
to endure the hardships wrought by the last war, which seem so
unnecessary.

LOUIS MICHAEL LEVERONE

HOME ADpRESS: Newport, N. Y.

OFFIcE appRESS: Dolgeville, N. Y.

porn: Aug. 29, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Michael Leverone, Justina
Leverone.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924.

marriep: Madeline Weeks. cuitpren: Robert Michael, May 24, 1928;
Judith Louise, May 14, 1931.

HARVARD SON: Robert Michael Leverone, ’52.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ernest Louis Leverone, ’17.

occupation: General manager, Eastern Footwear Corporation, Newport
Footwear Corporation, Manheim Lumber Company, Mohawk Wood
Heel Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Kiwanis, Old Town, Orono, Maine; Masonic Bodies; Lewiston
Commandery; Bangor Anah Temple; director Old Town Chamber of
Commerce, 1947-48; president, Old Town Maine Chamber of Commerce,

1949-50.
MEMBER OF: Penobscot Country Club, Bangor, Maine.

UPON leaving college I entered the shoe manufacturing busi-
ness. I have spent all the intervening years endeavoring to learn
how to make shoes. It has proved to be very interesting, having

provided the usual amount of excitement incident to progress,
but not without its compensating rewards. 1 am now general

[ 604 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

manager of Eastern Footwear Corporation, manufacturers of

women’s shoes, with headquarters at Dolgeville, New York.
This will be a gala Reunion for me, in view of my son Robert’s

Commencement, and my brother Ernest’s thirty-fifth Reunion.

SPENCER ELY LEVIN

HOME ADDRESS: 63 Avondale Rd., Newton Center, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1093 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 9, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: Harris Levin, Minnie Leah
Arkin.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: S.B., 1927; M.D. 1031.

MARRIED: Ruth H. Rubinsky, Nov. 8, 1942, New York, N. Y. cHILpREN:
Andrew Harris, Sept. 25, 1945; Paul Frederick, Feb. 2, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Physician (pediatrician).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, Medical Reserve, June, 1931-July, 1941;
active duty, captain 1st Medical Battalion, July, 1941-January, 1942;
honorable medical discharge, January, 1942.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in pediatrics, Tufts Medical School; associate visit-
ing physician, pediatrics, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston, Boston Dispen-
sary; member Associate Visiting Staff, Children’s Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts Memorial Hospital, member Board of Directors, Jewish
Family & Children’s Service.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
American Board of Pediatrics (diplomate); American Academy of
Pediatrics; New England Pediatric Society. |

IN THE five years since my last personal history was written,
my life has been filled with much the same activities which in-
clude my active pediatrics practice and my busy family life. We
are no longer “cliff dwellers,” and our two sons now have their
own place in which to romp and make merry. There is fun
abounding in watching two small fry develop into definite
individuals who at this point seem to know more of the answers
than their “educated” parents. My interest in the emotional needs
of children has led me to further study and training along
psychiatric lines, which gives my pediatrics practice a more
rounded approach. I still retain my teaching affiliations with the
Tufts Medical School and hold active staff appointments in the
pediatrics departments of the major hospitals in and around
Boston. Despite the ever-growing possibility of socialized

[ 605 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

medicine, I am very happy in my present set-up as a private
practising physician.

In my communal affairs I am actively affiliated with child
welfare agencies and other social service groups which foster
better conditions for the infant and child. With all of this, there
is precious little time for some of those twenty-five-year-old
dreams of relaxation and travel — but perhaps that is best, for we
still have a lot to look forward to.

ABRAHAM LEON LEVINE

HOME AbpREss: 91 Verndale St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Levine’s Shoe Stores, 355 Blue Hill Ave., Roxbury, Mass.

BoRN: April 1, 1907, Brockton, Mass. parents: Louis Levine, Gertrude Foster.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1931.

marrieD: Doris E. Kudisch, June 16, 1935, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Peter
Gerald, Nov. 30, 1940; Susan Lois, Oct. 21, 1947.

OccUPATION: Shoe retailer.

MEMBER OF: Brotherhood Temple Ohabei Shalom, Brookline; Zionist Or-
ganization of America (Brookline-Newton-Brighton District).

AFTER reading George Russell’s latest appeal for completion of
my questionnaire for our T'wenty-fifth Reunion Report, I re-
proach myself for having procrastinated so long. Now, it is with
the feeling of approaching a deadline that I attempt to review a
span of twenty-five years in a reasonable number of pages. My
legal career began in 1931, a historic moment for me but one
which did not cause any noticeable excitement outside my
immediate family. Like every young lawyer just starting out
in practice, I had my dreams of important cases and sizeable
fees. However, it did not take me long to learn that there is a
wide gap between dreams and realities. While waiting for the
dreams to materialize, I had plenty of time to learn the difference
between the theory and actual practice of law.

Gradually I found myself devoting more and more of my time
to the preparation and trial of civil cases and from 1936 to 1947
I was spending more time in the courts than in my office. From
the standpoint of favorable decisions, the results were eminently
satisfactory but in a monetary sense they were not always com-

[ 606 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mensurate with the time and effort required and expended,
Everything considered, however, I don’t feel I had too much
cause for complaint during these years. I also enjoyed the
privilege and experience of sitting, from time to time as a master
to hear and report equity suits in the Suffolk Superior Court of
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. The friendships formed
during my years of practice with members of both the bench
and bar I shall cherish forever.

Little things change the course of human events, or as
Heraclitus put it, “Nothing is permanent except change.” In
1947 the simple fact of my younger brother’s decision to give
up the active management of a retail shoe business established by
my father forty years ago and to seek wider horizons in California
made a change in my life and livelihood. My brother’s departure
would have created a void which a stranger to the business could
not fill easily or quickly. And for my father to take up once
again the reins of management and direction which he had
relinquished for some years would have proved too great a
burden. I was faced with the question of continuing in my
profession or becoming a shoe retailer. I had to think of my
family, which only two weeks earlier had been increased by
the birth of my daughter, and also what it would mean to my
parents. It meant a choice between the bar of the legal profession
and figuratively speaking, the fitting stool of the retail shoe
business. The choice was not an easy one to make but, once
having made it, I lost no time in making arrangements for my
law associate of the previous ten years to take over all my pending
matters. And so on November 1, 1947, I terminated one career
and began another.

I did not find the transition from lawyer to merchant too
difficult, having been trained in the retail shoe business from
boyhood. This does not mean that I did not find much to learn,
but the period of adjustment took a relatively short time. So
now, instead of writing legal briefs, reading supreme court
decisions, and examining witnesses, I wrestle with buying and
merchandising problems, price stabilization orders, inventory
control, advertising copy, and the countless details of my business.
I no longer seek to convince a judge or jury of the merits of a
client’s case. My judge and jury are now the buying public whom

[ 607 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

I am constantly seeking to convince of the merits of my mer-
chandise. Have I any regrets? None.

The girl I married in 1935 was the only girl for me from the
time I first met her, and after all these years she is still the same
girl. Peter, our first-born, is that precise combination of joys and
exasperations which constitute a boy of eleven. At the moment,
the Boy Scouts of America is his greatest enthusiasm. Susan,
our four-year-old, is a young lady with charm, personality, and
a mind of her own.

My business and family have left me very little spare time, but
somehow I have managed to continue my reading of historical
novels and biographies, an interest developed from the many his-
tory courses I took in college. I still have hopes of resuming
horseback riding, once my son learns to sit a horse properly.

RALPH LEVINE

HOME ADDRESS: 79 McLellan St., Dorchester 21, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 7, 1906, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Philip Levine, Annie Rose
Richmond.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.
occupation: Mercantile business.

LOUIS LEVINSON

HOME ADDRESS: 106 Bronson Terr. Springfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co., Springfield, Mass.

Born: April 5, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Nathan Jacob Levinson, Ada
Leight.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.

MarrieD: Frances Barr, July 29, 1928, Springfield, Mass. CHILDREN: Sara,
Jan. 7, 1931; Irene, March 29, 1937; Naomi, July 14, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: ‘I obias Levinson, ’29, D.M.D., °32 (deceased).

occuPATIoN: Life insurance; actuary.

OFFICES HELD: Fellow, Society of Actuaries, 1949.

I JOINED the Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company as
a clerk in the Actuarial Department shortly after graduation in
1927. For the next eight years I labored as a student on the
examinations set by the Actuarial Society of America. In 1935;

[ 608 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in company with seventeen others in the United States and Can-
ada, I completed the examinations and became a Fellow of that
Society. In 1939 I became a Fellow of the American Institute of
Actuaries, and when these professional bodies merged to form the
Society of Actuaries in 1949 I became a Fellow of the new
society.

I was appointed assistant actuary of the Massachusetts Mutual
Life Insurance Company in 1937 and associate actuary in 1946.
In 1951 I was elected actuary of the company, the sixth incum-
bent of that post in the company’s first hundred years.

I married Frances Barr in 1928, established a home and over
the next twelve years tenanted our home with three daughters.
Frances has protestingly been the means of my reaching four-
teen stone plus in weight, has prodded me into becoming almost
a semi-social creature, and keeps me posted on the modern novel
—a form of literature which I can’t seem to find time to know
first-hand. My first daughter is graduating from American Inter-
national College this June; my second, a better than average
violinist, is now in the social turmoil of the middle teens; the
youngest is a budding scientist with a talent for delineation.

I have taken a little part in the activities of the Jewish com-
munity, served as president of the local United Hebrew Schools
(1948 to 1949), was treasurer of Congregation Kodimoh, and
have been a member of the Executive Board of the Springfield
Jewish Community Council for several years.

While my job is sessile, I have had to do a little travelling, and
I have visited a good part of the U.S.A. In the summer of 1949
my wife and our daughters joined me in an automobile trip to
California, in the course of which the kids and their parents got a
good lesson in geography and history and in intensive course in
the scenic beauty of our land. No householder wants for hobbies.
At one time or another I have practised house painting, carpentry,
plumbing, glazing, bricklaying, roofing, and masonry. I have cut
grass, shoveled snow, landscaped, done electrical work, repaired
machines, laid rugs, built cabinets, and bound books. Retirement
holds no fears for me. In fact I’m looking forward to that period
to finish the thousand and one little chores which I have optimis-
tically embarked on and laid aside for the leisure moment which so
eludes me.

[ 609 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

JULIEN SAMPSON LEVY

HOME Appress: Hemlock Road, Bridgewater, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Julien Levy Gallery, 11 E. 57th St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 22, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Edgar Albert Levy, Isabelle
Estelle Isaacs.

PREPARED AT: Roger Escham School, Scarsdale, N. Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

MARRIED: Joella Synara Haweis, Aug. 5, 1927, Paris, France (divorced 1942),
Muriel Caroline Streeter, 1944, New Jersey. CHILDREN: Javan, July 14,
1928; Jerrold, March 9, 1930; Jonathan, March 28, 1936.

occupation: Art dealer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II: Air Corps, private for nine
months; hospitalized, received medical discharge.

PUBLICATIONS: Surrealism (anthology), Black Sun Press, 1936; Eugene Ber-
man (monograph), American Studio Books, 1946; articles and reviews.

I APPRENTICED to an art bookstore and gallery and subse-
quently opened a gallery of my own for modern art. I conducted
my business during the winter season and travelled widely each
summer in search of new talent. Nor was I without opportunity
for various sports and hobbies (tennis and swimming, jewelry-
making, photography). This life for me proved rich and adven-
turous, so much so that it is difficult to mention any one high
spot — but perhaps the year when I promoted an attraction for
Salvador Dali on the midway of the New York World’s Fair
gave me the biggest bumps.

My hobbies, except tennis, paid off in unexpected ways: when
I rescued from drowning the girl who is now my wife; when
my jewelry was exhibited, and when I was an actor in an experi-
mental motion picture which won an award in Venice (though
I wished to have been the photographer). World War II caught
me in an experiment travelling a Caravan Art Gallery through
major cities in the United States. I was a G. I. for a short time but
never overseas. Recently, to cut my overhead I have moved my
seat to the country (Bridgewater, Connecticut). Two of my
three sons have come of age. The oldest is in the Army Air Corps
and the second is working on a Kibbutz in Israel. My telephone
number is 1984 — also the title of Orwell’s recent book of future-
fiction. I take this as a sign that I may have a long life and see

what good or bad solutions may be discovered for this puzzled
world.

[ 610 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BERT WILLIAM LEWIS

HOME ADDRESS: 116 Sewall Ave., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Paramount Sales Co., 7-15 Loyola St., Boston, Mass.

porN: Aug. 14, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Albert Abraham Lewis, Ida
Rebecca Davidson. .

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923~1927, 1928-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1927(29).

MARRIED: Freda Barry, Jan. 1, 1936, Boston, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Lewis, ’16.

occuPaATION: President and general manager, Paramount Sales Company,
wholesale distributors of beverages.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Newport Training Station, August-September,

1943. ,

TO THOSE lucky ones with outstanding records of achievement
this report stuff poses no problems whatsoever. But what about a
guy like me whose accomplishments are ordinary, and who has
no particular flair for this sort of thing? What kind of treatment
is prescribed? Be-brief and you sound like a hapless dolt who
has frittered away the years. Write at length and you're trying
to create the phony impression of importance. In past years I had
an easy solution. Just ignore the whole thing and write nothing.
Those innumerable letters, postcards, and plaintive ‘phone calls,
however, have done their insidious work. When my wife’s
attitude changed from one of gentle reproach to utter disgust, I
simply had to take remedial action. So here comes the deathless
document.

In 1927 I went into the wholesale grocery business. For a
couple of years things went fairly well. Then came 1929 and the
aching void thereafter. O tempora! O mores! Anything would
be a change for the better. So when Repeal came along in 1933
I became a wholesale distributor of beer. I have been at it since,
through fat years and lean. What a comedown for one who had
waded through stuff like Oedipus Rex and Plato’s Republic in the
original Greek! But it’s a livelihood, anyway.

In 1936 Freda and I were married. We have been very happy
and inseparable throughout the years. Our likes and dislikes are
almost identical. And her Sargent School training has proved to
be a blessing, for it is mainly her diet supervision and calorie-
counting that are responsible for my utterly charming, boyish

[ 611]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

appearance today. We have no children, but for fourteen years
an independent, pugnacious, and lovable black Scottie, Tippy,
dominated our household. He went to his reward two years ago,
and right now he’s probably trying to pick a fight with that
Great Dane who used to be his nemesis. No narrative of this
period could be complete without mention of Tippy. The
impressions he left are indelible.

In 1943 I went into the service as an apprentice seaman, but
after a brief siege at Newport, the Navy went on to win the war
without my help. I guess it was unconditional surrender on my
part. That stuff-on-a-shingle rivals the atom bomb as a weapon
of destruction. Then back to business, plagued for a while by
wartime shortages of merchandise and help. But we managed to
come through in good shape. In 1947 1 bought the warehouse
which we now occupy. Recently I have been negotiating a deal
which should make me the largest independent distributor of
carbonated beverages in the Metropolitan Boston area.

Over the years I have taken part in various fund-raising activi-
ties such as the Combined Jewish Appeal, Red Cross, etc. As for
politics, it’s a good many years since I have rung any doorbells or
driven voters to the polls. I am still a Republican, though I have
voted on occasion for candidates beyond the pale. This year I like
Ike. My wife (the reactionary) prefers Taft. Travel? Those
annual winter trips to the Sunny South are still in the dream
stage, as are the plans for that home we were going to build about
five years ago. Well, we bought the land anyway. Neither of us
being the gregarious type, we usually spend our evenings at home,
doing a considerable amount of reading, and at times we can
watch the TV performers in comfort and are not assailed, as on
our rare visits to the movies, by the odor and sounds emanating
from pop-corn addicts, some of whom take time out occasionally
to cough down our necks. I might add that we dine out quite
often and after trying them all, the Toll House is still tops with
us. Rather a dull life? Not a bit of it! The days and years with
their pleasure and pain, hard work and play, have hurtled by
much too swiftly. Yes, a lot of water has gone under the bridge
(Larz Anderson, that is) since the day when I last stepped out
of a wherry down at Weld. In all seriousness, though, this is
enough for recollections of the past. Let’s look hopefully to the

[ 612]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

limitless future. May the good Lord be kind to us all, and above
everything may He bring us peace!

IVAN HUBER LIGHT

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 3849 W. Pine Blvd., St. Louis 8, Mo.

BoRN: March 10, 1906, Bloomington, Ill. parents: Huber Joseph Light,
Alice Ballou Foster.

PREPARED AT: Bloomington High School, Bloomington, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; LL.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Alta Helen Christensen, May 13, 1933, Chicago, Ill. (divorced
1944); Betsy Deane, Dec. 14, 1948, St. Louis, Mo. cuttpren: John Henry,
Feb. 20, 1941; Warren A. Neun, Sept. 12, 1943 (stepson).

occuPATION: Lawyer, alias, counsellor-at-law.

MEMBER OF: Missouri Historical Society; Missouri Archaeological Society,
Harvard Club of St. Louis; The Players; Missouri, Illinois, and Wis-
consin Bars; Missouri Humane Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Two projects about completed: (1) Notes on St. Louis His-
tory & Gastronomy; (2) Notes on the Law & Literary Aspects of
Names. These collections of notes, having their genesis in mere curious
interest, just grew and grew.

Class Life or “Confessions” of Ivan Huber Light, ’27:

OH, FOR the talent of J. P. Marquand who parlayed his Twenty-
fifth Anniversary Report into a best-selling novel! Brother George
Russell’s persistent pleas for our “lives,” in his thankless job,
however, plus his last “Goad No. 2” have finally stirred me from
my inertia, and it seems fit and fair to give my quid for the quos
and pleasure I expect from reading the reports of others, so here’s
my 30¢:

I had only two years at college, having transferred from Illinois
Wesleyan at Bloomington, Illinois, my home town, and regret
that I had opportunity to become acquainted with but few of our
Class, Ah, it seems only yesterday that, fresh from the broad
Midlands, I first stepped into the Yard resplendent, as I thought,
in my new, double-breasted, blue serge suit. Before long, how-
ever, I was able never to appear in pants and jacket that matched,
but I was always being betrayed by saying “git,” “worsh,” and
similar other provincialisms, and I never could say “Hahvud”
with a straight face. Well, after that hot day in the Yard, when
President Lowell assured us all that we had been admitted to the

[ 613 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

times, and mighty close to papa’s heart, as you others must know
from experience. And I wish I had a little girl too.

We have a rustic log cabin in northeastern Wisconsin on Lake
Michigan, and the annual summer trek up, loaded to the gun’ales
with children, dogs, cats, and gear is keenly anticipated and
hilariously enjoyed by all, both man and beast. Physically I have
been blessed with good health, though now half-bald and weighing
forty pounds more than in 1927. I haven’t smoked since 1944,
but can’t say I teetotal. I’ve just been reading “Stop Killing
Yourself,” and decided I'd better take off some of that fat. There
are about sixty other rules, too, that you must observe in order to
postpone the inevitable, but there must be some happy medium
there.

It is said that a happy life requires a balance of play, work, love,
and worship. Despite all the problems of living, I have enjoyed
my fair share of these elements. Fame and riches have not come
to my door, for which I have absolutely no complaints or alibis.
I look to the future with hope and a lot of plain curiosity. I wish
the best, the very best to all of ’27 and theirs, and when the
roll is called up yonder I hope we'll all be there, but if I am
unable to answer “Adsum,” bear in mind what has been said
herein above concerning the destination of lawyers. Leave us
all R. I. P. Further affiant deposeth not. Subscribed but not sworn
to at the City of St. Louis, State of Missouri, this seventh day of
February, A. D. 1952.

CARL MELVILLE LINDNER

HOME ADDRESS: 21 Touro Ave., Medford 55, Mass. .

oFFice aDpREss: C. M, Lindner Co., 420 Boylston St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 19, 1902, Malden, Mass, parents: Charles Robert Lindner, Celia
Peterson.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B, 1927.

UN MARRIED,

occupation: Custom bedding and upholstered furniture manufacturer; presi-
dent and owner, C. M. Lindner Company and Melco Company of
Medford, Massachusetts.

MEMBER OF: School of the Museum of Fine Arts Alumni; Associated Indus-
tries of Massachusetts,

[ 616 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LO! these passing years, I fondly hope they have treated me
lightly — though I have left few discernible footprints in the
sands of the past quarter-century. As my above recorded history
indicates, I am still unfettered by the bonds of matrimony,
though Barkis is still willing, belong to no political, religious,
or social clubs, and have written no books or contributed to any
publications, scientific or otherwise. Yet I can look back over
many happy and full years, though rather uneventful ones. I
have travelled extensively through the United States and Canada
for business and pleasure, engaged in a few varied enterprises, none
particularly profitable.

The early years of World War II found me scheduled for a
commission in the Navy as a lieutenant commander, a thirty-day
wonder in gunnery, slated for convoy service to Murmansk,
Russia. The commission date was preceded a scarce few days by a
ruptured appendix confining me to a hospital for eight weeks,
which ended my prospective war service. Since then my energies
have been directed to building and expanding the C. M. Lindner
Company which I founded, a wholesale manufacturer of custom
bedding, upholstered furniture, and dual purpose sleep equipment
with offices and show room in Boston. Also I officiate as president
of Melco Company, a retail sales outlet for similar products.
Though I strive to make time for benevolent pursuits, business
seems to demand most of my efforts.

To while away my few spare hours, I surf-cast for striped bass
on the Cape, run an apiary (that’s bees), belong to a bee keepers
association, and farm in New Hampshire. I attended radio school
in Boston for two years because it bothered me not to know
the mysteries of television and radio, so now I experiment in-
termittently. For the past few years I have matriculated at the
Museum of Fine Arts School, studying furniture design, in which
I hope to become famous, though it strains the credulity of my
friends when I claim to be an art student at this late stage. But I
enjoy these new fields, and my mark could be in this direction —
may I note as with Grandma Moses, the realm of hope need not
be beyond my expectations.

[ 617 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

SAMUEL L. LINER
HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 69-39 Yellowstone Bivd., Forest Hills, Long

Island, N. Y.

porN: N{ay 10, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Harry Simon Liner, Sarah
Joseph.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.

marriep: Eva Rosenberg, June 27, 1928, Boston, Mass. cHILpREN: Harriette
Ruth, May 9, 1929; Lawrence Jeffrey, June 26, 1940.

occuPATION: Professional pianist; arranger and conductor.

MEMBER OF: Friars Club.

AFTER completing my four years at college, I followed the line
of least resistance — took a position as pianist at the Metropolitan
Theatre in Boston which was to last for five full years. Prior to
that I had been playing at all society dances, parties, etc., with well
known orchestras such as Bert Lowe, Billy Lossez, Copley Plaza
Hotel, etc., while attending classes and lectures majoring in
history, government and economics.

The theatrical experiences from 1927 to 1932 laid a perfect
foundation for the more lucrative work which was to follow. In
1934 I held a post as orchestra leader in the then swank Mayfair
Club in Boston and the Casa Madrid in Hyannis, Massachusetts.

The year 1935 marked a turning point—I moved my family
to New York City, took a position as pianist with the Leo
Reisman orchestra, replacing the up and coming Eddy Duchin,
played in the “famous” Central Park Casino, Waldorf Astoria,
and played during the daytime at Columbia Broadcasting radio
station in New York, and made various recordings, jingles and
transcriptions alone and with various name orchestras. In 1937 |
played in Paris and Monte Carlo and my family travelled along
with me. After returning from a summer stint at the Cocoanut
Grove, Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles in 1938, 1 decided to
work as what we call a free-lance pianist and ended up playing
as many as sixteen programs per week in addition to transcribed
programs — that is during radio’s “heyday.” I have been and
still am pianist on all of André Kostelanetz’ recordings, hundreds
of Kate Smith and Percy Faith recordings.

At present I am personal pianist to Milton Berle and music
arranger on the Texaco Star Theatre television show plus others.

[ 618 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

It’s easy to see that a schedule such as mine, what with ve
irregular hours allows for little socializing, etc., although I do
belong to the Friars Club, whose members are mainly show
people. As for my hobbies, I have occasional time for golf and
vacations in the tropics.

My daughter, now twenty-two, is an accomplished pianist
and harpist and models on some television shows, while my son,
who is only eleven, is a good student— I hope. Politically, I have
always considered myself a Republican. Here’s to a grand reunion.

MERRILL WINSLOW LINN

HOME appress: Lewisburg R. D. 1 (College Park), Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 222 Market St., Lewisburg, Union Co., Pa.

BorN: Dec. 15, 1903, Lewisburg, Pa. parents: Phillip Billmeyer Linn, ’go,
Eleanor Barber.

PREPARED AT: Lewisburg High School, Lewisburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: AB., 1927; LL.B. (Dickinson Law
School).

MaRRiED: Henrietta Catherine Weary, Nov. 27, 1935, Valley Forge, Pa.
cHiLtp: Robert Merrill, Aug. 21, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Attorney-at-law; general practitioner with main subjects in
Orphan’s Court, real estate, and municipal law.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Field director, American Red Cross, with 11th
Armored Division, 1943-45.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Official attorney for registrants in Selective
Service, until 1943.

OFFICES HELD: Committeeman, Troop 38, Boy Scouts; director, Union Na-
tional Bank of Lewisburg; member Board of Directors, Evangelical
Community Hospital, Lower Susquehanna Branch, Pennsylvania Asso-
ciation for the Blind.

MEMBER OF: Pennsylvania Historical Association; Sigma Phi Epsilon Fra-
ternity.

PuBLIcATIONS: Article on “The Lewisburg and Mifflinburg Turnpike Com-
pany” in conjunction with Prof. J. R. Oliphant of Bucknell Univer-
sity, in The Pennsylvania History, quarterly journal of the Pennsylvania
Historical Association, April, 1948.

BOETHIUS had a great deal of time on his hands when he wrote
his “Consolations.” I do not. One dealing with priorities, rent
controls, municipal bond issues, income taxes, and titles in this day
and age has no time to ruminate about anything but the present.
I am afraid that if I wrote anything about my life since gradua-
tion now, it would develop into a treatise on joint school au-

[ 619]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

thorities, mergers, indentures, school budgets, specifications, and
sewers. During 1943 and 1945 I toured Europe, without a guide-
book and with a division CO as a tour conductor, as field director
with the American Red Cross. Since that time I have been busy
catching up on the law practice. I am also involved in an interest-
ing philosophical, mathematical, historical, and problematical
research as to where that income went. This takes up the balance
of my time outside the law.

LEWIS LAURENCE LISS

HOME ADpRESS: P. O. Box 413, Babylon, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 18 E. gist St.. New York, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 6, 1906, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: William Liss, Rachel Rogoin.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: §.B., 19273 LL.B., 193I-

MARRIED: Joan Vickers, Sept. 22, 1951, Lakewood, Ohio.

occupation: Lawyer; builder.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: First lieutenant, A.U.S., 1943-45.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Deputy State Director of Civilian Defense,
State of New York, 1941-43.
MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York.

IF ANYONE is really interested in what I have done in the past
twenty-five years, I suggest that he communicate with my wife,
Joan. J am sure she will tell him that whatever I have done it was
all wrong.

In any case, after my graduation from the Harvard Law School,
I joined the firm of Loucks, O’Ryan & Cullen, 120 Broadway,
New York City, where I specialized in corporate law until my
enlistment in the Army. After my release to inactive service,
I became interested in low cost housing with the result that I am
now building moderate income homes on Long Island and prac-
tising law in New York City between foundations.

SCHUYLER WILLIAM LIVINGSTON

HOME appRess: Seminary Post Office, Alexandria, Va.

oFFice appress: Milbank, Tweed, Hope & Hadley, 821 15th St., N.W., Wash-
ington 5, D. C.

BORN: Oct. 5, 1904, Washington, Iowa. parents: Schuyler Wilson Living-
ston, Alice Isabel Samson.

prepareD AT: Public High School, Washington, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926, DPGREES: A.B. 1927; LL.B., 1929.

[ 620 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Mary Walton McCandlish, Jan. 14, 1939, Fairfax, Va. cHILpREN:
Mary Stuyvesant, July 4, 1941; Elizabeth Schuyler, Jan. 12, 1943; Schuy-
ler William, Jr., Nov. 10, 1944.

occuPATION: Attorney-at-law.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Assistant general counsel, Defense Plant Cor-
poration.

EATON BRENTON LLOYD, JR.

HOME AppREss: Pinecrest Road, Riverside, Conn,

OFFICE ADDREss: Dan River Mills, 1407 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Aug. 25, 1905, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Eaton Brenton Lloyd, Emma
Jane Algeo.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: AB. 1927.

MARRIED: Grace Virginia Lewis.

OccUPATION: Executive vice-president, Dan River Mills, textiles.

MEMBER OF: Greenwich Country Club; Riverside Yacht Club; Innis Arden
Golf Club; Harvard Club of New York.

MINE has been the usual life — many different kinds of businesses
in many different places. I still believe this is a wonderful world,
with more interests and opportunities than the capacities of any
one individual. But I am still trying to get the highest grade in
participation.

WILLIAM PILLSBURY LOCKE

HOME apprEss: Main Street, Hyde Park, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 5, 1906, White Plains, N. Y. Parents: Jame Pillsbury Locke,
Alice Schiefflin Gibson.

PREPARED AT: White Plains High School, White Plains, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B.. 1927; M.p. (Columbia Univ.),
1931.

MARRIED: Kathryn Esther Bohm, June 6, 1929, New York, N. Y. cHILDREN:
Roger Sherman, Aug. 25, 1931; Anne Newcomb, Aug. 21, 1933; Geoffrey
Gibson, Dec. 24, 1935.

HARVARD SON: Roger Sherman Locke, *53.

OCCUPATION: Physician and surgeon.

I HAVE been pretty fully occupied with my country practice of
medicine and surgery. My chief hobby and recreation in the
past ten years has been cruising under sail. I usually get a month
of it each year. Now I own a little schooner.

[ 621 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

HENRY LOCKHART, III

HOME ApprEss: Oxford R.F.D., Md.

BORN: Sept. 12, 1904, Mexico City, Mexico, parents: Henry Lockhart, Jr.,
Aletha Pearle Swift.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury School, Cheshire, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1920.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Bartwood, Dec. 31, 1931 (divorced 1942); Anne Bart-
lect, July 18, 1942, Gulfport, Miss. CHILDREN: Elise Aletha, April 19, 19353
Henry, March 13, 1946.

occupation: Farming; raising broiler chickens.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Private first class, Army Air Force, mechanic;
May 21, 1942-March, 1944.

MEMBER OF: Sons of the American Revolution.

PUBLICATIONS: Two articles on Del-Mar-Va Peninsula sand and gravel wash-
ing and screening plants and concrete block plants for trade magazine -
Pit © Quarry &@ The Concrete Manufacturer.

I HAVE been farming mostly, but also operated a sand and
gravel screening and washing plant and made concrete masonry
units.

+ GEORGE SUTRO LOEWENSTEIN

BORN: Sept. 7, 1905, Manila, P. I. parents: Maurice Frank Loewenstein,
Anna Sutro.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928.

piep: Dec. 5, 1927, Cambridge, Mass.

LOEWENSTEIN died while still in college. Our classmate, Paul
M. Herzog, gave $10,000 to Phillips Exeter Academy in his
memory to be used for a Harvard scholarship for a student from
Exeter and for lectures at the Academy by members of the
Harvard faculty.

CHARLES FRANCIS LONG

HOME ADDRESS: 250 Maynard Rd., Framingham Center, Mass.

oFFice appress: R.H. Long Motor Sales Co., 624 Waverly St. | Framingham,
Mass.

BorN: Nov. 2, 1905, Framingham, Mass. parents: Richard Henry Long,
Mabelle Howard Fernald.

preparep AT: Framingham High School, Framingham, Mass.; Phillips Acad-
emy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1923-1927. DEGREZ; A.B., 1927.

[ 622 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marriep: Gladys E. White, Aug. 2, 1930, Highland Park, Ill. cumopren:
Gale, April 10, 1932; Charles Francis, Jr., July 1, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Fernald Long, 713.

occuPATION: Automobile dealer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Massachusetts State Guard, four years.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Framingham Trust Company; trustee, Farmers and
Mechanics Savings Bank; member Standing Committee, Plymouth Con-
gregational Church; vice-chairman, Framingham Community Chest;
committeeman, Boy Scouts of America; president, Framingham Country
Club, 1947-48; secretary-treasurer, sometimes baseball coach, Centre
Athletic Club, 1948-50.

MEMBER OF: Plymouth Congregational Church; Framingham Country Club;
Middlesex Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Centre Athletic Club.

SELLING cars has been my business since 1927. For many years
it meant long hours and not so long pay. It is hard to imagine
now that selling a new Pontiac for eight hundred and sixty-one
dollars with all known accessories thrown in was once quite a job.
Nevertheless, although it has not been too exciting, it has never
been exactly dull, we did have a few years of a seller’s market,
I have been my own boss; and in more recent years I have been
able to arrange my job so as to have quite a bit of time with my
family. My family is Gladie, my wife (Wellesley ’29), Gale, our
daughter now a sophomore at Mount Holyoke, Charles, our son
in the ninth grade at junior high school in Framingham. I am
very proud of them, and we have a lot of fun together.

In 1928 I took a car abroad and toured through most of
Europe. Since I have been married we have travelled mostly as
a family. We have had one short vacation in Florida, and I don’t
particularly want another there. We have enjoyed North
Carolina and Tennessee in the early spring, but I still like New
England best. For several summers we have been going to
Wolfeboro, New Hampshire, and last year bought a summer
home there on Lake Winnipesaukee. In the winter we go to
Canada, Vermont, or New Hampshire skiing. I started skiing
when I was old enough to know better but still like it, even
though I no longer can keep up to my son. I played badminton
in a league for about ten years, still play the same old irritating
golf, go fishing as often as possible, and enjoy taking photographs
and movies even though the results are never up to my expecta-
tions. And as for my politics, I can state them in one sentence. I
have consistently been in the minority,

[ 623 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

CHARLES C. LOOSLI

HOME Appress: P, O. Box 57, Tinicum, Bucks County, Pa.

OFFICE appREss: New Amsterdam Casualty Co., Philadelphia, Pa.

BorN: Aug. 25, 1902, San Francisco, Calif. parents: Charles Loosli, Char-
lotte Sager.

PREPARED AT: Fremont High School, Oakland, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925, 1926-1928. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1927(28);
LL.B. (Univ. of California), 1932.

MarRiED: Joan Josephine Jones, April 1, 1934, Tijuana, Mexico (divorced

1945); Marette Roberta Breitling, Dec. 20, 1945, Phillipsburg, Kans.
OCCUPATION: Insurance.

THE writer’s personal life is of little interest to anyone but
himself. Furthermore, it is impossible to distill twenty-five years
of accumulated experience into any reasonable number of words.
On the other hand, it is not possible to ignore George Russell’s
“goads,” so I shall mention a few highlights. After graduation
from law school in 1932, I taught and practised law in Berkeley,
California, for a couple of years. I practised law in San Diego,
from 1935 to 1944. As a result of certain “side-effects” of the
war, I left San Diego and travelled around for a couple of years.
Finally 1 settled in New York as the proprietor of an investment
advisory service. I gave that position up for a seat on the New
York Produce Exchange. I retired in 1949 to become a Bucks
County “farmer,” but I gave up retirement to enter the insur-
ance business. I am presently associated with the New Amsterdam
Casualty group.

They say a rolling stone gathers no moss. That may be so,
but in my case at least it gathered a lot of other things. Suffice
it to say that there has never been a dull moment.

RICHARD NOEL LORD

HOME appreEss: 77 Colonial Parkway, N., Tuckahoe, N. Y.

oFFice appress: General Motors Overseas Operations, 1775 Broadway, New
York, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 24, 1904, Lawrence, Mass, parents: John Thomas Lord, Annie
Barker.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927.

marrigp: Catherine Houston Swindells, July 29, 1931, Lawrence, Mass.

[ 624]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

cHtiprEN: Alan Barker, Feb. 27, 1935; Philip Southworth, May 2, 1937;
Susan Elizabeth, Jan. 13, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Philip Barker Lord, ’22 (deceased).

occuPATION: Automotive export, product specialist, parts and accessories
merchandising.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of trustees and chairman finance committee,
West Center Church, Bronxville, N. Y.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

SHORTLY after graduation I joined the overseas division of
General Motors.’ It has been a most interesting experience. I was
in Europe for four years and in Egypt up until the early part of
World War II. After an absence of so many years from this
country, punctuated by periodic home leaves, it was good to get
back to home base. The Alps and Pyramids have their points,
but so do corn roasts, the Met, and a good Harvard-Yale game.
During the war I was engaged in government contract work
with various Allied Government Missions and the U. S. Ordi-
nance and Treasury procurement services. For the past ten years
we have been living in Westchester — some thirty minutes from
Grand Central. Gardening takes a good deal of my spare time,
with a bit of photography on the side and time out for the
Community Chest, Red Cross, and numerous church activities.

RICHARD LOUD

HOME ADDRESS: 323 Waverly St., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Estabrook & Co., 15 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 20, 1905, Belmont, Mass. parents: John Adams Loud, ’98, Adele
Johnson Pigeon.

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MaRRIED: Dorothy Curtis, Aug. 4, 1934, Exeter, N. H. (divorced 1935).
cHILp: Roberta Curtis, April 30, 1935.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Adams Loud, Jr., ’28.

OCCUPATION: Investment banking, securities salesman.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned Aug. 18, 1942, lieutenant, U-S.
Naval Reserve (Aviation); served until Jan. 30, 1946; separated with
rank of lieutenant commander,

THE investment banking business has occupied nearly all of
my days since college with the exception of a couple of summer-
time excursions to Europe and a three-year period in the Navy
during World War IL. I have a few mild hobbies such as house-

[ 625]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

painting, skiing, and singing. Looking back to college days, I find
it something of a paradox that a sociology major as 1 was, and one
who meekly absorbed his quota of Tawney and Marx, could end
up in the halls of capital. Typical of others in my profession, I
find myself resistant to the current political thinking that some-
how you can arrive at a society of free men if only enough
authority can be taken away from the individual and handed
over to the state. My own career in the securities business has
been most enjoyable and, I hope, constructive.

NAPOLEON WILLIAM LOVELY

HOME ADDRESS: 219 Pershing Ave., San Antonio, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 217 Pershing Ave., San Antonio, Texas.

BORN: Sept. 15, 1907, Hamilton, R. 1. parents: Joseph Lovely, Ann Wiggles-
worth.

PREPARED AT: North Kingstown High School, Wickford, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927; A.M.
1932; S.T.B.. 1935.

MARRIED: Doris Mae Lewis, 1927. cHtLprEN: Brandoch Lewis, 1928 (7. Greta
Stone, 1949); Ruppert Lawrence, 1933; Alice Ann, 194.

HARVARD son: Brandoch Lewis Lovely, ’52.

occuPaTION: Unitarian clergyman.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Chaplain, U. S. Army, June, 1942, to December,
1945+

PUBLICATIONS: Conversations on Success in Marriage, Beacon Press; Converts
from Conrmunism and Other Essays (privately printed); Decline of the
West and the Liberal Faith (Biennial Conference Sermon, 1949, Amer-
ican Unitarian Association); Symbols for Liberals (privately printed).

I WOULD rather be a dead liberal than a live radical of either
the left or right, politically, religiously, and personally.

For twenty-five years | have done my modest work, paid
my modest bills, and have tried to enjoy life and people immod-
estly and immoderately. I have been lucky all the way.

EUGENE M. LOWENTHAL, JR.

HOME appress: 1705 Highland Ave. Rochester, N. Y.

oFFice Appress: Greene’s Building Maintenance Supplies Inc., 209 Central
Ave., Rochester, N. Y,

BORN: Feb, 12, 1905, Rochester, N. Y. parents: Eugene M. Lowenthal,
Gertrude Michaels.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N, H.

[ 626 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

marrieD: Esther J. Frank, July 26, 1932, Cincinnati, Ohio. CHILDREN: Jane
Gertrude, Dec. 31, 1934; Nancy Belle, Nov. 25, 1936.

occuPATION: President, Greene’s Building Maintenance Supplies Inc, dis-
tributors of janitorial supplies.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned first lieutenant, Air Corps, July,
1942; trained at Officers’ Training School, Miami, Fla.; joined 305th
service group, Walterboro, S. C., as assistant S-4 officer, September,
1942; embarked for India on SS. Mauretania, Oct. 7, 1942; arrived
India 58 days later; appointed S-4 officer of service group, July, 1943;
promoted major, February, 1944; released from active duty, July, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Past director, Irondequoit Country Club, Temple Berith
Kodesh, Jewish Young Men’s and Women’s Association; member
Activities Committee, Boy Scouts; active in campaigns of Rochester
Community Chest, United Jewish Appeal Fund, Rochester Civic Music
Association, and Boy Scouts.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Rochester; Rotary Club of Rochester; Roches-
ter Club; Canandaigua Yacht Club.

ONE Monday evening late in September a meeting of the parents
and teachers of the graduating class of Harley School was held
at our home. At that time the principal discussed the problems
of applications for college. He told us that many colleges require
an autobiography and that if we had ever been faced with such
a problem, we would know what our children were up against.
Frankly, I have had my class life report on my desk for two
months and have been stewing about preparing this story, but
now feel that I cannot wait any longer and let my daughter,
Janie, show me up.

After attending one year of business administration at Harvard
I entered my family’s business, Michaels Stern & Company,
manufacturers of men’s clothing. The next fourteen years were
spent with this company in the production as well as the selling
field. This work was abruptly interrupted by my entering the
Air Corps in July, 1942. The next three years had many heart-
aches but will long be remembered, especially the two years in
India with a service group. Fortunately, time went by rapidly
as we were always busy, and my business experience was valuable
in the performance of my army dutics such as obtaining scarce
items of supply overseas.

While in service I looked forward to my return to business,
but after six months at Michaels Stern & Company, I decided

[ 627 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

to go in business for myself. At this time I am the owner and
chief executive of Greene’s Building Maintenance Supplies Inc.,
the largest distributor of janitor supplies in the area. The last
five years have been fruitful as this business has expanded, and
my work has consisted of purchasing, promotion and selling a
diverse line of products.

Until the year 1941, my golf was of paramount interest, and
for a man with the worst swing I seemed to manage to score
regularly in the low 80’s. That summer a weekend at Canandaigua
Lake just thirty miles from Rochester, changed my complete
recreational outlook. We purchased a cottage at Canandaigua
which we have owned for ten years and each summer we live
there for a period of three months. It has been most relaxing
and pleasant with a feeling of informality that you do not find
in city homes or at country clubs. Although I have taken up
sailing and enjoy swimming, my favorite pastime is to lie
horizontally on the dock and get sunburned or drink a whiskey
sour.

We have always enjoyed travelling and since we have our
summer home in Canandaigua our preference is to go away in
the winter. On two different occasions my wife and I took a
West Indies cruise, and last year we flew to Nassau in February
for two weeks. Nassau captivated all of us with its warm climate,
coral beaches, and diversified night life.

The last twenty-five years seem to have gone by rapidly, as in
spirit I don’t feel any older than during my years at college.
Fortunately, my family life has been most pleasant, and my two
daughters have kept me from growing old. Perhaps I have been
one of those fortunate individuals who has always enjoyed good
health and who hasn’t suffered any real misfortunes.

JAMES ROBERTS LUCAS

HOME AppRESs: 300 Hilton Ave., Baltimore 28, Md.
OFFICE AppRess: Winthrop Stearns, 1628 Mathieson Bldg., Baltimore, Md.

BORN: June 2, 1904, Remson, N. Y. parents: Chauncey Depew Lucas, Nancy
Price.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: 8.B., 1927.

[ 628 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marriep: Phyllis Gwendolyn Driver, Sept. 3, 1932, Atlantic Highlands, N. J.
cuiLtp: James Roberts, Jr., Dec. 27, 1942.

occuPATION: Drug manufacturing; research attaché, Department of Medical
Research.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Lieutenant, Auxiliary Police, Baltimore County.

MEMBER OF: Society of American Bacteriologists, A.A.A.S.; University Club;
Kiwanis, Harvard Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Collaborated on numerous publications in medical journals,
and scientific papers.

I STILL remember how difficult were the first few sentences of
my English themes — and after twenty-five years the situation is
unchanged. One thing at least I learned: “Start at the beginning
and stop when you come to the end.”

1927 — Graduation, packing, farewells, and off to McGill
Medical School in Montreal. For the next three years I lived
in that far-from-puritanical town, gradually swinging over from
medicine to bacteriology. Finally, in 1930, I returned to New
York for another year at Columbia University.

1931 —- Having decided that I was a fairly well trained bacteri-
ologist, I started in doing basic scientific investigation at the
Rockefeller Institute — as a physicist. During the next five years
I worked there on Rays, Cathode Rays, X-rays, Ultra-Violet
Rays, and of course, financial Raise. When I hear of and see
the effects of Ultra-Violet Rays on sterilizing air in hospitals, I
always feel a pleasant glow. Our early work on the killing action
of these rays led directly to the development of these sterilizing
lamps for operating rooms and infant wards.

1936-—I turned from pure science to the commercial field.
Winthrop Stearns, then called Winthrop Chemical Company,
was looking for someone to arrange the clinical investigation of
Sulfanilamide, and it turned out that that someone was me.
President Coolidge’s son died from a streptococcus infection,
while President Roosevelt’s son recovered, and the reason was the
discovery of the first Wonder Drug.

For almost a year I begged, pleaded, and exhorted the various
clinics and hospitals to try out this drug. Finally, Perrin Long of
Johns Hopkins agreed and soon “Sulfa” was a much used — and
abused — name.

During the past sixteen years I have stayed with Winthrop as
drug after drug passed through my hands on the way from

[ 629 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

laboratory to clinic. Some good, some not so good, but every
now and then one that amply repays us for the barren periods.

Outside of the scientific side, life has been fairly quiet — no
divorces, no scandals, no sudden poverty, no sudden wealth, yet
it has been far from boring. As the years pass, I look back on a
very happy home life with my original wife and one fully satis-
factory son. Time has been filled with a number of hobbies; an
attempt to see exactly how far north we could take a car, fishing,
deer hunting, carpentry, photography, besides an earnest attempt
to get down to the true facts of the American Revolution. Phyllis
says I end up every topic of conversation in that era. Did you
know that General Nathaniel Greene never won a battle — or
lost a campaign? Just like the Pentagon — never lost a campaign
and never won a war.

The war years passed along rather rapidly. The offer of a
commission was very quickly withdrawn when they checked
my physical condition. They said the country wasn’t in that bad
_ a shape.

Right now I am busy learning all about Cub Scouts, helping
my wife move the garden, and the furniture, "round and ’round.

This autobiography is long enough without starting on politics.
The economists say the United States cannot go bankrupt.
Methinks the Truman Tribe are determined to prove or disprove
that theory, financially, morally, and internationally.

CARL GUSTAF TURE LUNDELL

HOME ADDRESS: 1719 Kensington Blyd., Fort Wayne, Ind.

BORN: Jan. 12, 1902, Sundsvall, Sweden. parents: Franc Gustaf Lundell,
Anna Elizabeth Bergstrom.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Excter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

marrieD: Betty Jane Perfect, March 14, 1931, Fort Wayne, Ind. cripren:
Carl Philip, Oct. 10, 1934; Peter Alan, March 6, 1939.

occupaTION: Retail grocer.

WARTIME GOVFRNMENT Posts: Local advisory panel, Office of Price Admin-
istration.

orrices HELD: Member Board of Trustees, First Presbyterian Church, mem-
ber Board of Directors, Anthony Wayne Bank.

MEMBER OF: Fort Wayne Country Club, Y.M.C.A.

[ 630 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SOON after leaving college I was employed by Raymond-Whit-
comb Company, travel agency, and spent three enjoyable years
with them doing considerable travelling in the West Indies, the
Mediterranean, Alaska, Canada, and the United States. In 1930
I left Raymond-Whitcomb, moved to Fort Wayne, Indiana, and
was employed by A. H. Perfect & Company, wholesale grocers.
In 1931 I married Betty J. Perfect, and we have two children,
Carl Philip and Peter Alan. Aside from my business activities,
my chief interest has been in my family and friends, with golf
as my hobby (ten handicap). We have a cottage at Walloon
Lake in northern Michigan where we spend most of our summers
with an occasional trip west or east as a change. During 1950 I
entered the retail grocery business on my own with satisfactory
progress to date. My political beliefs are those of the liberal
Republicans, and I take a dim view of the so-called giveaway
social planners. With two sons soon coming of military age, I
strongly hope that this year we get the proper leadership we need
to lead us out of the confused mess in which we find ourselves.

JAMES LYALL, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 353 Hillcrest Rd., Ridgewood, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 120 Broadway, New York 5, N. Y.

BoRN: Nov. 12, 1905, Brooklyn, N. ¥. Parents: James Lyall, Ida Marv
Rinsland.

PREPARED AT: Erasmus Hall, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Josephine M. Remsen, May 30, 1935, Brooklyn, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Anita Louise, April 11, 1939; Gerald J. March 6, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Representative, Equitable Life Assurance Company; member,
Million Dollar Round Table.

SINCE our Twentieth Report of five years ago I have been
very busy insuring my public. By placing a ” total of about
$7,000,000 of new life insurance during the last five years or an
average of over $1,000,000 per year I feel that I have done my
job in fighting inflation through draining off surplus purchasing
power and at the same time providing future security for
hundreds of families.

It has been a long hard job over twenty-two years to develop
my selling ability to the point where, during the last five years,

[ 63r ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

I usually rank in the first twenty of our nine thousand or more
company representatives. It’s not only the personal satisfaction
one derives from placing high on the honor roll of the leaders
of the company but the fact that I’ve had many opportunities to
see life insurance in action — providing comfortable incomes for
families, homes free and clear of mortgages, college educations
for boys and girls who would not have had this opportunity
except for life insurance.

The foregoing sounds as though I'm real sold on the profes-
sional career of life underwriting, doesn’t it? You bet I am!

WILLABEY PUTNAM LYFORD

LAST KNOWN apprEss: c/o Howard B. Lyford, State Road, E., Wayland,
Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 20, 1903, Littleton, Colo. parents: Henry Trask Lyford, Jennie
Putnam.

PREPARED AT: Wayland High School, Wayland, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927.

WILLABEY PUTNAM LYFORD has been carried as a “Lost”
man on our records since December, 1942.

DANIEL EDGAR LYNCH, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 243 Lakeview Ave., Rockville Center, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, Box 30, Ansonia Station,
New York 23, N. Y.

BORN: May 23, 1905, Brooklyn, N. Y. PARENTS: Daniel Edgar Lynch, ’95,
Josephine Mary Blanchfield.

PREPARED AT: Manlius School, Manlius, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B.4 1927.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Sanitary engineer, industrial waste disposal, Atomic Energy
Commission.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Major, Corps of Engineers, A.U.S., ‘World
War II.

MEMBER oF: American Chemical Society; American Public Health Associa-
tion; New York State Sewage & Industrial Wastes Association.

SUDDENLY it is time to write my memoirs although I haven't
decided yet what I am going to be when I grow up. The twenty-
five years have been eventful but the major occurrences have
been of two kinds, items like the depression and the war which

[ 632 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

we have all shared, and personal experiences significant to me but
merely statistics to my classmates.

My first foreign trip ended when we arrived at Manila, in
September, 1945, heavily armed but too late to do any damage.
I was promptly disarmed and remained so except during a single
tour as officer of the day. On that occasion they let me carry a
pistol but, fearing I would shoot myself, they issued no ammuni-
tion. After six months of checkers they sent me home and off
the payroll. | .

Two years of riding on Air Force planes to our Atlantic bases
followed. At first I was able to spend most of the winter in Ber-
muda and Florida and the summer in Greenland and Labrador.
When my timing deteriorated, I quit.

My early travels were on the New York subways. I discov-
ered that Harvard men do not use them. We fly and run into
each other in places like Goose Bay, Manila, and Frankfurt-am-
Main. po |
I had wanted to be in the atomic energy industry ever since
nuclear fission received a burst of publicity before it disap-
peared for “the duration” from the technical journals as well as
the newspapers. Now the Atomic Energy Commission employs
me to worry about disposal of radioactive wastes. When I told
this to the army psychiatrist (occasion: ORC physical), it was
obvious that he regarded it as symptomatic and I hastened to
explain that I don’t really worry, merely meaning to say that I
function as a technical specialist in the subject, etc. Recently,
however, President Conant has indicated that he regards dis-
posal of wastes from our industry as a serious problem. If he
worries, why should not I?

Circumstances (War II plus some supplementary education at
New York University) have induced the government to classify
me as a sanitary engineer although I began as a chemist. I have
not really changed my trade since chemical wastes involve both
professions.

CECIL THOMAS FREDERICK BURTON LYON

HOME apprEss: Hancock, N. H.
OFFIck AppREss: Office of the United States High Commissioner for
Germany, Berlin, Germany.

[ 633 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

sorN: Nov. 8, 1903, Staten Island, N. Y. Parents: Edmund Burton Lyon,
Emily Vyse Lyon.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927.

MaRRiED: Elizabeth Sturgis Grew, Oct. 7, 1933, Tokyo, Japan. CHILDREN:
Alice Emily, Nov. 26, 1934; Lilla Cabot, Jan. 18, 1937.

occupation: Foreign Service Officer.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-consul, United States of America; third secretary,
Embassy; special assistant to assistant secretary of State; chief of
division of Department of State; special assistant to United States
Commander, Berlin; director, Berlin Element, Office of United States
High Commissioner for Germany.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Chevy Chase, University, and
Metropolitan Clubs of Washington, D. C.

PERHAPS when I should have been reading Hans Christian

Andersen or “The Rover Boys,” I was reading E. Phillips Oppen-

heim. Whatever it was, I always had a strong desire to be a

“diplomat.” However, I was dissuaded from doing so by my

family, and, immediately upon leaving college, I instead joined

Alex Cassatt in his family’s investment banking firm. Three

years in the brokerage-banking business, which included boom

to depression, neither of which moved me very much, convinced
me that 1 was not for Wall Street, and I resigned from Cassatt &

Company. I did so with a certain feeling of ingratitude inasmuch

as they had put up with my many shortcomings and had been

kindness itself for so long. After a very brief interlude as a cub

reporter on the Herald Tribune and an even briefer one as a

salesman at Macy’s, I passed my examination for the Foreign

Service and was appointed vice-consul at Havana in January,

1931. I have been fortunate to serve in the four corners of the

globe, my posts including Havana, Hongkong, Tokyo, Peking,

Santiago, Cairo, Warsaw, and now Berlin, with intervening

periods in Washington, I have never once regretted my decision

to join the Service, for while 1 know we are supposed to be top-
hatted, white-striped, pink tea-drinking lads, experience includ-
ing participation in the Sino-Japanese War in China and the
revolution at Bogota, two years behind the Iron Curtain at War-
saw, and now again close contact with the Communist world in

Berlin, has perhaps taught me to take these glib classifications in

my stride.

My pleasure in this rather nomadic life has been doubled by

[ 634]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sharing it with one who grew up in it and loves it as much as I
do. In Tokyo, while assigned to the Embassy, I married Elsie
Grew. We admit that our life is hard on our children, one born
in Japan, one born in China, and wonder what type of citizen
the third generation of the Foreign Service will make. At home
they seem to be typically American, but obviously they can’t
be. Still, we hope for the best and at least they have the satis-
faction of sharing our pleasure and experience in serving our
country in far places.

Recreations? In Peking it was polo. In China it was skiing,
and now it is an occasional ride, a good book, or a trip some-
where. I find that with the progressing years my tastes become
simpler and I derive as much satisfaction from a walk in a forest
as I once did in attending a good theatre, or from a cross-country
canter. Perhaps that is all to the good, for it seems one’s time
for indulging in personal pleasures decreases as one’s years
increase.

Harold Nicholson states that if you look diplomacy up in the
dictionary you find that it comes after diphtheria but before
dipsomaniac. Perhaps in the twentieth century we do appear a
rather anachronous survival of the past. Still, I believe experi-
ence has shown and will continue to show that no invention such
as TV or the airplane will ever replace the knowledge of another
country or the understanding of its people which is gained
through personal contact. So long as this continues to be the
case, there will be a place in the world for the diplomat. There-
fore, while the prospect of retirement in Hancock appeals
strongly, I imagine that as long as the world situation remains
as taut as it is today we shall continue the nomadic life which
we have led for the last twenty years, going where, when, how
we are told.

ROBERT ERNEST McANERN

HOME ADDRESS: 272 LaPraix St., Highland, Calif,

BORN: Oct. 2, 1905, Caimbridge, Mass. parents: Robert McAnern, Eu-
phemia Kee.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; Gr. (General Theological
Seminary ) 1930. .

[ 635 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MARRIED: Violet Jewer, August, 1930. CHILDREN: Miriam Euphemia, April,
1931; Virginia Margaret Elizabeth, April, 1933; David William, October,
1934; Richard Henry Gordon, September, 1936; George Gilbert, Nov.
3, 1937; Barbara Violet, Jan. 23, 1942 (died Jan. 23, 1942).

occupation: Ministry.

OFFIcES HELD: Rector, St. John’s Church, San Antonio, 1938, 1939; priest
in charge, St. Philip’s, chaplain, St. Philip’s Junior College, San Antonio,
1938, 1939; rector, St. Mark’s Episcopal Church, Anaconda, Mont.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club; Masons.

FRANCIS BERTRAND McCARTHY

HOME ADDRESS: Davison House, Andover, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

BoRN: March 3, 1905, Natick, Mass. PARENTS: Daniel Florence McCarthy,
Mabel Slamin.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925, 1928-1930. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927(30).

MarrieD: Catherine Faber Ridgway, July 18, 1928, Portsmouth, N. H.
cHitp: Cynthia Ridgway, March 28, 1934.

occuPaTion: Instructor in English and philosophy, Phillips Academy.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Andover; English Lunch Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Book reviews, mostly of poetry, for the New York Times,
Saturday Review of Literature, Richmond Times-Dispatch, and Boston
Transcript; article on poetry of Pablo Neruda, Quarterly Review of
Literature; “The Poetry of E. L. Mayo,” introduction to Mayo’s The
Center is Everywhere; “The G. I, Doesn’t Reject Harvard Education,”
Harvard Alumni Bulletin, October, 1945.

THOUGH I can’t claim a Harvard son, I hope to have a Rad-
cliffe daughter in September. From 1945 to 1946 I worked as
an assistant counsellor for veterans under our illustrious class-
mate, and my one-time Andover colleague, Bill Bender. I am
now completing a study of how the veterans did at Harvard and
how Harvard did with the veterans. The results all ’round seem

to have been pretty good. For me personally, the experience
of working in the Veteran’s Office was a new revelation of Har-
vard’s vitality, integrity, and concern for the individual student.
I left convinced beyond any doubt that Harvard is the finest
educational institution in the country and the one with the
wisest and most progressive leadership. Working on the admis-
sion of veterans also helped to confirm another opinion which I
have long held: that, generally speaking, the student of better
than average ability is the orphan of American public education.

[ 636 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

There seemed, from experience with the veterans, ample evi-
dence that many a potentially superior adolescent goes through
his secondary education not only unstimulated intellectually but
often unrecognized for the promise that is in him. I can’t help
feeling that, if these observations are correct, the situation repre-
sents one of the most appalling wastes of human resources
imaginable and is a national scandal.

I suspect that I have lived a quieter life than most of my class-
mates, though I’m inclined to think that merely living through
the last twenty-five years has been enough to make everyone’s
life eventful. But leaving the great events aside, I’ve got the
greatest satisfactions out of those perennial saviors of human
sanity, family and job. Together they give full scope to all my
major interests and promise to hold at bay every form of frus-
tration except financial. And, in an era when the urge to destroy
seems paramount, it has been a pleasure to be in a position to
observe at close range the unfolding of the creative powers of
students, friends, and wife.

HENRY FRANCIS McCARTHY

HOME ADDRESS: 6 Carstensen Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Seatrain Lines, Inc., 15 Broad St., New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: May 11, 1906, Portsmouth, N. H. parents: James Ambrose Mc-
Carthy, Julia Frances Sullivan.

PREPARED AT: Portsmouth High School, Portsmouth, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1923-1927. DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude, 1927; S.M.
(Yale Univ.), 1930.

MarRigD: Virginia Frances Locker, Oct. 20, 1933, St. Louis, Mo. cHitp:
Henry Locker, Dec. 17, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ralph Giles McCarthy, ’13 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Seatrain Lines, Inc., rail-ocean transportation
of freight.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Director, Division of Traffic, Office of De-
fense Transportation; director, Railway Transport, O.D.T.; assistant
director, Office of Defense Transportation in charge of Railway Divi-
sion; awarded Presidential Certificate of Merit “for outstanding and
distinguished contributions to the nation for transportation in war.”

BOOMER (Webster New International 1934); (c—slang (U.
S.)—A migratory workman, (McCarthy 1952) — More
particularly — a workman in transportation,

[ 637]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

with the Boston & Maine and Maine Central Railroads. There
was much fun — snow trains, hike and bike trains —“A Hell of
a Way to Runa Railroad.” During my Boston & Maine days I had
an opportunity to pioneer in the air field, being one of the railroad
officers who created what is now Northeast Air Lines, working
with Paul Collins, Amelia Earhart, and Sam Soloman, who were
true pioneers in the aviation field. I served as general traffic
manager of Northeast until 1941.

With the outbreak of World War II, the former federal
coérdinator of transportation, Mr. Joseph B. Eastman, became
director of the Office of Defense Transportation. The day
following his appointment I entered government service. The
story of that Washington adventure is briefed above. During
the war I did the job for which I was best fitted. I was satisfied
with the outcome, but eager to leave government service. From
1945 until the present I have followed that principle of doing
what I thought I could do best by serving as a part-time, unpaid
consultant to governmental agencies (National Security Resources
Board, Defense Transportation Administration, Secretary of
Defense), while at the same time working for a living with
transportation companies; always, of course, in my narrow field
of specialization — transportation.

All of the foregoing is in the field of making a living; but it
has seemed more of a way of life, like farming or a kindred ac-
tivity, than working fora living. This work history is incomplete,
however, because there is an understanding and forebearing
family at my side. Virginia has been a prop and a comfort to
this boomer. She accomplished all of the movings (ten) except
one — and that is the one I talk about. After many years along
came Locker. He is now six and although not robust will be

ready to compete as a Harvard tackle. Having grandchildren
first may be a solution to Harvard’s football problems. We shall
out-think them! I cannot neglect one phase of my life — too
many classmates refer to it. Nineteen forty-nine and 1950 saw
me as vice-president of the New Haven Railroad. It was a very
interesting interlude, but when the Dumaines took over ownership

(and how they did!), it was obvious that we had nothing in

common. The solution was easy. The McCarthys are very

happy.

[ 640 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

REID McCRUM

HOME ADDRESS: §15§ Iris Lane, Kirkwood 22, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Anheuser-Busch, Inc., St. Louis 18, Mo.

porN: May 14, 1904, Uniontown, Pa. parents: Lloyd Garrison McCrum,
Tola Reid.

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925.

MaRRIED: Ruth McIntyre, Nov. 18, 1929, Boston, Mass. cHtLpreN: Nancy
Alice, Sept. 16, 1930; Iola Reid, Sept. 13, 1932; Ruth Summers, Sept. 6,
1935; Bobbie Lee, Jan. 9, 1937; Myra Schell, Dec. 12, 1943.

occuPATION: ‘Treasurer, Anheuser-Busch, Inc., and subsidiary companies.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, Baltimore Chapter, National Association of
Cost Accountants, Maryland Public Speaking Club, Inc.; chairman Edu-
cation Committee, St. Louis Control, Controllers Institute of America.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of St. Louis; Missouri Athletic Club.

BUSINESS: I liked Cambridge so much that I commenced a
business career in the Industrial Engineering Department of the
Boston Woven Hose & Rubber Company. I returned next to my
native southwestern Pennsylvania to become chief accountant
for two affiliated coal mining companies. Subsequently I joined
the Richmond Radiator Company in both Norwich, Connecticut,
and Uniontown, Pennsylvania, finally to head the Cost Accounting
Department. For three years I was identified with the Federal
Land Bank System in a supervisory accounting capacity. In 1938
I became treasurer and a director of the Stieff Silver Company,
Baltimore, Maryland. I joined the Anheuser-Busch organization
in 1946 as manager of the Cost Department and was elected
treasurer of the company and its subsidiaries in 1951.

Additional Education: Since leaving college I have completed
various additional courses in finance, management, and accounting
at Boston University, Johns Hopkins University, Washington
University, and the American Institute of Banking.

Technical Affiliations: I am a member of the Controllers
Institute of America, American Finance Association, American
Accounting Association, National Association of Cost Account-
ants, Society of Industrial and Cost Accountants of Canada, and
the American Ordnance Association. I am certified as a registered
Industrial and Cost Accountant under the statutes of Ontario.

Outside Activities: In 1945 I served as an evening division

. * e o e
instructor in Cost Accounting at Johns Hopkins University and

[ 64r ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

during 1943 to 1946 as an instructor in accounting at the Univer-
sity of Baltimore. Since 1947 I have been a lecturer on business
administration at the School of Commerce and Finance, St.
Louis University. In both 1950 and 1951 I appeared as a guest
lecturer before the Advanced Finance class of the United States
Army Finance School in St. Louis. I am a member of the
Speakers Bureau of St. Louis University and a member of the
National Committee on Education of the Controllers Institute of
America.

EDWARD FRANCIS McCUE

HOME ApprEss: 29 Village Green, 495 Main St., Orange, N. J.

OFFIcE appress: H. A. Caesar & Co., 485 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Dec. 6, 1905, Milton, Mass. parents: Edward Aloysius McCue,
Katherine Cottle.

PREPARED AT: Milton High School, Milton, Mass. \

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.B.A. (Boston Univ.),

1941.

marrigD: Maura C. Gallagher, April 19, 1939, Brookline, Mass.

OccuPATION: Accountant, office manager.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, treasurer, grand knight, Knights of Columbus,
Milton, Mass., 1932-41.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Cost Accountants; Harvard Club of
New Jersey; Knights of Columbus; East Orange Golf Club.

THE “Twenty-fifth” has come, when we think and dream back
over these years that have rushed by so rapidly. In reminiscing,
pleasant memories come first to mind: the summer of 1927 when,
as a present from our parents, my brother (Holy Cross College)
and I travelled through the Canadian Rockies, Vancouver, and
Seattle to visit in California — returning in the fall via the Grand
Canyon, travelling around New England with George Sullivan
(1927) playing golf — Poland Springs, Sebago Lake, Plymouth,
etc.; the swell 1938 vacation, seeing Bermuda and stopping at
the Belmont Manor, managed at the time by Art Norton (1927);
the wonderful 1939 honeymoon via United Fruit Lines to Cuba,
Central America, and the Panama Canal; and all our trips,
business and pleasure ones, through Pennsylvania, New York,
Virginia, exploring as we roamed in order to appreciate better
the different sections.

Upon entering business late in 1927, 1 became interested in the

[ 642 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ways and means of recording business activity and enrolled at
the School of Business Administration, Boston University, The
degree of Master of Business Administration in Accounting, was
received upon the completion of a much-valued program. My
first business association was with the Gillette Safety Razor
Company in South Boston. Having become thoroughly familiar
with the plant as chief timekeeper, I was transferred to the
Factory Accounting Department for cost and inventory work.
By the late thirties the company was expanding steadily, having
weathered some difficult periods, and activity was high. I still
wonder how the millions of razor blades produced each week
are absorbed by the public.

In October, 1941, we moved from Boston to Orange, New
Jersey, where I joined Crucible Steel Company of America as
an executive accountant, assigned to the Atha Works in Harrison.
World War II was declared almost at once, and the reputation of
this mill was promptly demonstrated by its experienced man-
agement; the Crucible Atha Works was the principal supplier
to the Navy of large projectiles, as well as guns and other ordnance
items. Atha works melted the steel, produced the forgings, and
machined the projectiles and guns for the arsenals. Certain
divisions also turned out steel bars, magnets, and high-speed tool
bits. For the administrative departments, it was a gruelling period,
keeping up with the Navy programs and contracts placed at this
mill.

After the war I was transferred in June, 1946, to the Pittsburgh
district when ordnance projects terminated and primary opera-
tions were moved to the mills located there. Pittsburgh was a
throbbing city, and often I stood on the heights at Duquesne
University, looking down on the great J. and L. and the United
. States Steel mills lining the Monongahela River, fascinated by
the belching smoke and flames that illuminated the night skies.
One never tires of watching molten steel pour from the furnaces
into ladles large enough to hold an automobile. Successively and
simultaneously the city and I experienced in late 1946 a power
strike (night blackouts), a hotel strike (made up my room for
two months), a transit strike (walked and thumbed to work),
and a beer strike. Pittsburgh was a friendly city, and I was just
becoming acquainted with the H-Y-P Club ‘and the weekly

[ 643 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Harvard luncheon when I returned to New York in January,

1947. ;

When I became office manager and accountant for Morgan-
Jones Inc., Worth Street was a new world to me — “the Street”
was the international textile center. Morgan-Jones had just been
organized as national sales agent for its mills that manufactured
under its trademark dish cloths and dish towels, bedspreads, and
bath mat sets and rugs. Our showrooms were colorful with the
many samples. Compared with industrial accounting the
problems were somewhat different, with attention focused on
geographical and territorial results. In the five-year period of
1947 to 1952 the Morgan-Jones label was accepted by distributors
throughout the country and had become familiar to housewives
and homemakers.

As I conclude this “life” narrative, I have gone “uptown” in
New York to Fifth Avenue at Forty-second Street, having
recently become associated with H. A. Caesar & Company,
factors to the textile industry. For the past five years I have
been on the faculty of Rutgers University as instructor in ac-
counting at University College, the evening division of Rutgers.
Teaching has occupied two evenings weekly, and it has been a
stimulating experience to work with these students.

Other activities have not been numerous. In Boston I was a
member of the National Association of Cost Accountants and
served a brief term as associate director. At present I am a mem-
ber of the New Chapter. In 1932 a new council was organized
by the Knights of Columbus in Milton, Massachusetts, my home
town, and I served as secretary, treasurer, and Grand Knight in
the period from 1932 to 1940. Upon reaching New Jersey, I
joined the famous Harvard Club of New Jersey and found that
1927 was an aggressive force in the club; here I renewed ac- .
quaintance with Ted Mayhew, Howard Moody, Bill Doherty,
Warren Partridge, and many others. Service as an air-raid
warden was volunteered and was a minor contribution to the
community. On weekends I] am now usually at the East Orange
Golf Club in Millburn, where hope springs eternal with the sun-
rise and is dissipated as the day’s appointed round progresses. Golf
and swimming at a country club provide us with the relaxation
and release that is necessary today.

[ 644 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

As the Twenty-fifth Reunion approaches one realizes that
1927 has weathered a discordant and historic quarter-century.
We have been very happy, however; we have followed our re-
ligion and have sincere friends. Now we turn towards Cambridge
and move to join with classmates and friends among the scenes
which never fade from memory.

JOHN VOORHEES McCURDY

HOME ADDRESS: R.D. 1, Middlesex, N. Y.

porn: April 12, 1905, Dansville, N. Y. parents: James Reno McCurdy,
Dora Bonner Voorhees.

PREPARED AT: Dansville High School, Dansville, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Reno McCurdy, Jr. ’28.

OCCUPATION: Retired.
OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Middlesex Hose Company, Inc., 1945, 1946, 1947;
secretary and charter member, Middlesex Walley Flying Club, Inc.,

1945, 1946, 1947, 1948.

YOUR words are not going to be read before a Senatorial Com-
mittee, or over a radio, so let’s have your story NOW.” With
this assurance from George Russell I hereby sit down at my
typewriter and shall endeavor to give a brief synopsis of the
events of the past twenty-five years of my life.

After some correspondence with the General Electric Com-
pany, I was accepted as a “Student Engineer” and told to report
at their Schenectady Works plant in October, 1927. Then an
interview with Mr. Boring, head of their personnel department,
and I was assigned to the radio department with my first job
testing radios as they came off the assembly line. After about a
month I was assigned to the Quality Control Section and then
later on to the Planning Department.

In 1929 or 1930 it was decided that the Radio Corporation of
America would manufacture their own radios at Camden, New ©
Jersey, instead of having them manufactured for them by the
General Electric and Westinghouse as was previously done and
most of the design engineers in the radio department at General
Electric were offered positions at Camden. But this invitation
did not extend to the members of the Planning Department and

[ 645 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

so we had to scout around and find jobs in some other depart-
ment. So I went to Mr. Boring and told him I would like to get
on the “Factory Training Course” and he said that they had an
opening in their Lynn River Works.

So November, 1930, finds me in Lynn, Massachusetts, with
my first assignment in the turbine department and later on in
the wire and insulation department and then in the gear depart-
ment. Meanwhile business at the General Electric had been
getting worse and worse and so I considered myself lucky to get
on the “Waste and Spoilage Committee.” As this committee was
sponsored by the vice-president in charge of manufacturing, it
was for quite a time immune to the cuts that affected most every
department. But one day in March, 1932, Mr. Barnes, the chair-
man of the committee, called me in and asked if I were single,
and when I said that I was, he said that he was sorry but that he
would have to let me go for the order had come down the line
to curtail expenses in his department.

One day I happened to be in the Boston Flour and Grain
Exchange Building and there I met Billy Clark who was a coffee
tester and broker. He invited me into his office and as we sipped
some of the freshly brewed coffee he explained to me how the
coffee importing business was conducted in Boston. Mr. Clark
was an agent for different shippers in the various coffee produc-
ing countries and as there appeared to be sound value at the
price, he had an offer of a lot of Dutch East Indies “Robustas.”
I told him I would buy the lot. When it arrived several months
later I had him sell it for me to one of the Boston coffee roasters
and I wound up with a fair profit on the deal. Later I bought
and sold through Mr. Clark various lots of Dutch East Indies
“Ankolas” and Columbia “Medellins” and found that it was a
fairly remunerative business.

When in 1937 I heard that our corner variety store was for
sale I decided to buy it and planned to run it as a side line. It
looked so easy to run that I figured on putting in as manager one
of the neighbor's boys for whom we had developed quite a
friendship. He seemed to take to the store business — he had just
graduated from high school and his father was the manager of
a First National store. But the job of running the store was more
than I had first figured on and I found out that I had to devote

[ 646 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

more and more of my time to the store and had less and less time
for the coffee importing business so that after about a year |
was devoting full time to the store. The store business con-
tinued to grow in volume but the profits were only fair due to
the narrow margin.

In May, 1942, I bought a second grocery store located on
Washington Street in Lynn, and in April of the following year
I received my summons to report to Army Headquarters for my
physical examination. I failed to pass it and as I appeared to be
in a run-down condition, my family advised me to sell both
stores and take a rest — which I did.

During January, February, and March, 1944, | worked on
income tax returns and during the summer of 1944 I was the
night manager of the New Ocean House in Swampscott, Massa-
chusetts.

In the late fall of 1944 I returned to Middlesex, New York, to
visit my father and have since then been “holding the fort”
there summers and spending the winters at our bungalow here
at 1037 35th Avenue North, St. Petersburg 6, Florida.

ROLAND BRUCE MACDONALD

HOME ADpREsS: 150 Mt. Vernon St, Newtonville, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 92 Water St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: April 22, 1904, Watertown, Mass. parents: Almon Hendry Mac-
donald, Minnie Evelyn Reid.

PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.

MarRRiED: Priscilla Tilden, Sept. 6, 1929, Watertown, Mass. CHILDREN:
Carol Tilden, (Wellesley ’54), Dec. 5, 1932; Bruce, Dec. 12, 1935.

OCCUPATION: Insurance broker.

OFFICES HELD: Member Executive Committee, vice-president, Insurance
Brokers’ Association of Massachusetts.

"TIS the night before Christmas (almost), and I have carried
this questionnaire eight thousand miles and eight months without
losing it or filling it out. So here goes. The darn thing arrived
ten days before we (the four of us) started out on the only real
junket we have ever gone on. We left Boston on August ninth —
we should have left on the eighth, but the stevedores struck the

ship for twenty-four hours and delayed us, on the R.M.S, Nova
[ 647 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Scotia of the Furness line. We were due for ten or eleven days’
crossing, so I took along this report and figured I’d have lots
of time. But shipboard is no place to do anything that savours
of work, I discovered, so the report rode safely to England in
my bag.

We spent three wonderful weeks, drove 2100 miles on the
wrong side of the road, took hundreds of colored pictures which
I show on the slightest provocation, and started home, minus
our son, on September eighth. All this business started eleven
years ago when the Boston Transcript and the minister of our
church sold my wife —and me eventually —the idea that we
should “adopt” an English child “for the duration.” We had a little
girl who was sent to us on her sixth birthday, September 7, 1940,
and stayed until the latter part of August, 1945, returning to her
home just after her eleventh birthday. As part of this evacua-
tion business the British parents set up the “Kuismen Trust”
which during the past four to five years has sponsored scholar-
ships for American students going to Britain. This year there
are four prep school and two drama school scholarships; our
son, Bruce, has one of the prep school scholarships and is at
Oxford. The school has about 350 boys from ten to eighteen,
and after a year at Newton (Massachusetts) High School with
2500 in three classes, Bruce finds this school a lot of fun. He is
in everything from the military corps — permission for which he
wangled from the U. S. Embassy — to the school show, in which
he doubled as a bathing beauty and a “tough Yank.” “Rugger”
is quite a game, he decided after he learned that “line plunging”
was not cricket, or whatever you say in rugby.

England is a beautiful country. Its people were very friendly
and hospitable to us when we were there and especially kind to
Bruce this fall. I don’t get any commissions for it but am an
ardent salesman for British travel.

Other than this, my only other important interest has been
my church affiliation, My firm conviction right now is that if
the churches ’round the world will really work at what we
believe, maybe the Christmas message of “Peace on Earth Good
Will to Men” can be a fact. Anyway, for what it is worth, I
am trying to lend a hand to the job.

[ 648 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM COLIN MACDONALD

HOME ADDRESS: St. Davids Road, Newton Sq., Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 303 Architects Bldg., Philadelphia 3, Pa.

BORN: June 24, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Colin William Macdonald,
Helen Augusta Crosbie.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

mMarRIED: Margaret Giles Callahan, June 17, 1939, Winchester, Mass.
CHILDREN: Susan Giles, Oct. 12, 1940; Helen Crosbie, Aug. 9, 1943.

occuPATION: Manufacturers’ agency and consultant.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: War Production Board, Washington, D. C.,
1942-46; chief, War Housing Branch; Deputy Director, Plumbing and
Heating.

OFFICES HELD: General sales manager, Maryland Sanitary Manufacturing
Corporation, Baltimore, 1940-41; assistant sales manager, Briggs Manu-
facturing Company, Plumbing Ware Division, New York, 1946;
director of sales, Briggs Manufacturing Company, Plumbing Ware
Division, Detroit, 1947-49; consultant, Alliance Ware, Inc., Alliance,
Ohio, since 1949, Natiorial Production Authority.

SINCE graduating from college, my business life has been cen-
tered around the distribution of plumbing fixtures. As a result
my interests coincided with housing construction and its develop-
ment. Accordingly, during the dislocations of the war period I
spent five years in Washington with the War Production Board;
the first half as Chief of the War Housing Branch and the second
half as Deputy Director of the Plumbing and Heating Division.
During the postwar period my business activities have been
renewed in the field of plumbing fixtures distribution.

My family life reflected this pattern of dislocation as to loca-
tion during the war and did not end with its end. Over a period
of some eight months when we lived in New York, I commuted
regularly to Detroit where my office was located. In spite of
my identification with the housing industry, I couldn’t find a
house there for that length of time. After a period of constant
travelling on my part the desirable adjustments have been made,
and I have set up a business of manufacturers’ agency in Phila-
delphia combined with consulting work that I am doing for the
same concern in the plumbing fixture field relating to their
overall sales policies.

Now for some two years we have been living in the suburbs

[ 649 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

of Philadelphia where we expect to remain. Our children have
settled down with a permanent accent where they can look for-
ward to remaining in the same school and have the same friends
for a reasonable length of time. At the same time their parents
are enjoying activities that go with life in a community which
promises to be more than a transition.

WILSON D. McKERROW *”

HOME apprEss: 15 Whitson Sc. Forest Hills 75, N. Y.
OFFICE apprESS: Brooklyn Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children, 105 Schermerhorn St., Brooklyn 2, N. Y.

porn: Aug. 24, 1905, Arcade, N. Y. parents: Craig C. McKerrow,
Caroline Wilson.

PREPARED AT: Arcade High School, Arcade, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: AB. cum laude, 1927.

MarRieD: Eva B. Richards, June 20, 1931, Buffalo, N. Y. (died May 24,
1938); Lucy Hobson, Nov. 29, 1941, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Gayle Louise, May 26, 1933; James Hobson, Feb. 13, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Social work; executive director, Brooklyn Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Children.

MEMBER OF: American Association of Social Workers.

WHEN I entered Harvard in the fall of 1923, I was sure that |
would concentrate in chemistry and devote my life to the pur-
suit of that vast and fascinating science. As the year wore on I
began to have doubts — somehow “Chem B” didn’t hold the same
fascination for me that I had found in high school chemistry.
Then came that series of required lectures to help us as fresh-
men decide on a field of concentration. One of the lecturers
was the late Dr. Richard C. Cabot, then Professor of Social
Ethics in the Division of Philosophy. He talked about social
work as a professional career. To me, still fresh from the small
town in western New York where I grew up, what the good
Doctor said that day was a completely new idea which struck
to the very roots of my being with a kind of revealing challenge.
Now that I try to remember exactly what he said that stirred
me so deeply, I find that his words are lost with the passage of
time. Whatever they were, they produced a profound and last-
ing effect, because as I sat in the New Lecture Hall that day I
decided social work was what I wanted to do. The College
records will reveal that I chose Social Ethics as my field of

[ 650]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

concentration and the Class Album that I intended to pursue
“social service” as a Career.

When we left college in 1927, it was relatively easy for a
young man with a Harvard degree to get a job in social work.
There was an even greater dearth of men in the profession then
than there is now. I had my pick of three jobs and chose the one
nearest home. Had I known then what I know now, it would
have been wiser to take graduate work in a good professional
school, but no one suggested that to me very seriously and there
was a pressing need to earn a living. 1 was fortunate to pick a
good agency for my first job and moved along fairly rapidly
from one to another until I landed with the Brooklyn Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children where I have remained
now for more than eleven years.

Many of my friends in college, including not a few of our
classmates, thought me a little queer —if not a damn fool — to
choose a way of life that holds such little opportunity to accu-
mulate more by way of worldly goods. I must confess there have
been times — there still are — when I think they were right. Then
there have been those occasions — and still are — when kindly and
well-meaning people say “Oh, I think it is perfectly marvelous,
the wonderful work you are in — just think of all the ‘good’ you
do; you must get a great deal of satisfaction!” To a professional,
such prattle is a little nauseating and, at times, makes me not a
little angry. I’m in social work because I want to be. I make
my living at it. It is the only thing I have ever done and, after
twenty-five years, probably the only thing I would know or be
any good at doing. I believe firmly in the importance of ade-
quate, properly administered health and welfare services as a
necessary part of our modern culture — as necessary as the oppor-
tunity for gainful employment, education, and religion to the
preservation of our great democratic heritage. The social worker
is entitled to no more credit, or praise, than the member of any
other profession or occupation who seeks to give an honest day’s
work for an honest day’s pay, and his satisfactions are no greater
for a job well done.

One of the things I never learned to do in college or since is
how to play. In that I have failed my old mentor, Dr. Cabot,
who once wrote a book entitled What Men Live By — Work,

[ 651 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Play, Love and Worship. For one thing family responsibilities have
kept me pretty well tied down and my wife often tells me I’m
more in love with my work than with her. Such recreation as
we have is with the family — and we do enjoy attempts at beauti-
fying our home and small garden. Now that we have a son
approaching the age of four, I have hopes that he and I can learn
to play together. Already he handles a ball better than I ever
have.

Because I really love children — personally as well as profes-
sionally — it is a source of regret that we have not had more of
them. Fate has decreed otherwise, however, and it is probably
just as well in these times of economic upheaval. We would not
be able to give them what we would wish on a social worker's
salary. We are very proud of our daughter who entered Welles-
ley last fall with the Class of 1955. I had the great pleasure
during the Christmas holidays just past of escorting her as a
debutante of 1951 in the Forest Hills Gardens Cotillion. Seeing
her in Wellesley has brought back happy memories of my own
good times there. I have difficulty convincing Lucy that they
included no seriously romantic interest. Her college days were
spent at Mary Washington College in Fredericksburg, Virginia.

In matters of religion I have never been an avid “church-man.”
It was not until our son arrived that I could make up my mind
to join any church. He and I were baptized together at the
Church-in-the-Gardens, a community church in Forest Hills
whose membership comes from many denominational back-
grounds. As though to make up for lost time I soon found myself
on the Board of Religious Education where I now serve as chair-
man. This, together with numerous committee assignments
related to my job, constitute my contribution to the common
weal!

When I came to New York City in 1936 to teach at the New
York School of Social Work, it was to be a brief sojourn because
I had no intention of rearing a family on the sidewalks of New
York. Now, after fifteen years, I find no great urge to move on.
We are blessed with good neighbors and congenial friends. I
still hate the subways but long since found I don’t have to ride
on them to get to Brooklyn. Every now and then we all do
yearn for the wide open spaces and some day, when my useful-

[ 652 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ness in Brooklyn is at an end, we shall be looking for a spot where
life is a little less complicated and a little more leisurely.

JOSEPH AYER MacKINNON

HOME ADDRESS: 120 Elm St., Los Gatos, Calif.

BorN: Dec. 13, 1905, Shanghai, China. parents: Hugh MacKinnon, Mary
Ayer.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Sylvia Jessamine Clarke, Dec. 5, 1936, Kobe, Japan. cHitp: Heather
Frances, Dec. 11, 1937.

OCCUPATION: Accountant.

RICHARD DALE McMULLAN

HOME AppRESS: Main Street, Norwell, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Katharine Gibbs School, 90 Marlborough St., Boston 16,
Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 4, 1905, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: James McMullan, Helen
Punderson McDowell.

PREPARED AT: William Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; A.M., 1929.

MARRIED: Margaret Hastings, Sept. 8, 1928, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Addison Dale, July 7, 1929 (m. Penelope Stillman Sept. 1, 1950);
Richard Kollock, Oct. 2, 1932; Caroline, Feb. 10, 1939. GRANDCHILD:
Elizabeth Hastings McMullan, July 7, 1951.

HARVARD SON: Addison Dale McMullan, ’51.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Francis McMullan, ’24, Li.B., 1927.

OccUPATION: ‘Teacher and business manager, secretarial school, Boston.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcoRD: State Guard, rst Motor Squadron of 1st Corps
Cadets, Boston, World War II.

OFFICES HELD: Commodore, Boston Yacht Club, 1943-47; Norwell chairman,
Greater Boston Community Fund, 1948; chairman, James Library,
1948-51; president, North River Community Club, 1950-51.

MEMBER OF: Boston Yacht Club; Cohasset Yacht Club; North River Com-
munity Club; Salem Marine Associates; St. Botolph Club; The Country
Club, Brookline.

PUBLICATIONS: Editorial participation in a number, author of none.

TWENTY-NINE years ago I suppose we were all wondering
consciously or unconsciously what there was in it for us. Many
of us were a little bit scared at the unknown, all of us were hope-
ful. Twenty-five years ago I knew what there was in it for me:
a career as an educator, both teacher and administrator. That

[ 653 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

was to be the certainty in the uncertainties to come. Accordingly,
I taught at Mount Holyoke College, did graduate work at Har-
vard and editorial free-lancing in Boston, travelled abroad, sailed
a ship across the ocean seas, assisted the management of a pur-
chasing agency, and then settled down thus prepared at the
Katharine Gibbs School in Boston. Here I am an English lecturer
and the business manager.

Not the least important links in this chain of experience have
been my marriage, my three children (two boys — one at Prince-
ton! —and a girl), and my civic activities. Twice I have served
on town committees — once, to study the public school system
and bring in recommendations; and then, to study and bring in
a zoning by-law. I have been chairman of the local library, presi-
dent of the North River Community Club, a member of the
Boy Scout Troop Committtee, and the local chairman of the
Greater Boston Community Fund. For five years I was a commo-
dore of the Boston Yacht Club.

What has there been in it for me? I have followed the career
I planned in a broad manner calculated to present experience
not derived from books alone. I have become a family man and
a grandfather. I have served my profession, my friends, and my
town as well as my capacity permitted. In a word, mine is the
typical story of millions who hope that what there has been in
it for them has been returned with interest both intellectual and
material.

Perhaps thus far I have written like a complacent man, and if
this be so, the satisfaction stems from an attitude, not tangible
achievements. No one can have lived the past twenty-five years
without becoming aware that the only certainty is uncertainty —
a state of being rarely associated with complacency. The point
I would make is that the very grammar of the foregoing sentence
is that uncertainty is a welcome certainty. Nowadays the lamen-
tations from the office, the factory, the state house, and the pulpit
all cry out for more nostrums to be added to the peddler’s pack of
the huckstering partisans of these institutions. The very weight of
each additional item guaranteed to cure enfeebled security threat-
ens to collapse upon and engulf the bearer and his purchasers.
Could it be that a little more trust in and enjoyment of the heady
freedom of uncertainty might yet save us from becoming so

[654]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

secure that we shall all be as secure and as immobile as death?
What is in it for you and me for the next twenty-five years?
You answer.

+ CHARLES FRANCIS McNEIL

BorN: Jan. 8, 1903, Charlestown, Mass. parents: Nicholas Tallon McNeil,
Evina Clemens.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 19211922, 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.

mMarRIED: Catherine V. Murphy, Nov. 12, 1931.

DIED: July 4, 1950, Hingham, Mass.

CHARLES FRANCIS McNEIL held the Daniel A. Buckley
Scholarship during his junior year and he graduated cum laude
in 1927. After graduation he went into the hotel business and
worked, in succession, with Chequesset Inn, Wellesley; West-
minster Hotel, Boston; Hotel Commander and Hotel Continental,
Cambridge; Tower Hotel, Falmouth Heights; and the Hotel
Pilgrim, Plymouth. He served in the capacity of manager for
all except the Westminster Hotel. During the summer of 1936
he worked with the Harvard Tercentenary Office and had charge
of catering, hotel arrangements, traffic, etc. At the time of his
death he was steward at the Harvard Freshman Union.

ARTHUR DAWES MacNUTT

HOME appress: Labore Road, Route 7, St. Paul 9, Minn.

OFFICE appREss: Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing Co., St. Paul, Minn.

BORN: June 15, 1904, Petersham, Mass. PARENTS: William Stephen MacNutt,
Anna Shepard Dawes.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Dorothy Louise Patrick, 1931, Pelham Manor, N. Y.

occuPATION: Manufacturing; executive, Minnesota Mining and Manufactur-
ing Company.

MEMBER OF: Town and Country Club, St. Paul; Union League Club of
Chicago.

ROGER MAGOUN

HOME ADDRESS: 35 Surrey Lane, Shrewsbury, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Norton Co., Worcester 6, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 24, 1904, Wellesley, Mass. parents: William Norris Magoun,
Marie Hale Bowman.

[ 655 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928, DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH. ENGIN., 1928.

marriep: Ethel Beatrice Wakefield, Nov. 3, 1928, Boston, Mass. cHItp:
Thomas, April 29, 1930.

OCCUPATION: Economist, Norton Company, manufacturers of abrasives
and grinding machines,

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Industry member, wage incentive panel,
regional War Labor Board, Boston, part-time, 1943-45; chief machinery
branch, Industrial and Manufactured Goods Division, Office of Price
Stabilization, Washington, D. C., February-May, 1951.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Worcester Taxpayers’ Association.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Worcester; Sons of the Revolution; American
Ordnance Association, Worcester Economic Club.

THE AVERAGE classmate reader will probably feel that my
life has been excessively dull— especially when he reads that I
have had but one wife, one son, and one job. However, to me
there is both pride and satisfaction in rendering such an account
and the last twenty-five years have been anything but dreary and
tedious, for these reasons:

My wife has the right (but rare) combination of tolerance,
capability, and personality. That makes her an excellent wife
and mother — and it means she is willing to accept my peculiari-
ties and adapt herself to them.

Son Tom, graduated from Governor Dummer Academy in °48,
having distinguished himself more on the athletic field than in
the classroom. Wanting a liberal arts education in a small New
England college, he selected Bowdoin, and this February was
graduated with an A.B. degree, having majored in economics.
Some unfortunate circumstances and injuries prevented him from
making the headlines, but he took an active part in minor sports
and fraternity affairs. Tom will have no trouble making his place
even in today’s complex society.

Now my job —that institution of earning. Although I said
only “one job,” more accurately I should have said, “one com-
pany and several jobs.” Norton Company is where I have been
continuously employed since graduation, but through successive
steps I have been assigned to the abrasive division, then to the
machine division, where I became planning and later, produc-
tion engineer. In the war years, 1 was production manager in
the machine division with plenty of problems of expansion,
shortages, deliveries, personnel, and all the other production

[ 656 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

headaches. ‘I'wo years ago, the management decided to try to
make an economist of me. To that end I have been devoting my
attention recently. It is too early to judge the results of my
business forecasts which perhaps accounts for my continued
good health. Anyway, it’s challenging and it’s interesting, and I
find an engineering training is by no means wasted when ana-
lyzing certain perplexing problems. Routine office work has been
relieved on several occasions by such diversions as lecturing at
the Harvard Business School (Advanced Management Program),
Worcester Polytechnic Institute, and before technical and man-
agement societies.

Early in 1951, I was lent to the government to help organize
the Machinery Branch in the Office of Price Stabilization. This
interesting assignment took me to Washington for three months
and gave me an insight into bureaus and agencies which I have
never before had. Now I feel that the “educated man” label
should not be worn until one has seen his government in action —
and at close range. Also, I feel more strongly than ever that there
must be a change in personnel and in philosophy in all three
branches of our government. Even now may be too late to
rectify the damage caused by the garbled thinking which has
been foisted on the public for nearly two decades.

Intentionally, I have avoided joining societies and serving on
committees —I like my home life better. A mild interest in
philately, a love of good music, and an occasional sail are all the
diversions I need. As years go on, I count my wealth, not in
tangible or intangible property, but in family and friends. In
each of these respects, the Class of 1927 has played a major réle
and thus has increased my indebtedness to the Class.

ROBERT ANDERSON MAGOWAN

HOME appress: 46 E. 69th St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE appress: Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Beane, 70 Pine St., New
York, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1903, Chester, Pa. parents: Edward Thomas Magowan,
Estelle Smith.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923~1927- DEGREE: S.B. 1927(28).

MarrieD: Doris Merrill, June 15, 1935, Southampton, N. Y. ciiiprey:

[ 657 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927
Robert Anderson, Sept. 4, 1936; Merrill L., June 30, 1938; Peter Alden,
April 5, 1942; Stephen Charles, May 7, 1944.

occupation: Partner in brokerage firm; director of sales division.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U.S.N.R., June 15,
1942; served as Air Combat Intelligence Officer with Torpedo & Dive
Bomber Squadron aboard USS. Cowpens in many of the early
Pacific engagements.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, St. Andrew’s Dune Church, Southampton, N. Y.;
director, Davenport Hosiery Mills; member, Coffee & Sugar Exchange
of New York; governor, Association of Stock Exchange Firms.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Racquet & Tennis Club; River
Club; National Golf Links of America; Shinnecock Hills Golf Club
(vice-president); Meadow Club (governor); Southampton Club; Church
Club; Downtown Association.

IN THE summer of 1927, | went to work for R. H. Macy &

Company, as a member of the training squad. I remained with

this organization until 1934, gradually improving my lot until

I was merchandise manager of the lower-priced ready-to-wear

departments. I left Macy’s to go with N. W. Ayer & Son for a

brief career in the advertising business.

[got married in the summer of 1935 to the daughter of Charles
E. Merrill, of Merrill Lynch & Company. My father-in-law had
been one of the prominent investment bankers of the twenties,
and had specialized in the financing of chain store companies.
He was one of the founders of Safeway Stores, and in Novem-
ber, 1935, I moved to San Francisco and commenced working
for that organization.

I spent three years going through various departments of the
chain store food business. I worked for three months in a store
behind the counter, six months in the bakery, six months in the
produce department, six months in the meat department, and
various periods in other phases of this large business.

It had been my expectation that I would spend the rest of my
business career with the Safeway Company. However, in the
spring of 1938, my father-in-law’s partner, Mr. C. E. Lynch,
died at the age of fifty-two, and Mr. Merrill asked me to come
back to New York. I returned to New York with my family
and became vice-president of Merrill Lynch & Company, Inc.,
I solicited new business, and was one of the directors of the com-
pany and of Cassatt & Company, a wholly owned subsidiary
with offices in Philadelphia and other cities in Pennsylvania.

[ 658 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Early in 1940 we merged these two businesses with E. A.
Pierce & Company, changed to a partnership, under the name of
Merrill Lynch, E. A. Pierce & Cassatt. In August of the follow-
ing year, Fenner Beane joined our organization, and we have
continued doing business under our present name since that
time.

Except when I was in the Navy, I have been in charge of
advertising and sales promotion since the inception of the larger
firm. During the past two years, I have had overall responsibil-
ity for all security sales activities, which includes the advertising,
sales promotion, the trading department, etc. It is my job to get
as much of the security business as possible.

I have four sons, the eldest fifteen as this goes to press, and |
the youngest eight years old. They all went to St. Bernard’s
School in New York City. After completing St. Bernard’s, |
sent my eldest boy to Le Rosey in Switzerland for two years.
He is now enrolled at Exeter. My second boy went to Le Rosey
last September, and it is my hope that I shall be able to send all
of my children there for a year or two.

We own our house in New York, and also a house in
Southampton where we spend the summers. My wife and I have
been identified with the community life of Southampton for a
number of years. My own activities are listed elsewhere, but
in addition, my wife is a trustee of the Southampton Hospital,
and the Southampton Fresh Air Home for Crippled Children.
She is also a trustee of St. Bernard’s School in New York.

I continue to play tennis enthusiastically both summer and
winter, and I try to get in some skiing each winter. I have been
to most of the places in the East, to Sun Valley two winters, and
the past three to Switzerland. Having a boy in school these past
three years has provided a most convenient excuse for those
pilgrimages. In the summer of 1949 I took the whole family to
Italy where we had a house in Rapallo. That was the best vaca-
tion I ever had, and I hope to repeat the same in 1953.

My experience in the Navy was rewarding. I was not only
fortunate enough to see a lot of action, but I got to know a rep-
resentative group of young aviators who remain my good
friends. Three of these boys are now associated with me in busi-
ness.

[ 659 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

SIDNEY BECK MAISEL —

HOME ADDRESS: 32 Dana Rd., Buffalo 16, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Maisel Furniture Co., 703 Fillmore Ave., Buffalo 12, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 15, 1906, Buffalo, N. Y. parents: Louis Maisel, Sophia Beck.

PREPARED AT: Lafayette High School, Buffalo, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. C477 laude, 1927; LL.B. 1932.

MarRIED: Ruth Spero, July 17, 1932, Youngstown, Ohio. CHILDREN: Patricia
Ellen, April 19, 1935; Elizabeth Sue, March 24, 1939; Louis, 2d, Oct.
23, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Josiah Maisel, ’25; Sherman Joseph Maisel, 39,
M.P.A., 47, A.M., 48, PH.D., 49. ,

occupaTion: Retail furniture business; president, Maisel Furniture, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: President, Broadway-Fillmore Business Men’s Association,
1939-41, Buffalo Jewish Community Service Society, 1946-48; vice-
president, Westwood Country Club, 1942; campaign director, United
Jewish Appeal of Buffalo, 1941.

MEMBER OF: Montefiore Club of Buffalo; Westwood Country Club, Buffalo.

PERHAPS because today I noticed the first leaves donning their
autumn garb, perhaps because automatically in the fall my
thoughts turn Cambridge way and I’ve wished every fall that I
were going back, or perhaps because today I said goodbye to the
son of a friend who was on his way — filled with anticipation and
the spirit of youth — perhaps that is why I’ve finally found myself
at my desk and shall attempt the few highlights of the past
twenty-five years, not sensational to say the least, but a good
life for which I am sincerely grateful.

After graduation I entered Harvard Law, but after a hasty
decision, I left that career to enter the automobile business. The
business world apparently didn’t agree that I was as ready for
it as I thought I was or perhaps it was the allure of better seats at
the Harvard games, at any rate after one year I went back to
Cambridge and appreciated my opportunity and the beautiful
life of a student more than ever before.

The highlight of my first year back at law school — along
with Pound and Williston — was the fact that I met Ruth Spero
whom I married immediately after graduation. I took the Bar
examinations and spent two weeks clerking in my brother-in-
law’s law office. Then my father decided to retire from the

furniture business. I entered that business as vice-president in
1932 at the bottom of the depression. Modestly I say the busi-

[ 660 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ness has grown considerably and now, after twenty years, |
have been promoted from vice-president to president —a true
success story. ° ,

I have become the tired business man I suppose, cigars and all,
with a book, a game of bridge, or a concert for relaxation in the
evening. Throughout the years I have tried to give of myself to
the community, holding such offices as chairman of the United
Jewish Appeal, president of the Jewish Community Service
Society, president of the Broadway-Fillmore Business Men’s
Association. I have served on various boards throughout the
city, and am an active member of all Community Chest drives. I
give full credit to my Harvard education in so much as it taught
me to read so that I am now quite adept at putting together such
intricate equipment as tractors, electric trains, etc., for our six-
year-old son, who at this tender age looks like he’ll be fine Har-
vard material. I’m looking forward to the Reunion where he’ll
have his first introduction to his Alma Mater —I hope.

_Our daughters, Patty and Elizabeth, are sixteen and twelve,
respectively, and watching the growth and development of all
three comprises a source of sustained joy and wonderment. The
children are our main interest and have afforded us so far only
the pleasant trials and tribulations of growth.

I am a good Democrat and have voted that way since I came
of age, primarily because to date the party has earned my vote.
Regretfully I say that I was unable to pass the physical examina-
tion for the armed forces; the closest I came to a uniform was
wearing a fire warden’s helmet.

The one great sadness in my life was in 1947 when I lost my
father. His high ideals and the mark he left in the community
have influenced my life, and I realize more and more what a man
he was. We all learned our love of travel, too, from my parents,
and the family love best the hours we spend planning our next
trip. My wife and I spent six weeks in Europe this spring and
hope to take all three children some time in the future. As I
look back over the years, my life seems uneventful, yet I have
always considered happiness an excellent measure of success,
and happy I am.

[ 661]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

GEORGE THOMAS MAJOR

HOME ADDRESS: Spring Street, Exeter, N. H. ‘
OFFICE ADDRESS: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

BORN: Jan. 26, 1901, Easthampton, Mass. parents: John Major, Bertha
Mildred Neidel.

PREPARED AT: Easthampton High School, Easthampton, Mass.,; Williston
Academy, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B. magna cum laude, 1927.
OCCUPATION: Instructor in mathematics.

JOHN SCHUYLER MALICK

HOME ADDRESS: 413 St. David’s Rd., Wayne, Pa.

OFFICE AppREsS: Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Co., 135 S. Broad St. Phila-
delphia, Pa.

BorN: Oct. 9, 1906, Littleton, Mass. parents: John Malick, s.1.B., ’04, LL.B., “11,
Eleanor Schuyler Lane.

PREPARED AT: Franklin Preparatory School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.B.A.. 1929(30).

MARRIED: Judith Campbell, Jan. 16, 1932, Hartford, Conn. CHILDREN: John
Schuyler, Jr., Jan. 26, 1934; Nancy Judith, July 22, 1937.

occupation: Vice-president, Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company.

orFices HELD: Chairman, Disaster Relief, Upper Merion Township, Red
Cross, 1942~45; member Executive Committee, Eastern Pennsylvania
Investment Bankers’ Association; member Finance Committee, Franklin
Institute, since 1945; director, Allen-Sherman-Hoff Company, since
1949.

MEMBER OF: Racquet Club; Midday Club; Harvard Business School Club,

American Ordnance Association.

I CAN think of no more effective deflater of human ego than
to be asked to spread forth on two pages the record of twenty-
five years and to find worth-while material so elusive that the
allotted space is over abundant. Those who began their business
careers in the late ’20’s found it necessary to spend a good part
of the next twenty-five years revising the concepts with which
they started —I think somebody else said this but it certainly
seems applicable to the Class of 1927. The depression years
caused me no particular difficulties. I had no money to lose and
the banking career which I elected provided steady employment
with adequate compensation. This experience tended to keep
my political and economic viewpoint considerably to the right
of center, where it still remains. A penalty is that I have not

[ 662 ] .

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

voted on the winning side of a presidential election since 1928.
In the ’30’s I married, fathered two children, and travelled con-
siderably here and to a limited extent abroad. Life in New York
in that era had all the virtues of a deflationary period to those
with an increasing income, the antithesis of our experience in
the ’40’s and later. By good fortune I became an officer of the
Guaranty Trust Company of New York, at the comparatively
young age of twenty-nine. As the children grew older, as well
as the parents, the charms of life in the environs of New York
began to fade and I was happy to accept an appointment in a
Philadelphia bank in r9qo.

Public service in the war years was limited to the usual activities
of a civilian, Red Cross, War Bond drives, etc. The hardest
working member of the family during that period was my wife
who was a nurse’s aide, at Bryn Mawr Hospital, a tough and
unglamorous job.

My present business activities as vice-president and senior loan
officer of the bank are largely concerned with general man-
agement responsibilities, and management of investment port-
folio; also finance committee work in various institutions, and
the directorship of a manufacturing company.

ALFRED LEE MANIERRE

HOME ADDRESS: 910 Salem Ave., Hillside, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hanover Bank, 70 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 11, 1903, N. Y. parents: Alfred Lee Manierre, Cornelia
Putnam Lockwood.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

MARRIED: Cornelia Cochrane Colt, Sept. 1, 1930, Cazenovia, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Beatrice Barclay, Jan. 24, 1934 (mm. George Gaddis Smith, June 7,
1951); Ann Le Baron, Aug. 24, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: Benjamin Franklin Manierre, ’24.

OCCUPATION: Assistant secretary, Hanover Bank; trust administration.

OFFICES HELD: President, Family and Children’s Society of Union County,
N. J., 1942-45; secretary Board of Trustees, Vail-Deane School, since
1945; Finance Committee, Janet Memorial Home, since 1946, Visiting
Nurse Association, Union County, N, J., since 1948; Board of Governors,
Cazenovia Club, since 1949; president, Elizabeth Town and Country
Club, 1951.

[ 663 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MEMBER OF: Elizabeth Town and Country Club; Cazenovia Club; St.
Nicholas Society of the City of New York; Association of Ex-Members
Squadron A..

HAVING left college in 1926, I had three and a half years (more
than most of you) of “the greatest bull market ever” in the New
York office of Harrison Smith & Company, a Philadelphia invest-
ment banking firm who were also members of the New York
Stock Exchange. It was fun while it lasted but when I came to
in February, 1930, | found myself in the investment end of the
trust department of the Bank of the Manhattan Company. Since
1941 I have been in the trust department of the Hanover Bank
(till June 30th of this year the Central Hanover Bank and Trust
Company), first tending investments but since 1946, as an admin-
istrative officer, and I might add, as such, I have never a dull
moment.

The morning, noon or afternoon mail, the telephone, or even
a simple visit can drop the most amazing things in your lap.
Customers in Europe find it difficult to buy all sorts of things
and guess whom they ask to help them. “Where shall we send
Billy to school this year? They don’t want him back at his old
school. He did too much shooting with his .22.” “Should the

Museum established under Mr. ——’s will be continued or is
there not sufficient public interest?” “The sanitarium where poor
old Mr. —— has been cared for for the last thirty years is clos-

ing in one month. He has no near relatives — find a new place
for him.” Certainly you can’t call it routine and I for one
thoroughly enjoy it.

As indicated above, I married in 1930 and after twenty-one
years I can say without hesitation that I am in favor of it. We
spend our summers in Cazenovia, New York, where we acquired
an old typical central New York Greek revival house. We are
all very fond of it, but, like all old houses, there constantly seems
to be something to do to it. Nevertheless, we wouldn’t change it
for the world. During the winter we seem to get all mixed up
with all sorts of civic projects, but as of about a week ago, my
doctor put an end to all that as far as 1 am concerned by telling
me that an ulcer had appeared in my midst and that I must give
up all extra-curricular activities for an indefinite period. For
the moment, at least, I am revelling in completely unaccustomed

[ 664 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

leisure. Hobbies? A shop in the cellar has gradually grown out
of a small tool chest and although I like to think of it as an out-
let for my creative instinct, I fear it is more of a repair shop than
an atelier. A little shooting in the fall and a little sailing in the
summer complete the list of hobbies.

DOMINICK MANOLI

HOME ADDRESS: 1136 S, Wakefield St. Arlington, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Labor Relations Board, Washington, D. C.

BorN: Aug. 21, 1905, Lentini, Italy. parents: Frank Manoli, Josephine
Tirro.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Omaha, Nebr.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 10923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cu? laude, 1927; LL.B. 1930.

MARRIED: Dorothy C. Dawson, March 12, 1942, Omaha, Nebr.

OccuPATION: Attorney, National Labor Relations Board.

MEMBER OF: Nebraska Bar Association.

EDWARD CHARLES MARGET

HOME abpREss: 269 Clark Rd. Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 80 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 24, 1906, Chelsea, Mass. PARENTS: Morris Marget, Celia
Frankel.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.

MaRRIED: Doris Marget, Aug. 2, 1936, Boston, Mass. cHipren: Roberta,
May 24, 1938; Madeline, Oct. 15, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Arthur William Marget, ’20, A.M., ’21, PH.D. °27; Leon
Arnold Marget, ’33.

OccUPATION: Insurance, specializing in pension and estate planning.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Chartered Life Underwriters; Life Under-
writers Association; Million Dollar Round Table (life member).

SIDNEY MOSS MARKLEY

HOME ADDRESS: 162 W. 56th St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE apprEss: United Paramount Theatres, Inc, 1501 Broadway, New
York, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 13, 1907, Homestead, Pa. Parents: Maurice Herman Markley,
Esther Moss.

PREPARED AT: Sunbury High School, Sunbury, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; LL.B., 1930,

MARRIED: Rosalie Sofin, Nov. 23, 1949, New Brunswick, N. J.

OccuPATION: Vice-president, United Paramount Theatres, Inc.

[ 665 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered Army as private, March, 1941; separated
from service as major J.A.G.D., November, 1945; served in European
Theatre of Operations from June, 1944, to July, 1945; judge advocate,
General School and Command and General Staff School; Bronze Star.

OFFICES HELD: Special deputy attorney general, Commonwealth of Pennsyl-
Vania, 1935-39.

ROBERT THEODORE MARKSON

HOME ADDRESS: 350 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: Markson Bros., 20 Boylston St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: May 26, 1904, Portland, Maine. parents: Eldar Markson, Jennie
Ginsburg.

PREPARED AT: Portland High School, Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

MarRIED: Marion E. Rosenfeld, June 10, 1929, Cleveland, Ohio; Joyce
Krantz, Nashua, N. H. cuitpren: Robert Theodore, Jr. Aug. 29,
1930; Edward Eldar, April 14, 1933; Janet Carol, July 16, 1935; Toni
Danita, Jan. 10, 1948; Christopher Eldar, July 7, 1949; Nina Lian,
April 3, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Yoland David Markson, ’22.

OCCUPATION: Chain store merchant.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Institute of Contemporary Art, Boston.

RODERIC BARRY MARTENS

HOME appRESS: 150 Uncatena Ave., Worcester 6, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: Continental Casualty Co., 390 Main St., Worcester 8, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 22, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Frederick Hugh Martens,
Elizabeth Harriet Barry.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.,; Brighton High School,
Brighton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 10923-1926.

MaraieD: Ethel Elizabeth Mulgrew, March 30, 1940, Everett, Mass. CHILDREN:
Jane Elizabeth, Oct. 25, 1940, Roderic Barry, Jr., Aug. 22, 1943; Paul
Frederick, Nov. 26, 1945. .

occuPaTioN: Claims manager, Worcester Office of Continental Casualty
Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Navy, April 21, 1944, to Dec. 8, 1945; boot

camp at Sampson Naval Training Center; storckeeper, 2d class,
assigned to Sampson.

oFFices HELD: President, Worcester County Casualty Adjusters Association.

I LEFT Harvard in 1926 to follow what looked like a wonderful
opportunity for a bright young man in the business world. It
took me four years to find out that it wasn’t. By then the

[ 666 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Depression was in full swing, and I stayed with what was just
a job. In 1935, I went with Liberty Mutual Insurance Company
in Boston and stayed with them for a year. In 1936 1 began
working for Continental Casualty Company as a claims adjuster
and found something that I really enjoyed. I have been with them
since. I worked ten years in Boston, then to Bridgeport, Con-
necticut, to manage the claims office there for a year. In 1948 I
opened an office for the company in Worcester, Massachusetts.

My naval career was brief, quiet, and undistinguished. I was
drafted in 1944, and they made something they called a Store-
keeper out of me. I was a dry-land sailor and spent all my service
time at the Naval Training Center at Sampson, New York, say-
ing “Yes, sir.” I went back to work on discharge, glad to be a
civilian again, because I looked very silly in my sailor suit.

My chief hobby is trying to help raise three children to be
good citizens. I play a little bad left-handed golf and bow! fairly
well. I used to play some good bridge, but I don’t like the kind
of people who play top bridge, so I have almost abandoned it.
My work itself is a hobby. I like people and I meet new ones
daily under circumstances that give me an opportunity to help
them with their problems. Happy in my work, proud of my
wife and children, I find it hard to realize that twenty-five years
have slipped by, but I look forward with quiet confidence to the
next twenty-five.

ROBERT MARVIN

HOME AppRESS: 152 Middle St., Portsmouth, N. H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 15 Pleasant St., Portsmouth, N. H.

BORN: Oct. 17, 1902, Portsmouth, N. H. parents: William Edward
Marvin, LL.B., 96, Susan Roby Bent.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Bent Marvin, ’21.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commander, U.S.N.R.; American, European
Theatres, England, Normandy, Brittany; Order of the Purple Heart,
Bronze Star medal.

OFFICES HELD: Mayor, Portsmouth, N. H., 1934-36,

MEMBER OF: Society of Colonial Wars in New Hampshire; Federal Fire
Society; Portsmouth Yacht Club; Warwick Club.

[ 667 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

I WAS admitted to the New Hampshire Bar in 1931, and except
for the war interval I have practised law and still do at Ports-
mouth.

CHARLES RUSSELL MASON

HOME appress: RD. 1, Ballston Spa, N. Y.

OFFICE AppDREss: General Electric Co., 1 River Rd., Schenectady, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 26, 1905, Meriden, Conn. parents: Charles William Mason,
Viola Weeks.

PREPARED AT: Meriden High School, Meriden, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: S.B. IN E. ENG., 1928.

marrieD: Doris Charlotte Kaulback, Oct. 26, 1929, Cambridge, Mass. cHit-
DREN: Charles Russell, April 9, 1931; Janet, June 4, 1935.

OccuUPATION: Electrical engineer.

BENEDICT FRANK MASSELL

HOME ApprEss: 92A Marion St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: House of the Good Samaritan, 25 Binney St., Boston 15,
Mass.

BorN: Nov. 24, 1906, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Massell, Pauline
Chaloff.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; M.D., 1931.

MarrieD: Josephine E. Miller, July 11, 1941, New York, N. Y.

occuPaTION: Physician.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Research under Office of Scientific Research
and Development.

OFFIcEs HELD: Chief, Rheumatic Fever Division of the Children’s Medical
Center; medical director, Children’s Mission to Children; associate re-
search director (in charge of department), House of the Good Samari-
tan; associate member in medicine, Beth Israel Hospital; editor, Modern
Concepts of Cardiovascular Disease (publication of American Heart
Association); clinical associate, Harvard Medical School.

MEMBER oF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical As-
sociation; American Heart Association (Scientific Council); American
Council on Rheumatic Fever; Massachusetts Heart Association; Ameri-
can Rheumatism Association; American Federation for Clinical Re-
search,

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous papers on heart disease and rheumatic fever in
various medical and scientific journals; books on rheumatic fever and
rheumatic heart disease for Year Book Publishers, nearly ready for
publication.

[ 668 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BUSIER in each succeeding year despite having been much too
busy the previous year most accurately describes. the 1927 to
1952 span of my life. Whenever I am asked why I work so hard,
I usually (and foolishly) attempt a humorous reply instead of
telling the simple truth, which is that I am busy because I like
to be and because I am happiest when I am working hardest.
If I were to diminish or eliminate any portion of my work —
doing research, seeing patients, writing, lecturing—TI should
feel distinctly and inconsolably bereaved.

Yet preoccupation with the various aspects of a medical career
is by no means the whole of my story. Since 1941, when I
married “the girl of my dreams,” I have been living in that state
of perennial bliss experienced only in the perfect marriage. My
wife’s knowledge and taste in the arts and in literature have
complemented my scientific interests with the result that both
she and I have the continual enjoyment of learning from each
other. I realize, as well, that whatever success I have had as a
physician and scientific investigator is due in no small measure
to her patience, understanding, and unfailing helpfulness. If I
occasionally complain that the days are never long enough, it is
because my life is very full and, being very full, it is very good.

THEODORE LEANDER MAYHEW

HOME ADDRESS: 1249 Clinton Pl. Elizabeth 3, N. J.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Pingry School, 87 Parker Rd., Elizabeth 3, N. J.

BoRN: Nov. 29, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: Theodore Irving Mayhew,
Mary Cecile Duggan.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; a.m. (Colum-
bia Univ.), 1944.

MarRiED: Pauline Hooper Smith, June 17, 1933, Boston, Mass. cHILDREN:
Paula Hooper, Aug. 15, 1942; Susan Winslow, July 8, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Pershing Mayhew, '41, A.M., ’47.

OCCUPATION: Modern language instructor, director of publicity, and alumni
executive secretary, Pingry School.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman Scholarship Committee, Harvard Club of New
Jersey, since 1948; chairman, 1952 meeting, Modern Languages Division,
Secondary Education Board; president, Pingry Chapter, Cum Laude
Society, 1946-49; member Executive Committee, Harvard Club of
New Jersey, since 1941, Dramatic Club of Elizabeth, N. J., 1951-525
member Governing Board, Cooperative Bureau for Teachers, 1949-52.

PuBLIcATions: Editor, Pingry Review, alumni quarterly,

[ 669 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

ROBERT MOULTROP MEARS

HOME apprEss: 440 Heights Rd. Ridgewood, N. J.

OFFICE AppRESS: American Institute of Accountants, 270 Madison Ave,
New York, N. Y.

Born: April 17, 1904, Mansfield, Mass. parents: Frederick Gardiner
Mears, Florence Bertha Moultrop.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1927; M.B.A., 1929.

MarRiED: Doris Elizabeth Fay, Nov. 16, 1929, Ridgewood, N. J. CHILDREN:
Elizabeth M. May 11, 1931; Norman F., Nov. 6, 1947; Robert Moultrop,
Jr., Feb. 3, 1949.

occupaTion: Assistant editor, The Journal of Accountancy.

DAVID CHANNING MECK, JR.

HOME AppRESS: 3161 Ashwood Rd., Cleveland 20, Ohio.

OFFIcE appress: Municipal Court of Cleveland, City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio,
Cleveland-Marshall Law School, 1240 Ontario St., Cleveland, Ohio.
BorN: Dec. 22, 1905, Cleveland, Ohio. PARENTs: David Channing Meck,

Gertrude Kirkpatrick.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: A.B, 1927; LL.B. (Western Reserve
Univ.), 1930.

MarRieD: Alice Mary Barker, March 19, 1932, Cleveland, Ohio.

occupation: Judge, Municipal Court of Cleveland; director of education,
Cleveland-Marshall Law School.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Regional supervisor, Office of Defense, Health
and Welfare Services, Federal Security Agency, 1942~43; consultant,
American Economic Mission to the Middle East under Dean Landis,
Cairo, Egypt, 1944. |

OFFICES HELD: Assistant prosecutor, 1935-38; assistant law director, 1938-41,
Cleveland, attorney for Security Exchange Commission, 1942; judge,
Municipal Court of Cleveland, since 1944; member of corporation,
director of education, Cleveland-Marshall Law School; trustee, Doctors’
Hospital; former president, member Executive Committee, League of
Ohio Law Schools; member Board of Directors, several business
organizations.

MEMBER OF: Cleveland and Ohio State Heart Societies; Cleveland, Cuyahoga,
Ohio State, and American Bar Associations, Heights Lodge No. 633;
Grotto Club; Shrine, Harvard Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in Bar journals.

I WAS engaged in private practice from 1930 to 1935. I got
myself married in 1932, when hamburg was two pounds for a
quarter.

[ 670 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I have doubled in legal education and politics since being
admitted to the Bar: in legal education, as instructor, dean, and
director of education of the Cleveland-Marshall Law School; in
politics, as assistant prosecutor, assistant law director of Cleve-
land, and as Judge of the Municipal Court to which I was elected
in 1943.

What with two salaries, ’'m just keeping up with the ham-
burgers — obviously ’'m a Republican!

JOSEPH HENRY MELHADO

HOME ADDRESS: 24 Rodney Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Standard Brands, Inc., 595 Madison Ave. New York 22,
N. Y.

BoRN: Aug. 28, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: George Melhado, Myra Rhea
Blatt.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 10926-1927. DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude, 1927; AM.,
1928.

MARRIED: Marion G. Green, May 23, 1936, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Joseph Henry, Jr., Aug. 11, 1939; Jane Marion, March 22, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Assistant to vice-president, Standard Brands, Inc. food
manufacturing; administrative responsibiliry in manufacturing and

procurement. |
WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Various positions with War Production Board,

June, 1942, to December, 1945.

PM not sure I really belong in this book; it’s true I have a couple
of degrees from Harvard, but I acquired them on the run, after
completing virtually all of my undergraduate work at the Mas-
sachusetts Institute of Technology. After leaving Harvard in
1928, I went to work for the Boston News Bureau, writing
financial news for that publication, for the Dow-Jones Ticker
Service, and for Barron’s Weekly. Six months later I knew all
about the stock market and was hauling in money trading in the
market; six months after that, in the fall of1g29, I started learn-
ing all over again. I never did learn to know all about the mar-
ket again.

Early in 1933, between the election and inauguration of F.D.R.,
the Barron publications decided that duplicate news staffs in
Boston and New York were too expensive a luxury. When the

[671]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

smoke cleared, twenty of the twenty-four on the Boston staff
were pounding the pavements, including your correspondent. A
couple of months later I settled in New York on the analysis
staff of what was then Standard Statistics Company. By the fall
of 1933 I had been transferred to the editorial staff. In June,
1942, when I left to go to Washington, the company had become
Standard and Poor’s, and I was in charge of the Trade and
Securities Department, editing the major advisory publications
and directing special business studies.

I resisted the call to Washington for some months, but in June
when my daughter was three months old, I felt I no longer had
an excuse, and we moved to Bedlam on the Potomac. They were
hectic times in the War Production Board in those days — eighty-
hour weeks were not uncommon. I moved around in various
spots in the War Production Board; among my jobs were pre-
paring the weekly agenda for the Production Executive Com-
mittee, preparing the chairman’s monthly report to the board,
director of the War Progress Staff, staff assistant to the vice-
chairman for operations, and miscellaneous jobs in production
scheduling and materials allocations.

As soon as the war was over, | was anxious to leave. The
comptroller of Standard Brands, Inc., offered me what I thought
was a challenging opportunity, and at the end of 1945 I moved
back to New York to join his staff. A year and a half later I was
transferred to the manufacturing department as staff assistant
to the vice-president in charge, and in July, 1950, 1 was trans-
ferred again to administrative assistant to the vice-president for
procurement.

The name of the department is in a sense a misnomer; the
department is responsible for the operation of two manufacturing
divisions (margarine and salad dressing, and frozen products),
and has staff responsibility for procurement and traffic. My own
job is hard to define; perhaps I can come the nearest to it by say-
ing I’m responsible for seeing that nobody has to wait for a deci-
sion because the boss is busy with someone else’s problem. It’s an
interesting job and I work with a wonderful group of pcople.
Sometimes I stop to wonder how a chemical engineering course
at Tech and a couple of Harvard degrees in English ever got me
into manufacturing operations — but I'm glad they did.

[ 672 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ RICHARD DuMUR MERIAN

porN: Dec. 2, 1904, Davos, Switzerland. parents: Alfred Walter Merian,
Annie Forrester Hyatt.

PREPARED AT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1927; ED.M. 1934.

pieD: July 1, 1940, Wayne, Maine.

WHILE Richard DuMur Merian was an undergraduate at Har-
vard he was a member of the Glee Club and Cercle Frangais.
After graduation he worked for a while with the National
Shawmut Bank and with the Gardenside Bookshop, in Boston.
He returned to Harvard in 1932 and received his Master of
Education degree in 1934. The next year he taught French at
the Mount Hermon School for Boys and in 1935 he became a
teacher of French at the Punahou School in Honolulu. At the
time of his death he was on a holiday in the East. He was not
married.

CHARLES MERRIAM

HOME ADDRESS: 5507 N. Glendora Ave., Covina, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 710 N. Georgia St., Azusa, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 26, 1904, Holyoke, Mass, parents: Charles Merriam, ‘93,
Georgiana Hemingway.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1925.

MaRRiIED: Flizabeth A. Lee, Feb. 6, 1925, New York, N. Y. (divorced
1932); Dorothy Mai French, 1943, Lordsburg, N. Mex. CHILDREN:
Charles, Jr., Feb. 12, 1926; Robert L., June 5, 1927.

OCCUPATION: Public accountant; insurance.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, September, 1950, to May, 1951, auditor, Aerie
#2810 Fraternal Order of Eagles, Azusa, Calif.

MEMBER OF: Azusa Kiwanis Club.

UPON leaving college, I went into the investment business with
the Shawmut Corporation, the old investment department of the
National Shawmut Bank of Boston. From there I went to the
Waltham Trust Company where I became manager of the
branch bank in Weston, Massachusetts. In about 1929 I was
associated with Skyways Inc., an aviation company then operat-

[ 673 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

ing at the old East Boston Airport, for about a year before com-
ing to California.

I became interested in accounting work during the depression
years as my experience in banking and investment did not seem
to be appreciated during this period. After taking a correspond-
ence course in this subject, | worked for various companies in
Arizona and California. From 1928 until the outbreak of the war
I was chief accountant for Andrew Baldwin of Cottonwood,
Arizona, operating a finance company and insurance brokerage
business in northwest Arizona. During the war I was an auditor
for the P. W. Womack Construction Company of Phoenix, and
later became an accounting supervisor for Airesearch Manufac-
turing Company in the Phoenix plant.

I came to this area, where I bought my home, in 1946. I was
with the Structural Engineering Company in Azusa until a year
ago when I obtained my license and went into business for
myself.

We have three acres of orange grove here and do a little light
farming on the side. My hobby is deep sea fishing (when I can
sneak away). My wife is from Tennessee and was formerly a
teacher.

In regard to political convictions I might say, although I was
brought up a Republican and my wife a Democrat, we are both
definitely not in sympathy with the present administration. This
feeling also extends to my father-in-law who carries on some fairly
large farming operations in Tennessee.

ROGER BIGELOW MERRIMAN, JR.

HOME appress: Great Pond Road, North Andover, Mass.

OFFIce ADDRESS: Sutton’s Mills, North Andover, Mass.

Born: April 29, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Roger Bigelow Merriman,
*96, Dorothea Foote.

prepare at: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.

magriep: Frederika Warner, June 22, 1934, Lincoln, Mass. CHILpREN:
Frederika Warner, Jr. Jan. 18, 1938 (died May 6, 1947); Anne, Nov.
18, 1946 (died Nov. 25, 1947); Roger Bigclow, 3d, Nov. 27, 1947; Joan,
Dec. 16, 1950.

[ 674 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Treasurer and director, Sutton’s Mills (woolens); partner,
Wm. A. Russell & Bro.; vice-president and director, The Russell
Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U.S.N.R., September,
1942; placed on inactive duty as lieutenant commander, March, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Currently, North Andover School Committee, North
Andover School Building Committee; treasurer, Brooks School; vestry-
man, St. Paul’s Church, North Andover; director, Lawrence Chapter,
American Red Cross; chairman Budget Committee, Lawrence Com-
munity Chest; vice-president, Lawrence Community Council.

MEMBER OF: North Andover Country Club.

THE year after graduation I was fortunate enough to spend in
Europe, for the most part in France and England. In the fall of
1928 I became a teacher at Brooks School, North Andover, Mas-
sachusetts, where I remained for six years.

In June, 1934, I married Frederika Warner of Lincoln, Mas-
sachusetts. The next twelve months we spent at Berkeley, doing
what I fear was rather desultory studying at the University of
California. Upon our return east I was given the opportunity of
becoming headmaster of Arnold School in Pittsburgh, where we
spent our next five years and where our first daughter was born.
In 1940 it was decided to merge the two Pittsburgh boys’
schools, Shady Side Academy and Arnold, under the name of
the former, and I became headmaster of the new school.

In 1942 I was granted a commission as lieutenant in the Naval
Reserve and was shortly thereafter called to active duty. For
three and a half years I did various administrative jobs for the
Navy in Newport, Rhode Island, and in the Aleutians. In March,
1946, I was returned both to my family and to inactive duty.

For a number of reasons I then decided to forsake the aca-
demic world in favor of business, but was faced with the rather
difficult question of how to get started. Very fortunately for
me I was offered a job by Wm. A. Russell & Bro. from which
association have developed my present activities as listed above.

My wife and I passed through a very trying period in our
family life in the two years, 1946-48. Our two little girls, each

after protracted illness, died in 1947, one in May and the other
in November; so that we were left childless. Since that time,
however, we have acquired our present two children, Roger and
Joan, in whom we take enormous joy and satisfaction.

[ 675 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927
GEORGE REUBEN METCALF

HOME ADDRESS: 701 Fairmount Ave., St. Paul 5, Minn.

porn: March 15, 1906, St. Paul, Minn. parents: George Putnam Metcalf,
’98, Margaret Burrage Carter.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul Academy Country Day School, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; B.D. (Episcopal Theolog-
ical School), 1932.

marriep: Mary Emlen Okie, June 15, 1929, Radnor, Pa. CHILDREN:
Margaret Carter, Feb. 12, 1932; George Reuben, Nov. 2, 1940; Francis
Wood, April 3, 1942.

occuPaTION: Priest, Protestant Episcopal Church; research on religious
aspects of higher education; staff associate, St, Paul’s Church-on-the-
Hill, St. Paul. .

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned chaplain (1st leutenant) AUS,
July, 1942; after Chaplain School in Cambridge, assigned in September
to zgth Infantry Division, alerted for overseas; chaplain, 1st Battalion,
r1sth Infantry for twenty months in England and through Normandy
assault and campaign, 1942-44; after hospitalization, assigned care of
Army personnel, Metropolitan London, and religious broadcasting,
BBC; transferred to 3rd Army Hg. as assistant 3rd Army chaplain,
1944-45; flown home, September, and separated December, 1945;
captain, 1944, major, April, 1945; Bronze Star, 1944, Oak Leaf Cluster,
1945; Unit Citations, Arrowhead, Campaign Stars; overseas for thirty-
five months.

OFFICES HELD: Vicar, 1932-35, rector, 1935-37, Holy Trinity Church,
Southbridge, Mass.; assistant, Church of the Advent, Boston, 1938-39;
rector, St. Barnabas Church, Irvington-on-Hudson, N. Y., 1939-42;
chaplain to Episcopal students and vicar, Holy Trinity Church,
University of Minnesota, 1946-50; chairman College Commission,
examining chaplain, Diocese of Minnesota, 1947-50.

MEMBER OF: Town and Country Club, St. Paul; White Bear Yacht Club,
St. Paul.

IT HAS been a fine twenty-five years in small town, city, suburb,
and university communities. There is no profession like the min-
istry for giving every interest and capacity a chance. From
being fire department chaplain and emergency squad member,
to running a radio school for civil defense; from cruising an
ancient ten-ton sloop-rigged cat off the Cape, to slopping about
an invasion fleet on a rubber raft for final religious services;
from twenty-two years away from native heath, to happy post-
war return and settling down — from beginning to end it has been
good to remember.

There remain, perhaps, another twenty-five years which I

[ 676 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

hope to devote to research and teaching in the philosophy’ of
religion as applied to higher education. Some of us believe that
much of our political, economic, and religious confusion is due
to conflicting assumptions about the “nature of things” received
in school and college. To expose and identify these assumptions
for the benefit of university students is an essential task in which
I look forward to a small share.

ABRAHAM J. MEYER

HOME ADDRESS: 67 S. Munn Ave., East Orange, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 60 Park Pl., Newark 2, N. J.

BoRN: Dec. 21, 1906, Rochester, N. Y. parENTS: David Meyer, Eva Ney.

PREPARED AT: West High School, Rochester, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.

MARRIED: Helen Honig, Sept. 1, 1929, Brooklyn, N. Y. cumpren: Adele
Ruth, July 8, 1934; Robert Lawrence, Nov. 7, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Investment securities —dealer in unlisted stocks and bonds.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Jewish Family Service Association of Essex
County, 1949-50; president, Congregation Beth Torah, Orange, N. J.,
since 1950.

MEMBER OF: Greenbrook Country Club.

AS I write this it seems that very little has happened to me dur-

ing the past twenty-five years. I spent the first three years after

leaving college as a newspaper reporter and editor. Then shortly

after I was married, I found that the hours on a morning news-

paper were not conducive to a good family life. From writing

financial news on a newspaper, it was simple to go directly into

the securities business. I have been in the over-the-counter

securities business since the fall of 1930.

In addition to the every-day task of making a living, I have
kept myself busy during the past few years with various com-
munal activities. My work in social and religious organizations
has given me a great deal of inner pleasure.

I, like all fathers, have enjoyed my children and I am looking
forward to the time next fall when my daughter expects to enter
college. My son, though just eleven, is a loyal Harvardian and
keeps hoping for Harvard athletic victories. The fact that we
have not had winning teams has not decreased his loyalty.

Despite the pressures of business and family, I have managed
to take at least an annual winter vacation and have travelled

[ 677 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

throughout this country. In 1937 Mrs. Meyer and I enjoyed a
trip to Europe and we are eagerly looking forward to making a
trip with our children to Europe and Israel this coming summer.
For the past several years I have been looking forward to our
Twenty-fifth Reunion because I have a feeling that the most
exciting days of my life were spent at Harvard —or is that
merely nostalgia? The Reunion will help answer this question.

ALFRED HENRY MILLER

HOME apprEss: Detroit-Leland Hotel, Detroit, Mich.

OFFICE ApprEss: Eidelman Bros. 4748 Grand River Ave., Detroit, Mich.

sorN: March 17, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Jacob William Miller,

Anna Cohen.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

marRigD: Sylvia Marie Raffe, May 11, 1937, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1945).
‘ cHILpREN: Anthony Francis, April 14, 1940; Barbara, Aug. 20, 1941.

OccuPATION: Sales manager, wholesale floor covering and accessories.

THE path of least resistance is very often, as everyone knows,
easiest. And that is what happened to me. After a year at the
Law School, where casualties are high, I succumbed to the offer
of a coaching position at the University of New Hampshire,
where I coached football and track for eight years, with a little
professional football thrown in. But the vicissitudes of an athletic
coaching profession are great— and that happened to me too.
Consequently, 1 was faced with the necessity of going to work
for a living. Without playing “Hearts and Flowers,” the princi-
pal stages leading to my present position were as follows: direc-
tor.of a summer camp for boys and girls, salesman for the floor-
ing division of Bird & Son, Inc., salesman for Bird’s Detroit dis- .
tributor, and now sales manager for that company, Eidelman
Brothers. We handle a number of floor and wall-covering lines
and accessories, and cover the states of Michigan and Ohio. I
have thirteen salesmen under my wing and by the time our
Twenty-fifth Reunion rolls around I'll have four or five more.
The work, although sometimes tiring and exhausting, and leav-
ing little time for social and civic activities, is completely absorb-
ing, very interesting, and even rewarding. I am so completely

[ 678 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sold on what I am doing that I now classify selling, salesman-
ship, and public relations in the same category with the tradi-
tional professions of law, medicine, and engineering.

Politically, I lean towards the liberal and more human point
of view which, in my opinion, is exemplified in the Democratic
party. I cannot stomach the Tafts, the Beglers, the McCormicks,
and the MacArthurs, but I read their publications, editorials, and
speeches religiously because these serve as a counterbalance to
the excesses of the other side and tend to keep everyone in line.

As far as religion is concerned, I never felt that that was ter-
ribly important at Harvard. It has always seemed to me that the
Wyzanskis and Barakovs were as important and popular as the
Hallowells and the Cabots. For the record, I was born and
raised Orthodox, and now my children and I tend towards the
Reform. And if my boy decides to go to Harvard, I am very
proud of the fact that he need not be self-conscious of his reli-
gious background.

As for family, I have two children, Tony, eleven, and Bonnie,
ten. Both are normal, healthy, and happy children. Tony
attends the boys’ camp of which I used to be head counsellor,
and Bonnie goes to a nearby girls’ camp. The children have
grown up in an atmosphere of big-time football, but I am almost
certain that their attendance at our Twenty-fifth Reunion will
convince Tony that Harvard is the only college he could
possibly consider, and will point out to Bonnie that there are
several fine colleges for girls.

EDWARD THOMSON MILLER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 772 Burroughs St., Plymouth, Mich. |

OFFICE aDpREsS: Controller’s Office, Tank Division, Ford Motor Co.,
Highland Park, Mich.

BORN: Oct. 28, 1905, Columbus, Ohio. PARENTs: Edward Thomson Miller,
Bess Watson.

PREPARED AT: Oak Park High School, Oak Park, Ill; River Forest Town-
ship High School, River Forest, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cumt laude, 1927; M.B.A,y 1930.

MarRRiIED: Nandeen Love, June 4, 1936, Cleveland, Ohio. cuttp: Peter
Allen, Dec. 11, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Financial analyst.

[ 679}

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered on active duty July 5, 1941, as captain,
Field Artillery; served in Philippines and Army of Occupation, Japan;
with Headquarters, AAF, Headquarters Army Ground Forces Replace-
ment Depot #1, and Field Artillery battalions, separated lieutenant
colonel, Field Artillery, March 23, 1946.

MEMBER OF: American Finance Association.

I WOUND up my narrative in the Twentieth Anniversary
Report by being “pleasantly located as assistant professor of
business administration at Michigan State College.” I continued
on the staff of the college until June of this year, although in
June, 1949, I applied for a leave of absence to return to Harvard
Business School to study for the degree of Doctor of Com-
mercial Science. I] stayed at Harvard for the two following years
and by this spring (’51), I had completed all the requirements
for the degree except the completion of the thesis. About this
time the published accounts of the expected decline in college
enrollments and the expected increase in the price level caused
me to wonder whether college teaching was a good field to be in
to ride through an inflationary period. I then started scouting
around for some spot where salty prospects were better than in
teaching. I found what seemed to be just what I was looking
for in a position as financial analyst in the tank division of Ford
Motor Company, newly formed to produce medium tanks for
the Army.

I resigned from Michigan State as of June ist, and went to
work for Ford on that date. So far, 1 have enjoyed the work
very much and look back with some amusement on the dire pre-
dictions of my former colleagues who felt sure that an “acade-
mician” had no place in business. Eventually, I hope to finish that
thesis and get back into teaching, which is my first love, but for
the present, I have a fascinating job to perform. As to my hob-
bies, I have a “Snipe” sailboat at my father’s cottage on Walloon
Lake, Michigan, which absorbs a lot of my attention in the
summertime, and in the winter I am still very much interested in
the Boy Scout movement. During the past two years, the busi-
ness schoo! faculty has kept the latter interest very quiescent,
but now that I am comfortably settled in a new home in Plym-
outh, Michigan, I hope to become more active again.

[ 680 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD DUNBAR MILLER

HOME ADDRESS: 1127 Lake Ave., Racine, Wis.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rajo Motor Co., 1600 Junction Ave., Racine, Wis.

BORN: Aug. 18, 1906, Racine, Wis. PARENTS: Henry Charles Miller, Cosie
Clarke.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

MaRRIED: Jean Douglas MacGregor, April 27, 1935, Racine, Wis. CHILDREN:
Forrest MacGregor, April 13, 1937; Linda Jean, Nov. 29, 1938; Martha
Elisabeth, May 9, 1943.

OCCUPATION: President, Rajo Motor Company, manufacturing company
specializing in machine tools, agricultural implement, safety devices.

OFFICES HELD: Director, 1934-38, president, 1937-38, Sales Managers’ Club;
member, Governor’s Committee for Lake Shore Development; lecturer
on accident prevention and shop safety, 1948-51.

AS I think back to June, 1927, and to the S.B. degree I took in
philosophy, I am a bit rueful that I didn’t get it in mechanical
engineering. For the past fourteen years I have been in the man-
ufacturing business, and I’ve been made painfully aware that a
few engineering fundamentals could have saved me quite a few
lumps on the head. My current work is a far cry from the sales-
and-advertising stint I essayed my first ten years out of the
College, but I am learning this manufacturing thing fast, and by
the time I am ready for social security, I'll be able to meet some
of these fresh tech-school grads on their own ground.

Our firm, being a metal-working deal, has had a hectic exist-
ence since 1939 — not all of which was chargeable to manage-
ment, what with two separate “defense” programs preempting our
facilities more or less completely. I have not acquired the knack
of making these forced-draft programs pay, and the short inter-
vening period has been so shot through with strikes, shortages,
and whatnot, that keeping on course hasn’t always been possible.
It’s a living, though, even if an ulcer-provoking one.

My personal life, in smiling contrast, trends towards the un-
rippled. In this midwestern community I married a girl, also
born here, who occasionally returned from her theatrical work
to vacation with her family. This was the one indisputably smart
thing I ever did. We are trying to do a good job of raising our
three kids to some appreciation of righteous and pleasurable
living. And we think that our locale, a medium-small community

[ 681 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

of average American cross-section, with lots of cool clean air
blowing in from Lake Michigan, is a promising place to do it.

ROBERT FREDERICK MILLETT

HOME AppRESS: 1111 Merrill St., Winnetka, Ill.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Graver Tank & Manufacturing Co., Inc., East Chicago, Ind.

BorN: Dec. 14, 1904, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: William Louis Millett, Kezia
Harding Swarman.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923~1927. DEGREES: A.B., 19273 A.M., IQ4I.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Advertising manager, Graver Tank & Manufacturing Company,
Inc.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U.S.N.R., March 13,
1942; reported for indoctrination, NTS Quonset, R. I., April 15, 1942;
ordered to Naval Air Technical Training Center, Chicago, June 22,
1942: regimental commander, officer-in-charge, Navy Teacher Train-
ing Center, Advanced Aviation Ordnance School and Civil Service Per-
sonnel; senior member: summary courts martial, officer candidate selec-
tion; reported to headquarters, Caribbean Sea Frontier, San Juan, Puerto
Rico, Dec. 9, 1943, for duty in Joint Operations Center; promoted lieu-
tenant commander March 1, 1944; reported to Naval Operating Base,
Trinidad, B.W.L, April 28, 1944; operations officer, War Plans, Postwar
Planning, Air-Sea Rescue, Sector Historian; promoted commander
Nov. 5, 1945; released to inactive duty Feb. 13, 1946.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Chicago; American Petroleum Institute; Chi-
cago Industrial Advertising Association.

FROM Latin teacher to boilermaker may seem like doubtful prog-
ress over twenty-five years, but regardless of whether it is ladder-
like or lateral, it has been interesting. Perhaps some slight con-
necting thread might be discerned in the web of things I have
done. Private school teaching involved a multitude of adminis-
trative extras which proved somewhat akin to my diversified staff
responsibilities in the Navy. This background of managerial vari-
ety, together with a word-awareness developed in classical studies,
led me to advertising — first for the Cities Service Oil Company
and now for Graver, a fabricating firm which supplies impres-

sively-sized, intricate vessels of steel and alloys for the petroleum
and chemical industries.

All these have been interesting, rewarding, and satisfying.

[ 682 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Teaching was for me a most agreeable occupation. Had it not
been, I should not have continued on as general factotum at the
North Shore Country Day School in Winnetka for fourteen
years. The school itself was lively and stimulating; the faculty
was tried but true; pupils then have become friends and associates
now. Vacations gave opportunity for travel in all directions and
abroad, and permitted the desultory summer studies which hap-
pened to add up to an A.M. in 1941. Despite the hindrance of
impecunious pay, it was a good life.

The Navy was a complete change. As an extension of the ex-
periences of my seafaring forebears it proved a disappointment.
Duty in Chicago, Puerto Rico, and Trinidad could hardly be
termed either naval or warlike. In Chicago, as regimental com-
mander at the Naval Air Technical Training Center, I executed
bond-drive and holiday parades occupying the intervening time
as Q-in-C of assorted activities such as the Navy Teacher Train-
ing Program. In San Juan and Port-of-Spain I had staff duties in
operations, becoming operations officer for ComNOB Trinidad
and gathering extra oddments of titles: war plans officer, sector
historian, air-sea rescue officer, etc. Trinidad duty was the more
agreeable for the presence of classmate Russell Morse. In both
places I was lucky enough to encounter pleasant fellow-officers
and hospitable residents. As a result I have warm recollections
of the Navy and the Caribbean and endeavor to maintain against
the passing years the friendships established during my four years
in uniform.

The advertising field since the war has proved very congenial.
I have been fortunate in having my efforts recognized and appre-
Ciated, so that my work has seemed useful and valid despite long
_ hours and loads of detail. Surrounded on all sides by capable en-
gineers, I have found it fun to help them become more articulate
and to have a part in making their work more meaningful. Actu-
ally all that I provide to company operations may perhaps be
termed good taste —a sense of fitness in picture and word in
public communications.

Now time has slipped by imperceptibly until it totals the rather
frightening figure of twenty-five years. Where such a long span
has gone, with so little achieved, is hard to say. It has been a
very busy period, but there has been time for friends and trips

[ 683 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

and all sorts of simple pleasures — square dances, gardening, put-
tering on odd jobs around the house. With the exception of my
single unblessedness, I cannot think of anything I should change
or an experience I should swap. I can only hope that the next
twenty-five will be as good. |

GLENN ALLAN MILLIKAN

BORN: May 23, 1906, Chicago, Ill. parents: Robert Andrews Millikan,
Greta Irvin Blanchard.

PREPARED AT: University High School, Chicago, Ill.; Thacher School, Ojai,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923~1927. DEGREE: $.B. magna cum laude, 1927.

MARRIED: Frances Clare Leigh-Mallory, Aug. 3, 1938, Godalming, Surrey,
England. cHitpren: George Clinton, Feb. 1, 1940, Richard Gordon,
Nov. 25, 1941; Mark Andrews, Jan. 5, 1945.

pep: May 26, 1947, Cumberland Mountains, Tenn.

GLENN ALLAN MILLIKAN won a Harvard Scholarship for |
his sophomore year and was a member of the Phi Beta. Kappa
Society. His extra-curricular activities included the Social
Service Dramatic Club and the Liberal Club, of which he was
president during his senior year. After graduation he studied
chemistry and psychology at the Universities of Gottingen and
Berlin and he travelled during the next summer to Russia,
Caucasus, Siberia, and the Orient. During 1928-29 he was a
graduate student at the California Institute in Pasadena and
studied physiology from 1930 to 1932 at Cambridge University.
During 1932-33 he was a tutor in biochemical sciences at Harvard.
He returned to Cambridge University in 1936 as University
Lecturer in physiology. His research included kinetics of blood
pigments, blue blood, red muscle, and photo-electric cell methods
applied to physiology. He taught at Cornell University Medical
College in 1941 and did research on problems of high altitude
aviation and the development of devices for making it safer. Dur-
ing the war he developed some of the high-altitude equipment
used on American bombing planes and a device called the oximeter
for determining oxygen concentration in the blood, At the time
of his death he was professor of physiology at Vanderbilt Medical
School and head of the Vanderbilt University Physiology De-
partment.

[ 684 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HIRAM FRANCIS MILLS

HOME appreEss: Metaline Falls, Wash.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Zinc, Lead & Smelting Co., Metaline Falls, Wash.

gorN: April 14, 1905, Tolt, Wash. parents: William Elligood Mills, ’88,
Gertrude Hutchings.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Grace Vivienne Battan, June 28, 1937, Spokane, Wash. CHILDREN:
Sally Vonne, June 27, 1938, Judy Ann, March 12, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Elligood Mills, Jr., ’22, Lr.e., '28.

occupation: Metal mining; western geologist, American Zinc, Lead &
Smelting Company, in charge of western property exploration.

OFFICES HELD: Member Ione School Board, 1941-42, chairman, 1943; mem-
ber Town Council, Metaline Falls, 1945-47, and since 1948 (currently
street commissioner).

MEMBER OF: Columbia Section of American Institute of Mining & Met-
alurgical Engineers, Northwest Mining Association, two bridge clubs,
one rod and gun club.

IMMEDIATELY after graduation I entered the employ of the
American Zinc Company, with whom I had had two summers’
previous experience, and I have remained with them in various
capacities and places. Up until mid-1942 I was primarily in-
volved with mining geology, seven years in eastern Tennessee
and eight years here in Metaline Falls. From July, 1942, to
October of this year I was general superintendent of the com-
pany’s operations here. During the war period the operation
included two mines in scope and involved enough problems and
aggravations to pave the proverbial mile of Hades. The post-
war operation was comparatively mild except for sixteen months
of strike involving some violence and much threat of violence.
This uproar had Uncle Joe in the background, and though I mav
salt my normally Republican ballot with an occasional Democrat,
I certainly am never tempted to vote Politburo, Last October
I was delegated to set up an exploration department to search
for and develop mining properties within an area including
western United States, western Canada, and Alaska. Currently
this department could be classed as a busy infant with interest-
ing possibilities,

In 1937 I surrendered my bachelor status and some of my
bachelor habits of long standing. Some of the habits which 1

[ 685 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

didn’t surrender Viv adopted and we get along pretty well
together. Our elder daughter, Sally, is now in the eighth grade
and Judy is in the sixth, My main detail in their scholastic
advancement is helping with the arithmetic. As to hobbies,
mine are not especially spectacular, including some bridge, some
stream fishing, occasional bird hunting, and rare golf. My
proficiency is least in the last two. None of my family has been
in the East and I have not been for over fifteen years. During
this time I have met some Harvard men, but none from the
Class of ’27. We are enthusiastically planning a big trip next
year, including, of course, the Twenty-fifth Reunion.

RUSSELL WILLIAM MINER

HOME ApDpRESS: 1210 E. Fort Wayne St. Warsaw, Ind.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1901, Warsaw, Ind. parents: William Newton Miner, Ruth
Mary Knabenshire.

PREPARED AT: Warsaw High School, Warsaw, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREE: S.B4 1927.

MaRRIED: Florence Aileen Boles, Jan. 9, 1941, Indianapolis, Ind. CHILDREN:
Charles Michael, March 10, 1948; Marcia Ann, March 19, 1950.

occuPATiON: Partner, Miner Lumber Company, producers of Indiana
hardwoods.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II: U. S. Army, 8oth Infantry,
Chemical Warfare.

MEMBER OF: Elks Club; American Legion.

AFTER leaving college, I was on the road for three years as a
travelling salesman. In 1930 I became hungry, consequently I
returned to the saw-mill business, to which I had been born.
Except for a brief vacation in the Army, I have been here in
that same business.

BOLTON CALDWELL MOISE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 4592 Roubidoux Drive, W., Riverside, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 3514 Ninth St., Riverside, Calif. (P.O. Box 989).

BorN: Aug. 17, 1905, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Bolton Caldwell Moise,
Bunella McQuiston.

preparep aT: Culver Military Academy, Culver, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925, 1926-1928, DEGREES: 8.B., 1927(28), M. ARCH,
1933.

[ 686 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marriep: Anne Lathrop, April 18, 1936, Detroit, Mich. cup: Joanne
Gillett, Feb. 8, 1937.

occuPATION: Architect.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II: Captain, Anu-Aircraft Artillery
and Aviation Engineers.

MEMBER OF: Rotary; Elks; American Legion; Victoria Country Club;
American Institute of Architecture; Riverside Rifle and Pistol Club,
Perris Hill Pistol Club, Inland Game Conservation Society; Society
of Military Engineers.

AFTER Architectural School I sat out two years of the depres-

sion in Europe and then came back and managed to get a job

with General Motors as a designer. This began several years
of industrial design alternating with increasing amounts of work
in architecture, which was finally beginning to recover from the
genuine depression. During this period I worked for or with
such people as Raymond Loewy, Russell Wright, Ed Stone,
and Donald Deskey. I was finally able to establish myself
completely in architecture but unfortunately by just about the
time it became possible to anticipate being able to pay next
month’s bills, the Japs made history, and private practice pretty
well folded up. For the next year and a half I worked at gov-
ernment housing and as an engineer until I entered the service.

The Army paid me well enough for work which I contend had

nothing to do with winning the war. Invariably my architectural

and engineering background caught up to me and I became the
post handyman. I never got overseas. My last post was Kingman

Air Field in Arizona. This was my introduction to the South-

west, and I liked it.

In 1946 I got out of the service and took a job as a draftsman
in a San Bernardino office where [ prepared for the California
Architectural License exams which I passed at the end of the
year. In the summer of 1947 I opened my own office in Riverside,
California, where we had been living. Riverside is our home and
we are glad we left large cities, My practice has been gradually
‘ growing until now the office is pretty well established. ” Most of
our work is public, w ith a few residences each year,

My professional philosophy is that the recognition of the
irrational and spiritual in mankind and its reflection in building is
the only point of differentiation between an architect and an
engineer. I do not subscribe to the bloodless and ugly principles

[ 687 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

taught by refugees from the European profession and by their
shallow, publicity-seeking disciples in this country,

Politically 1 believe that we were founded as a Republic and
not as a Democracy, and that in order to survive as free men
we must return to the habit of thought and to the willingness
to shoulder responsibility for our own destinies which have dis-
tinguished citizens of great republics. Personally I believe that
the entire universe and all in it are only a background for the
life span of the individual.

STANLEY CRAMPTON MOISE

HOME ADDRESS: 1019 Terry Circle, Memphis, Tenn.
OFFICE abprEss: J. W. Henley & Co., 612 Goodwyn Institute, Memphis,
Tenn.

BorN: April 23, 1905, Kansas City, Mo. parents: Lionel Moise, Laura
Stanley Crampton.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: $.B., 1927; LL.B. (Kansas City Univ.),
1934.

MaRRiED: Beryl Ruth Stanfill, cuipren: Robeson Secrest, July 21, 1931;
Shirley Inez, Sept. 15, 1933 (a. Jerry Patterson Phillips, Jr., Feb. 2, 1952).

occupation: Real estate; manager, J. W. Henley & Company; vice-presi-
dent, Capeville Lumber and Supply Company, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Club of Memphis, 1946.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Memphis.

AS I pace the floor in the throes of composition, I wonder if I
should tell my classmates that the salient fact of my undistin-
guished business career is that I consider myself a displaced
person and, if I do tell the story, are there any who would be
interested. But I do not yet feel that I have my business career.
After brief employment with the telephone company, I found
myself accumulating scars scuffling for a living during the
depression, and in that period also I suffered a disabling injury. I
took advantage of convalescence to get my degree in law. This
period ended when I came to Memphis to work in the Home -
Owner’s Loan Corporation Regional Office where I was regional
statistician and later assistant to the regional manager. My work in
that fast developing and fast liquidating organization (I was in
it from the opening of the office and was the official who turned
over the keys to the landlord when its doors were closed) was

[ 688 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fascinating and would have been a career were it not that the
organization had a limited life. The interest and excitement of
the work was constantly shadowed by the knowledge of its
temporary nature and the depression-born fear of unemployment.

After the dissolution of the Regional Office I went with
Jefferson Standard Life Insurance Company, whom I represented
as district mortgage loan supervisor in this area. I left that
work to enter my present employment as manager of J. W.
Henley & Company, a real estate brokerage office. Iam constantly

‘amazed to find myself selling and feel there must be some mistake.
I cannot imagine myself as a salesman and trader, but sales and
trading are essential to a business career, and I am anxious that
my son engage in both early so that he may achieve the feeling
of self-sufficiency that comes with selling and trading.

Aside from business my big interest has been my home, work-
ing on the house and the garden, with house design as a hobby.
It is somewhat of a shock to find that my Twenty-fifth is upon
me and that I should be settled, and — although the bones creak
and the lure of far places is supplanted by the lure of comfort —
Istill feel I am just getting started.

JOHN HILL MONROE

HOME ADDRESS: 3850 39th St., N. W., Washington 16, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Defense, Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: July 3, 1904, Brookline, Mass, parents: John Ingalls Monroe, Cora
Frances Hill.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; A.M. 1928,

MaRRIED: Catharine Latimer, June 29, 1935, Clinton, Miss. CHILDREN: John
Ingalls, Oct. 11, 1937; Margaret Hill, Dec. 2, 1943; William Lewis,
Nov. 14, 1946.

occupation: Not permitted to state.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned Naval Reserve officer, 1942;
served two years at Navy Dept., Washington; served with Pacific Fleet
Radio Unit, Pearl Harbor, until November, 1945; returned to Washing-
ton, serving at the Naval Communications Station before returning
to inactive duty in August, 1946.

MEMBER OF: American Philological Association.

OFF and on, as a graduate student at Harvard, the University of
Michigan, the American School of Classical Studies in Athens,

[ 689 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

and the George Washington University, I have picked up quite
a bit of book learning, which may have helped to improve my
mind, but did not help very much in trying to support my
family of three children, For ten years I taught classical languages
at Brown University in Providence. These were rather leisurely
years which included two summer vacations in the Mediterranean,
marriage, the birth of my first youngster, and the hurricane of
1938. After Pearl Harbor, the Navy seemed to be glad to have
persons trained in classical languages. I was pleased with the
commission offered me, and delved into work which was totally °
new, but interesting, stimulating, and challenging. I also made
many new friends who had been previously engaged in all types
of occupations. After the war, many of us private citizens again
preferred to go on with the same type of work which we had
been doing for the Navy, and I have not yet regretted my decision
to stay with it.

Thanks to the enthusiasm and perhaps to the tutelage of my
elder son, the members of my family have all become rather
ardent baseball fans. I think hobbies, however, depress us, and
we prefer not to claim any. My wife is a good pianist when she
takes time to practise, and I can occasionally assist her on duets.
Being a resident of voteless Washington, I am politically on the
fence, but if given the chance, I'd prefer the Democrats at pres-
ent. Except to state that I am thoroughly anti-atheistic, I prefer
to keep my religious views unsaid.

FRANCO VITTORIO MONTANARI

OFFIcE ADDRESS: Italian Embassy, Teheran, Iran.

BORN: July 22, 1905, Monteleone, Italy. parents: Carlo Montanari, Helen
Raney Day.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.

occupation: Italian Diplomatic Service.

AVELINO MONTES, JR.

HOME Appress: Camelia 84, Villa Alvaro Obregon, Mexico DF., Mexico.

oFFice appress: Madero 26, Desp. 412, Mexico D.F., Mexico.

Born: Sept. 1, 1904, Merida, Mexico. parents: Avelino Montes, Maria
Molina.

[ 690 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Carlton Academy, Summit, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREE: M.B.A,, 1934(51)-

MARRIED: Nydia G. Canton, May 4, 1936, New York, N. Y.

OccUPATION: Private investor; member of Board of Directors of Compaiiia
Central Financiera, South America, and Nacional de Drogas, South
America; director general and chairman of the Board of Dilazo, South
America; representative in Mexico City of Banco Comercial Peninsular,
South America.

MEMBER OF: Jockey Club Mexicano; Club Campestre de la Ciudad de Mexico,
South America; Club de Golf, Mexico.

AFTER leaving college in 1925, I went to Mérida, Yucatan, and
worked with the firm of Montes, Lejeune y Compajfiia. In Jan-
uary, 1930, my brother Fernando and I established the firm of
Montes y Hermano, which was liquidated in 1932. In the summer
of that year I took a course in economics at the Harvard Summer
School and in September of the same year I entered the Harvard
Graduate School of Business Administration.

When I graduated from the Business School, I went on a trip
to South America. I travelled by steamer from New York Ci
to Rio de Janeiro. In Brazil'I visited several cities and left that
country from Santos bound for Buenos Aires. Afterwards I
travelled by airplane and visited Uruguay, Chile, Peru, Ecuador,
Colombia, Panama, and Venezuela. From this country I went to
Mérida to spend Christmas with my family; on New Year’s day
I was in Mexico City, and in January, 1935, I returned to New
York City. This was a very enjoyable and instructive trip be-
cause from Rio de Janeiro on I travelled with one of the vice-
presidents of the Foreign Department of the Guaranty Trust
Company of New York. This fact made it possible to know per-
sons who otherwise would have been difficult to meet during so
short a stay — more so because in each country we visited three
or four cities. I must not omit that in Medellin, Colombia, |
visited and enjoyed the princely hospitality of Christian Botero,
my schoolmate and our college classmate.

I lived in New York City from early 1935 until April, 1941.
During this time I first worked as a “student” at the Guaranty
Trust Company of New York until April, 1936. I married in
May, 1936, and for the next four or five months I enjoyed life
with my bride and returned to New York at the end of the year.
In 1937 I started working with the investment banking firm of

[ 6gt ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Van Alstyne, Noel & Company; some time later I founded the
firm of Sacor Corporation and liquidated it at the end of 1940
because I had decided to come to Mexico City to live. After my
marriage I lived in Bayside, Long Island, for approximately one
year and afterwards in Great Neck, Long Island, until April,
1941, when I came to Mexico City. During the time that I was
living in New York, my wife and I made several trips to Mexico
visiting mainly Monterrey, Mexico City, and Mérida. We also
visited Cuernavaca, Taxco, Acapulco, Puebla, Orizaba, Veracruz,
Toluca, Guadalajara, and several other cities and towns.

In Mexico City I first lived in the Lomas de Chapultepec. In the
meantime I bought some land in San Angel and built a house into
which I moved in June, 1942, and I am still living there. The
property is about one acre and a half in measurement, and as a
hobby I raise chickens, geese, and turkeys. I also raise peaches,
apples, and plums. Of course I only have three or four trees of
each and the number of animals I have at one time is limited to
about one hundred and twenty, as a maximum.

My occupation is that of a private investor. After spending
the first few months in Mexico City “looking around,” I decided
to take part in some developments in Mexico City, Cuernavaca,
and Guadalajara. At different times I invested and was a director
of some companies. At present I am chairman of the board of
directors and director general of Dilazo, South America, and a
member of the board of directors of Nacional de Drogas, South
America and Central Financiera, South America; I am also the
representative in Mexico City of the Banco Comercial Peninsular,
South America of Mérida, which is a bank of the Montes family.
In addition to the investments in companies in which I take an
active part, I also have investments in companies in which I am
merely a stockholder or a bondholder. Once a year I visit the

United States, usually New York City and its vicinity, although
I have been to California and the South. In 1948 I flew to Europe,
making the classical trip — England, France, Switzerland, Italy,
and Spain —by automobile. Unless international conditions pre-
vent it, I plan to visit Europe again next year, and if this is not
possible [ intend to make a tour of South America.

[ 692 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HOWARD HARTWELL MOODY

HOME ADDRESS: 410 Sunset Ave., Haworth, N. J.

OFFICE ADpREss: American Telephone & Telegraph Co., 195 Broadway,
New York, N. Y.

BorN: Aug. 6, 1905, Melrose, Mass. parents: Charles Edward Moody,
Irene Greenleaf Hartwell.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.

MARRIED: Edythe Hazel Timpson, Nov. 16, 1931, Haworth, N. J. cutupren:
John Timpson, June 3, 1938; Sara Hartwell, May 30, 1942; James
Prescott, April 27, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Communications, accountant, supervising methods.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member, War Price and Ration Board (local).

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Haworth Public School; finance chairman, Lenape
District, Boy Scouts of America.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Jersey (past president).

TWENTY-FIVE years of very uninteresting small-town living,
except to myself. To me, they have been very much worthwhile,
passing all too rapidly. Business-wise, I went to work for the
telephone company when I left school, following up on a lead
of three summers of outdoor work with the same outfit; the
usual gradual and unspectacular progress but always a good living
and always plenty of fascinating work.

Family-wise, I married when I thought I could afford it. I
found I couldn’t, but we made the grade. Bought a house and
swung it; adopted two children when the medical profession
said we never would have any of our own; swapped houses and
got a larger and older one in the deal; medical profession con-
founded when we produced James Prescott in 1946; so were we!

Socially, the same uninspiring performance; know a few
people; love the Harvard Club of New Jersey; enter into local
community affairs—one can’t help it in a town of less than
2000 souls — with result at present of being on the School Board,
the Scout Committee, ex- of the Recreation Committee, the
Men’s Club, and last but not least, the Ragweed Extermination
Committee. But it’s a living.

[ 693 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

WILLIAM GRAY MOODY

HOME AppRESs: 40 Buena Vista Drive, Hastings-on-Hudson, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Finch Junior College, 52 E. 78th St., New York 21, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1905, Newburyport, Mass. parents: Arthur Monroe
Moody, Elizabeth Johnson Gray.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; A.M. (Columbia Univ.
Teachers’ Coll.), 1928; Certificat des Etudes Frangaises (Sorbonne,
Paris), 1932. .

marriep: Gertrude Anderson Getman, June 18, 1938, Albany, N. Y.
CHILDREN: William Gray, Jr., May 14, 1939; Pamela, Nov. 11, 1940;
Joseph Edward, Oct. 4, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Instructor in history and political geography, Finch Junior
College. ‘

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Associated with Airplane Spotters Organization
during World War II, donated sixteen pints of blood (including r950
and 1951 donations).

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Schoolmasters’ Association of New York and
Vicinity, until 1949; director, Troop 32, Boy Scouts, Hastings-on-
Hudson, N. Y.; member of choir, Christ Church, New York City,
member Board of Governors, Harvard Scholarship Committee, West-
chester (N. Y.) Harvard Club.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

AFTER graduating from Harvard, I spent a profitable year at
Teachers’ College, Columbia University, where I specialized in
the teaching of history and government, and where I received
the A.M. degree in June, 1928. I also became a member of the
Harvard Club of New York at that time and have enjoyed
the club very much. In the summer of 1928, I received a
position as teacher of history, French, and German (also coach of
junior football and baseball) at the Middlesex School, Concord,
Massachusetts, Although I taught at Middlesex only during one
academic year, | became very much interested in the school
and expect that my twelve-year-old son will go there following
another year at the Fenn School (also in Concord). From
September, 1929, to the spring of 1934, I was located in or near
Paris, France, most of the time. I studied French courses at
the Sorbonne and some music at the Ecole Normale de Musique
in Paris (under the inspiring guidance of Mlle. Nadia Boulanger).
I also served at the American High School of Paris for a time, and
in two different tutor-companion jobs, one of which took me

[ 694 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

for a short period of time to Austria, Switzerland, and Germany.
After returning to the U. S. in 1934, I served in various tutoring
jobs in the New York area for a time until I secured a position
in French, history, and general extra-curricular activities at the
Longwood Day School in Brookline, Massachusetts. There I
served from September, 1935, until May, 1938. (That school
for younger boys is now no longer in existence.)

In June, 1938, I was happily married to Gertrude Getman,
formerly of Johnston, New York (but her father was at that
time located at the state capitol in Albany). Our marriage was
solemnized by the Reverend Sidney Lovett, a life-long friend
of mine, who also baptized my two older children (in New
Haven!), and who is now chaplain at Yale University.

Beginning in September, 1938, I was employed as instructor
of French and history at the New York Tutoring School, East
sth Street, and, in 1942, secured part-time work in the histor
department at Finch Junior College. Since 1944 I have had full-
time work there as instructor in history and political geography.
I also assist in the French, music, and athletic departments, and
am in charge of money and fund-raising campaigns there (un-
fortunately, sometimes). From 1945 to 1948, Finch was co-ed
(following the G. I. Bill of Rights idea), but since 1948, has
reverted to the all-girl status. The idea and hope is to make
it a four-year college in the not too distant future.

Ever since 1940, during the summer months, we have been
spending our time either in Maine or on Nantucket Island,
Massachusetts. I have a very special interest in a boys’ summer
camp called Pine Island Camp located at Belgrade Lakes, Maine.
My wife and children are very fond of Nantucket (joining me
in this), and I have recently purchased a house at 30 Easton
Street, Nantucket, Massachusetts, which looks like a permanent
acquisition. There certainly is little doubt about Nantucket
being one of the choice spots along the eastern coast,

RICHARD MOREY, JR.

HOME ApprEss: 18 Warson Terr., Clayton 24, Mo.

OFFICE apprEss: A. G. Edwards & Sons, 4og N. Eighth St., St. Louis, Mo.
BORN: May 8, 1904, St. Louis, Mo. Parents: Richard Morey, Mary Mackey.
- PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

[ 695 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

marrieD: Margaret Davis Burkham, Jan. 28, 1937, St. Louis, Mo. CHILDREN:
Mary Paschal, March 1, 1938; Ada Davis, Oct. 2, 1942.

occuPaTION: Partner, A. G. Edwards & Sons, members of New York Stock
Exchange, in charge of Municipal Bond Department.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: In Navy June, 1942-November, 1945; entered
as lieutenant, later became lieutenant commander; stationed in United
States all of time.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Club of St. Louis, 1947; chairman Munic-
ipal Committee, Mississippi Valley Group of Investment Bankers As-
sociation, 1952.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of St. Louis; Noonday Club.

I HAVE spent the past twenty-five years, except for four years
in the Navy, in the investment business, and I am now a partner
in the firm of A. G. Edwards & Sons. It took me ten years after
I got out of college to find somebody who would marry me,
and now after fifteen years we are still happily married and have
two daughters, aged nine and fourteen. We have spent our
summer vacations in various ways, but most of them have been
spent in either California or Michigan. We have had the good
fortune to attend several Investment Bankers Association meet-
ings at Hollywood, Florida, where we found several other
members of the Class of 1927. I have consistently voted the
Republican ticket and expect to continue to do so, with the
hope that someday I shall be on the winning side.

PAUL BEAGARY MORGAN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 26 Sever St., Worcester, Mass.

orFice appress: Morgan Construction Co., 15 Belmont St., Worcester, Mass.

BORN: June 11, 1904, Hubbardston, Mass. parents: Paul B. Morgan,
Lessie L. Maynard.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

MarRieD: Helen A. Thayer, May 23, 1931, Worcester, Mass. CHILDREN: Paul
Beagary, 3rd, May 24, 1933; Benjamin B., Aug. 24, 1935; John M.,
March 3, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Philip Maynard Morgan, ’18, Charles Hill Morgan, ’24.

occupaTion: Manufacturing; treasurer and director, Morgan Construction
Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Air Corps, Combat Intelligence; European
Theatre with 8th and oth A.F., October, 1942, to January, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Worcester Community Council, Worcester

[ 696 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Taxpayers’ Association; trustee, Memorial Hospital; Members’ Council,
Worcester Art Museum; director, Worcester County Trust Company.

MEMBER OF: Worcester Club; Tatmuck Country Club; Players; Shakes-
pere Club; National Rifle Association; Sports Car Club of America;
Veteran Motor Car Club; Vintage Sports Car Club.

SHIRAS MORRIS, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE AppREss: A.A. Ranch, Williams, Ariz.

BorN: April 23, 1905, Hartford, Conn. parents: Shiras Morris, Grace
Judson Root.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Pritner Lockwood, Dec. 15, 1930, Tucson, Ariz. cHIL-
DREN: Elizabeth Grace, March 21, 1932; Charles Shiras, 3d, Feb. 3, 1935;
Felicia Mary, Aug. 11, 1936; Francis Lockwood, July 2, 1943.

OccUPATION: Proprietor, A. A. Ranch.

OFFICES HELD: Member, American Foreign Service, 1941-44.

RICHARD FRIEDMAN MORSE

HOME ADDRESS: 67 Dorset Rd., Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Leopold Morse Co., Adams Square, Boston, Mass.

BorN: Oct. 15, 1904, Brookline, Mass. parents: Julius Carroll Morse,
Maude Friedman.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1926.

MaRRIED: Marjorie Mosler, Feb. 26, 1929, Cincinnati, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Richard Friedman, Jr., June 11, 1935; Alice, Nov. 27, 1937.

OCCUPATION: Men’s clothing merchant; manufacturer, wholesaler, retailer,
vice-president in charge of wholesale sales and manufacturing, Leopold
Morse Company.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Leopold Morse Company,
Browning King, Inc. Boston, University Shop, Cambridge.

MEMBER OF: Columbian Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Rotary Club of Boston;
Aleppo Temple; A.A.O.N.M.S.; Harvard Club of Boston; Academy of
Political Science of New York.

DURING the last twenty-five years I have been busy indeed
trying to keep Leopold Morse Company, my family business
which will be one hundred years old this year, going through
good times and bad (mostly bad). Scarcity of materials and
government orders for over 100,000 officers’ uniforms kept the
company running at a terrific pace.

Richard, Jr. and I have developed a fine father-and-son rela-

[ 597 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

tionship, because I have been able to keep up my tennis game
and we go skiing every weekend when conditions are right.
I look forward to many years of companionship with him and
hope he feels the same way about me. My daughter Alice is a
rare “chip off the old block” and is a source of joy that is prac-
tically indescribable. Her letters from camp and when I am on
my selling trips have a ring to them which I hope will be ap-
preciated by the man of her dreams, No story about my family
would be complete without a tribute to my wife, Marjorie,
whose charm and, yes, good looks, improve with the years. Her
Cincinnati background has broadened my point of view, as I fear
I was one of those New Englanders who thought the West
began at the Connecticut River.

I have continued my studies of political thought in this country
and abroad by reading and attending regularly the meeting of
the Academy of Political Science of New York. I have attended
many lectures at the Harvard Law School Forum and took a
course with Professor O. M. W. Sprague at the Harvard Business
School. I attribute this interest to Professor A. N. Holcombe, who
told us in college that living around Boston gave us the opportu-
nity to hear some of the best speakers in the country. As a
Jeffersonian Democrat, I believe in states’ rights and dislike the
expansion of the centralized federal government. It seems that
a change in administration at this time would be a good thing,
as the welfare state idea has now gone too far. I sincerely believe
that individual enterprise and freedom are essential for the
maintenance of the American Way of Life. I look forward to
meeting my old friends at the Reunion and to reading their
biographical sketches.

RUSSELL STEPHEN MORSE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 104 Otis St., Hingham, Mass.

BoRN: May 30, 1904, Hingham, Mass. parents: Almon Gardner Morse,
"90, m.D., 94, Clara Louise Sutherland.

PrePARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

UNMARRIED,

HARVARD BROTHER: Gardner Sutherland Morse, ’22.

occupation: Education,

[ 698 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

‘MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered U.S. Navy as lieutenant (j.g.), July
21, 1942; after eight-week regular deck officer course, served on mine
sweeper, at various stations as surface operations controller and convoy
and routing officer; separated as lieutenant commander, 1946.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Woods Hole, Mass., U.S.S. 1bis, NOB, New-
port, R. L; NOB Trinidad, Eastseafron.

AFTER working for almost a year in the foreign exchange
department of Brown Brothers in Boston, I joined the faculty
of Brooks School which then was scarcely a year old. From
1928 to 1942 the school was my home and chief interest in
life. In 1935 I was granted sabbatical leave with half-pay, and
I studied for one year at Balliol College, Oxford. Reading classics
with Cyril Bailey, Gilbert Murray, and R.A.B. Mynors; playing
hockey during the holidays in Berlin, Vienna, and Prague, and
many other places; fishing for salmon in Scotland and Ireland;
seeing the Grand National; visiting friends in Cumberland: all
this made life worth while.

Almost every summer I travelled, once as far west as Honolulu,
another time (1939) I went to Greece, visiting such places as
Olympia, Delphi, and the Island of Delos. Late that August
in Athens I boarded the train for Paris and it so happened that
this was the last run that the Orient Express was to make for
the next six years. War was declared when we had just cleared
the English Channel. I enjoyed seeing the World’s Fair, the one
in New York as well as the one in San Francisco. In 1942 I
enlisted in the United States Navy where I remained for the
next three years or more. In 1947 I joined the faculty of Foun-
tain Valley School in Colorado Springs, as head of the Latin
department. I resigned from this position three years later. In
1950 I took eight courses at Boston University, and for the last
year I have been working spasmodically on a book devoted to art.

WILLIAM DIX MORTON, JR.

HOME ApDpRESS: 57 Damien Rd., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 8 Beacon St., Boston 8, Mass,

BORN: Nov 5, 1904, Owensboro, Ky, parents: William Dix Morton, Eliza-
beth Ree Rowe.

PREPARED AT: Madisonville High School, Madisonville, Ky.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925, 1926-1928. DEGREES; A.B. Cum laude, 1927 (28);
LL.B. (Northeastern Univ.), 1934-

[ 699 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

marriep: Marie Wilhelmina Van Cauwenberge, May 10, 1929, New York,
N. Y.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Harvard S. A. E. Chapter, 1931-47; E. D. A., Province
Alpha of S. A. E., 1941-47; chairman, Wellesley Finance Committee,
1947, Wellesley Republican Town Committee, 1947-49, master, Welles-
ley Masonic Lodge, 1945-46; Town Moderator of Wellesley, 1949-52;
representative in Massachusetts Legislature from Wellesley, Westwood,
Norwood, Dover, 1951-52.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Massachusetts Society, Sons of Amer-
ican Revolution; Wellesley Masonic Lodge, other Masonic bodies; Brae
Burn Country Club; Boston, Norfolk County, American, Massachusetts
Bar Associations; Elks; Wellesley Club; Maugus Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Legal briefs, reports, and articles.

FOR the twenty-five years since our Class graduated in 1927, I
have lived in and around Cambridge and Boston. In 1935 we
moved to Wellesley Hills, which has proved to be a most de-
lightful and friendly community. When I was first admitted
to the practice of law in Massachusetts in the early 1930's, 1 was
associated with the late William E. Waterhouse, Class of 1898.
From the beginning of my practice I have been associated
with William D. Whitmore, Class of 1929, and for several years
with David R. Ovans, Class of 1928, and George Barner, Class
of 1929.

In the spring of 1941 we bought a summer-time farm in
Yarmouth, Maine, on the Royal River and near Casco Bay. It
was a great place to put on twenty-five or thirty pounds which
I did not begin to lose until the fall of 1947 when we sold the
place. This experience gave us an opportunity to learn some-
thing of the beautiful rugged Maine coast and the fine, genuine,
neighborly Maine people. Only the pressure of my business
forced us to part with the farm. Since we moved to Wellesley
I have taken an active interest in our town and state affairs as a
limited town meeting member, chairman and member of the
Finance Committee, secretary and chairman of the Republican
Town Committee, and the last three years as the elected Town
Moderator. In 1950 on my second try I was elected Repre-
sentative to the Massachusetts legislature for two years for the
district of Wellesley, Westwood, Norwood, and Dover.

My most devoted and best critic, Marie, has kept busy during
the last several years as a trustee and officer of the corporation

[ 700 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of the Massachusetts Women’s Hospital. She has enjoyed her
membership in the Harvard Woman’s Club of Boston, of which
she has been president for the last two years. Marie and I have
kept closely in touch with Harvard College through our active
interest in the chapter of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. I served as a
trustee of it for seventeen years. Marie and I often chaperoned
their social affairs. Of course we have been able to attend many
fine Harvard athletic events over the many years.

I regret to advise that my mother has continued to be a hos-
pitalized invalid and that my only brother, Commander Dudley
Walker Morton, U.S. Navy, who was captain of the submarine
U.S.S. Wahoo, was lost with all the crew aboard in the China
Sea in November, 1943. He left a widow and two. fine children,
a boy and girl, of whom we are very proud and fond. My
father retired last year from the U. S. Steel Corporation and
refuses to leave Los Angeles, except in the summer for a visit
with us here in New England.

For recreation I have been playing a poor game of golf and an
equally poor game of bowling Boston pins. At least my cribbage
game is good enough for me to hold my own in my immediate
neighborhood. A story of our family life for the last several
years would not be complete without a word about our loyal
and faithful negro houseman and cook, Raymond Walter Legg,
who came up from Kentucky with me in 1926 to work at the
S. A. E. house. His kind, courteous, and thoughtful conduct
towards others has endeared him to all who know him.

For many years we have enjoyed several pet dogs, all of which
have been dachshunds. Our latest 1s “Sigma Adelphos,” known as
“Sig,” a brown, friendly fellow, almost ten years old.

The spiritual inspiration of our attendance and work in the
Wellesley Hills Congregational Church has been of great value
to our lives. I have enjoyed the membership in the Wellesley
Masonic Lodge of which I served as Master in 1946. My political
convictions have led me into the Republican party. In my
opinion, the Democratic leadership of our times has led us
dangerously close to a socialistic welfare state which has no
respect for the individual dignity of man, but sets up a bureau-
cratic government to devour our American civilization.

[701 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

SUMNER MOSKOVITZ

HOME ApDpREss: 74 Stearns Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wolf’s Clothing House, Inc., 80 Washington St., Boston 8,
Mass.

BORN: Jan. 24, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Wolf Moskowitch, Fannie
Matthews.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; LL.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Natalie Freeman, May 30, 1937, Boston, Mass. cHILDREN: Joan
Phyllis, Sept. 10, 1940; Richard Allen, June 30, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Moskowitz, ’23.

occupation: Part owner and manager of men’s clothing business at whole-
sale and retail.

AFTER having engaged in the practice of law for six years, it
was my destiny to become separated from the profession by rea-
son of my father’s illness, I intervened in his business and
gradually became completely involved. Hence, at this writing,
I am engaged in the clothing business, the specific form of which
had its origin some sixty years ago, At the present time another
change seems to be reflected in the crystal ball. The property,
wherein our business was conducted, was taken by the Com-
monwealth of Massachusetts by right of eminent domain for a
highway program, so we shall have to wait for the next Report
to see what will have happened.

Maritally, I hit the jackpot with the yield of a wonderful wife
and two children to match. Thus I find complete satisfaction
and contentment in a sheltered home life that completely absorbs
my time and interest. In my reverie, I often think of our
undergraduate days which were comparatively free from tax
problems, international uncertainty, and fear of sudden atomic
destruction.

In summary, I would classify myself as a G.I. graduate who
has rolled on with the years without benefit of unusual expe-
riences, adventures, or accomplishments, Literary and musical
interests inculcated in us, still persist with an added appreciation
for such mundane forms of entertainment as TV shows, baseball
and other sports. To those of you who bothered to read this,
my parting thought is “Pax Vobiscum.”

[ 702 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD JOHN MOSS

HOME ADDRESS: 79 S. Linwood Ave., Crafton, Pittsburgh 5, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Schaffer-Moss Chemical Corp. 1225 Shore Ave., Pittsburgh
33, Pa.

BORN: June 13, 1905, Glenshaw, Allegheny Co., Pa. parents: Edward Robin-
son Moss, Sarah Louella Leight.

PREPARED AT: Crafton High School, Crafton, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1927 (28).

marrigeD: Margaret Elizabeth Tedlie, June 5, 1929, Delaware, Ohio. cui-
DREN: Edson Benton, March 30, 1932; William John, March 23, 1935.

OccUPATION: President and treasurer of Schaffer-Moss Chemical Corporation,
manufacturers of industrial protective finishes.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Held 2nd lieutenant commission in Field Artil-
lery Reserves, 1928-1938.

DONALD HOWE MOYER

HOME ADDRESS: Forest Home, R.D. 2, Ithaca, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y.
BORN: Jan. 11, 1905, New York, N. Y. Parents: Fayette Ehle Moyer, Abbie

Sarah Howe.

PREPARED AT: Montclair High School, Montclair, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: S.B. cum? laude, 1927; A.M. (Univ. of
Michigan), 1928.

MarRIED: Helen Marie Wise, Aug. 23, 1930, Boothbay Harbor, Maine. cL:
John Robert, Feb. 27, 1933.

OccUPATION: Student personnel officer, in charge of admissions, scholarships,
placement, College of Engineering, Cornell University.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted lieutenant, U.S.N.R., May 5, 1943; com-
manding officer, Navy V-12 Unit, St. Lawrence University, Canton,
N. Y¥.; promoted lieutenant commander; separated Jan. 19, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 15 years, one-time vice-president, Eastern College

Personnel Officers Association.
PuBLications: Articles in educational journals.

DURING the twelve years that I was associated with the Alumni
Placement Service I read hundreds of these “Class Lives” to
see if I could discover any patterns in careers, any guideposts
which would help the unsuspecting neophyte as he set forth in
quest of fame and fortune. The investigation was interesting
enough, but I emerged with no simple occupational blueprints.
Now, as I sit writing my own “Life” I not only understand why

[ 793 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

such patterns are hard to come by, but am thankful in a sense
that this is so; careers can sometimes be very dull indeed without
their fortuitous and adventuresome elements, How different
at least life might have been for many of us in the Class of ’27
without boom, depression, and war.

For twenty-five years I have devoted myself to one or another
aspect of student personnel work at Harvard, Michigan, and.
Cornell. During the boom period I received a Master’s degree in
psychology from Michigan, established myself with the Harvard
Alumni Placement Service, and got married. I regret none of
this; it was what I wanted to do, and I enjoyed it all.

The depression years were spent trying to find jobs for hun-
dreds of less fortunate alumni, often a dismal and fruitless
task. Between 1932 and 1935 many a Class Life was warped,
some were stunted, and a few were damaged irreparably. I had
a ringside seat to witness the casualties of the “roaring twenties”
and all too often there wasn’t much one could do about it.

The war came early to Harvard, and in 1940 Mr. Conant
began to batten down the hatches and otherwise make ready
for what he was apparently convinced was our inevitable par-
ticipation. In February, 1941, he announced that the Placement
Service would suspend for the “duration,” in July. By happy
circumstance I was able to land at Cornell as counselor of students,
and moved the family out to Ithaca that summer.

But the war caught up with Cornell, too, and in the spring
of ’43, I enlisted in the Navy, to serve, it turned out, as C.O. of a
V-12_ Unit until November, 1945. When I arrived back at
Ithaca in December, the flood of veterans had already started, and
I was invited to take a hand in their problems. As a result I
became Director of Veterans’ Education and served in this rdle
for five years. Now, after eight years, I am once again serving
Cornell in a student personnel job unconnected with the war and
its aftermath. -

The Moyers own an old house by a waterfall where we can
garden, swim, and lead a simple life. John, having gone to prep
school in New England, is now, for the sake of perspective and
the pursuit of his first love (music), studying at Carleton College
in Minnesota. He misses the mountains and we miss him. He
thinks he may want to wind up at Harvard.

[ 704 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Politically, I have been mostly on the Democratic side since
'32, applauding much social legislation which seemed to me long
overdue, but recently inclined to feel that it may be time to
“throw the rascals out.” Looking from the inside out, I feel that
higher education won much from V-12 and the “G.I. Bill” and
that the day is near at hand when no young person with the
intellectual gifts to qualify will be denied the opportunity for
higher learning either because of his color or his economic status.
This is good. On the other hand, although I am no economist,
I do not see how we can go on merrily and forever spending
more money than we take in, and if the Democrats don’t feel
this way, then I must cast my vote for those (if any) who do.

EDMUND WEBSTER MUDGE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 5926 Averill Way, Dallas 5, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 311 Mercantile Commerce Bldg., Dallas 1, Texas.

BORN: Nov. 29, 1904, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Edmund Webster Mudge,
Pauline Gordon Seeley.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MarRiIED: Marion Mickle Menzie, Dec. 16, 1935, Marietta, Okla. (divorced
1943); Betty Jean Popovich, Jan. 13, 1944, Walla Walla, Wash. cuit-
DREN: Edmund Webster, 3d, Nov. 8, 1944; Laura Jean, Aug. 30, 1946.

occuPATION: Independent oil operator.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Army; inducted Aug. 10, 1942, discharged
April 3, 1943.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Umatilla Ordnance Depot, Hermiston, Oregon,
April 28-Aug. 26, 1943.

MEMBER OF: Dallas Lodge No. 71, B.P.OE.; Civic Federation of Dallas,
Dallas Art Association; Dallas Athletic Club, Dallas Symphony, Inc.;
Downtown Club of Dallas; Harvard Club of Dallas; Lakewood Country
Club; Oak Lawn Tennis Clubs; Duquesne Club (Pittsburgh); Fox
Chapel Golf Club (Pittsburgh); Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club (Pitts-
burgh); Longue Vue Club (Pittsburgh); Rolling Rock Club (Pitts-
burgh); American Forestry Association; American Legion, American
Museum of National History; American Ornithologists’ Union; Audu-
bon Society; Boone & Crockett Club; Cooper Ornithological Club;
Hawk Mountain Sanctuary Association; Izaak Walton League of Amer-
ica, Pittsburgh Chapter; National Geographic Society; National Wild-
life Institute; Pennsylvania Society, Sons of the American Revolution;
Pennsylvania Camp Fire Club of America; Canadian Forestry Associa-

[ 705 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Alaska brown bear on Baranof and Chichigof Islands in Alaska.
I have bagged representative species of most North American
game, but in the latter years have more or less laid aside the gun
and have taken up movie making. The war years and the preced-
ing crisis put an end to those trips, but last fall I had the fun of
taking Betty on her first big game trip, Although our luck was
only mediocre, we had a wonderful time and hope to repeat
frequently in the future,

For the rest, I still stick to my old Pennsylvania belief in the
Republicans, an opinion which is not too prevalent in these parts.

In the midst of Baptists and Methodists, I still maintain my
Episcopalian beliefs. Iam on the Board of Trustees of the Diocese
of Dallas, and a trustee of Canterbury House, Daniel Baker
College, and St. Mark’s School of Texas, all affiliated with the

Episcopal Church. And finally let me invite you all— “For
better living, come to Texas.”

GEORGE SPENCER MURPHY

HOME ADpRESS: 11A Deane St., Maynard, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: A & P Tea Co., Maynard, Mass.

BoRN: Feb. 20, 1906, North Acton, Mass. parents: George Edwin Murphy,
Hanora Gertrude Mannion.

PREPARED AT: Concord High School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1023-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.B.A., 1930.

MARRIED: Corinne R. De Grappo, July 28, 1940, Maynard, Mass.
occupation: Mercanule business.

JOHN JOSEPH MURPHY, JR.

HOME Appress: 300 W. Upsal St., Philadelphia 19, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: E.conomics Dept, Atlantic Refining Co., 260 S. Broad St.,
Philadelphia 1, Pa.

BORN; Oct. 22, 1906, Cambridge, Mass. parents: John Joseph Murphy, Mary
Agatha Kerns.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.

MarRiED: Nancy Reigart McConomy, March 27, 1937, Philadelphia, Pa.
cxiLp: Paul Kerns, Feb. 7, 1938.

[ 708 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD FRANCIS MURPHY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 398 Avenue Rd., Toronto, Ont., Canada.
oFFIcE appRESS: Berens River Mines, 25 King St., W., Toronto, Ont.,

Canada.

BorN: Oct. 18, 1906, Charlestown, Mass. parents: Richard Francis Murphy,
Elizabeth Burnadette Porter.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 19273; A.M., 1928.

occuPATION: Mining geology; chief geologist, Berens River Mines.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted in Royal Canadian Engineers, March,
1942; returned to Reserve as lieutenant, February, 1945.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Director of Exploration, Eldorado Mining and
Refining Ltd.; engaged in search for uranium ores on behalf of Crown
Company.

MEMBER OF: Engineers’ Club of Toronto; American Institute of Mining
Engineers; Canadian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy; Geological
Association of Canada; Association of Professional Engineers of the
Province of Ontario; Military Engineers’ Association of Canada; Miner-
alogical Society of America; Arctic Institute of North America.

AFTER four years of college chemistry in the synthetic atmos-
phere of Boylston Hall, I decided that I needed a fresher interest.
Geology was my choice, largely because of the persuasive lectur-
ing of a popular professor. It took two years of graduate school
and an extra degree to land a job as geologist at a mine in
Porcupine, then one of the flourishing gold camps of Ontario. In
that agreeable community in the early thirties it was easy to
decide to remain in the mining industry. Since then there have
been twenty years of searching for ore, a job that too often has
been totally without reward. The search has taken me to many
of the mining camps on this continent and to hundreds of
prospects in out-of-the-way places in the Canadian “bush.”

It has been an active and vigorous life, with its share of dis-
comfort, but the work is absorbing and I know now that I made
a proper choice. With some concessions to the years, I hope to
continue to look for ore, preferably in Canada where, as the
saying goes, “the North has only been scratched.”

Somewhere along the trail all the paraphernalia of sports and
hobbies have been discarded. It would be a pleasure to dig a few
divots for a change, but golf courses are far apart in the mining
country, Fishing, hunting, and mountain climbing come to be

[ 709 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

rated as monotonous adjuncts of the job. A camera is practically
standard equipment for a field man and with mine I have
accumulated a fine snapshot collection of mining camps and
characters.

I realize that by now my viewpoint is essentially Canadian, but
I like to insist that Canada and its people have some special
qualities. Someone has said in effect that if the twentieth century
belongs to the United States, the twenty-first will surely belong
to Canada. With oil, steel, and the seaway added to its other
natural products, Canada may not now have to wait so long.

WILLIAM FRANKLIN MURPHY

HOME ADDRESS: Weston Road, Westport, Conn.

BORN: Nov. 3, 1904, Newark, N. J. PARENTS: John Francis Murphy, Ellen
Christian.

PREPARED AT: St. Benedict’s School, Newark, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1924-1927. DEGREE! A.B., 1927.

MargiED: Mary E. Lanahon, Jan, 12, 1935, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1940);
Nuna B. Patterson, Oct. 27, 1945, New York, N. Y. cyto: William
Frankhn, Jr., Dec. 7, 1939.

occupation: Public relations,

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Finance Committee, National Association for Men-
tal Health, president, Harper Fuel and Equipment Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Big Brother Movement.

[I ARRIVED at Wall Street just in time to get a good ringside
seat in the crash of ’29, hastily departed, and entered the oil
business. My first employer was the Standard Oil Company
which sent me all over the country —I saw during these trips
oats selling for ten cents a bushel in Iowa, farms being foreclosed
in Minnesota, and men sleeping under newspapers in Chicago.
I’m sure those experiences had much to do with the shaping of
my life as I sit here and try to give a glowing account of
myself,

My next job was president of an oil company which dis-
tributed Richfield products in New York. During this time
came the war and I tried to get into the Navy. I was told that
I had an appendage which I inherited from my anthropoid
ancestors, that it must be removed, and at my expense. I didn’t

[710 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

see eye to eye with the Navy on that score, especially the pre-
induction surgical expense —so I didn’t make the service.
I became involved, however, in many campaigns incidental to
the war effort and after the war, spent practically all my time in
this field. I hadn’t hit the jackpot in my earlier business opera-
tions so entered this new field on the basis that a man is worthy
of his hire. ‘
I served as national campaign director on the early cancer drive.
] helped to set up support for the Committee for Economic
Development whose objective was to increase activity and so
employment. During this period I went back to Chicago and
didn’t see any men sleeping under newspapers. Maybe this
doesn’t prove anything to anyone else but to me it demonstrates
that the American way of life can meet emergencies that develop
in the process of living if those who believe in it work at it.
Other fields in which I spent time were the National Confer-
ence of Christians and Jews, United Negro College Fund, Student
Federalists, a group of bright young kids who since joined the
World Federalists. I spent a short time with the Cerebral Palsy
group and want to say here that we all should be extremely
proud of Leonard Goldensen, who, against terrific odds, brought
the attack on cerebral palsy to the point where those afflicted
with this condition have, for the first time, reason for hope.
Through most of this period I spent a great deal of time in
the mental health field. It is, in my opinion, the last and most
neglected of the “big ones.” ‘There were three so-called National
Mental Health organizations and I don’t know how many “grass
roots” groups in the country. They were neither organized nor
producing at a rate anywhere near the need evidenced by the
scope of the problem. Now there is one organization, the
National Association for Mental Health, and I believe that inside
of ten years we shall really move in on many aspects of this
problem. |

During this period I might say I married, was divorced, married
again, and begot a son, who if poundage means anything, will
by bulk alone stop these arithmetical genii who visit Cambridge
each fall,

[711]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

HARRISON MUSGRAVE

HOME ADDRESS: 14547 Edgeridge Drive, Puente, Calif.
OFFICE appress: Universal Fertilizer Corp., P. O. Box W, Puente, Calif.

BORN: June 25, 1904, Chicago, Ill. parents: Harrison Musgrave, Meta
Kimberley.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927(28).

MaRRIED: Dorothy Boak Stewart, April 1, 1929, Martinsburg, W. Va. CHIL-
DREN: Bunny Lee, Sept. 23, 1931; JoAnn, Sept. 23, 1934.

occupaTion: President, Universal Fertilizer Corporation.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered Air Forces, May, 1942, as captain;

promoted major, 1943; attached to Hq. Western Flying Training Com-
mand; served until August, 1945.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Panel consultant and trainer, Training within
Industry Branch, War Manpower Commission.
OFFICES HELD: President, Psi Chi Honorary Psychological Fraternity.

MEMBER OF: American Psychological Association; AAAS; Rotary; American
Model Railroad Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Various psychological articles.

THE school year 1923-1924 was wonderful, albeit a little un-
nerving. Imagine me, a college man. English A, a fabulous
required, and much-maligned subject. Being smart, for the argu-
ment (remember, lots of words end to end) I hitched my wagon
to a star (Panther Travis) and took the negative side to the then
current pros and cons about four wheel brakes. (Thank the
good Lord we have them.) His “A” sucked my meager efforts
into a “B,” which saved my scalp. Later, I majored in mathe-
matics; there were two good reasons: senior divisional exams were
coming in, but not yet for science; also, no afternoon laboratory
periods. If they had only taught me to add!

The next year Tom Fluit made a radio with a) a crystal, b)
what was known as a whisker which had to be tickled around
occasionally, c) a contraption of wire and glass rods known as a
honeycomb coil, and d) two tin pie plates with a damp blotter
between them for a condenser. An appropriate collection of
thicker or thinner books from Widener Library served in increase
or decrease pressure on the pie plate condenser to change stations.
A pair of earphones produced hazy, confused sounds. Dick Land
made more interesting noise practising on a C soprano sax.

Nineteen twenty-seven meant a change from the sublime to the

[712]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ridiculous — Harvard to the lowly station of a used car salesman
in San Francisco. Then came a bright spot— Dorothy over-
looked the used cars and accepted me. We settled in Los Angeles
in 1929, used cars still in our hair. As I recall it, there was a
depression in or about 1929. This could not happen to a Harvard
man, but it did. Yale men were included. No one could afford
autos, so we stopped trying to prove they could, and I joined the
staff of the psychology department at the University of Southern
California. I taught it there for five years (shades of MacDou-
gall), and learned one thing. A psychologist is a person who says
things everyone knows in words they cannot understand. Thence
I went to personnel and employee training work with the gas
companies of Southern California.

During these hectic but interesting years Bunny Lee was born.
On September 23, 1931, she was baptized and off to a good start
in life. JoAnn appeared on September 23, 1934. Because of con-
fused circumstances she was not baptized. (She was saved for a
control; at sixteen she objected, was baptized, later confirmed, so
now the noble experiment has become invalid.) In due course of
time Pearl Harbor came along. Like many others I volunteered
and accepted a commission in the Air Force. Since my eyes are
weak, I did not get overseas but fought the battle of the railroads
for three and a half years from Orlando, Florida, to Seattle, Wash-
ington. I even got lost in the Pentagon a few times, When I
emerged from the Army unscathed but knowing better, the old
job did not look the same. So I resigned and entered the liquid
fertilizer business. So here we are in Puente, happy, contented,
and countrified. .

Our first-born spent two years at the University of Michigan
and is now married to a fine civil engineer from Baghdad, Iraq.
They are living with us temporarily. And imagine I shall be an
old grandpa before this hits print. The second-born has two boy
friends, both of whom are now in Korea... guess their eyes are
better than mine. She enters the University of Southern Cali-
fornia School of Architecture next fall. My main hobby has con-
tinuously been scale-modcl railroading (o gauge). As well as
having my own at home, I have been active in model railroad
clubs, helping build and maintain a community road. A group
of us have just completed a building forty by eighty feet and

[713]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

are starting on the road itself. Working on Sundays (and on short
funds) it has taken about three years to finish the building.

PERCY MUSGRAVE, JR.

HOME apprEss: “Linwood,” Stockbridge, Mass.
OFFICE AppRESS: Linwood Farm, Stockbridge, Mass.
BORN: Dec. 15, 1903, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Percy Musgrave, ’94, Edith
Elise Porter.
PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.
marRieD; Marguerite Swann, Oct. 10, 1931, Stockbridge, Mass. (divorced
1947); Josephine Cary, Oct. 1, 1948, Canaan, Conn. cHiLprEN: Percy, 3d,
Sept. 5, 1933; Franklin Story, Aug. 19, 1935; Thomas Bateson, May 28,
I °
oocuPATION: Dairy farmer — owner, operator.
SEVERAL months after leaving college, I went to work for
Stone & Webster in Boston as an errand boy — supposedly to
learn the business from the bottom up. The highlight of this
early endeavor was contracting bursi simultaneously in both
shoulders from sorting letters in the mail room. With the sole
experience of having bought some of my personal needs, I was
rewarded for my bursi with an appointment as purchasing
agent for the Florida Motor Lines in Orlando. A few months
later I was made assistant to the manager and then was recalled
to the home office in Boston as a security salesman in Stone &
Webster & Blodgett, With bull luck the ’29 depression left me
with my shirt and some booty from pounding the pavements
and playing the market. In 1934 I took a complete flip, buying
a dairy farm and residence in the Berkshires. For the next few
years it was learning farming the hard way. Being city bred
and raised, a myriad of headaches and pleasures have ensued in
the raising of Guernsey cattle. For those of my classmates who
might think of me as a “gentleman farmer,” I wish to spread it
on the record that I am in the manure category. By both mental
and physical sweat it has been reasonably successful, but with
the paradox of the consumer paying more and the producer paid
less for milk, the future looks obscure.
My hobbies have been many and there has never been enough
time for them, but I have been able to continue my interest in

[714]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and collection of lepidoptera and found time to shoot grouse
and duck in the fall. My first marriage was blessed with three
fine sons who continue to give an endless zest to life. Two are
now at St. Mark’s. Percy, 3d, 1 hope, will be entering Harvard
in the fall of ’52. If there should be any kick on country living
it would be the lack of opportunity to see more of old and
intimate friends.

GERRY SOUTHER MUSSELLS

HOME AppREssS: Bissell Road, Aurora, R.D. 1, Hudson, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hattenbach Co., 4700 Prospect Ave., Cleveland, Ohio,

BORN: Dec. 7, 1905, Swampscott, Mass. parents: George Albert Mussells,
Stella Frances Gifford.

PREPARED AT: Reading High School, Reading, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925.

MaRRiED: Helen Ann Barley, June, 1925 (divorced 1931); Domniquia Pav-
lenkov, Jan. 25, 1933 (divorced 1944); Ann Patricia Hine, Jan. 18, 1946,
CHILDREN: Annette Rose, Dec. 1, 1926 (7. Bliss O. Bignall, Jr., June to,
1951); Donya Charmion, Dec. 23, 1936; Marcia Diane, July 5, 1940; Con-
stance Ann, July 25, 1947; Paula Claire, Aug. 30, 1951.

occupation: Commercial refrigeration and store fixtures; sales engineer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Cleveland; Aurora Men’s Club.

I CANNOT lay claim to any outstanding accomplishment in the
years since leaving Harvard (twenty-seven in my case). Mostly
the time has been consumed in the pursuit of a living. As with
most salesmen, I have had my share of major disappointments
and minor triumphs, and weathered financial and domestic
problems in some fashion or other.

I sell store fixtures and commercial refrigeration, a somewhat
specialized field which involves planning and design of food stores
and supermarkets, and have been in this or similar lines for most of
the intervening years. I suppose I am like others in having re-
belled on a couple of occasions to go into different work, only
to return. During the war years, like many, I became a jack-of-
all-trades in aiding my company —one of the smaller small
businesses — to convert a maintenance shop to the production
of sub and sub-sub contracts which ranged from dipping ski
poles in arctic white paint to fabricating radar chassis and ammo
box parts — an undertaking which got to be quite involved before
we knew what we were about.

[715]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

My eldest daughter was married last June and my youngest
born last August. It still doesn’t seem that so much time has
gone. My hobbies are the restoring of old houses and the collect-
ing of old furniture, either one guaranteed to absorb any surplus
time and/or money. We live on an old farm in a charming town
in what used to be the Western Reserve belonging to Connecticut,
peopled to a large extent by other city folk bent on living in the
country. My travels are limited to vacation trips back to beloved
New England, and not extensive like those of the two Radcliffe
sisters who married astronomers and wander all over the globe.

Politically my convictions or hopes at least are that “chat
crowd” in Washington will be replaced at long last by a group
less bent on taxing away the future. My religious leanings are
not, I fear, very devout. I attend the non-denominational church
here on rare occasion and aid modestly in its support. Most
weekend time goes into manual labor around the “farm.”

WILLIAM ESTY MYDANS

HOME ADDRESS: 530 Bellevue Rd., New Haven 11, Conn.

OFFicE ADDRESS: Olin Industries, Inc., New Haven 4, Conn.

BorN: Nov. 15, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: David Jan Mydans, Lillian
(Leah) Tekulsky.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude, 1927; S.My
1929; PH.D., 1932.

MARRIED: Judith Caroline Myers, Oct. 12, 1939, Brookline, Mass, CHILDREN:
David Samuel, July 18, 1946; Robert E., Jan. 29, 1948.

OccUPATION: Director, chemical and industrial research.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered active duty, A.U.S., 1942 as 2d lieuten-
ant, served two years as instructor in chemical warfare schools and in
office of chief of Chemical Warfare Service in Washington, the latter
as captain; reassigned to Military Government, 1943; served overseas as
Industries officer; promoted major; demobilized, end of 1945. Campaign
Ribbon, European African Middle Eastern service Medal.

I HAVE been active in chemical and industrial research continu-
ously, except for four years on military duty, and have found
that endeavor interesting and rewarding. I am happily married
and have two small sons, both too young to be permitted to attend
the coming Reunion.

[716]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LOUIS HOWARD NASON

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Dolphin Rd., Newton Center, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 474 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 2, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Abram Nason, Ann Ober.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1927; M.D. cum laude,

1931.
MaRRIED: Jean E. Altman, Nov. 20, 1926, New York, N. Y. cutcpren: Elliot

Robert, Dec. 5, 1933; Phyllis Linda, April 16, 1938, Jeffrey David,
July 13, 1939.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Staff physician, Beth Israel Hospital, Massachusetts Memorial
Hospital, Faulkner Hospital; instructor in surgery, Harvard Medical
School.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons (fellow); certified by American
Board of Surgery; American Medical Association (fellow); American
Medical Society (fellow).

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles on surgical subjects in professional journals.

UPON graduating from college I went on to the Harvard Medical
School where I enjoyed four years of interesting but hard work
and study, Upon completion of that I began a surgical internship
at the Beth Israel Hospital in Boston where I spent twenty
months learning the rudiments of surgery. When this was com-
pleted I spent six months on active service in the U. S. Army
Medical Corps. This was the most dull and tedious period of my
life since the Army is most uninspiring during peace time. Then
I went on to a surgical residency at the Beth Israel Hospital for
the next two years. Upon completing this on January 1, 1936, I
was fortunate enough to be granted the Moseley Travelling
Fellowship by the Harvard Medical School, and so I went abroad
for one year with my wife and son and studied at the various
surgical clinics. A good part of the year was spent in England
with the late Sir David D.P.D. Wilkie, one of the leading surgeons
of the British Isles. We returned home reluctantly in the spring of
1937 to face realities and the business of getting down to private
practice and the necessities of making a living.

I began private practice, and at the same time was awarded
the Kirstein Fellowship by the Harvard Medical School. This
fellowship, honoring the late Louis E. Kirstein, was intended for
“the promotion of medical education.” I think that I promoted

[717]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

medical education properly and satisfactorily for the next few
years as I have been instructor in surgery at Harvard Medical
School since then, and have devoted a considerable portion of my
time to work on various services in several hospitals in Boston.

From that time up to the present I have been increasingly busy
with a large practice which has made more and more demands
upon my time to such an extent that a good many of the hobbies
which I had indulged in up to then have had to be abandoned.
My travels have been limited to trips out to the west coast and
down to the South. I have not had an opportunity to return
to Europe in spite of the fact that I had vowed to do so within
a few years of my return in 1937.

+ HARRY MORSS NEUBURGER
BorN: May 21, 1906, Chicago, Ill. parents: Joseph Neuburger, Hannah
Daniel.
PREPARED AT: Englewood High School, Chicago, Iil.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; J.D. (Univ. of Chicago),

1930.
DIED: June 11, 1937, Chicago, Ill.

HARRY MORSS NEUBURGER attended the University of
Chicago for one year before entering Harvard. While he was
an undergraduate he was a member of the Tennis Squad and
the Debating Squad in 1926, the Dramatic Club, the Phi Epsilon
Pi Fraternity, the Phi Club, of which he was president his senior
year, and he took part in the Pasteur Debate in 1927. After
graduation he studied at the Harvard Law School for two years
and then transferred to the University of Chicago from which
he received his J.D. degree in 1930. The following year he did
research with the late Dr. Ernest Freund in administrative law
and statutes, and during 1932-33 he served as a condemnation
commissioner for the city of Chicago. For the next four years
he did research work in labor law in connection with a case
against the Chicago & Northwestern Railway Company. He
practised in Chicago, first with Levinson, Becker, Glenn &
Schwartz, then with the firm’s successor, Levinson, Becker,
Peebles & Swiren. Later he joined with Philip Weinstein. He
also was active in Democratic politics and in civic affairs and

[7:8]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

was a charter member of the Illinois Young People’s Democratic
League. He never married.

NATHAN NEWBURY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 2 Newton St., Weston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bridgeport Brass Co., 527 Statler Bldg., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 8, 1905, Taunton, Mass. parents: Nathan Newbury, Katherine
Dexter Ware.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MaRRIED: Elizabeth Stuart Dingley, Sept. 29, 1928, Norton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Nathan, 3d, Nov. 5, 1929; Samuel Parkman, Aug. 21, 1931; Jeremiah
Dexter, July 23, 1934; John Stuart, Oct. 25, 1937.

HARVARD SONS: Nathan Newbury, 3d, ’52; Samuel Parkman Newbury, ’53.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Ware Newbury, 32.

OccUPATION: District sales manager, Bridgeport Brass Company.

OFFICES HELD: President and director, North American Foods Company;
vice-president and director, Major Appliance Corporation; vice-presi-
dent, Weston Golf Club.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Weston Golf Club; Boston Madison

Square Garden Club.

AFTER a summer in Europe, I started out in the brass business
in the Taunton-New Bedford Copper Company, which has since
become a part of Revere Copper and Brass. After a two-and-a-
half-year apprenticeship, I started selling and worked through
the various New England states, finally going to Providence as
district sales manager. I left Revere in 1938 and went with
Bridgeport Brass Company where I have been since.

In the course of trying to bring up four sons and get enough
money to educate them along with paying taxes to the welfare
state, I have not had much time for anything exciting. I have
found time for a little travelling, the main event being a cruise
through the West Indies. I am settled now on a more or less
humdrum life in suburban Boston and summers at Squirrel Island,
Maine. During the war, as I was in an essential industry, I kept
out of uniform, having been advised that I would be more
worthwhile in civilian clothes than as another armchair admiral.

As far as hobbies are concerned, other than bending my right
elbow it is mostly golf, badminton, or squash in the winter,
spectator sports and an occasional theatre or opera. While I

[719 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

belong to the Unitarian Church, I do not work at it, but I feel
that the church today offers very little. Politically I am a Re-
publican as a rule and I am very proud to state that I never
voted for Mr. Roosevelt or Mr. Truman,

LAURENCE EDMUND NOBLE

HOME ApprEss: 1316 W. York St., Enid, Okla.

OFFICE ADpREss: Champlin Refining Co., Enid, Okla.

BORN: July 4, 1904, Muskogee, Okla. parents: James Franklin Noble, Rose
Irene Wright.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928, DEGREE: A.B., 1927(28).

MarrieD: Gladys Farmer, June 6, 1928, Cambridge, Mass. cuitp: Barbara
Jeanne, Nov. 27, 1932.

HARVARD BROTHERS: James Alexander Noble, ’20, Gilbert Wright Noble, ’24;
John Martin Noble, ’29.

occuPaTION: Purchasing agent for petroleum company.

I GRADUATED just before the depression. Professor W. Z.
Ripley warned us that hard times were coming and suggested
that we go to a small, middle-western town and hide until the
storm blew over. I did this, and I have never regretted it. I live
a free and easy life, thoroughly enjoying such hobbies as a com-
plete metal and woodworking machine shop in my basement,
dry fly fishing in Colorado, some big game hunting, frequent
quail, duck, and dove shoots, and frequent auto trips throughout
the West, and other relaxations. I do not approve of the present
and past administrations, but have been so consistently disap-
pointed in my beliefs as expressed at the polls, that I am wondering
if I am not wrong. I came to this small town in 1928 and have
been with the same company ever since, and have had the same
position since 1929. I have no desire to make a change.

DIX WEBSTER NOEL

HOME ApprEss; 1810 Prospect Pl., Knoxville, Tenn.

orFice Aporess: College of Law, University of Tennessee, 1505 W. Cumber-
land Ave., Knoxville, Tenn.

BorN: May 2, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Dix Webster Nocl, ix.p., ’19,
Anne Webster,

prepanen aT: Montclair High School, Montclair, N. J.

[720]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; LL.B., 1930; A.M.
(Columbia Univ.), 1938.

marriED: Louise Hurst Jacobs, June 7, 1944, Westboro, Mass. CHILDREN:
Thomas Jacob, and David Dix (twins), May 6, 1945; Edward Webster,
June 20, 1946; Janet Virginia, June 28, 1947; James Louis, June 3, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Professor of law.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: OPA, Rent Control, legal division, 1942-43.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Southern Law Review Conference, 1951-52; faculty
editor, Tennessee Law Review.

MEMBER OF: Catholic Church; Bar Association of Tennessee; member, OAK
honor society.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in Harvard, Columbia and Tennessee Law Review,
Cornell and Law Quarterlies.

FOR the past six years I have been at the College of Law at the
University of Tennessee in Knoxville. Classes here are of moder-
ate size, and I like working with southern students. The mountains
and lakes make this part of the country attractive, although I
do not get out very much. The needs of a growing family make
it necessary to teach in the summer, and to do considerable
briefing work on the side. I still manage to write an occasional
article. The last one, for the Tennessee Law Review, of which
Iam still the faculty editor, was on “The Attractive Nuisance
Doctrine in Tennessee.” The one the year before, which received
more notice, was on “Defamation of Public Officers and Candi-
dates,” for the Columbia Law Review. At the moment I am
writing on the liability of manufacturers of general products for
injury from defective goods.

In the 1947 book I reported a late but promising start on
family life. Our hopes for a girl were realized the third year,
after nothing but three boys during the first two years. The
latest addition to the family, Jimmy, is still a toddler. He has
some difficulty keeping up with the four older children but
nevertheless is usually found towards the front whenever toys
or eats are being distributed. When all five are in the tub to-
gether, he sometimes momentarily disappears, but always seems
to come up cheerful. At times the situation becomes a bit con-
fused on the home front and it has been something of a relief both
to their mother and to me to have the twins start in school this
year, in the first grade at St. Mary's, where the sisters keep them
occupied for six hours a day.

[720]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

My wife, who is an M.D., finds that practice does not fit in
well with family life, but manages to put in one day a week as
a child psychologist. This satisfies her professional interest, and
adds enough to the family budget for a full-time maid.

My wife and I both are converts to Catholicism and find in:
Catholic practice, doctrine, and literature much spiritual and
cultural interest. We both find Christian philosophy helpful in
our professions, We both believe with increasing conviction
that the Catholic Church is the great means of individual and
social salvation and progress. It is a joy to see that an increasing
number of Harvard men, in their search for truth, are coming

to this same conclusion. On the other hand, I am naturally sorry
to see that some of my best friends in college, who were Catholics,
are travelling in the opposite direction.

Last spring I was elected chairman of the Southern Law Review
Conference, which will be at the University of Florida next
spring. This job takes considerable time, but the Law Review
students and their faculty advisers are a group with whom |
enjoy working.

Last year, under pressure from the family, I purchased an
automobile which, if all goes well, will be paid for within the
next six months. We are all delighted with this advanced method
of transportation, to which I am a firm convert, even though it
is leading to a new waistline.

I hope that any classmate passing through Knoxville will stop
off at the Law College. Our new building is on one of the routes
to the Smokies, and near the center of TVA activity.

ARTHUR LAURENCE NORTON

HOME appREss: 21 Park kane, Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: University Club, 40 Trinity Pl., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 27, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: William Laurence Norton,
Mary Elizabeth Fitzgerald.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927.

MarrieD: Elizabeth Silliman, June 4, 1938, Hamilton, Bermuda. cum:
Arthur Laurence, Jr., March 18, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Elliot Norton, ’26.

occupation: General manager, University Club.

[722]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II: Holding reserve commission, was
called to active duty Sept. 30, 1941; served as Purchasing Officer, Ports-
mouth, N. H. Navy Yard for 32 months; after Washington temporary
duty served on Staff of Commander, U. S. Eighth Fleet (Mediterra-
nean); released to inactive duty Sept. 6, 1946; permanent rank, com-
mander, Supply Corps.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, New England Club Managers Association.

MEMBER OF: Club Managers Association of America, New England Club
Managers Association; Massachusetts Hotel Association, Hotel Sales
Management Association.

EXCEPT for the five years in the Navy, my life since graduation
has been directly concerned with active hotel and club manage-
ment. Until coming to the University Club three years ago,
we had always lived “on the job,” but now we have a more
normal life and have acquired a home of our own. The operation
of the University Club is a full-time job, but I do have time to
act as consultant on hotel, club, and restaurant problems.

LEONARD JOSIAH NOVOGROD

HOME ADDRESS: 7800 Crossland Rd., Pikesville, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The May Co., Baltimore, Md.

BORN: Dec. 26, 1905, Boston, Mass. parENTs: Jacob Novogrod, Esther Hir-
shon.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.

MARRIED: Doris Edith Campner, March 27, 1941, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
John Campner, Sept. 21, 1942; Nancy Jane, July 15, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, The May Department Stores Company; general
manager, The May Company, Baltimore.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Retail Merchants Association of Baltimore, Better
Business Bureau of Baltimore.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of Maryland,
Advertising Club of Baltimore; Association of Commerce of Baltimore;
Phoenix Club of Baltimore; Suburban Country Club of Baltimore
County.

IN AUGUST, 1929, I started to work as a section manager at B.
Altman & Company, a department store on Fifth Avenue, New
York City. I was with this company until August, 1949. During
these years I was made buyer of various departments in the
home furnishings division. My duties required extensive trav-
elling throughour the Orient, Europe, and the United States —

[ 723]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

something that was not too hard to take. Finally, I was made
merchandise manager of that entire division. Later I was made
merchandise manager of the fashion and children’s divisions. In
1949 I became president of Boggs & Buhl, a medium-sized
department store in Pittsburgh. In February, 1951, I assumed
my present duties as general manager of The May Company,
Baltimore, one of the larger department stores of this city. I
find Baltimore a splendid city in which to live.

FREDERIC OATMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 76 Iroquois Rd., Tuckahoe 7, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Kelly, Nason, Inc., 247 Park Ave., New York, N. Y.
BORN: June 1, 1904, Lumberton, N. J. parents: Charles P. Oatman, Helen

G. Frymier.

PREPARED AT: Los Angeles High School, Los Angeles, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926, 1927-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1927(29).

MaRRIED: Margery Furber Ward, June 15, 1935, Lynn, Mass. CHILDREN:
Bruce Ward, Nov. 22, 1937; Eric Furber, Nov. 6, 1939.

occupaTion: Advertising.

NORBERT LAWRENCE O’BRIEN

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 28 Lewis Rd., Belmont, Mass.

BORN: July 1, 1906, Lowell, Mass. parents: Daniel Stephen O’Brien, Catherine
Long.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927.

MarRiED: Regina Quinlan, Sept. 5, 1936, New York, N. Y. cuitpren: Maureen
Ellen, July 1, 1937; Kevin Lawrence, July 20, 1940; Sharon Jean, April 20,
1945.

occuPaTION: Manufacturer’s representative.

I WAS reading Marquand’s Melville Goodwin, U.S.A. over
the Christmas holidays, feeling guilt at passively reading a novel
rather than feverishly working at a 1927 biography, when a
passage came along that surely was a reward for the idle. At
once it gave promise of some kind of shape to a half-thought-out
life story which an unrelenting committee solicited in every other
mail. If you read the book, you will recall that it is told in the

[724]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

first person by Sidney Skelton, radio news commentator, who
had the following conversation one night with wife Helen:

“Sid,” Helen asked me, “what’s the matter?”

‘“‘Nothing’s the matter. I was just thinking, Helen.”
“What were you thinking about?”

“Oh, this and that,” I said. “I was just thinking that Life
makes almost everyone into something that he never
exactly wanted to be, and then the time comes when he
can’t very well be anything else.”

“But you never knew what you wanted to be.”

“That’s right,” I said. “I never gave it much attention.”

I shouldn’t be surprised if the philosophy contained in that
quotation has been better stated elsewhere, possibly by Mr.
Marquand himself, But it will serve. It applies, I am quite sure, to
many graduates of the Class of 1927, and certainly it applies to
me. I am reminded that, even through senior year in college, I
had never given the matter of a lifetime career much attention.
After graduation I just simply looked around for a job, paying
more attention to newspaper work and teaching than to other
fields, but willing to accept anything interesting that came along.
The job which came along, more or less by accident, was a
position in a Boston advertising agency. For five years I was
an advertising agency man, and I liked it, Then in 1932 the
Depression finally got through to my firm, and three of us were
lopped off the payroll.

Those members of the Class who have occasion to recall the
white-collar unemployment miseries of those days will probably
remember that, after months of failure to find work, you hardly
had much choice in continuing in your chosen fields. You took
whatever came along. The job that I took, when it finally came
along, was in radio broadcasting. I became sales manager of
Station WESG, Elmira, New York, owned by the Elmira Star-
Gazette, a paper of the Gannett group, I remained with the

radio division of this company for thirteen years, going from
Elmira to the company’s Hartford station and thence to the
New York office, This brings me to 1945, the year of the Big
Change, when I switched to another company and to a radio
job in Boston that seemed to give promise of more interest, more

[725]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

responsibility, more money. It was the year not only of the Big

Change but also of the Bad Move, or the Wrong Guess. For

the new firm and I were as uncongenial as it is possible for firm

and employee to be. It all ended in a nice case of nerve exhaustion
and months of unemployment while regaining health,

There was a temporary job in 1947-1948 doing promotion for
a manufacturer friend in Lowell who made lingerie, There was
another temporary job in 1948-1949 handling the sales of a new
radio station that started in Bristol, Connecticut, though I retained
residence in Belmont. And then, to permit me to be home with
my family and shake off the Monday-through-Friday sojourns
in Bristol, I took the first likely job that presented itself, which
turned out to be that of a representative of a Chicago manufac-
turer of advertising charts. Recently, when this manufacturer
decided to change the status of his representatives from salary to
commission, I elected to retain the line, seek out additional
advertising services to promote throughout New England, and
try working on my own. And so it is that, in January of 1952, I
find myself, somewhat mystified, in business for myself, working
out of my house in Belmont, dealing in three lines of advertising
services, and wondering how I ever got that way. I like it, I may
do well with it, and there is the satisfaction of being my own
boss. But all of this, quite obviously, is anything but the result
of deeply laid plans stemming from school years, or even from
later years.

In many respects I envy the classmates who knew what they
wanted, hewed to the line from early days, and have made
definite marks in a career that represented lifetime endeavor.
But not too much. For I have enjoyed my work. I have actively -
liked advertising agency work, radio broadcasting activities, rep-
resentation of advertising services, and yes, the sales promotion
of lingerie. Moreover, some of the more drastic changes in my
business career have enriched Life-in-General in immeasurable
ways. If a depression had not rooted me from Boston and ad-
vertising agency work in 1932 and transplanted me to Elmira
and into radio broadcasting, I shouldn’t have met and married
an Elmira girl with whom I have been living happily ever after,
together with three increasingly congenial children. And if I
hadn’t guessed badly in the choice of a new job in 1945, I probably

[ 726 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

shouldn’t have dipped as deeply into matters spiritual as I have
since, to my ever increasing inner satisfaction.

So, though J. P. Marquand’s quotation has reminded me that
Life seems to have made me into something that I never exactly
wanted to be, I have no kicks. I intend, though, to try to help
my son, aged eleven, to think through during his ’teens to some-
thing that he would really want to do upon graduation from
college. Certainly I have accumulated the experience wherewith
to offer him some pretty sound counsel.

HENRY VINING SETON OGDEN

HOME AppRESS: 1418 Golden Ave., Ann Arbor, Mich.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 3230 Angell Hall, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.
BORN: Sept. 19, 1905, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: Henry Vining Ogden,

Frances Harriet Winkler. .
PREPARED AT: Milwaukee Country Day School, Milwaukee, Wis.,; Kent School,

Kent, Conn.
"YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cu7m laude, 1927; A.M. (Univ. of

Chicago), 1932; PH.D. (ibid.), 1936.
MARRIED: Margaret Sinclair Holderman, Sept. 8, 1934, Berea, Ky. CHILDREN:
Elisabeth Sinclair, Nov. 19, 1937; John Vining, Oct. 8, 1942.

occuPATION: English professor.
OFFICES HELD: Board of Directors, Ann Arbor Cooperative Society, 1949-51.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association.
PUBLICATIONS: Various articles on 17th- and 18th-century literature.

CAREER history: Assistant professor 1943; associate professor
1949.
My two children, Elisabeth, aged fourteen, and John, aged
nine, are both, to their mother’s and my surprise, rather athletic,
although John will never be a football tackle. They are headed,
we hope, for Radcliffe or Wellesley and Harvard, respectively.

My travels: limited. Mason City, Iowa, on the west, Tennessee
on the south. Better to the east: Lincolnshire,

Hobby: gardening on a fourteen-acre “estate” with the help
of a Gravely tractor.

Of the two attitudes, “the government owes me a living” and
“the public be damned,” I find the first less evil, and am therefore

a Democrat. Religion: Fpiscopalian,

[727 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

JOHN BARTOW OLMSTED, II

HOME AppREss: 465 Warren Lane, Miami qo, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pan American Bank Bldg., Miami, Fla.

BORN: July 10, 1905, Bonn, Germany. PARENTS: Charles Morgan Olmsted,
Elizabeth Macniel.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: $.B., 1927; LL.B. (New York Univ),
1938.

marrigeD: Grace Dodge, Oct. 11, 1934, Riverdale, N. ¥. (divorced 1942);
Harriet Shields Scott, 1942. CHILDREN: Dodge, Sept. 14, 1935; Mary,
June 26, 1937; Charles Morgan; Garrett Scott.

OccuPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served four years in U.S. Army, in Washington,
D. C., Canada, India; commissioned first lieutenant; active duty with
Field Artillery prior to war; transferred to Air Corps; claims officer,
India China Wing ATC, and Armed Forces City of Calcutta, India.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Sons of the Revolution.

MEMBER OF: Society of Colonial Wars, New York and Florida; Patriots &
Founders, Florida; Army & Navy Country Club, Washington, D. C.;
Sons of the Revolution, Florida.

I WROTE all about my views some years ago and did not
even receive a compilation of the Report. I suppose some of
you jokers sold more bonds or life insurance on the strength of
the information thus gleaned and could see no point in satisfying
my idle curiosity.

I have no social, political, and religious convictions other than
that you fellows who have been able to connive and maneuver
your way into positions of power are making a stinking mess
of everything and if I thought I could do anything about it I
would take the trouble to be disgusted, but as it is prefer not to
think about it and hope that my children will be rougher, tougher,
and meaner than I was so that they may survive the conditions
which you fellows are creating for them.

t+ RICHARD FROTHINGHAM O’NEIL, JR.

BoRN: May 8, 1903, Boston, Mass. parents: Richard Frothingham O'Neil,
M.D.’97, Adela Pegram Myers.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: $.B., 1927.

piED: June 16, 1951, Cooperstown, N. Y.

[728 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD FROTHINGHAM O’NEIL, JR., went with the
First National Old Colony Corporation after graduation. In 1931
he joined Hubbard Brothers & Company in Boston and five
years later became associated with Townsend, Anthony & Tyson,
members of the New York Stock Exchange. He gave up the
brokerage business and in 1945 became treasurer of Eastern
Aviation, Inc., the Massachusetts distributor for Stinson Aircraft.
Two years later he resigned that position and became associated
with the East Coast Aviation Corporation.

At the time of our Fifteenth Reunion he held the rank of
captain in the Massachusetts Organized Militia and was stationed
at the State House, Boston, as secretary of the State Staff,
secretary of the Governor’s Disaster Relief Commission, and aide
to the Adjutant General. He was relieved from duty in Septem-

ber, 1945.

WALTER GEORGE O’NEIL

HOME AppRrEss: 100 Memorial Drive, Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lee Higginson Corp., 50 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 22, 1903, Chicago, Ill. parents: Denis Francis O’Neil, Mary Agnes
Farrel,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1923-1925, 1926-1927. DEGREE: 1.A., 1943.

MarrigD: Isabel Sophia Marchant, Aug. 28, 1931, Fontainebleau, France.
cHitp: Robert Marchant, Oct. 16, 1934.

occupation: Investment banking; manager, New Business Department, Bos-
ton office of Lee Higginson Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Overseer, Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, 1945-49.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Faculty Club of Harvard University.

PusLications: The V and VT Loan Arrangement and Termination Financ-
ing in collaboration with Professor Charles C. Abbott, published by
Harvard Business School, 1944; “Do High Corporate Taxes Deter In-
vestment,” in Harvard Business Review, summer 1944.

OUTSIDE of business my principal interests have been my family
and the study of economics. The pursuit of these has been
richly rewarding though unspectacular. Practically all of my
leisure time has been spent with my wife and son. We have
frequently travelled when circumstances permitted. I have lived
on the assumption that one derives satisfactions from family

[ 729 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

life according to one’s contribution and have found that assump-
tion to be true. .

In college I acquired, particularly from the late Professor
Young, a background and approach which have enabled me to
understand some of the unprecedented economic developments
of the last generation and to live through them, even though I am
a Republican, without fear of catastrophe.

GEORGE ALEXANDER ORROK, JR.

HOME ApDpRESS: 5 Cleveland St., Cambridge 38, Mass.
OFFICE ADpREss: Boston Edison Co., Boston, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 13, 1905, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: George Alexander Orrok,
Jessie Waldo.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREES: S.B., 1927; 8.M., 1928.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Ellen Sullivan, July 2, 1927, Willimantic, Conn. CHILD:
George Timothy, Nov. 25, 1930.

HARVARD SON: George Timothy Orrok, ’52.

occuPATION: Engineer; assistant superintendent of engineering, Boston Edison
Company.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Mechanical Engineers, American Society
of Civil Engineers; National District Heating Association,

PuBLIcATIONS: Papers and discussions before the above societies.

MY LIFE in brief: got married; left Harvard, went to work. Sull
at work. Son is at Harvard. Comment: Have found education no
particular handicap in life.

FRANK JESSE OTIS, JR.

BORN: June 29, 1905, Chicago, Ill. parents: Frank Jesse Otis, Mabel Howe.
PREPARED AT: Moline High School, Moline, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: §.B., 1927; M.D., 1931.

DIED: Jan. 11, 1937, Hennepin, Ill.

DURING his undergraduate years Frank Jesse Otis was a mem-
ber of the Crimson staff, the Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity and
he was on the Debating Council in 1924 and the Debating Team
in 1925. In his sophomore year he won a Harvard College

[ 730 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Scholarship. After graduation he continued his studies at the
Harvard Medical School, from which he received his M.D.
in 1931. The following year he interned at the Boston City
Hospital and spent one year as physician at the C.C.C. Camp of
Miles Standish National Forest. At the time of his death he was
a house officer at the Boston City Hospital. His chief hobby was
flying and he was an experienced pilot. As a lieutenant in the
1o1st Observation Squadron, he had been in the Massachusetts
Guard Air Service for four years.

+ WILLIAM ROLAND OTTO

BORN: July 4, 1904, Atlanta, N. Y. parents: William Elwood Otto, Frances

Wallace.
PREPARED AT: Atlanta High School, Atlanta, N. Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; B.D. (Virginia Theological

Seminary), 1934.
marRiED: Mrs. Yvonne Roy Wildi, June 12, 1933, Bellerose, Long Island,

N. Y. cumpren: Richard; Jacqueline; Suzanne (stepchildren).
piep: May 7, 1946, Phoenix, Ariz.
FOR TWO years after graduation William Roland Otto was
head of the English department at the Los Alamos Ranch School
at Otowi, New Mexico. During the summer of 1929 he was
with the marketing department of the Humble Oil & Refining
Company in Houston and later he worked for Moore-Cottrell
Subscription Agencies. In 1930 he began his studies at the
Protestant Episcopal Theological Seminary in Virginia and re-
ceived his B.D. degree in 1934. From 1933 to 1936 he served as
rector of Trinity Church in Northport, Long Island, New York,
and for three more years he was assistant rector at Trinity
Church in Buffalo. He moved his family to Wisconsin in May,
1939, and became rector of the Trinity Church in Oshkosh,
where he stayed for six and a half years. On January 1, 1946,
he went to Trinity Cathedral in Phoenix, as acting dean, and less
than two months before his death he had been unanimously

elected to the deanship.

[731 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

JOHN WINTHROP PACKARD

HOME ApprEss: 3 Obery St., Plymouth, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lincoln Street, Plymouth, Mass.

BorN: April 25, 1906, Canton, Mass. parents: Winthrop Packard, Alice Har-
rington,

PREPARED AT: Canton High School, Canton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: S.B., 1927; ED.M., 1934.

MARRIED: Polly (Mary Lucy), Jenkins, Aug. 25, 1934, Topsfield, Mass.
CHILDREN: John Winthrop, Jr., July 15, 1936; Thomas Jenkins, Dec. 15,

1939

OccuPATION: Head of Science Department, Plymouth High School.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Aviation Radar; Staff, Commander Fleet Air
Wing Eight; Air Navigator, NAS Quonset Point, NAS Squantum,
Mass.; Officer of Naval Research; lieutenant commander, U.S.N.R.

MEMBER OF: Plymouth Round Table; Plymouth Yacht Club; Eel River
Beach Club; Plymouth Amateur Radio Club.

WORK: Radio engineer; head of high school science department;
U. S. Navy, 1942 to 1946; supervisor of personnel, Northeast
Airlines, 1946; at present, head of Science Department, Plymouth
High School.

Family: Two teen-age (almost) sons, a gracious and public-
spirited wife, plus a house on a hilltop keep me so busy that my
hobbies are mostly futures.

Hobbies: Ham Radio W12V; tramp commercial pilot
(Plymouth County Fire Patrol), charter hops (advertising! ), etc.;
Naval Air Reserve — Naval Air Station, Squantum; swimming,
tennis, sailing.

Travels: Mostly via naval air.

Social, political, religious convictions: I am convinced that
one doesn’t air these convictions; Finally, I am convinced that
the narrative style is not my forte (shades of English A!), but
it will be grand to see you all in June.

++ ABRAHAM SIGMUND PACTOVIS

BORN: July 1, 1906, Newton, Mass. parents: Morris David Pactovis, Bertha
Perlmutter. ,

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

DIED: 1935.

[ 732 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ABRAHAM SIGMUND PACTOVIS was a special student
under the Faculty of Arts and Sciences at Harvard University
for one year after his graduation from college. His home was in
Quincy, Massachusetts, and he was not married. The Secretary
has no further information about him.

JOHN RANDOLPH PAINE

HOME ADDRESS: 177 Beard Ave., Buffalo 14, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Buffalo General Hospital, 100 High St., Buffalo 3, N. Y.

BorN: Nov. 18, 1906, Dallas, Texas. PARENTS: Randolph Paine, '98, Lu.z., ’o1,
Maude Miriam Smith.

PREPARED AT: North Dallas High School, Dallas, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; M.D. 1931; SM. (Univ. of
Minnesota), 1935; PH.D. (ibid.), 1937.

MARRIED: Dorothy Turner, Sept. 12, 1932, Melrose, Mass. cHitpREN: Jonathan
Turner, March 19, 1940; Judith, Jan. 31, 1946.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Henry Carlton Paine, ’35; Roswell Bond Paine, ’39.
occupation: Surgeon; professor of surgery, University of Buffalo School
of Medicine; head, department of surgery, Buffalo General Hospital.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Army Medical Corps, Feb. 15, 1942, to
Sept. 30, 1945, as assistant chief of surgical service, U. S. General Hos-
pital No. 26, with service in U. S., England, North Africa, and Italy;
entered as major; promoted lieutenant colonel November, 1944.

MEMBER OF: American Surgical Association; American Association for
Thoracic Surgery; Society of University Surgeons; American College
of Surgeons; Excelsior Club.

PuBLICATIONS: About forty articles on various surgical subjects published in
a variety of medical journals and books.

AFTER graduation from the Medical School in 1931, I went to
Minneapolis, expecting to intern there for one year at the
University of Minnesota Hospitals. Because of the influence of
my chief at this institution, I decided to make a career of academic
surgery. Instead of one year I remained in the university for
sixteen years, gradually working my way up the academic ladder
to a full professorship after returning from Army service in
1945. Prior to the war I was engaged in a considerable amount
of research. The most important of these research problems was
the development of the indwelling gastric tube, now almost
universally used following serious abdominal operations to pre-
vent vomiting and distension.

[733].

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

After the war, things were not the same at the University
of Minnesota. Most of my time for the next eighteen months was
spent in organizing and supervising the residency training
program in surgery for the university at the Minneapolis
Veterans Administration Hospital. In July, 1947, I moved to
Buffalo to become professor of surgery at the University of .
Buffalo School of Medicine and head of the department of surgery
at the Buffalo General Hospital. These are my present positions
and they make a very busy, interesting, and full life. I teach
medical students, supervise the interns, operate with the residents,
find time for a little research, and have a moderate amount of
private practice. For the past year and a half my chief interest
outside of the above has been to carry on a running fight with
the Buffalo S.P.C.A. over the use of unwanted dogs for medical
research, For the present this fight has finally been won in favor
of medical research, despite eight vetoes of legislation by the
mayor of the city.

I have no particular hobbies. I never thought I had time to
develop any since there is so much about surgery that I do not
know. About four evenings a week during the school year I
spend at committee meetings or some other equally futile official
function of the hospital or medical school.

For many years now the family has gone for a month each
summer to our cottage at Mirror Lake on the east shore of Lake
Winnipesaukee. Doro says she only changes from one sink to
another, but the children love the bathing and doing the many
things city children cannot do at home. I manage to occupy
myself most pleasantly with odd chores, reading, and listening
to the radio while the Red Sox try once more to win a pennant.

- Mine has not been an exciting life, yet the family seems reason-

ably happy. We are all well and are out of debt, besides eating
three meals a day and paying the income tax regularly, so 1
suppose there is little reason to complain. As to “views,” I have
plenty, of course. It looks as though we are going to have to
fight Russia if Truman does not ruin the country first. I think
the Democrats might just as well give their party to the labor
unions, Then if the Republicans would change the name of
their party so the old southern Democrats could join with them,
we might get the country stabilized again, |

[734]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALBAN PAPINEAU

HOME ADDREsS: East Main Street, Plymouth, N. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Plymouth Clinic, Plymouth, N. C.

BORN: June 23, 1904, Maynard, Mass. parents: Arthur Bradford Papineau,
Grace Burrill.

PREPARED AT: Concord High School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.D. (Univ. of Pennsyl-
vania), 1931.

MARRIED: Kathryn Schramm, Aug. 27, 1932, Valley Forge, Pa. (divorced
1937); Jeannette Edwards, Aug. 27, 1940, Ayden, N. C. cHitpren:
Arthur Bradford, Dec. 17, 1934; Linda Lee, May 18, 1942; Jeannette
Elisabeth, March 19, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, Lions Club; councillor, Second District, North
Caroline State Medical Society.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Pi Medical Fraternity; Tri County Medical Society;
North Carolina State Medical Society; American Medical Association;
National Malaria Society; American Society of Tropical Medicine;
American Radio Relay League.

PUBLICATIONS: “Chronic Malaria,” “Hypoglycemia,” North Carolina Medical
Journal.

AFTER graduation in 1927, I attended the University of Penn-
sylvania Medical School, and was graduated in 1931. I then
served an eighteen-month rotating internship at Germantown
Hospital, Germantown, Philadelphia, following which I moved
to North Carolina, a physician on the staff of the State Tubercu-
losis Sanatorium at Sanatorium. Since 1937 I have been practising
medicine in Plymouth, North Carolina. In 1940 I took into
partnership Dr. Ernest W. Furgurson, and in 1942 we built the
Plymouth Clinic. During three years of the war, when my
associate was overseas as a major in the Air Corps, I carried on
the operation of the Clinic, gaining a few white. hairs in the
effort of doing the work of two.

For some ten years I have been skipper of the Sea Scout Ship,
Albemarle, a fifty-foot motor launch, which, among many cruises,
has cruised with sea scouts to Washington, D. C. Hobbies are
amateur radio (operate station W4JMD) and photography, and
gardening thrown in for good measure. I have just completed
construction of a fine tennis court in my backyard, so I am
setting golf aside until I become, in my old age, too decrepit to
play my favorite game, tennis.

[735]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

My two daughters are in school here, and Bradford, aged
eighteen, is a freshman (premedical) at the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill.

+ TORRANCE PARKER, JR.

BORN: Noy. 2, 1904, Belmont, Mass. parents: Torrance Parker, ’95, Jessie
Southard.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923~1924.

pieD: July 20, 1924, Belmont, Mass.

TORRANCE PARKER, JR. was educated in the Belmont
schools and prepared for Harvard at Phillips Exeter Academy.
He was a member of the Harvard Freshman Tennis Team and
had completed his freshman course just one month before his
death. His home was in Belmont.

EDD WINFIELD PARKS

HOME appreEss: 288 Stanton Way, Athens, Ga.

OFFIce apprEss: University of Georgia, Athens, Ga.

BorN: Feb. 25, 1906, Newbern, Tenn. parents: Edward Winfield Parks,
Emma Wallis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; A.M. (Wanderbilt Univ.),
1929; PH.D. (ibid.), 1933.

marRIED: Aileen Wells, Nov. 3, 1933, Nashville, Tenn.

OCCUPATION: Professor of English, University of Georgia; writer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Ended World War II as captain, A.U.S., Military
Intelligence; European Theatre Ribbon and Army Commendation Rib-
bon,

PUBLICATIONS: Segments of Southern Thought, 1938; Charles Egbert Crad-
dock, 1941; Long Hunter, 1942; Pioneer Pilot, 1947; Predestinate Iron
(poems), 1948; Little Long Rifle, 1949; editor: The Great Critics (with
J. H. Smith), 1932, 1939, 1951; Southern Poets, 1936, The Essays of
Henry Timrod, 1942; A Modern American Sampler, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil, 1951; contributions to many magazines, work reprinted in several
anthologies.

SHORTLY after graduating from Harvard I drove to Los
Angeles, tarried there briefly for a bit of newspaper work on the
Times, and after a year found myself back as a Teaching Fellow
and graduate student in English at Vanderbilt, then the home of
the Fugitive group of poets. I spent three years there as Fellow

[736 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and two as Instructor, picking up an A.M. degree in 1929 and a
Ph.D. in 1933. During vacation periods I worked on the Nashville
Tennessean and was associate literary editor (under Donald
Davidson) of a syndicated book page; for it I wrote many
reviews until the depression caused it to be summarily discon-
tinued in January, 1930. By that time I had published stories and
articles in various magazines, and with James Harry Smith
(Harvard, 1925) I was planning an anthology of literary criticism
which appeared in 1932 and continues to be used today by quite
a few colleges — including Harvard.

In the fall of 1933 I shifted to Cumberland University as
professor of English, and in November I married Aileen Wells.
In 1935 I transferred to the University of Georgia, with some
notable intermissions, I have been there ever since. During
these years I have taught mainly American literature and literary
criticism, with several summer sessions at Duke University; and
I have written scholarly articles and quite non-scholarly stories
and poems, and some books intended for teen-age boys. The
longest interval of absence from the University of Georgia came
during the war, when I served in Military Intelligence. The job
at least had the virtue of being important, and always there was
more work to do than could be done. The pleasantest reward
was a special mission to England in the spring of 1945 which
resulted, among more essential items, in my being in London for
V-E Day.

I continue to teach and I continue to write, as the bibliography
shows. (My wife eschews teaching, but she too has succumbed
to writing and is a successful author of books for children.) We
spent the summer of 1946 in Mexico, mainly at Mazatlan; on our
first day there a small local bootblack paused from shining my
shoes and asked, “Is it not beautiful, our Mazatlan?” He was right
in thinking so, In March, 1949, I was sent by the State Department
as visiting professor of American Literature to the University of
Brazil, in Rio de Janeiro, and as special lecturer to universities and
institutes in most of the South American countries. The news-
papers always mentioned as an item worth noting that I was
accompanied by my wife. While in Brazil I edited for Latin-
American use an anthology that attempted to give a representa-
tive picture of modern American life. We found the people

[737]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

friendly, many of the cities and countries beautiful and impressive,
and the eleven-month trip fascinating.

In 1951, with the help of the Carnegie Association, we travelled
in Europe and did some research in Ireland and England. At
present we are in Athens, Georgia, and likely to stay there unless
the Army or some more benevolent foundation asks us to go
temporarily elsewhere.

WARREN PARTRIDGE, JR.

HOME AppREsSS: 456 Tillou Rd., South Orange, N. J.

OFFICE AbprESS: Atlantic Mutual Insurance Co., go Wall St., New York 5,
N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 29, 1904, South Orange, N. J. pareNTS: Warren Partridge, Marie
Martha Hoppe.

PREPARED AT: Mercersburg Academy, Mercersburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B, 1927(28).

marrirp: Margaret Helen Woodward, Aug. 11, 1929, Whippany, N. j.
CHILDREN: Richard, Sept. 23, 1930; Joan, Feb. 15, 1934.

HARVARD SON: Richard Partridge, ’52.

occuPATION: Insurance; personnel officer, Atlantic Mutual Insurance Com-

any.
WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Director of Civilian Training, Picatinny Ar-
senal, Dover, N. J.
OFFICES HELD: Secretary, 1945-48, president, 1949-50, member Executive Com-
mittee (now), Harvard Club of New Jersey.

I FIND my insurance personnel work interesting and satisfying,
if not so exciting as my wartime experience analyzing jobs of
pouring T.N.T., or macerating gun cotton. I also find my family
very satisfying — a son who finished Harvard in three and one-
half years with all A’s and B’s (I suppose he’ll remain radical and
vote Democratic until he gets a job), a daughter who has a talent
for painting and does honor work, and a wife who is working on
a book about old houses in New Jersey.

I watch birds (shades of George Apley!). I read modern
poetry, sometimes as difficult to follow as the furtive bird. I
like Bach. And I meet with fellow-New Jersey Harvard Club
members at every opportunity. I think that this country is
largely wasting the challenge of the world today, and that,
despite our all too obvious faults, we are going to make the grade.

[738 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM DONALD PATTERSON, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE AppREss: 170 Glenwood Ave., Atherton, Calif.

porN: July 1, 1905, San Francisco, Calif. parenrs: William Donald Patterson,
May Bird.

PREPARED AT: William Warren School, Menlo Park, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: S.B., 1927; M.B.A. (Stanford Univ.),
1932.

MARRIED: Dorothy Eden Wilcox, 1938, Walnut Creek, Calif. ciipren:
William Donald, 3d; Wilcox; George Norton; Gay; Eden.

OccUPATION: Rancher (owner); plant manager, National Motor Bearing
Company.

JUST trying to live quietly with two businesses, five children,

and an involved assortment of school, church, political, and civic

activities. Oh, for the simple days at Cambridge!

GEORGE ROBERTS PAYNE

HOME ADDRESS: 32 Glen Oaks Ave., Summit, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New York Telephone Co., 140 West St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 24, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Charles Hart Payne, Lillian
Cowan Roberts.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1923-1927. DEGREE! A.B. 1927.

MARRIED: Marjorie G. Anderson, April 25, 1931, East Orange, N. J. CHILDREN:
Peter Roberts, April 25, 1934; Katherine D., Oct. 16, 1938.

OCCUPATION: PBX service superintendent, Manhattan, Bronx, and West-
chester areas, Traffic Department, New York Telephone Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Jersey (Executive Committee); Tele-
phone Camera Club; Playhouse Association.

I JOINED the traffic department of the New York Telephone
Company in August, 1927. For the past twenty-five years I have
been lucky in having had a variety of assignments, all in New
York City, and all short on glamour bur long on interest and
stability. I am responsible for the quality of service given at
private branch exchange switchboards on customers’ premises.
The present job involves a combination of engineering, personnel
and public relations work and more than fills a day. It offers an
opportunity to establish contacts outside the Bell system, which
is rather unusual in the normally restricted sphere of telephone
company employment.

We have made our home in New Jersey, first in Short Hills,

[739]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

and since 1936 in Summit, and are reasonably active in a most
friendly and sociable community. Travel has been limited to
summer vacations which of late have been spent in Canada. I
find some time, but as usual not enough, to devote to woodwork-
ing and to color photography.

Peter enters college, Colgate he hopes (and so do I), in the fall
of 1952. An ROTC. unit (Air Force) may help to let him
complete his course without interruption.

I am looking forward to the day in 1965 when, if my latest
fifteen-year plan works, the alarm clock will no longer ring and
a commutation ticket will become a thing of my youth. Aren't
we all?

BENJAMIN SHREVE PEIRSON

HOME ADDRESS: 259 Columbia St., Corning, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDREsS: Corning Glass Works, Corning, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 3, 1905, Salem, Mass. PARENTS: Edward Lawrence Peirson, *80,
Genevieve Shreve.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREES: S.B. IN MECH. ENG. 1928; M.B.A. CUM
Jaude, 1934.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Gilbert, Aug. 23, 1930, Williamsport, Pa. CHILDREN:
Edward Lawrence, 2d, April 11, 1936; Benjamin Shreve, Jr., Dec. 23,

1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Lawrence Peirson, Jr., ’21, M.D., '25.

occuPATION: Glass manufacturing; assistant director of sales, Corning Glass
Works.

IN THE summer of 1929, after completing a year with the Mack
Truck Company in Allentown, Pennsylvania, in their training
course for graduates of engineering schools, I decided to desert
the profession in favor of sales work. I left Mack just ahead of
the stock market crash and went with the Houdaille-Hershey
Corporation in Detroit, to sell shock absorbers to automobile
manufacturers. This went along fine until the depression deep-
ened, and in May, 1931, the entire sales force became the
Houdaille alumni, when we all “graduated” on the same day.
After another year in Detroit, spent trying to promote several
new inventions, I decided to return to Cambridge for the two-
year course at the Business School. As a result, I was hired by
Corning Glass Works, where I have spent the last seventeen

[ 740 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

years at a series of interesting and rewarding sales jobs. Currently
I am the assistant director of sales, a staff position, concerned
with all company sales problems and directly responsible for
market research, export sales, and the new Corning Glass Cen-
ter.

My elder son, new sixteen, is at Middlesex, headed for Har-
vard. The younger, aged eleven, is still in public school in Cor-
ning. W espend summer vacations at Cotuit on Cape Cod.

OLIVER ANSEL PENDAR

HOME ApprEss: Linden Farm, Syosset, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: United Nations, New York, N. Y.

BORN: June 5, 1905, Sioux Falls, S, Dak. parents: Oliver S. Pendar, Ruth
Whittemore.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923~1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; LL.B. 1931.

MaRRIED: Carolyn Pitts Duffield, Dec. 2, 1939, New York, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: Kenneth Whittemore Pendar, ’30.

OccUPATION: Economic Affairs Officer, Transport and Communications
Division, Department of Economic Affairs, United Nations Secretariat.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U.S.N.R., Feb. 14,

- 1942; indoctrination at N.A.S., Quonset Point, R. I., February to April,

1942; administrative officer, Aviation Squadron, N.A.S., Corpus Christi,
Texas, April, 1942-October, 1943; flag secretary, Fleet Air Wing Seven,
Plymouth, Eng., November, 1943-October, 1944; promoted lieutenant
commander, April, 1944; claims officer, supervisor of Eastern District of
U. S. Contract Termination Division, Bureau of Aeronautics, Navy
Dept., Washington, D. C., October, 1944-October, 1945; separated as
commander, November, 1945.

MEMBER oF: New York Bar; Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Law
School Association.

AMONG the sample lives of the Class of 1926 which were sent
to us was that of Mr. Jacques Leon Ach. Although it was not
produced until five goads had been administered, it received top
billing nevertheless. Even if I am still smarting from my fourth
goad, the case of Mr. Ach assures me that I may not be a worthless
villain after all.

The 1927 Senior Class Album stated my future intentions as
“law or business.” The forecast was not accurate. I taught
children in Arizona for one year; practised business law in New

[741 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

York (Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett) for seven years, was a
government aviation lawyer in Washington (C.B.B.) for three;
as a warrior, I was a Navy jack-of-all-trades for almost four; after
peace came I was concerned with the airline business (1’.W.A.)
for two, and I have ended up in the United Nations as an
international civil servant, for the last five years.

New York corporate law practice and I never developed a
soul-satisfying liaison, but aviation law proved more to my liking.
My stretch in the wartime Navy motivated a desire to become
associated with world-wide activities. International aviation gave
me some of the desired experience and my work in the United
Nations has supplemented it. This work is directed towards
stimulating and simplifying the transport of persons and goods
and the communication of information among the nations of the
world. My particular interest is international civil aviation.

Unfortunately I cannot express the usual parental pride, as my
wife and I are not blessed with children, but I look forward
eagerly to meeting great numbers of my classmates’ children at
the Twenty-fifth Reunion. |

I have been able to do a little travelling in Europe and South
America in connection with my work in the United Nations, but
not as much as I should like. It is my strong conviction that if the
facilities for world travel could be made readily available to all
the responsible people in every nation, there would be a more
favorable setting for the maintenance of world peace.

Lately I have enjoyed taking colored photographs and showing
them on a projector. In the summers, my wife and I have usually
taken motor trips. Last summer we joined some friends on a
cruise to Maine in a small yaw]. I have lately undertaken to
organize a teen-age discussion group in Oyster Bay and I try
to obtain interesting people to give them informal talks. The
United Nations has proved to be a good source.

My limited experience in the international field convinces me
of the overwhelming urgency of a wider appreciation of world
affairs by the people of our country. I wish the talents of “the
hucksters” could be harnessed to bring this about by way of
radio and television. The presidential candidate who best realizes
the importance of this matter will have my vote, which has
always been independent Republican (accent on independent”).

[742 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MORTON PEPPER

HOME ADDRESS: 1065 Lexington Ave., New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pepper & Siegel, 55 Liberty St., New York 5, N. Y.

BorRN: May 28, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: George Pepper, Pauline
Goldstone.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; LL.B. 1930.

marrieD: C. Doris Hellman, Aug. 15, 1933, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Alice C., June 13, 1937; Carol H., Feb. 25, 1940.

occuPATION: Lawyer; partner, Pepper & Siegel.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Naval Reserve, 1943-46; attached to Office
of Procurement, Legal Division, which subsequently became Office
of General Counsel of Navy.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Stationed in Washington doing renegotiation
work.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary Committee on Taxation, New York County Law-
yers’ Association, since 1949; president, Junior Society of Sydenham
Hospital; overseer and member Finance Committee since 1946, Jewish
Theological Seminary; zone commander, Air Warden Service, New

York City, since 1950.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Association of the Bar of the City
of New York; New York State Bar Association, New York County
Lawyers’ Association; Sunningdale Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Monograph on “Deductions under the Federal Income Tax
Law,” published by American Bar Association and Pracucing Law
Institute; articles in Taxes; article in United States Law Review.

TWENTY-FIVE years does not seem like such a long time. At
least I do not feel old. Not as old as I thought the twenty-five-
year class looked when I was graduating. And yet, a lot of things
have happened — three years with one law firm through the
depths of the depression, and when that firm dissolved, three
years with another one, and then the formation of a partner-
ship and the opening of my own office; the struggle to get
started; wondering where clients were coming from. While
this was going on there came my first daughter. Watching a
baby develop is fascinating. And then came the clients and the
concomitants thereof, the second child and the difference between
her and her sister.

In 1940 the war clouds were darkening and the Air Warden
Service was organized in New York City. I enlisted, and after
December, 1941, it was almost a full-time job. The heartaches
and headaches that come with running an organization of vol-

[743 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

unteers under the direction of people who just would not under-
stand the problems would be funny if the same process were
not being repeated right now. (I am back in the Air Warden
Service.) At about the same time my wife received her Doc-
torate degree and we all celebrated. Then came my entry into
the Navy and the break-up of the home for no one knew how
long; the search for quarters in Washington, first for myself
alone and then for my family; the hovels and the cellars that I
looked at before something liveable was found. Then came vic-
tory and the return to New York and again the search for some
place to live; trying to do some reading, not too successfully;
practising tax law and attempting to unravel the intricacies of
the Internal Revenue Code. I am still playing tennis and being
told that I ought to stop. The girls are growing up. Now my
elder daughter is becoming a young lady and my friends think
it appropriate to present me with Father of the Bride. Looking
back, although much has been done, not so much has been
accomplished as one hoped when one faced the world at the
start of one’s career,

GEORGE LANDOR PERIN

HOME aApprEss: 11 Garretson Rd., White Plains, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: First Boston Corp., 100 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Oct. 28, 1905, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: George Landor Perin, Florence
Nightingale Hobart.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1023-1927. DEGREES: $.B., 1927; M.B.A., 1920.

Marriep: Aurora A. Guglielmi, June 12, 1934, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Ruth Landor, March 28, 1936; George Landor, 3d, Sept. 30, 1939.

OccuPATION: Vice-president, The First Boston Corporation, investment
banking.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Business School Club of
New York; University Club of White Plains; New York Society of
Security Analysts.

DURING my two-year stay at Harvard Business School,
Professor Doriot used to tell us that we ought to change jobs
several times in the first five or ten years. I listened carefully to
his advice, but I am still working for the same investment banking
firm that hired me in 1929. My specialty is public utility finance,

[744]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

which is anything but dull even though it may sound so to many

of my classmates. After spending the first thirty years of my life

in or around Boston, I moved to New York in 1936 and am now

a happy Westchester County suburbanite spending a fair share
of my waking hours on the New York Central and the East Side
Subway commuting between home and Wall Street. The rest of
my time is taken up with the usual run of social, civic, and church
activities which constitute suburban living. Luckily for me, my
wife has a musical background so that music, which I have always
loved, has an important place in our lives. Our chief family activ-
ity at the moment is trying to solve the typical teen-age problems
presented by our son and daughter. Probably many of the mem-
bers of the Class of 1927 are attempting to cope with these same
mysteries.

JAMES HANDASYD PERKINS, II

HOME ADDRESS: 510 Clapboardtree St., Westwood, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ropes, Gray, Best, Coolidge & Rugg, 50 Federal St., Boston,
Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 17, 1903, Westwood, Mass. parents: Thomas Nelson Perkins,
’91, Louisa Catherine Adams.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 10923-1927. DEGREES: A.B.) 19273 LL.B. 1931.

MarRiED: Marian Hungerford Gibbs, June 28, 1930, Sugar Hill, N. H.
CHILDREN: Louisa C., April 15, 1934; James Handasyd, Jr., Jan. 29, 1936;
Rufus M., Oct. 11, 1939.

occuPaTION: Lawyer; partner, Ropes, Gray, Best, Coolidge & Rugg.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served in First Motor Squadron, Massachusetts
State Guard, 1940-42; entered U. S. Coast Guard as lieutenant (j.g.),
1942; served as Coast Guard legal officer, First Naval District, until
placed on inactive list, 1945.

HORACE PETTIT

HOME AppREss: 123 Kennedy Lane, Bryn Mawr, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 601 Suburban Square Bldg., Ardmore, Pa.

BORN: Jan. 28, 1903, Philadelphia, Pa. Parents: Horace Pettit, Katherine
Robinson Howell.

PREPARED AT: Montgomery School, Wynnewood, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: $.B., 1927; M.D., 1931,

( 745 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MARRIED: Millicent Hacker Lewis, Nov. 22, 1924, Haverford, Pa. (divorced
1950); Jane Burchfield Mann, 1950, Ben Avon, Pittsburgh, Pa. CHILDREN:
Emily Sargent, March 2, 1926 (7. Gordon F. Whitney, 1947); Horace,
Jr. Nov. 23, 1927 (a. Rosemary Varker, 1948); Norman, Dec. 14,
1929; Deborah Lewis, Oct. 16, 1933.

HARVARD SON: Norman Pettit, 54.

occupaTION: Physician; instructor in medicine, University of Pennsylvania
Medical School.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Major, U. S. A. Medical Corps, May 15, 1942,
to Dec. 15, 1945; chief of Laboratory Service, Army Hospitals in India
(2 yrs.) and in U.S.A.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant instructor, instructor, associate, Department of Bac-
teriology, University of Pennsylvania, 1932-39; assistant instructor, fel-
low, instructor in medicine, Department of Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania, since 1939; president, United World Federalists of Penn-
sylvania, 1948-50; Pennsylvania representative, National Executive Coun-
cil, United World Federalists, Inc., since 1950.

MEMBER OF: College of Physicians of Philadelphia, American Medical Asso-
ciation; Pennsylvania Medical Society, Philadelphia County Medical
Society; Main Line Medical Society; American Bacteriologists, Amer-
ican Academy Political and Social Sciences; American Association for
the Advancement of Science; Harvard Club of Philadelphia; The
Country Club, Brookline, Mass.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Antigenic Structure of Hemolytic Streptococci,” Mudd,
Czarnetzky, Lackman & Pettit, Journal of Immunology, 1938, “The
Philadelphia & Alaska Strains of Influenza Virus, Epidemic Influenza
in Alaska,” Pettit, Mudd & D. S. Pepper, Journal of the American
Medical Association, 1936; “The Present Status of the Prevention &
Treatment of Influenza,” Pettit & J. Stokes, Jr., American Journal of
Medical Science, 1937; “Periarterities Nodosa,” Pettit, American Prac-
titioner, February, 1947, and other articles.

Est modus in rebus, sunt certi denique fines
Quos ultra citraque nequit consistere rectum.
Horace, Satires.

THIS quotation from my namesake refers not to proctology
but to the thought that there is a mean in all things; and, more-
over, certain limits on either side of which right cannot be
found. The search for the right is a preoccupation common to
most of us, a path along which we sometimes stumble and some-
times race. The profession of medicine offers the traveller a
rich experience and a continued interest. It is also a challenge.
It was with trepidation and hope that this graduate of ’27 entered
the Medical School. It was Hans Zinsser, spirited and many-

[ 746 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sided man, who inspired me to devote myself to bacteriology.

However, after seven years of learning more and more about
less and less, and missing the human panorama of clinical med-
icine in the cloistered laboratory, I put aside the petrie dishes and
wore the stethoscope. The war came so soon afterwards that |
returned to the microscope for the duration, wearing khaki and
peering at parasites in India. When the war grew cold, I
returned to the clinic. I am interested in internal medicine and
allergy, and am assistant attending physician at the Bryn Mawr
Hospital. However, I also felt that the prevention of war was the
most important aspect of preventive medicine, so I devoted spare
time to promoting the old and proved idea that there is no peace
without law and that enforceable world law is the only hope of
peace. To that end I work with the United World Federalists.
There is little point in helping nature cure my patients if the

are to be atomized shortly. |

India is not the only place I have been fortunate enough to
see. As a lad I was taken to France and England in the summers.
Since then I have been privileged to travel around the Medi-
terranean, the Scandinavian countries (the most civilized coun-
tries in the world), to Alaska and, during the war, touching at
New Zealand, Tasmania, Australia, Burma and Iran, as well as
being stationed in India. I have also been to Canada, Mexico, and
Bermuda.

My hobbies are sailing the New England coast, especially
Maine waters, skiing, painting a bit, literature, the theatre, and
recently, alas, golf. There is little time now for any of these. In
my youth I played a lot of tennis.

Politically, I am liberal Republican, although I was taken in
by one F, D. R. during his first campaign. But it did not take long
to realize what kind of bird had been hatched.

During my childhood I was exposed to the then very literal
and real Heaven and Hell of the Presbyterians. In adolescence
I became an Episcopalian but the hate emanating from the pulpit
during the war of 1914-18 seemed a trifle inconsistent with the
teachings of Christ. I finally found my spiritual home in the
Unitarian Church. .

I am one of the few who transferred from Princeton to Har-
vard, My first marriage occurred between sophomore and junior

(747 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

years. At that time, Princeton did not appreciate married men.
I had almost gone to Harvard in the first place, but had been
persuaded by my close friends to go to Princeton with them. I
am fond of both, but I felt temperamentally more at home at
Harvard.

HAROLD GREENLEAF PHELPS

HOME ADDRESS: 1022 Harvard Rd., Grosse Pointe, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2035 Dime Bldg., Detroit, Mich.

BorN: Oct. 6, 1905, Peterboro, N. H. parents: Frederick Windsor Phelps,
Melissa Davenport.

PREPARED aT: Proctor Academy, Andover, N. H.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925.

MARRIED: Ruth Porter, Dec. 29, 1934, Detroit, Mich. cHiLp: Judith Suzanne,
Feb. 21, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Henry Phelps, ’20.

occuPATION: Real estate broker.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, Civil Air Patrol, World War II.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member, Selective Service Board No. 87.

MEMBER OF: Lochmoor Golf Club; Detroit Curling Club; Detroit Real
Estate Board.

MERRILL WILSON PHILBRICK

HOME ADDRESS: 16 Rockhill St., Foxboro, Mass.

BorN: Nov. 17, 1905, Lowell, Mass, parents: Albert Roscoe Philbrick,
Gertrude Tetley.

PREPARED AT: Montclair High School, Montclair, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928, DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH, ENG. AND BUS. ADM., 1928.

OCCUPATION: Engineering.

FREDERICK BERNARD PHILIPP

HOME Appress: Kings’ Highway, Middletown, N. J.

oFFice appress: Philipp, Reid & Ballard, 99 John St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: June 1, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Philipp Bernard Philipp,
’oo, Grace Kimball Ballard.

PREPARED AT: Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

MargieD: Ruth Elizabeth Morrison, Nov. 5, 1928, New York, N. Y. (di-
vorced 1946); Helen Collins, June 2, 1946, Oceanport, N. J. cHtLpREN:
Robert Bernard, Sept. 7, 1929, Donald Frederick, July 18, 1933.

[ 748 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPaTION: Partner, Philipp, Reid & Ballard, insurance brokerage.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Helped organize Local Draft Board No. 3,
Monmouth County, N. J.; assistant chief observer, Aircraft Warning
Service, Post 168A, Eatontown, N. J.; chief Air Raid warden; vice-
chairman local Defense Council.

OFFICES HELD: Road, Park, and Sanitation Commissioner, Eatontown, 1942-
46, member Republican County Committee for Monmouth County,

1944-45.

JOHN FREDERICK PHILLIPS

HOME ADDRESS: 451 Lynnfield St., Lynn, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 25 Exchange St., Lynn, Mass.

BORN: June 12, 1905, Lynn, Mass. parents: Fred Everett Phillips, Catherine
Muriel Imlah.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1927; LL.B. 1931.

MARRIED: Helena Genevieve Wright, Aug. 14, 1936, Lynn, Mass. cHILDREN:
Joanna, Aug. 25, 1940; Charles Wright, April 6, 1943.

occupaTION: Lawyer (conveyancer).

OFFIcEs HELD: Clerk, Lynn Hospital; trustee, Lynn Institution for Savings;
counsellor, Bay Shore Council, Boy Scouts of America; co-trustee in
various small educational trusts.

MEMBER OF: Whiting Club of Lynn; Reading Club of Lynn, Lynn Bar
Association; Harvard Club of Lynn.

AFTER plodding through three years of Harvard Law School,
I made the round of the Boston law firms and finally joined
forces with a Boston University law graduate to open our own
office. Four years later, violently in love, and with no financial
standing of any sort, I decided to try working for an established
firm, and approached an older Harvard Law graduate in Lynn,
Massachusetts. He agreed to try me for a year at twenty dollars
per week, and I accepted with great pleasure. Armed with this
tremendous income, I purchased a diamond on credit and offered
it to the object of my affection, who also agreed to try me. Both
associations have succeeded beyond my greatest hopes. The
only drawback to my married life is that I am quite unable to
sympathize with those of my acquaintances who have marital
woes, for I have never experienced them so as to know whereof
they speak.

There is little more to say. My life is divided between mv
work and my family to w hich I have added “a real boy” and a

[ 749 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

delightful girl, now eight years and eleven years, respectively,
Reading and music furnish my relaxation with an occasional trip
to New York and visits to the country to keep life from grow-
ing too monotonous. I am afraid I have become hopelessly pro-
vincial and that I shall never become a captain of industry, but I
challenge anyone to prove that he gets more enjoyment out of
life.

On the side, I have tried to assist the local Boy Scout Council
to function, sung with the church choir, performed as Major
General Stanley, Lord Chancellor, Duke of Plaza Toro and sev-
eral other Gilbert & Sullivan rdles in a local amateur singing
group, acted as secretary-treasurer for five years with the local
Harvard Club, and taken part in many other associations and
clubs — all too minor to demand attention outside of Lynn, but
contributing to the continued existence of the only things that
really matter. I expect life to flow along in about the same course
and at the same rate — barring atomic bombings — and I am glad
of it.” I don’t expect to retire and am rather sure I don’t want to.
In writing this, I regret that I cannot boast of startling things
accomplished, but I am not at all sure that I would trade places
with those who can.

LLOYD JAY PHILLIPS

HOME ADDRESS: 940 Park Ave., New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE apprEss: L. J. Phillips & Co., Inc., 134 W. 72nd St., New York 23,
N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 10, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: David Lloyd Phillips,
Gertude Kuhn.

PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. agna cum laude, 1927.

MARRIED: Ethel Cohen, June 26, 1930, New York, N. Y. cHitpren: Lloyd
James, Oct. 5, 1935; Anne, June 29, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Real estate broker in general brokerage and management firm,
one of three vice-presidents, there being no president.

MEMBER OF: Real Estate Board of New York, Inc., New York County Grand
Jury Association; Bungalow Island Club.

UPON graduation in January, 1927, I spent nine months abroad,
covering Europe from Naples to the North Cape. A succession
of classmates led me astray through most of the Continent. It
was the most broadening experience I have had. Returning to

[750]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

New York, I was slated to be superintendent of construction of
a skyscraper being built at Fifth Avenue and Forty-fourth
Street. At this junction, however, an attack of pneumonia laid
me low for some time and prevented me from making an awful
mess in the Avenue by falling off the steel. Emerging from this
hibernation, I found myself in the family real estate business
where, over a period of twenty-four years, I have gradually
moved from the job of junior renting agent to a senior officer.
Routine work, plus the manifold far-afield involvements of the
modern real estate professional, have kept me busy. I have taken
active interest in the Real Estate Board of New York — have been
chairman of its Stores Committee and am now general chairman
of its Rental Conditions Committees.

In 1930 I married a Vassar debater who is a public relations
expert. We have a son, aged sixteen, now at Horace Mann
School and hopefully a future Harvard man, and a daughter,
aged nine. During the recent war, I was one of those betwixt
and betweeners who, after considerable confusion, learned that
he was too old — by days — for the Marines. So I had to content
myself with continuous activity from its inception with the aux-
iliary police —the New York City Patrol Corps. Drastically
under-policed as the city was, our training, patrol, and general
nightly watch and ward duties helped solve some defense prob-
lems at the time. Both in business and in home life, friendships
formed at Harvard have been important to me. Frequently, of
recent years, I have come in contact with Harvard men of about
our vintage — some known while in Cambridge, many not. I have
noticed increasing value attaching to those intangibles of a com-
mon college background with its resultant common level of pre-
supposition, as time goes on.

HENRY CLAY PIERCE

HOME ADDRESS: 2065 S, Osage St., Bartlesville, Okla.

OFFICE ADpREss: Foster Petroleum Co., 105% E. Third St., Bartlesville, Okla.

BORN: May 10, 1903, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Clay Arthur Pierce, ’96, Irene
Tucksbury.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGRFE: A.B., 1927.

MarRIED: Marion Louise Simmons, June 15, 1935, Rumson, N. J. (divorced

1945).
[751]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

occuPATION: Statistician, Foster Petroleum Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted U. S. Coast Guard, apprentice seaman,
Sept. 13, 1942; discharged boatswain’s mate rst class, June 17, 1945; 28
months sea duty, Iceland and Atlantic coastal patrols; American Theatre
Ribbon, one star.

RAY VAUGHN PIERCE

HOME apprEss: 136 Depew Ave., Buffalo 14, N. ¥.

OFFICE apprEss: Pierce’s Proprietaries, Inc., 127 Kehr St., Buffalo 11, N. Y.

BorN: April 24, 1905, Buffalo, N. Y. parents: Ralph Waldo Pierce, Florence
Kingston.

PREPARED AT: Nichols School, Buffalo, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Ruth Newton, April 25, 1929, Denver, Colo.; Daphne Gulick,
Sept. 12, 1940, Buffalo, N. Y. cuipren: Robert Mott, Aug. 7, 1930;
Daphne Patricia, 1944; Ray Vaughn, 3d, 1945; Lewis Gulick, 1949.

occuPaTION: Manufacturing; real estate.

OFFICES HELD: President, Pierce’s Proprietaries, Inc., Pierce Estates, Inc.;
treasurer, 1947-49, director, 1940-51, United Taxpayers League; director,
Main Street Association, 1935-50; secretary, 1934-35, director, 1932-36,
Western New York Drug Trades Conference.

MEMBER OF: Buffalo Club; Buffalo Canoe Club; Harvard Club of Buffalo;
Chamber of Commerce.

SINCE graduation I have worked in the family proprietary drug
manufacturing and real estate businesses. For some years I wrote
advertisements, in 1939 became advertising manager, and in 1947,
president. In civic organizations I have been particularly inter-
ested in taxation. I am affiliated with the Republican party. I
enjoy sailing and swimming at the Canoe Club and have taken
winter cruises and trips to Mexico, Guatemala, Cuba, and the
West Indies. I am raising a big family of energetic youngsters,
some of whom I hope will go to Harvard.

ROSS EDWARDS PIERCE

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 299 Park Ave., New York, N. Y.

BORN: May 10, 1904, Buffalo, N. Y. parents: Henry Joshua Pierce, Violetta
Edwards Ross.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1927 (28).

ROSS EDWARDS PIERCE has been ill for many years.
[752]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT ALLAN PINKERTON

HOME AppRESS: Meadow Farm Road, East Islip, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 154 Nassau St., New York 38, N. Y.

BorN: Nov. 7, 1904, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Allan Pinkerton, Franc
Woodworth.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 10923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Louise Eliot Cutter, Oct. 18, 1930, Westhampton Beach, Long
Island, N. Y. cHip: Ann, Dec. 28, 1931.

occuPATION: President and director, detective agency.

MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club, New York; Turf and Field Club;
Delta Psi; Merchants Club.

MY STORY should begin prior to graduation. Early in the
spring term of senior year I suffered an eye injury which put
me in the hospital for several weeks. This, following on the
heels of a previous sojourn in Phillips House, the result of another
injury the preceding winter term, went far to disrupt what little
hope I had of getting by the finals, particularly as use of the eyes
was forbidden. At this point Dave Pokross, who took pretty
much the same courses I did, entered the picture and convinced
me — almost — there was still a chance of getting by those exams.
He read to me endlessly, and we discussed and debated the
various subjects at length. Finally arrangements were made with
the college authorities that the examination papers could be read
to me and the answers dictated to a stenographer. Dave’s interest
and patience, his own knowledge and his ability to pass that
knowledge on to others resulted in my not only passing the
exams but picking up the highest average of four years.

Following graduation, work, if it involved any use of the eyes,
at all was ruled out for about a year. My family felt that some-
thing might be salvaged from this idle period, in the form of
broader knowledge, by a trip around the world. I didn’t like
the idea and objected strenuously. So it was decided that I take
a four months’ trip around the world on the liner Belgenland. I
know now how right they were. Such a trip is a privilege few
persons ever receive and a never to be forgotten experience, and
in this instance in addition it provided the opportunity to meet
the girl I later married.

The following winter I enrolled at Columbia Law School.

[753]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Things didn’t go too well. Law was competing with a heavy
romance and after one year plus summer make-up both Columbia
and I had had it. In October of 1929 just before the market crash,
I went to work for my uncle’s odd-lot house of Carlisle, Mellick
& Company, later becoming an associate broker for that firm. On
my father’s death in 1930, I attempted to hold down the brokerage
job and also look after the family business, but this, as I should
have seen much sooner, was impractical. I left Wall Street in
1934 to devote full time to the agency and have been at it ever
since.

RANDOLPH PIPER

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 14 Sudbury Rd., Concord, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 19, 1906; Lexington, Mass. PARENTS: Fred Smith Piper, Grace
Judkins.

PREPARED AT: Lexington High School, Lexington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1927; M.D. 1931.

MARRIED: Helen Elizabeth MacKnight, Sept. 29, 1933, Belmont, Mass.
CHILDREN: Judith Ann, June 5, 1934; Jonathan Brooks, Feb. 12, 1936;
Thomas Randolph, Feb. 27, 1938.

occuPaTION: Country doctor.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman of obstetrics, Emerson Hospital, Concord.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; American Medical Association;
AF, & A.M, 32°; Rotary Club of Concord; Concord Country Club.

TWENTY-FIVE years ago Harvard Medical School subtracted
my name from General Electric’s list of candidates, and I decided
finally to follow in my father’s footsteps as a country doctor. A
dance orchestra job in company with Scotty Burbank (Harvard
29) on a cruise ship around the Mediterranean took up the
summer of 1927. And then began four years of medical study
which ended with Harvard M.D.’s for thirty-two of our college
class. Internships at the Rhode Island Hospital and at the Boston
Lying-in Hospital from 1931 to 1934 completed a general medical
training for which I have ever since been grateful.

By this time I had two female income-tax deductions but no
income and settled here in Concord to try to balance this
situation. I did, acquiring two male deductions in the process.
World War II found me declared essential at home by the
Medical Procurement and Assignment Board, and with our

[754]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

hospital staff cut in half, work really became heavy. The pressure
is still on. I have three hobbies— golf, amateur radio, and
philately — which seem to fit any mood, season, or condition;
and with each August now spent at Hyannisport, these twenty-
five years have slipped past with me in that timeless state of full
occupation.

+ CHARLES PLATT, JR.

BORN: Dec. 23, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Charles Platt, Sarah Gold-
berg.

PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; LL.B. (Columbia

Univ.), 1930.
piep: March 26, 1934, New York, N. Y.

DURING his undergraduate years at Harvard Charles Platt, Jr.,
was a member of the Freshman Glee Club, the Instrumental Club,
and the Harvard Band. He won a Harvard Scholarship for his
freshman and sophomore years and was elected to the Phi Beta
Kappa Society. After graduation he studied for a term at the
Sorbonne in Paris and then returned to enter Columbia Law
School where he received his LL.B. in 1930. He became associated
with the firm of Miller, Otis & Farr in New York, but was in
practice for himself at the time of his death.

GEOFFREY PLATT

HOME apprEss: Crow Hill Road, Mt. Kisco, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREss: William & Geoffrey Platt, Architects, ror Park Ave., New
York 17, N. Y.

BorN: Aug. 6, 1905, Cornish, N. H. parents: Charles Adams Platt, Eleanor
Hardy.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; B. ARCH. (Columbia Univ.),
1930.

MARRIED: Helen Choate, Dec. 20, 1932, New York, N. ¥. cuicpren: Penelope,
Nov. 14, 1933; Nicholas, March 10, 1936; Geoffrey, Jr. Jan. 13, 194!

HARVARD BROTHER: William Platt, *19.

occupATiON: Architect; partner, William & Geoffrey Platt, Architects.

[755]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned ist lieutenant, June, 1942, in Air
Corps; served with 8th Air Force in England, January, 1943—September,
1945; C.O., 1st Photo Intelligence Detachment, attached to Allied Cen-
tral Interpretation Unit providing photographic intelligence to all forces,
particularly strategic air forces; discharged as major, October, 1945.
Decoration: Order of the British Empire.

OFFICES HELD: Member Executive Committee, New York Chapter, American
Institute of Architects, 1948-51; chairman, City Planning Committee,
1948-49; director, Fine Arts Federation of New York City.

MEMBER OF: Century Association; American Institute of Architects; Archi-
tectural League.

FOR three months now I have been trying to think of what to
say in these paragraphs, and I still don’t know. However...

I finished my architectural education at Columbia in the spring
of 1930 and was lucky enough to win the Schermerhorn Fellow-
ship which allowed me to travel in Europe for the following
year. My practice began in my father’s office in the fall of 1931.
Nineteen thirty-two came, and there was nothing to practise on.
I found myself making dolls’ houses for Macy’s (at a loss) and
cutting out green rubber sponges to simulate hedges. From out
of this misasma of greenery came the news in 1933 that my
brother and I, together with classmate Jack Gates, our associate,
had won the international competition for the replanning of the
central business district of Stockholm.

Things got better from this point on, and my brother William
and I formed a partnership which has continued to this day. We
have built quite a few buildings all over the country, mostly
houses and school buildings. This activity has given a great deal
of pleasure and satisfaction to us and, we hope, to our clients as
well, but the financial rewards have never been consonant with
the p. and s. before mentioned. |

With the coming of World War II our practice dwindled to
the zero point from which it started and we shut up shop; my
brother went to the Navy and I to the Air Corps. I felt I could
do most good as a photographic intelligence officer. The Air
Corps seemed to agree with me, and they kept me at it without
deviation from the beginning to the end. As a matter of fact the
job that I had was intensely interesting and made it just possible
for me to survive three solid years of separation from my wife
and children. I found that the confusions and frustrations of

[756 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

architectural practice prepared me well for the generally sim-
ilar nature of the military life. Conversely, I found on return to
civilian life that I was better equipped to wend my way through
an intensified maze of the same. But how I missed the supply
sergeant with those mounds of costless supplies.

Above are noted the bare facts of my family life: wife, chil-
dren, etc., names and dates, I could write many paragraphs on
this subject, but they would be the maunderings of a fond hus-
band and a proud parent. Descriptions of a happy life make dull
reading. Living it is something else. Politics? Roosevelt, Roose-
velt, Willkie, Dewey, Dewey, and now I want Ike.

DAVID RALPH POKROSS

HOME ADDRESS: 125 Rutledge Rd., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Peabody, Brown, Rowley & Storey, 201 Devonshire St.,
Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 30, 1906, Fall River, Mass. parents: Israel Pokross, Jennie
Lucksniansky.

PREPARED AT: B. M. C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927; LL.B.,
1930.

MARRIED: Muriel Ruth Kohn, June 17, 1936, Boston, Mass. cHILDREN: Joan
Sydney, Aug. 5, 1937; William Rodman, June 13, 1939; David Ralph, Jr.,
Oct. 15, 1945. |

OccuPATION: Lawyer; partner, Peabody, Brown, Rowley & Storey.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active duty, U.S.N.R., lieutenant (j.g.), April
27, 1943; indoctrination school, Fort Schuyler, N. Y.; Harbor Entrance
Control School, Fort Storey, Va.; Fort Wadsworth, Staten Island,
N. Y.; Office of General Counsel, Secretary of Navy, Washington,
D. C.,; assistant counsel to Bureau of Aeronautics and counsel to Bureau
of Aeronautics General Representative at Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio;
inactive duty, December, 1945, lieutenant commander; citation from
Chief of Bureau of Aeronautics.

OFFICES HELD: President, New Century Club of Boston, 1948-49, Jewish
Family and Children’s Service, 1950, Harvard Fund Associate Class
Agent, 1949; director, Massachusetts Society for Mental Hygiene, 1949-
50; trustee, Associated Jewish Philanthropies of Boston, 1950.

MEMBER oF: Belmont Country Club; Harvard Club of Boston.

IN RETROSPECT my years since graduation flow through my
mind in such swift images that it is hard to grasp the fact that
twenty-five years have passed and that I have been practising

[757]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

law in Boston since 1930. Now there is a quick memory of hours
in the library doing research, of tedious leg-work, of minor mo-
tions in the courts, and of my first client who — after his papers
were prepared — reneged on a five-dollar charge. There is the
warm recollection of the thirty-eight-foot sloop that two friends
and I bought in 1932 for three hundred dollars, and the good
fellowship that was always aboard the “Onward.” There is the
glow of the day in 1934 when I first met Muriel, and of our
carefree summer in the Europe of 1936. There is the night in
1937 which I sweated out in a hospital waiting room while Joan
was born. I was a veteran when Bill came in 1939.

The early war years move quickly to a morning in February,
1943. The lieutenant commander who was interviewing me on
my application for a Navy commission was about to dismiss
me with the statement that lawyers were a dime a dozen, when he
learned I had once done some sailing. Then he would not let me
out of his office. I look back with sheer amazement at the
vigorous training in Indoctrination School which catapulted me
into Navy life minus seventeen pounds. Then there was the
gloomy disappointment of two long years at a job which a high
school senior could have done with equal ability but with lots
more enthusiasm. This passes quickly like all the other images
when I recall my appointment as assistant counsel to the Bureau
of Aeronautics and later as counsel to the Bureau’s representative,
Admiral Miles, at Wright Field in Dayton, Ohio. I soon regained
a feeling of usefulness. Then there was that October morning in
1945 when David, Jr, was born. Finally came our return to
Boston in December, 1945. There was not much time for read-_
justment to civilian life. Still in uniform, I visited my law partners
on the first day after my arrival, and they quickly put me to
work. And it has been a long spell of activity since then. During
the past six years I have become more deeply interested in various
communal matters which, while gratifying a desire to serve, take
a heavy toll on time.

But the slowing up process has started. A few grey hairs and
a little weight around the middle have been added. Although my
tennis game is on the wane, I can still get around a golf course
and puff through a game of squash.

[758]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THORNTON BRODHEAD POOLE

HOME ApprEss: N. Taylor Avenue, South Norwalk, Conn.

OFFICE appREss: Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. 1 Madison Ave., New
York, N. Y.

BORN: July 12, 1904, Mount Vernon, N. Y. parents: Franklin Osborn Poole, -
’95, Helen Bigelow Kendall.

PREPARED AT: Mount Vernon High School, Mount Vernon, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

MARRIED: Isabel May Andrews, Nov. 18, 1932, Yorktown Heights, N. Y.

occuPATION: Territorial supervisor, group insurance.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant (j.g.), U.S.N.R.,
Aug. 24, 1942; reported Naval Training School, Princeton, N. J., Oct. 5,
1942; SCTC, Miami, Fla., Dec. 19, 1942; executive officer, USS PC 1225,
Dec. 12, 1943, commanding officer, Aug. 21, 1943; February to Decem-
ber, 1943, operated as escort vessel in Eastern and Caribbean Sea
frontiers; January, 1944, reported to Com Nav Europe, trained for
Normandy invasion as primary control vessel; after June 6, 1944, on
patrol of landing beaches until detached from command, Sept. 5, 1944;
insurance officer, U. S. Naval Hospital, Brooklyn, Oct. 23, 1944, to
Jan. 13, 1945; released to inactive duty, Dec. 23, 1945. Awarded Bronze
Star Medal with combat “V,” American and European Theatre Rib-

bons, and Victory Ribbon.
MEMBER oF: American Legion, Reserve Officers Association.

AFTER a period of unprofitable grasshoppering, I started to
work for the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company in October,
1927, and worked at the office until 1938 with very little break
in routine. In February of that year I was assigned to a service
job which took me into the plants and offices of our larger group
insurance policyholders from Maine to Florida to Texas to Min-
nesota and countless way stations. I travelled continuously until I
entered the Navy.

My naval career was extremely interesting and I was fortu-
nate in obtaining command of my own ship fairly quickly. We
acted as anti-submarine escort for Cuban and South American
convoys during 1943. In 1944 we were sent to England, fortu-
nately via the Azores so we avoided the worst of the cold North
Atlantic. There we were based on the south coast, chiefly in
Dartmouth, South Devon. For four months under training for
the duties of primary control vessel, we led an almost peaceful
life. In fact, because of the hospitality of some English friends,
I enjoyed the luxury of having my breakfast in bed many times.

[759 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF [927

I was privileged to have what amounted to a grandstand seat from
which to watch the initial assault on Omaha Beach. My ship’s
duty was to remain on a given station off the beach and direct
the boat waves in on schedule. After that day my naval activities
descended to the humdrum routine, ending with assignment as
an “insurance” officer at the Brooklyn Naval Hospital.

Since the war I have returned to the “Met” where I now
supervise the administration of several hundred group policies,
with occasional good will tours around the country. My spare
time is given chiefly to sailing on Long Island Sound in the
summer and keeping warm in the winter. I am active in a Volun-
teer Naval Reserve unit as lieutenant commander.

REGINALD PORTER

HOME AppREss: 35 Afterglow Way, Montclair, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Planomatic Corp., 483 Bloomfield Ave., Montclair, N. J.

BORN: May 22, 1905, Medford, Mass. parents: George Jonathan Porter,
Julia Marvin.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1927(28).

marrieD: Eleanor Stearns, 1933, Canterbury, N. H. cxitp: William S., Dec.
31, 1933.

occuPATION: Manufacturing.

ELLIOTT POTTER

HOME ADDRESS: 123 Bronson Terr., Springfield, Mass.

orFice appress: Holyoke Finance Corp., 380 High St. Holyoke, Mass.

BORN: March 22, 1906, Holyoke, Mass. parents: Lewis M. Potolski, Sarah
Nathanson.

PREPARED AT: Holyoke High School, Holyoke, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MarnieD: Jessica Edith Feffer, Dec. 1, 1931, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Herbert Savel, March 25, 1937; James Franklin, May 22, 1942.

occupation: Insurance broker, president, Holyoke Finance Corporation.

Memser oF: Massachusetts Association of Insurance Agents; National Asso-
ciation of Insurance Agents; Springficld Ski Club; Springficld Tennis
Club.

[ 760 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LIFE for me since graduation has been the conventional one of
the conventional college graduate of the conventional bour-
geoisie class. I married the Girl of My Dreams, and in due time
became the father of two sons. My wife and I fortunately have
enjoyed the same interests, and our values for good living have
been identical. We have not had too much trouble, therefore,
educating our boys to see eye to eye with us. Our family of
four, consequently, is a closely knit one. My travelling outside
of this country consisted of a several months’ trip with my wife
through the Mediterranean lands in 1935. This was a truly mem-
orable trip which taught us the reat meaning of ONE WORLD.
We also enjoyed some conventional “touristy” trips to Carib-
bean ports. .

My struggle for existence began in retail merchandising and
has finally evolved into an insurance and personal finance busi-
ness. I find my present work interesting and satisfying. I follow
the religious practices with which I have been brought up, and I
enjoy adhering to the ritualistic traditions of my faith. My extra-
curricular activities are music, skiing, sailing, and tennis (the
last against my wife’s better judgment). Politically I am an
independent voter who attempts to choose the road leading to a
better world. It is my firm belief that if all people would follow
the precept of Hillel— “Do unto others as you would that they
do unto you” —a true brotherhood of mankind could result,
regardless of race, creed, or color.

WILLIAM POTTER

HOME ApprEss: 20 E, 74th St. New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Clay, Potter & Coulter, 308 E. soth St. New York 22, N. Y.

BORN: March 12, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: William Henry Porter, °78,
Mary Louise Allen.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; M. ARCH. 1933.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Howard Norton, Dec. 27, 1932, Cambridge, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Allen Potter, ’17; Roger Potter, °32.

occupation: Architect; general partner in own firm.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned in U. S. Naval Reserve, Februarv,
1942; indoctrination school, Fort Schuyler, N. Y.; first permanent duty

[ 761]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

as officer-in-charge, Navy Radar School, Cruft Laboratory, Harvard;
duty in New York, Subchaser Training Center, Miami, Fla. Fleet
Sound School, Key West, Fla. and Little Creek, Norfolk, Va., for
two years “shaking-down” minesweepers and in charge of Anti-Sub-
marine Unit; returned to inactive duty December, 1945, as lieutenant
commander.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, New York Chapter, American Institute of Archi-
tects, 1947-50; chairman, Finance Committee, Architects Council of
New York City, since 1950.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; Harvard Club of New York;
North American Yacht Racing Union; Norwalk Yacht Club.

pusLications: Standards for Wheelchair Living, published 1947 by New
York Chapter of American Institute of Architects, American Red Cross,
and Paralyzed Veterans Association—~one of six architects who fur-
nished designs.

AFTER graduation I decided to return to Cambridge and the
Architectural School for a four-year course which, however,
was interrupted in the middle by a sojourn in a sanatorium at
Zurich, Switzerland. In 1932 I finished the course, married
Elizabeth Norton in Cambridge, and moved to Philadelphia.
My wife was teaching history of art at Bryn Mawr College and
I was in the office of Paul Philippe Cret. In 1934 we transferred
to New York where we have continued to live except for travel-
ling during the war. For the most part I was in the office of
McKim, Mead & White. After getting out of the Navy I
started my own firm for the general practice of architecture.
Before 1942, for various reasons, I was able to manage two
trips to Europe, a cruise to Central America, and a winter in
Barbados. During the war years the Navy did not send me very
far away. I was on ships for only brief periods, and my duty
was all in the United States. The longest single assignment was
“shaking-down” minesweepers and instructing in anti-submarine
warfare. Since 1946 I have spent all my time getting my own
architectural firm started and now I have two partners who
are “Fli’s.” I have contributed some time to activities of the
American Institute of Architects and the Architects Council of
New York City. Except for a trip to Bermuda, my vacations
have been summers spent sailing and cruising. My wife and I al-
ways head for Maine waters, when we can, in our auxiliary cutter.

[ 762 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

KIMBALL COLBY POWNING

HOME ADDRESS: Concord Road, Wayland, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Koehler Manufacturing Co., Marlboro, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 24, 1903, Worcester, Mass. parents: Henry Glenn Powning,
Mary Gleason Hodgdon.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925.

MarRIED: Carolyn Walker, May 18, 1929, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: May-
nard Walker, Sept. 21, 1931; Dorothy, March 18, 1933; Anne Stoughton,
Aug. 3, 1936.

HARVARD SON: Maynard Walker Powning, ’53.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Glenn Powning, Jr., ’20.

occupation: Treasurer, Koehler Manufacturing Company.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Wayland Junior Town House; member, Wayland
Zoning Board of Appeals.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston, Kittansett Golf Club; Beverly Yacht

Club.

SINCE leaving college, my life has conformed quite character-
istically to the average businessman bringing up a family. I went
to work in one of my father’s businesses “from the bottom up.”
I am now treasurer and do my share of worrying over labor
relations, material procurement, price controls, taxes, and all
the other problems that beset executives in these uncertain days.
We make electric cap lamps for the mining industry throughout
the world, in addition to a line of rechargeable electric hand
lamps and metal stampings.

My chief outside interest is my family, of which I am inordi-
nately proud. Having chosen the ideal partner twenty-two
years ago, I shall now recount the eventualities. First came our
son “Bunt,” now a junior at Harvard, with “Penny” who is
hectically combining her début and freshman year at Briarcliff
Junior College, following eighteen months later. Our last is
Anne who is rapidly approaching that very important age of
sixteen, and whereas for many years we had wished she was a
boy, we are presently doubly pleased we had no choice, as by
now he would be away at school and we are loncly enough,
anyway.

[ 763 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

ELIOT DEMING PRATT

HOME apprEss: New Milford, Conn.
OFFICE aDpRESS: Eldon Products Inc., 177 E. 71st St., New York, N. Y.
BorN: Aug. 25, 1903, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: George DuPont Pratt, Helen
Deming Sherman.
PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: S.B., 1927; S.M. (Cornell Univ.), 1944.
marrieD: Gertrude Emma Wenzel, Dec. 26, 1932, Berlin, Germany (divorced
1943); Gertrude Strohm, Oct. 13, 1946, New York, N. Y. cHILpREN;
Peter Wenzel, Aug. 14, 1933; Vera Christine, Feb. 15, 1935, Roger
Sherman, Nov. 29, 1938.
HARVARD SON: Peter Wenzel Pratt, 55.
HARVARD BROTHER: George DuPont Pratt, Jr., ’21.
OCCUPATION: President, Eldon Products Inc.
OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, National Sharecroppers Fund; board member, God-
dard College, Plainfield, Vt.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

HAVING concentrated in college in what was then called
Social Ethics, it was my intention to work in one or another of
the various agencies for social betterment when I graduated
and returned to New York. This, one might say, I did with a
vengeance for the next fifteen years since 1 worked with a dozen
or so organizations as employee, board member, or officer. The
ones chiefly to be remembered in this group were the Foreign
Language Information Service, working to help integrate the
foreign-born into the life of this country, my year with the
Institute of International Education through which I met my
German-born first wife, my ten years on the board of the Ameri-
can Civil Liberties Union, and my work with the International
Student Service in Geneva in the early thirties, and as the work
camp director of its American branch in the early ’40’s. Yet it
was not until the late *3o’s that certain agricultural spots began
to show up in my character and activities which have gradually
come to envelop both completely. I am working with new
developments and materials primarily related to agriculture and
farming. The Eldon Products Inc, is the corporate entity estab-
lished to develop and promote said materials and products.

This phase started perhaps in 1938 with my great interest in
the possibilities and implications of the Rust cotton picker
machine which is in commercial production only now, thirteen

[ 764 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

years later. So it developed that by 1944 I had a Master’s degree
in agriculture from Cornell University, was divorced, and fail-
ing to become part of the early UNRRA group, I joined the
staff of the National Farmers’ Union as a farm management
specialist. Through this work I came to the conviction that agri-
cultural techniques, new processes and products, and the use of
waste materials were of great importance to the agricultural
and national economy. Together with Jim Patton, president of
the National Farmers’ Union I formed a Colorado corporation,
Agricultural Processing Industries, and became its president and
in charge of new developments and processes. Quite logically the
corporation was sold to the National Farmers’ Union last year
since its main office is in Denver and I have continued to work in
the East on a variety of new products which range from a prom-
ising new approach to cancer treatment to the impregnation of
wood by ultrasonic vibrations although my present activity cen-
ters chiefly around certain biological compounds which are
beginning to prove very effective against such diverse animal
and human ailments as arthritis and anemia.

On weekends and slack periods there seems time for work on
my Connecticut farm where with my present wife, and at times
with my three children, we collaborate in raising good sheep and
better wine.

JOHN LIVERMORE PRESCOTT

HOME aApprEss: Waccabuc, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 199 Main St., White Plains, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 2, 1906, Norwood, Mass. parents: Charles Jones Prescott,
Evelyn Monroe Livermore.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

MmarriED: Marian McAvoy, New York, N. Y. cyitpren: Marianne (Mrs.
Marianne P. Mead); Jane Elizabeth (Mrs. Betty P. Schutz); Mary
Patricia (Mrs. Patsy P. McLaughlin). cranpcuttpren: Marianna Mead;
Jay Prescott Mead; Prescott Dietrich Schutz; Peter Anton Schutz;
Jeffrey Herbert Schutz; Megan Patricia McLaughlin.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Jones Prescott, Jr., ’25.

OCCUPATION: Securities; proprietor, J. L. Prescott Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, American Seal-Kap Corporation.

AS I look back over the past quarter of a century, I wish to
[ 765 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 10927

report that my most absorbing interest has been in raising a
family. In balancing the scales, I find that all of the problems
involved were greatly outweighed by the joys of parenthood.
All of my daughters are now married and to men who meet with
my hearty approval. When my daughters “left home” I thought
that my responsibilities to the coming generation had been
largely fulfilled. However, the grandchildren have been coming
along at a rapid rate and consume much of my attention. At
present I am the proud grandfather of four boys and two girls,
and I am wondering if this can be considered something of a
record for the Class of 1927. In a more serious vein, I find that
the joys of grand-parenthood are greater than I have ever imag-
ined, so the more the better.

We lived in Scarsdale for many years, but after the children
had established their own homes, we sold our house and moved
to Waccabuc, a delightful community in the northernmost part
of Westchester County, New York. Although the suburban life
in Scarsdale was very agreeable to all the family, I now find that
the country life in Waccabuc is even more to my liking. Among
the new interests acquired there, it might be amusing to men-
tion my membership in the Harlem Valley Men’s Garden Club.
Other outside interests continue to include a very amateurish
interest in chess and astronomy, but these have their limitations
as too few of my friends seem to be in the mood to give much
time to either subject. However, I myself have found my hobbies
to be restful in a troubled world.

Since the “good old college days” I have been active in the
securities business. For the last twenty-one years I have operated
my own business which at the present time is located at White
Plains, New York. A chart of the Dow-Jones Industrial Aver-
ages from 1927 to 1952 would reflect a fairly accurate picture of
my personal disposition and my general outlook on life as the
years have rolled by (and how quickly!). I hope that I have
learned one thing during my business career, and that is how little
we know about the future. Recently I received an advertisement
offering a financial prognostication of the next one hundred
years. This promptly landed in my waste paper basket, and I
returned to my concern with the outlook for the following
week.

[ 766 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Regretfully, I cannot report any war record. Uncle Sam
found out upon examination that I could not see enough, could
not hear enough, and as a result of considerable extra pound-
age probably could not run fast enough. However, it has been
a great joy to hear and read of the superb war records of many
men of 1927. ,

A toast to Harvard and the entire Class of 1927.

AARON PRIGOT

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 108-20 67th Rd., Forest Hills, N. Y.

BORN: June 29, 1906, Pratt City, Ala. parenrs: Meyer Isaac Prigot, Anna
Bonfield.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1927(28); M.D., 1933.

marriep: Winifred Forde. cH1Lpren: Forde Huntley, June 7, 1942; Ronald
Bonn, Dec. 5, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active duty from Feb. 10, 1941, to Jan. 4, 1946;
decorations: European Theatre Ribbon with five Battle Stars, Bronze
Star with Oak Leaf Cluster, Unit Citation; now Reserve officer in U. S.
Army Medical Corps, took commission following graduation from
medical school in 1933.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harlem Surgical Society; associate visiting surgeon,
Harlem Hospital, New York, N. Y.; senior clinical assistant visiting
surgeon, Mount Sinai O.P.D.

MEMBER OF: Queens County Medical Society; Harlem Surgical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: About twenty papers dealing with research in fields of trauma,
antibiotics, and cancer research.

FROM college I went to medical school and graduated from
there in 1933. The next four years were spent as an intern and
then as a resident in surgery. In 1938 I entered private practice
and was so engaged when the U. S. Army Medical Corps became
aware of the need for my services. My entire military career
was spent with the famous Third Armored Division. In 1946 1
returned to the practice of surgery and was fortunate to have
the opportunity to do research work. This work has carried me
into the fields of trauma, antibiotics, and cancer.

My family has had a hard time of it, first with the war requir-
ing my absence from home, and secondly my research requiring
long hours of work and writing. We have managed, however, to

[ 767 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

hold together, and I think my wife and our sons are satisfied and

happy.

** ROBERT RAISBECK PROCTOR

BORN: Sept. 14, 1905, Malden, Mass, parents: Charles Marden Proctor, Clara
Maria Shute.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924.

prep: May 12, 1924, Cambridge, Mass.

ROBERT RAISBECK PROCTOR died by accident just before
the completion of his freshman year at Harvard. He prepared
for college at the Boston Latin School. At the time of his death
his home was in Fayville, Massachusetts.

JOHN CLEMENTS PROTHERO

HOME ApprEss: Royal York Apts., Pittsburgh, Pa.

OFFICE apprEss: Cor. Magee Ave. & S. Second St., Jeannette, Pa.

BoRN: Aug. 5, 1905, Indiana, Pa. parents: Harold Ney Prothero, Louise May
Clements.

PREPARED AT: Jeannette High School, Jeannette, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: S.B., 1927; M.D. (Univ. of Pittsburgh),
1931.

marrieD: Anna Barbara Yohn, June 14, 1944, Wilkinsburg, Pa.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

MEMBER OF: Westmoreland County Medical Society; Pennsylvania State
Medical Society; American Medical Association (fellow); University
Club of Pittsburgh; Harvard, Yale, Princeton Club; Harvard Club of
Western Pennsylvania; Syria Temple.

I STUDIED medicine at the University of Pittsburgh from 1927
to 1931, and interned at the Pittsburgh Medical Center. I obtained
my “D.N.B.,” passed the Pennsylvania State “Boards,” and
joined my father in general practice of medicine at Jeannette,
Pennsylvania, in 1932. During 1935 I did course work in internal
medicine at the University of Edinburgh, Scotland, and also
visited the clinics in Vienna. In 1937 I became a partner in the
Arlington Studios of Interior Decoration, Pittsburgh, and took
over the Ford Motor agency in Greensburg. During 1939 I had
a fellowship in physical medicine at Curtis Clinic, Philadelphia.
In 1940, I took up new quarters in my own office building in

[ 768 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Jeannette where I continue to practise. That same year I lost my
ever helpful partner and father, due to a coronary accident.

During World War II, I managed several refresher courses at
New York Postgraduate School and in 1943, returned to Harvard
Medical Graduate School for cardiology.

I took unto me a wife on June 14, 1944. A pretty and noble
creature she is! Answers to the nickname of “Barbs.” We have
been very, very happy together! And I really mean it. We are
both Presbyterians. She does the church-going. We try to take
in one of the annual American Medical Association meetings.
Our summer vacation is a month at Ocean City, New Jersey,
every year.

Politically, we vary. Barbara admires Eisenhower. I continue
to plug for Taft. Otherwise our tastes and pet interests — concert
and theatre — are very similar.

ROBERT LANSING PRUYN

HOME ApprEss: 7 Crest Rd., Rolling Hills, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Johnson & Higgins, 215 W. Fifth St. Los Angeles, Calif.

BORN: Nov. 5, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: Robert Dunbar Pruyn, ’o2,
Betty Metcalf. .

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

marrigD: Wilhelmina Duff Balken, Jan. 28, 1934, Easton, Pa. cHitpREN: Ruth
Bird, Jan. 30, 1935; Alison Duff, May 30, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Aviation insurance; account executive.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II: naval aviator.

MEMBER OF: University Club; Veteran Air Pilots’ Association; Horse-Haters
Society (secretary and treasurer); Portuguese Bend and Skunk Point
Yacht Clubs.

PUBLICATIONS: Various columns and articles for trade papers.

LOOKING back over the past twenty-five (ouch) years I
find, somewhat to my surprise, that I seem to have been the pro-
verbial rolling stone, and as the proverb hath it, I have gathered
damn little moss. But who the Hell wants a bale of moss any-
how? (Chorus of wife and daughters ... WE DO!)

After graduation and an interim of deplorably anti-social activ-
ity in Europe, I set out to fulfill a promise made to my grand-
father — to wit, that I would devote one year to working in the
family bank, and if the treatment was successful I was eventually

[ 769]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

to succeed him as president thereof, Early on the morning of the
day the year was up I flung my resignation on his desk and
stomped out to the airport, where I had been instrumental in
founding a small air service.

We had obtained a distributorship for DeHavilland products
and were selling them merrily when DeHavilland licensed an
American corporation to build aircraft in Lowell, Massachusetts
(a garden spot at that time, if I ever saw one). I was called from
on high to be assistant sales manager and test pilot for the new
company, and for a short time was making more money than I
ever have before or since. Then somebody pulled the plug in
Wall Street and nobody wanted to buy airplanes any more.
We were bought out by Curtiss-Wright and I was offered a job
by them, but it involved going to St. Louis. Never having been
west of the Hudson, I was naturally scared of the Indians and
buffaloes Out West, so I went to Pensacola to sit out the depres-
sion in the Navy.

Unfortunately, I had forgotten to realize that Uricle Sammie
might also be a little short of funds, so instead of careening
around the Pacific at the taxpayers’ expense on a carrier, I found
myself back on the bricks in New York in 1932. I took the
easy way out and became a stock broker.

In 1934 my cousin who was a mining engineer brought in a
proposition to open a mine in Nevada and asked me to manage
the business affairs in San Francisco while he and his partner
burrowed into the ground. My wife allowed we had nothing to
lose so off we went. The partner and I shortly came to the part-
ing of the ways, but by then my wife and I had decided we
liked San Francisco.

I started writing a shipping and trade and aviation column for
the Pacific Coast edition of the Wall Street Journal. It was damn
good, if I say so myself, but one day I decided to see how sharp
the copy desk was, and inserted an item to the effect that the
new ship of one of the Scandinavian lines (one of our big adver-
tisers) featured square portholes so the crew could look out the
window as they came up the harbor. The copy desk missed it
and it was printed.

I then went to work on the San Francisco Stock Exchange
and would probably be there now if some Japs hadn’t got too

L770 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

big for their britches. On December 7, 1941, I was the respectable

eneral partner of a reputable investment firm in San Francisco.
I had told all my friends that the Navy wouldn’t let an old bee-
zark like me fiddle around with their expensive flying machines.
I was wrong.

During the next four years I was flying everything from the
Fq4U fighters to the PB4Y2 patrol jobs and was known to my
co-pilots as “Grandpop.” I wound up the war flying air evacuees
for the Naval Air Transport Service, with the rank of com-
mander.

After the war I found that my old firm had folded as a war
casualty so I went in as a pilot for an airline. I had the night
run from Oakland to Omaha and it was a good job. I didn’t
have to be polite to anybody except God, and above all I did-
n’t have to sell anything. I made the mistake of describing to my
wife how it looked to put the Aldis light on and see ice building
up on the wing over the Rockies. She grounded me.

I took on a variety of jobs, including a stretch on active duty
with the Navy and even to peddling life insurance (we'll draw
a veil over that interlude) and wound up with my present sit-
uation, which is very interesting, keeps me busy twenty-four
hours a day, and pays a salary that would be an insult to a ditch-
digger.

EMILIO PUERTO

HOME ADDRESS: Paseo Montejo 487, Merida, Yucatan, Mexico.

Born: Nov. 16, 1903, Merida, Yucatan, Mexico. parents: Emilio Puerto,
Cecilia Molina.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; A.M., 1928.

OCCUPATION: Music.

RICHARD PUFFER

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 231 Union St., South Weymouth, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 28, 1904, Boston, Mass. Parents: Harold Rockwood Puffer,
Rhoda MacRae.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1927(28).

MARRIED: Ruth Lillian Mooers, Sept. 7, 1929, Chocorua, N. H. cHmLpREN:

[771]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Richard Gardner, Jr. Aug. 21, 1932 (died Aug. 7, 1947); Loring Hunt,
July 31, 1934; Nathaniel Hall, Feb. 3, 1938.
occupation: Building contractor.

LOOKING back over the span of years to 1927, I find that my
life has been singularly uneventful, unrelieved even by participa-
tion directly in the great conflict. I perhaps contributed my small
part, however, as one of the men behind the guns— or in my
case, the ships. Because of this phase of my life, my interest
became increasingly directed towards the manual skills and
gradually crystallized in building construction, to which I now
happily, if not too lucratively, devote my time.

Family responsibilities occupy much of my time, now. If all
goes well my elder boy will enter Harvard this fall; the younger
has a half-formed desire to study forestry — probably at some
college in Maine. Travels have been purely local. Hobbies
include the repair and remodelling of an old colonial house, such
golf and fishing as can occasionally be sneaked in, and helping
the younger boy carry on a stamp collection that I abandoned in
the early 1920's. Politically I am in favor of change — Republican
by conviction. Spiritually I follow, by inclination, in my wife’s
footsteps. We both feel that Christian Science affords us the
greatest solace and mental stimulation.

RICHARD MURRAY PURINTON

HOME ApbRESS: 127th St., R.F-D. 1, Lemont, Ill.

OFFICE AppREsS: American Phenolic Corp., 1830 S. 54th Ave., Chicago 50, Il.

BoRN: Oct. 19, 1905, Lincoln, Ill. parents: Alfred Verner Purinton, Ida
Florence Murray.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln High School, Lincoln, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: A.B. (Lincoln Coll.), 1925; a.B. (Har-
vard Univ.), 1927.

MARRIED: Marion Virginia Rhoads, Sept. 10, 1927, Boston, Mass. CHILD:
Richard Lewis, Sept. 20, 1930.

HARVARD SON: Richard Lewis Purinton, ’52.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alfred Verner Purinton, p.M.p., ’25.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president of electronic components manufacturing firm.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Served as principal engineer in charge of
vacuum tube development with the electronic division of the Bureau
of Ships, Navy Department, World War II; stationed at Washington
with sub-headquarters at Radiation Laboratory, M.LT., civilian status;
received Distinguished Civilian Service Award.

[772 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Consultant to Fournier Institute of Technology, Lemont, IIl.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers; American Radio Relay League.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional contributor to QST, the publication of the Amer-
ican Radio Relay League.

THE pages torn from the calendar say that twenty-five years
have passed since graduation but there must be some evidence to
the contrary. True, I’m twenty pounds heavier, my remaining
hair is gray, I’m half an inch shorter and I have a son in the Class
of ’52. Perhaps the solar system isn’t running any faster than it
did in 1927. More than likely one look at faces and figures at the
Reunion will prove that those twenty-five years are gone.

Back in 1925, Professor Pierce counseled a career in the outer
orbit of the field of physics, He knew I couldn’t be a physicist
and correctly predicted my inability to design anything as an
engineer. And so, following his sound advice, I’ve spent these
years since graduation making my way on the coat tails of good
physicists and engineers. I’m sure that is what Professor Pierce
intended for me.

After graduation I worked with Browning and Drake, two
good Harvard men, at the business of making radio receivers.
After a year and a half I moved from Central to Kendall Square
to begin a thirteen-year tenure with the Raytheon Manufac-
turing Company. One more stop on the subway, and I might be
working in Boston to this day. The Raytheon years took me
through foremanship in their Newton tube plant, then sales
engineering for the firm in New York for a six-year period and
out in March of 1942, to serve with the Navy Department for
the duration of the war.

The Navy assignment gave me more opportunity to work in
the field of physics than I could have dreamed about in 1925. As
principal engineer in charge of electron tube development, I had
the great pleasure of working with the country’s leading elec-
tron physicists at Harvard, M.I.T., and in the plants of the tube
manufacturers. We planned and placed in manufacture the long
series of new tubes required for radar, countermeasures and
communication.

At the end of the war I joined the American Phenolic Cor-
poration at Chicago. Better known by its trade mark “Am-
phenol,” our company manufactures electrical connectors, radio

[773]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

frequency cable and connectors and other components for the
aircraft and electronic industries. Most aircraft wiring is inter-
connected by Amphenol AN connectors, and other products
such as tube sockets are used in both military and commercial
electronic equipment. As a vice-president I have the adminis-
trative responsibility for our engineering and for the develop-
ment of new products for future manufacture.

Amateur radio has provided a continuing hobby through the
years since college. Almost every Sunday morning it permits
an hour-long chat with Carl Scheffy of the Class of °28 and
Cheever Ely of our Class. My present call is Wo9SZ. Often the
communication with Ely at Dayton, Ohio, is relayed through
Scheffy at Canton, Massachusetts. Dayton is too near Chicago
for the frequency used.

We live in an academic atmosphere on the campus of the
Fournier Institute of Technology near Lemont, Illinois, and
about twenty-five miles southwest of Chicago. Prior to the
move to Chicago area we lived in Lexington, Massachusetts, and
in Scarsdale, New York. During the war, our home was in
Arlington, Virginia.

The year ’52 will be one to be remembered in my family. In
addition to the Twenty-fifth Reunion it includes our twenty-
fifth wedding anniversary and the graduation of our son’s class at
Harvard.

EUGENE MATTHEW PURVER

HOME apprEss: 1718 N. Vista, Hollywood 46, Calif.

OFFICE appREss: 6121 Sunset Blvd., Hollywood, Calif.

BORN: July 27, 1906, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: George Moses Purver, Sonia
Salkin.

PREPARED AT: MacKenzie Preparatory School, Dobbs Ferry, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: S.B., 1927(28); M.sc. (Univ. of Berlin),
1932; LL.B., 1935.

marrigD: Edith Gross, Aug. 21, 1931, New York, N. Y. cuitp: Jonathan,
July 25, 1939.

occupation: Labor relations consultant, Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc.
— western operations.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT PosTS: Senior attorney with National Labor Relations
Board.

[774]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER studying abroad for some time, I returned to this coun-
try, where I was associated with a law firm in New York City.
In 1934 I was invited to join the National Recovery Administra-
tion in Washington, where I acted as economic adviser until 1935,
when I became counsel for Prison Industries Reorganization
Administration, a federal agency concerned with prison labor.
Late in 1940 I left the P.R.LA. and joined the legal staff of the
National Labor Relations Board. I remained with the Board for
approximately ten years, being stationed variously at Wash-
ington, New York, Atlanta, St. Louis, and throughout the Far
West, specifically Los Angeles. I transferred back to New York
early in 1951. In August of 1951 I left the Board to work with
Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc., in its western operations out
at Los Angeles, where I presently am.

HENRY WARE PUTNAM

BORN: Feb. 2, 1906, Paris, France. PARENTS: Eliot Thwing Putmam, ’o1, Mar-
guerita Sumner.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925.
marrige: Kate Davis Pulitzer, Aug. 30, 1941, Bar Harbor, Maine. CHILDREN:
two daughters.
piep: May 25, 1945, over Tokyo, Japan.
AFTER his sophomore year Henry Ware Putnam went out West
and worked on roadbuilding in Arizona and ranching in Wy-
oming; at the same time he was studying flying through a
correspondence course, which later gave him his private license.
Upon his return he engaged in various businesses — real estate,
investments, and for several years, he took cruises with Raymond
& Whitcomb and travelled to many parts of the world. Later
he studied architecture at M.LT. and was thereafter employed
by Perry, Shaw & Hepburn until he enlisted in the National
Guard in 1940.

He was commissioned in July and became a member of the
U. S. Army in November. After the outbreak of the war he was
an aerial observer for the anti-submarine patrol off the Atlantic
coast. For performance of these duties he received the Air
Medal, was promoted to captain, and later received a cluster to
the Air Medal. His main ambition was to be a combat pilot but

[775]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

being over-age for flying school, he bought a private plane and
accumulated enough hours to qualify as a service pilot in June,
1943. He continued to add up more flying time, in army planes,
until he had enough hours and experience to apply for combat
rating. He finally secured a waiver on his age and was sent to
Kansas for B-24 training and to Texas for B-29 training. In
February, 1945, he took off as commander of a B-29, with his
own plane and crew. Just three months later he made his last
mission, a night incendiary raid over Tokyo. He was flying a
pathfinder plane and as the pilot he was responsible for the success
of the entire raid. It was a great expression of confidence in his
ability as a leader that he had been selected for this assignment.
He was survived by his wife and two daughters.

JOHN HARRISON QUAYLE, JR.

HOME AppRESS: Cedarwood Road, North Stamford, Conn.

OFFICE appRESS: Oliver & Quayle, 115 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Nov. 3, 1906, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: John Harrison Quayle,
Grace Edith Dayton.

PREPARED AT: University School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927.

marriepD: Mary Elizabeth Waddell, March 23, 1935, New York, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Mary Elizabeth, May 5, 1937; Tracy Dayton, June 8, 1943;
Johnny, Dec. 6, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Investment counsel, partner, Oliver & Quayle.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman Scholarship Committee, Harvard Club of Cleveland,

1939-41.
MEMBER OF: Troop A, Cavalry Veterans’ Association; Harvard Club of
New Canaan.

THE first five years out of college were easy, too easy. Two of
them were spent selling bank advertising in various eastern cities
— work that turned out to be pleasant and lucrative. But the
blandishments of a junior executive bank job with promise and
permanence in my home city returned me to Cleveland. There
the wisdom of the age after work hours was dispersed in night
classes of law and investments, as well as speakeasy night clubs,
and I attended both mediums. We had a cavalry troop in
Cleveland and I spent summer vacations at Camp Perry.

The bank closing of 1933 arrived just before my completion
of the apprenticeship in the various departments which, there-

[776]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tofore, had always led to a bank title, the first concrete evidence
of a promising career. With the promise and the career gone,
I probably acquired more useful knowledge in my next two
years as a deputy liquidator of the bank than I had in the previous
five. At any rate, with my future behind me and no prospects
remaining, romance blossomed and our honeymoon in Bermuda,
although only a week at the time, seemed like a trip around the
world.

With the freshened view of a benedict, I started another
apprenticeship, this time in the New York office of Fenner &
Beane, brokers. After an instructive five months and a pleasant
interlude, we returned to Cleveland in the spring of 1936 and, I
hoped once again, to more promise and permanence.

A year later our first-born, Betsy, arrived. We had her, we
had a maid ($5.00 a week), steak (38¢ a Ib.), and lamb chops
(34¢ lb.). Those were the times of badminton on winter evenings
and beach picnics at my family’s farm on Lake Ene in the
summer. The space being large, we had an occasional Harvard
Club picnic out there. And at this time I renewed contact with
the College as chairman of the Club Scholarship Committee.

Investment men being one degree lower in essentiahty than
artificial flower sellers, or vice versa, the start of the war found
me immersed in the effort to expand the production of magnesium
through a subsidiary of Anaconda Copper Company. The group
of six individuals, for whom I was office boy coérdinator at the
start, grew within a short space of a year and a half to a group
of 16,000 individuals, literally. Same job but dignified with a ttle
of assistant secretary.

Moving east to New York to the site of direction, won the toss
over moving west to Boulder Dam to the site of production. All
this confusion did not preclude the arrival of Tracy, our second
daughter, born in June, 1943.

At the end of the war I returned to investment counsel work,
forming a partnership here in New York, with Seabury Oliver
of the Class of ’28, Business School, 30. Wherever scratch is we
started from, and we have had much pleasure working together
for seven years, with our business growing each year,

Liking the neighborhood greatly, Mary and I bought a house
down the road from where we rented during the war years.

[777]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Johnny, our first son and last child, we believe, was born in
December, 1947. The Harvard Club of New Canaan, three miles
away, to which I belong, has 140 members.

On the premise that we can’t look as ancient as those members
of 1902 did on Class Day of 1927, I am looking forward to
Reunion and to bringing Mary and Betsy with me.

MARKUS RABINOWICZ

HOME ADDRESS: 370 Riverside Drive, New York 25, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Supreme Court, New York County, 60 Centre St., New
York, N. Y. .

BORN: July 29, 1906, Krakow, Poland. parents: Jacob Rabinowicz, Rachel
Kawenoki.

PREPARED AT: Sophiengymnasium, Vienna I, Austria.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1927; LL.B. (Columbia
Univ.), 1930.

MARRIED: Jeanette Wally Kosse, Feb. 12, 1949, Berlin, Germany.

occupation: Attaché, Supreme Court of the State of New York, New York
County.

MILITARY oF NAVAL RECORD: Inducted Army of U. S., April, 1942; promoted
warrant officer January, 1943; overseas in E.T.O. January, 1945; dis-
charged Berlin, April, 1948.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chief translator, German Subsection, Liaison &
Protocol Branch, U. S. Military Government, Berlin, April, 1948, to
April, 1949.

I WAS engaged in the practice of law during the depression years

in the 1930's, then worked as a social investigator for the Depart-

ment of Welfare, City of New York, from 1938 to 1940. In 1940

I was appointed to a civil service position in the Supreme Court,

New York County. A year after my induction into the Army,

I was assigned to Turner Army Air Field, Albany, Georgia,

where I took part in the training of French aviation cadets.

From November, 1944, to August, 1945, I was attached to the

U. S. Strategic Bombing Survey, studying the effect of Ameri-

can and British bombing on Cologne, Krefeld, Hamburg, and

Diisseldorf, Germany. From September, 1945, to April, 1949, I

was assigned to U. S. Military Government, Berlin, with the

exception of the period from October, 1945, to March, 1946,

when I was a student at the Sorbonne, Paris, under the Army

Educational Program.

[778]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My stay in Berlin, the quadripartite city, was extremely inter-
esting. I frequently ventured forth into the Russian-occupied
sector of that city and twice even went to Leipzig in the Russian
Zone, to inspect the once famous Leipzig Commercial Fair.
During the period 1945 to 1949 I also visited Great Britain,
France, Belgium, Austria, Switzerland, and Italy. I lived through
the Berlin blockade. My chief hobby is the study and practice
of foreign languages. Iam now quite fluent in French, German,
and Spanish, and have a fair knowledge of Italian and a smatter-
ing acquaintance with Russian.

HYMEN RACOFF

HOME appress: 4 Ronald St., Dorchester, Mass.

BoRN: March 18, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Barnett Racoff, Bessie Fish-
man.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925.

DONALD ANDERSON RANKIN

HOME ADDRESS: 9 Meda PI, White Plains, N. Y.

OFFICE ApprEss: Barrett Division, Allied Chemical & Dye Corp., 1 River Rd.,
Edgewater, N. J.

BORN: Feb. 2, 1906, Fitchburg, Mass. parents: Albert Rankin, Sarah Ander-
son.

PREPARED AT: Waltham High School, Waltham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

MaRRIED: Helen Louise Wilbur, July 29, 1930, Waltham, Mass. cHILDREN:
Donald Anderson, Jr. Sept. 9, 1931; Deborah Ellen, Oct. 13, 1934.
occupation: Research director, Barrett Division, Allied Chemical & Dye

Corporation.
MEMBER oF: American Chemical Society; Alpha Chi Sigma.
PuBLications: U. S. and foreign patents in coated textile field.

GEORGE JONATHAN RAVIT

HOME apprEss: 139 Killington Ave., Rutland, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 126 Merchants Row, Rutland, Vt.

BorN: Feb, 12, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: David Ravit, Eva Ehrenberg.
PREPARED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

[779]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; M.D. (Jefferson Medical
Coll.), 1931.

MARRIED: Clarice Vera Mintzer, July 3, 1938, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Elizabeth Anne, May 14, 1939; Samuel Elliot, Jan. 12, 1947.

occupPaTIoN: Physician; private practice of medicine.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, MC, U.S.N.R., July,
1942; assigned to U. S. Naval Medical Center; received certificate in
epidemiology, April, 1943; medical officer, various epidemiological units
in continental U. S., May, 1943-June, 1944; assigned to duty in Pacific
Ocean Area, June, 1944; served on staff, Commander Service Forces
Pacific Fleet until November, 1945; promoted lieutenant commander,
July, 1945; returned to inactive duty, Feb. 12, 1946. Received American
Theatre Ribbon, Pacific Area Ribbon, Victory Ribbon; awarded unit
commendation from Commander, Marshall-Gilbert Area.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Rutland County Medical Society, 1948-52;
chief of medical service, Rutland Hospital, 1949-51; medical adviser,
Rutland County Selective Service Board, 1948-52; member Scientific
and Professional Committee, Vermont Chapter, Rheumatism and Arthri-
tis Foundation; member Board of Directors, Community Child Care,
Rutland, 1948-50; visiting physician, Vermont Sanatorium, Pittsford, Vt,
1952; president, Rutland Jewish Center, 1951-52; trustee, Rutland Lodge,
B'nai B'rith, 1948-51.

MEMBER OF: Vermont State Medical Society; Massachusetts Medical Society;
American Medical Association; Rutland Lodge #79, F. & A. M.; Rut-
land Lodge of Elks.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles to medical journals.

AT THIS late date I am confronted with two reports. The
Collector of Internal Revenue has not the patience and perse-
verance of our Class Report chairman, neither does he believe
that repeated requests for a reply are necessary. At the moment
my wife has intervened, and now the result is shaping up.

After several years of work and study in several medical insti-
tutions and hospitals in Boston, I made a double jump: the private
practice of medicine and marriage. All resistance to these were at
last gone. Now, in retrospect, I know that these moves have
paid off, Practice in a smaller community was much different
from that in a medical center, but the compensations are many,
and a good job can be done, I feel more satisfied after having
spoken to some of our classmates who remained in the larger
cities. Internal medicine is the field to which I devote most of
my professional efforts. Our work in this small community com-
pares favorably with the centers where I had studied,

One compensation of practice in a smaller community is the

[ 780 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

extra time one has for one’s family. I have been fortunate in that
respect. Our family is of average size, maybe not as large as we
would have desired. We feel all too often, however, that ten
rooms are not enough. My wife has had a busy fourteen years.
As if being married to a physician were not enough, she had
wartime duty in Washington and Norfolk, and travelled to other
distant points before becoming a war casualty herself. With it
all she has been a busy girl with Ladies’ Hospital Aid, Visiting
Nurses Association, Girl Scouts, Parent Teachers Association,
and an ever increasing list of other organizations. She’s dusting
off the old ’cello for orchestral work. Our daughter Betsy is
another busy girl, emulating her mother with all her activities.
She has enthusiasm, and a keen desire to participate in numerous
activities. She too is looking forward to being present at the
Reunion. The boy, Sam, is only five, but what he lacks in years
he more than makes up in size. At present he bids fair to being
the answer to some football coach’s prayer. That is a matter for
the future, however.

I have done most of the travelling for this family in a manner
I had never dreamed of. I have seen a good part of this country
and endless stretches of the Pacific Ocean. Of all the places I
have visited Hawaii is the only place that intrigues me, not the
wahines. We hope to see those islands again under different cir-
cumstances. I’m still interested in photography. The acquisition
of a larger home, however, with more grounds than are good
for comfort has fostered horticulture. [’'m in hopes of raising
some prize mums. Any spare time is taken up with meetings of
all types. At this writing I am a candidate for school commis-
sioner, at the pressure of friends. After fourteen years I have
managed to resist my wife’s attempts to take up bridge in an
earnest way. Maybe one day I shall.

When a freshman, J attempted to write a formula for world
peace. The grade on that theme was no better than the state of
world politics today. I wish to think that peace is possible, but
I have lost any optimism that our system can work in harmony
with Uncle Joe. I feel, however, that all efforts at preventing a
holocaust must be continued on a greater scale. Now with a
growing family that desire increases each day. Well here we
are, twenty-five years Jater. It reads as though it were just a

[ 781 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

short time. As a result we don’t think we’re getting older, but
all evidence points to just that in an increasing manner. Just as
long as our spirit continues in the old vein, and faith in the next
twenty-five years perseveres, we have nothing to fear. There
is a future generation in whom we can put our trust and hopes.
What more dare we ask?

HERBERT NOEL RAWLINS, JR.

HOME ApDpREss: 116 E, 81st St. New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ApprEss: Bellows & Co., 67 E. 52nd St., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Dec. 11, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: Herbert Noel Rawlins,
Natalie Hatch.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

MaRRIED: Doris Terhune, Sept. 22, 1937, New York, N. Y. cHILpren: - Peter
Ten Broeck, Dec. 3, 1944; Richard Herbert, Oct. 75 1946.

occupation: Mercantile business.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Second lieutenant, Field Artillery, 1927; enlisted
U.S. Navy, Dec. 31, 19413 commissioned lieutenant, Feb. 9, 1942; re-
leased to inactive reserve as lieutenant commander, Sept. 22, 1945.

MEMBER OF: Military Order of Foreign Wars.

I AM associated with Bellows & Company, importers and dealers
in fine wines, brandies, whiskies, and other spirits.

As a result of the fine coaching of Harry Cowles of Harvard,
I was able later on to win the National Squash Racquets Cham-
pionship in 1928 and 1930, and the National Racquets Doubles
Championship in 1933, with W. Palmer Dixon, Class of ’25. I
enter this as I feel that so much of the success of the Harvard
Squash Racquets players in my time was due to his efforts.

NEIL ELDRIDGE RAWLINSON

HOME aApprEss: 1907 El Rey Drive, Whittier, Calif.

orFice Appress; Civil Intelligence Section, GHQ, SCAP, APO #500, c/o
Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif.

BorN: March 15, 1907, Darwen, England. parents: John Charles Rawlinson
Emma Butterfield.

PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1023-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; A.Mu, 1939.

occupation: Political analyst.

?

[ 782 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES GOODRICH RAYMOND

HOME AND OFFICE Appress: Ladera Ranch, Ojai, Calif.

BoRN: July 30, 1904, Akron, Ohio. parents: Charles Beebe Raymond, Mary
Folger Perkins.

PREPARED AT: Cate School, Santa Barbara, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.B-A., 1930.

MARRIED: Valerie Earle, Aug. 30, 1935, Westport, N. Y. cuupren: Charles
Goodrich, Jr., Aug. 30, 1939; Valerie Perkins, April 23, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Orange rancher.

OFFICES HELD: President, Rotary Club, 1950; chairman, Red Cross, 1951; presi-
dent, Children’s Hospital, Akron, Ohio, 1934-35; ration board, 1941-44.

MEMBER OF: Valley Club, Santa Barbara; Harvard Club of Southern Califor-

_ nia; Rotary Club, Ojai; Ojai Valley Club.

I WORKED ten years for the B, F. Goodrich Company and
came west in 1940 to run an orange ranch which I have owned
for years. After the war my wife and I rediscovered Honolulu
and we have been there twice a year since. If we do not get rain
in California soon we shall go there to live and ranch.

WALTER PAYNE RAYNER

HOME aAppreEss: 71 Don Ave., Rumford 16, R. I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Blackstone Valley Gas & Electric Co. 55 High St. Paw-
tucker, R. I,

BoRN: Nov. 6, 1903, Newton Center, Mass. parents: Arthur Warren Rayner,
Martha Elizabeth Payne.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.; ; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

MarRieD: Carolyn P. Butts, Sept. 21, 1929, Newton Center, Mass. CHILD:
Anne, July 30, 1932.

occuPaTION: Industrial engineer — work with industrial plants on problems
involving the use of electric power.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Woonsocket Public Health Nursing Association,
1947-49; chairman, Red Cross Fund Raising Campaign, Woonsocket,
1948; New England Lighting Engineers Club, 1948-49.

MEMBER OF: IIluminating Engineering Society; Power Engineers Associa-
tion; Harvard Club of Rhode Island.

AFTER fourteen years in Boston with Stone & Webster, I was
transferred in 1940 to Woonsocket, Rhode Island. We sold our
home in Newton and moved to that un-lovely textile manufac-
turing city where I became an industrial engineer for the

[ 783 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Blackstone Valley Gas & Electric Company. Our nine years in
Woonsocket were uneventful except for not being able to stay
put in any one house. We made the mistake of renting in a Critical
housing area and were put out by relatives of our various
landlords on three occasions. Arriving in Woonsocket as complete
strangers was not easy, but we soon made many good friends
and eventually became active in local affairs. Both my wife
and I became interested in Red Cross and Public Health Nurs-
ing work and gave a great deal of time to both organizations.

The nearest I came to military service was the local Civilian
Defense in which I acted as codrdinator between the Civilian
Defense and the Electric and Gas plants. Because of the large
number of local plants engaged in war work, I was also kept
busy assisting these plants in their continually increasing use of
electric power. In 1946 we sent Anne to Northfield School for
Girls where she spent four very happy years. She is now a
sophomore at Skidmore College.

In the fall of 1949 the company moved me to the Pawtucket
office. We bought our own home in nearby Rumford and have
had a lot of fun fixing it up to suit ourselves and developing a
backyard garden. At present I am active in Junior Achievement
work, which involves the training of teen-agers in business. It
is most interesting. I have no particular hobbies except a garden
in the summer, a worse than average game of golf, and when
possible, two or three weeks of loafing on Cape Cod.

GERARD DENIS REILLY

HOME ADDRESS: 3515 Lowell St., Washington, D. C.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1120 Tower Bldg., Washington, D. C.

BORN: Sept. 27, 1906, Boston, Mass, PARENTs: Thomas Francis Reilly, Anne
Catherine O'Reilly.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; LL.B. cum laude,
1933.

Marriep: Eleanor Fahey, July 14, 1939, New York, N. Y. cuttoren: Denis,
Aug. 20, 1940; John Fahey, Nov. 28, 1942; Pegeen, Dec. 28, 1944.

occupation: Lawyer; partner in firm of Reilly, Rhetts & Ruckelshaus.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member and acting chairman, National Labor
Relations Board, 1941-46.

OFFICES HELD: Solicitor, U.S. Department of Labor, 1937-41; counsel, Senate

[ 784 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Committee on Labor and Public Welfare (80th Congress), 1947; mem-
ber U. S. Board of Legal Examiners, 1941-43; member Advisory Com-
mittee on Legal Personnel, Civil Service Commission, since 1943; chair-
man, Industrial Relations Committee, member Administrative Law
Council, District of Columbia Bar Association; chairman, Committee
on Federal Labor Legislation, American Bar Association, 1949-50; lec-
turer, constitutional law, Catholic University, 1946-47.

MEMBER OF: Cosmos Club; Harvard Club of Washington, D. C.; St. Albans
Tennis Club; American, Boston, and District of Columbia Bar Associa-
tions; Ingleside Country Club of Staunton, Va.; Beach Club, Swamp-
scott, Mass.

PuBLicATIONS: Weekly column on developments in law, Washington Star,
1946-49; occasional contributor to various law reviews, Harvard Business
Review, and McGraw-Hill publications. .

MOST of my life has been spent in law and politics, and I have
found that Daniel Webster’s gloomy observation on the continu-
ing uncertainty of the first and the vanity of the second have
been well borne out by my own experiences. My first three
years out of college were spent in newspaper work, first with the
Pawtucket Times, then with the Providence Journal, the Boston
Traveler, and the Massachusetts State House News Service. My
principal assignment during most of this period was to cover the
legislatures in Rhode Island and Massachusetts, and the campaigns
which preceded the 1928 and 1930 elections. Covering Al Smith’s
colorful bid for the presidency was a particularly fascinating
experience for a young reporter. During the course of it I
became acquainted with many of the leading political figures of
that era as well as with a number of those who later became fam-
ous in the administration of Franklin D. Roosevelt. In 1930 I
returned to Cambridge to enter the Law School and after grad-
uation in 1933 began practice with the firm of Goodwin, Procter
& Hoar of Boston. The following year I went to Washington to
join the staff of the Home Loan Bank Board as a tax analyst, and
transferred a few months later to the Department of Labor as
one of the assistants to the Solicitor, our classmate Charles
Wyzanski, who— although only five years at the Bar —had
already established himself as a brilliant lawyer. One novel
task assigned me in this office was legislative drafting. I was
appointed to an interdepartmental committee on which there
were representatives of the Departments of State and Justice as
well as the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which was

[ 785 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927 ©

then in the Labor Department, engaged in codifying the nation-
ality laws. This was a long-range project, and it was not until
1940 that we were able to get a bill through both Houses of
Congress. In the meantime I had been detailed as counsel to the
Senate Labor Committee, then under the chairmanship of Sen-
ator Walsh, and in that capacity participated in the 74th Con-
gress in the drafting of the revised Bacon-Davis Act, Walsh-
Healey Act, the first Bituminous Act, and some amendments to
the Federal Workmen’s Compensation laws. At the next Con-
gress I was asked by the new chairman, Senator Black, to assist
in the formulation of the Fair Labor Standards Act which passed
in 1938. Since then I have usually been consulted by committee
chairmen whenever labor legislation has been in prospect. |
In the summer of 1937 the President sent my name to the Sen-
ate for confirmation as solicitor of the Department of Labor,
and I held this office until October of 1941. One of the most
satisfying aspects of this office was the almost daily contact with
my chief, Miss Frances Perkins, one of the most enlightened
members of the Roosevelt cabinet. Contrary to the impression
which prevails in some quarters, Miss Perkins was neither a rad-
ical nor an impractical theorist. She was not only a good admin-
istrator, but had a sound understanding of the need for confin-
ing the ambitions of labor organizations within the framework
of a capitalist economy. By 1941 the Labor Relations Board was
under heavy fire in Congress and had lost the confidence of the
business community and the more conservative American Fed-
eration of Labor unions. A vacancy occurred on the Board at
that time, and I was appointed by the President to fill it. My
experiences in trying to make the Wagner Act work during the
next five years were frustrating. While my two colleagues were
fair-minded, many of the most influential staff members were
radicals constantly seeking to push the Board into extreme posi-
tions and to ignore testimony offered by employers in litigated
cases. The problems were accentuated by the ability of the left
wing labor unions to use the manpower shortage in wartime to
build up enormous financial and political power and to scare the
War Labor Board into extending compulsory unionism to all
industry.
My final year with the Board (1945-46) was made consider-

[ 786 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ably more pleasant by the appointment of my classmate, Paul
Herzog, as chairman, When my term was ending, I asked Pres-
ident Truman not to reappoint me and went into private prac-
tice in Washington, forming a new firm with two of my con-
temporaries. In the fall of 1946 the Administration lost control
of Congress. Senator Ball, who had agreed with many of the
dissenting opinions I had written as a member of the Labor
Board, asked me to assist him in the drafting of a comprehensive
revision of our federal labor laws. The following spring I took
a leave of absence from my office for about four months to serve
as counsel for the Senate Committee on Labor. I took the posi-
tion with some misgiving as I was then not acquainted with Sen-
ator Taft, the new chairman. I found him, however, to be one
of the most able legislators ] had ever met, with a remarkable
grasp of public issues and encyclopedic knowledge of the gov-
ernmental structure. I remained with his committee through the
various legislative stages of the Taft-Hartley bill, including its
final enactment into law over the President’s veto. While this
legislation has been the subject of violent attack, its retention is
necessary, in my opinion, for the preservation of the free enter-
prise system; for the loss of freedom and economic opportunity
in Great Britain has clearly demonstrated the folly of permit-
ting labor monopoly to flourish unchecked.

During the first year or two back in private practice I taught
constitutional law three days each week at Catholic University
Law School and also contributed a weekly column to the Wash-
ington Star on developments in the law. Unfortunately, I have
had to give up these learned activities, as the business of our firm
and the necessity of trying to understand the administrative
maze of our never placid Washington scene have absorbed most
of my energy. For relaxation I still play occasional tennis and
in summers at Swampscott do some sailing off the North Shore.

* HARRY SPENCER LINDLEY RENO, JR.

BoRN: March 10, 1905, Chicago, Ill. parents: Harry Lindley Reno, Margaret
. Agnes Smith.

PREPARED AT: Loyola Academy, Chicago, Ill; Phillips Exeter Academy, Ex-
eter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927(28).

[ 787 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MarrigeD: Ruth C. Ernst, Dec. 3, 1927, Ipswich, Mass. cuitp: Joan, May 15,
1929.
piep: Nov. 2, 1934, Shaker Heights, Cleveland, Ohio.

HARRY SPENCER LINDLEY RENO, JR., went into the
advertising business after graduation, first in Chicago, and from
1930, in Cleveland.

+ PALMER CHAMBERLAINE RICKETTS RENSHAW

BorN: Dec. 25, 1903, Noroton, Conn, parents: Alfred Howard Renshaw,
Lucy Braxton Hopkins.

PREPARED AT: Gilman School, Baltimore, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926. DEGREE: B.ARCH. (Columbia Univ.), 1929.

marrige: Larch Campbell, May 31, 1929, New York, N. Y.

DIED: Jan. 19, 1931, New York, N. Y.

PALMER CHAMBERLAINE RICKETTS RENSHAW was a
member of the Wrestling Squad during his freshman year. He
left college at the end of his junior year and entered the Colum-
bia School of Architecture from which he received the degree

of B.Arch. in 1929. He practised architecture in New York © City
until his death in 1931.

ARTHUR WARREN REYNOLDS, JR.

HOME appress: Main Street, Orleans, Mass.

OFFIcE ADDRESS: High School, Orleans, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 18, 1906, Derry Village, N. H. parents: Arthur Warren Rey-
nolds, ’98, Alice Gertrude Hutchings.

PREPARED AT: Pinkerton Academy, Derry, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; ED.M. (Boston Univ.), 1947.

mareiep: Winifred Blackmer, Aug. g, 1938, Sudbury, Mass. caitpReEN: Martha
Blackmer, May 28, 1939; Ann Hutchings and Frederick Warren (twins),
June 22, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Hutchings Reynolds, ’29; Charles Ansel Rey-
nolds, 733.

occupation: Principal, Orleans High School.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U, S. Army Air Force, 1942-45.

MEMBER OF: Universal Lodge, AF. & A.M.

[ 788 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROGER WALLACE REYNOLDS

HOME ADDRESS: Edificio Vizcaya, Calle Junin, El Rosal, Caracas, Venezuela,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Creole Petroleum Corp., Apartado 889, Caracas, Venezuela.

BoRN: May 2, 1905, Salt Lake City, Utah. parents: Frederick William Rey-
nolds, oo, Mabel Catherine Wallace.

PREPARED AT: East High School, Salt Lake City, Utah.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926, DEGREES: A.B., 1926(27); M.B.A., 1928.

marrigD: Mary Helen Boyd, July 28, 1930, Milwaukee, Wis. (divorced 1945);
Mary Winnifred Ryan, Oct. 11, 1945, Tebran, Iran. cumpren: Roger
Wallace, Jr.. July 7, 1931; John Frederick, Sept. 16, 1936, Wallace
Blythyn, Sept. 29, 1947; William Timothy, Jan. 18, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederick William Reynolds, Jr., A.M., ’35.

occuPaTION: Industrial relations supervisor, Creole Petroleum Corporation.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Executive officer, Rent Department, Office of
Price Administration; member, American Financial Mission to Iran
(director of personnel, Ministry of Finance, Government of Iran).

MEMBER OF: Caracas Sports Club.

I DOUBT if this report will tell all about my “social, political,
or religious convictions” or whether it will even “reflect myself
and my points of view.” I shall try, however, to recount the
highlights of the last twenty-five years. After graduation |
devoted two years to securing an additional degree from Har-
vard, an M.B.A. from the Graduate School of Business Admin-
istration. Shortly thereafter I went to work for an investment
counsel firm in Milwaukee. In 1930 I left this firm, feeling that
its clients could no longer afford its services, and on the same
day I got married. I returned to Salt Lake City, my home town,
where I worked briefly for a bank and later as assistant secre-
tary of the Salt Lake City Chamber of Commerce. My first son
was born there in 1931.

In 1934 I decided to specialize in the field of personnel admin-
istration. With this in mind J entered the Graduate School of
the University of California at Berkeley and took such courses
in this field as were available. This study led to my becoming
the assistant personnel officer of the Farm Credit Administration
of Berkeley. My second son was born in Oakland, California,
in 1936. As a result of taking a civil service examination I
became, in July, 1937, the chief examiner of the Civil Service
Board of the City of Portland, Oregon. There I stayed till
shortly after Pear] Harbor, when a telegram and telephone calls

[ 789 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

from Washington, D. C., convinced me that my services in the
nation’s capital were essential to the war effort. After working
briefly for the United States Civil Service Commission, I became
the executive officer of the Rent Department of the Office of
Price Administration. In passing I might say that the rent con-
trol program, as many a landlord can testify, was probably one
of the most effective of the war-time price controls.

In 1943 I was requested by the State Department to become
a member of the American Financial Mission to Iran and, as a
member of this mission, to become the director of personnel of
the Ministry of Finance of the Government of Iran. ‘The mission,
often called the Millspaugh Mission after its head, Dr. A. C.
Millspaugh, was established to assist and give stability to the
Iranian government, following the overthrow of Shah Reza by
British and Russian intervention, prompted by the Shah’s deci-
sion to join with Germany at the darkest time of World War II.
Leaving my family in Washington, I travelled to Tebran by Air
Transport Command, because I did not have top priority. I
was frequently ”bumped” by higher priority VIP’s. The trip
was therefore better than a Cook’s tour. I was forced to spend
several days, for example, in Miami, Georgetown, Natal, Accra,
Cairo, and Abadan. In Tebran I soon learned to do business
entirely through interpreters, to serve tea to every caller at my
office, and never to drink unboiled water. I also learned that my
job was a tough one and more often than not a frustrating one.
Nevertheless 1 enjoyed it immensely and made many friends
among the Iranians. I still hear from some of them, though
recently the letters from Iran have been very rare.

About a year after my arrival in Tebran my wife divorced
me. A few months later I met and subsequently married an
English girl who as her war-time stint, was working at the British
Embassy in Tebran. I can’t read our wedding certificate since
it is in Farsi script, but I am told that our marriage contract is
“forever” rather than for any shorter period that might legally
be specified under Iranian law. I sincerely trust that our con-
tract does last forever. The American Financial Mission to Iran
was dissolved at the end of 1945. My wife and I, another couple,
and two bachelors, drove from Tebran to Cairo, stopping for a
weck or so at Kermanshah, Baghdad, Damascus, Beirut, Haifa,

[790 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and Jerusalem. After several weeks in Cairo, we sailed for New
York on the Gripsholm, which at that time was engaged in
repatriating stranded Americans from all over the Mediterranean
area.

Not long after returning to the United States, I came to Ven-
ezuela on a special job in the industrial relations field for the
Creole Petroleum Corporation. The job was supposed to take
six months. However, a bad estimate was made or perhaps I
became invaluable. At any rate my time in Venezuela is now
approaching six years and today there seems to be no reason to
suppose that I won’t continue on for that many more. My work
is still in the field of personnel administration (called industrial
relations here), it’s imteresting, there’s plenty of it, and I’m
reasonably well paid. My wife and I like it here. Caracas has
a lovely climate — like the first week in June all year ’round.
We, with our two sons born in Venezuela, take a trip to the
States every two years and the older boys usually come down
for the summer. Incidentally, the younger two are Venezuelans
as well as Norte Americanos and travel with two passports. The
one sour note is the cost of living, which is higher than in any
other city in the world.

WILLIAM ROBINSON REYNOLDS

HOME ADDRESS: 336 Acre Lane, Hicksville, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hofstra College, Hempstead, Long Island, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 13, 1903, Denver, Colo, PARENTS: Frank Reynolds, Bessie Maud
Stinson.

PREPARED AT: East Side High School, Denver, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; A.M., 1930; PH.D. (Columbia
Univ.), 1950. °

MARRIED: Helen Virginia Trevvett, June 30, 1935, Jamaica, N. Y. CHILD:
William Robinson, Jr., Oct. 16, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Henry Reynolds, M.p., ’32.

occuPATION: Assistant professor of history.

ALEXANDER HAMILTON RICE, JR.

HOME Appress: John Stark Highway, Goffstown, N. H.

OFFICE ApprEss: Rice’s, Inc. cor. Canal & Granite Sts., Manchester, N. H.

BORN: Sept. 18, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Alexander Hamilton Rice,
’o1, Miriam Holmes Parker.

[791 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Katherine Abbott, Aug. 9, 1930, Lynn, Mass. cHILpREN: Anne
Meredith and Robert Hamilton (twins), June 29, 1934; Roger Parker
and Margaret Abbott (twins), Jan. 22, 1945.

occupPATION: Owner, Rice’s, Inc., tires, gasoline and recapping service.

MRS. RICE sent in the following information: “Ham is too busy
evenings building a model steam engine on a 1” scale to fill out
this report. It is a project he expects will take 244 to 3 years to
complete. He has been working on it five months. Daytimes he
is too busy with his expanding business. He is starting his third
enlargement of the recapping shop.”

EDMUND RICE

HOME ApDpRESS: Center Street, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 High St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 9, 1905, Quincy, Mass. parents: Harry Lee Rice, Fannie Austin
Manson.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

MarRiED: Gertrude Harvey, June 18, 1927, Dover, Mass. cHtLpren: Sally A,,
March 23, 1929 (mm. David D. Mackintosh, June 4, 1949); Barbara A.,
June 26, 1931; Jenepher L., Sept. 16, 1935.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Ball Rice, ’22; Benjamin Manson Rice, ’24.

OCCUPATION: Trustee; investment broker.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II: two years in 22nd Company of
Massachusetts State Guard.

OFFICES HELD: Trust Dept., Old Colony Trust Company, 1928-29; investment
analyst, State Street Research & Management Corporation, 1930-46;
trustee u/w of Sarah Abby Young, since 1933; trustee u/w of William B.
Rice, since 1937; trustee, Avenue Real Estate Trust, 1942-46, High Street
Trust, since 1942, Summer St. Extension Trust, 1942-48; director,
Quincy City Hospital Fund, since 1943; treasurer, Dover Foundation,
Inc., since 1947; investment analyst, Wood, Struthers & Company, since
1947; director and chairman, investment committee, Wm. B. Rice Even-
tide Home, since 1945.

MEMBER OF: Dedham Country & Polo Club (Board of Governors); Norfolk
Hunt Club (president); City Club, Inc.; Sakonnet Golf Club.

I WAS married just before graduation from college and, with
the exception of the one year when I attended Harvard Business
School and we lived in Cambridge, we have always lived in
Dover, Massachusetts. During these years I have found myself

[792 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

taking a more or less active part in town affairs and am now
serving on the Planning Board in Dover.

My business life has been entirely in the investment field as
an active investment analyst and as an active trustee of both
family and charitable trusts.

For a period of ten years, from our Tenth Reunion to our
Twentieth Reunion, I had the job of acting treasurer of our
Class. It is fortunate for our Class that Jack Harwood took over
_ then and is now guiding our finances but he has roped me in as
treasurer for the Reunion.

During World War II, I was in the 22nd Company of the
Massachusetts State Guard for two years. I also devoted most
of my working hours for a year or more to the New England
Aviation Cadet Committee which actively recruited and proc-
essed several thousand would-be aviation cadets.

As you can see, we have three daughters and one son-in-law
who is back on active sea duty with the U. 5S. Navy.

Throughout the years I have been fortunately able to keep up
riding, upland game shooting, and golf which I play in a far
worse way now than I did twenty-five years ago. As I look
back I can’t for the life of me keep the years straight. I always
seem to have kept busy but also have had some wonderful vaca-
tions in various parts of the world.

WILLARD KELLOGG RICE

HOME Appress: Hotel Aletti, Algiers, Algeria, North Africa.

BoRN: Nov. 4, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: Walter Henry Kellogg Rice,
Katherine Ann Bayfield.

PREPARED aT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Eugenia Sellenings, Sept. 20, 1930, Setauket, Long Island, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Son and second child born late 1940.

FRANCIS BULLARD RICHARDS, II

HOME appress: P. O. Box 374, Tamiami Sta., Miami 44, Fla.

BorN: April 29, 1904, Montclair, N. J. parents: Herbert Augustus Richards,
Ellen Read Baker.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.

[ 793 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

GREENOUGH THAYER RICHARDS

HOME appress: P, O. Box 159, Blacksburg, Va.

OFFicE appress: Dept. of Agriculture, Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Blacks-
burg, Va.

BORN: Oct. 17, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Theodore William Richards,
’86, Miriam Stuart Thayer.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B, magna cum laude, 1927; BFA.
(Yale Univ.), 1931.

marRieD: Elizabeth Leighton, Jan. 1, 1934, Newtonville, Mass. CHILDREN: |
Donald Leighton and Hayden Thayer (twins), Oct. 28, 1934.

HARVARD SONS: Donald Leighton Richards, ’55; Hayden Thayer Richards, ’55.

occupation: Associate professor of architecture.

OFFICES HELD: Associate and fellow, Bard College, 1938-39.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects, Tau Sigma Delta; University
Club of Virginia Polytechnic Institute; Blacksburg Golf Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, The New England Architect and Builder, 1932-33.

MOST of us ’27’s committed ourselves to cold print in a Report
that the Class published a mere five years ago. Don’t we get any
credit for that one? Surely it’s crowding us just a bit to demand
another one so soon. Like pulling up the asparagus to see how
the roots are doing.

I was a stool-borne worker in various architects’ and engineers’
offices at various times, especially from 1931 to 1941 and was
architect of certain work at M.I.-T., 1936-38. Present position
involved shifting to Physics Department during World War I,
will do so again in World War III.

I'm still teaching architecture at Virginia Polytechnic Insti-
tute, which is certainly not news. We get a lot of very talented
and worth-while students, and our enrollment has scarcely
dropped at all yet, as far as the department of architecture is
concerned. We've recently had a Rome Prize winner and a Paris
Prize finalist. Teaching architecture is a lot of fun. The only
trouble is that too many people have found out about it, which
means that the architectural teacher has no scarcity value. As
Jacques Barzun explains it, college professors are going to teach
somewhere anyway, so there is no need to pay them for that.
All that is necessary is to pay them something to keep them from
going away and doing it somewhere else.

My twin sons are now both freshmen at Harvard, which prob-

[ 794]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ably surprises us a lot more than it does you. They take different
courses and activities, and even wear different R.O.T.C. uni-
forms; yet they still say that people get them mixed up, and Har-
vard is too small. If you local folks have been hearing Dixieland
brass emanating from Thayer Middle recently, they are prob-
ably responsible.

My political and religious convictions are violent opposites,
and both bigoted in the extreme. I’m a die-hard Republican,
because the Democrats spend too much money; no independent
thinking is needed for that. In matters of religion, I was raised a
Nonsectarian at the Harvard Chapel. My Puritan ancestors never
got along at all well with my Quaker ancestors, or vice versa,
and both cults seem to me unreasonable and repressive in different
ways. So I say “a plague on both of their houses”; I protest against
Protestantism. To me, a creed is a hunting license, which per-
mits its owner to look down upon everybody else. But why go
on like this for hours? My wife and sons are loyal Episcopalians,
and it’s done them a lot of good. I endeavor to assist them in this
matter in somewhat the same spirit that they show when they
coéperate with me wholeheartedly about everything else.

Living in the woods as we do here in these mountains is a sort
of perpetual W.P.A, project. The countless tons of oak leaves
are a serious fire hazard, and have to be raked and burned. Cut-
ting down fourteen-inch oak trees (to try to get more sunshine)
is grand sport and takes very little time. Cutting them up, on the
other hand, takes practically forever. You don’t own property
in the woods; it owns you. Would any of you pent-house
dwellers like to swap? Our neighborhood may be zoned against
chickens, but it surely makes a grand background for our dog
and our cat.

My ever-active and surprising wife, who could if she would
be a truly sensational lawyer or painter, chooses instead to re-in-
troduce me to the ancient game of golf. The local golf course
is tough enough to breed champions, which it often does. My
own game is irrevocably characterized by hooking out of bounds
at least twice on the long second hole, But the scenery is superb.

One disadvantage of living here in Blacksburg, high on the
watershed of the Alleghenies, is that I couldn’t arrange the 550-
mile round-trip to Washington to have my picture taken right.

[795 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Maybe the pictures are the most important things about this
Report!

SAMUEL DODD RICHARDS

HOME ADDRESS: 1406 E. Monroe St. South Bend 15, Ind.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Studebaker Corp., South Bend 27, Ind.

BORN: Oct. 28, 1905, St. Louis, Mo. PARENTS: Thomas Tilden Richards, Agnes
Dodd.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MarRIED: Frances Virginia Fuller, Oct. 12, 1940, Indianapolis, Ind. CHILDREN:
Samuel Dodd, Jr., Feb. 7, 1949; Nancy Wakefield, Feb. 10, 1950.

occuPATION: Assistant treasurer, Studebaker Corporation.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U.S.N.R., January,
1943; attached to Office of Industrial Relations, Washington, D. C.; re-
ceived commendation from Secretary of Navy; honorably discharged
from Navy, December, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Council of Community Services, South Bend, Ind.,
1948-49.
MEMBER oF: South Bend Country Club; Harvard Club of Chicago.
THIS is a strange assignment I am sitting down to fulfill and one
that I have never before attempted. It seems odd that I should
be looking backward as though I were trying to find something
that might look all right in an obituary, odd because I question
whether much of my past history will be of interest to many
of my classmates and odd because 1 have always made a con-
scious effort to look ahead— not back. However, perhaps it is
a good idea to “take stock” occasionally. So here goes —
Insofar as my business life is concerned, since graduation I
have had only three employers. My first job was with a firm of
investment bankers in St. Louis, where I gleaned a few gems of
wisdom in the corporate finance field and where, after a while,
I had an opportunity to try my hand at selling. I concluded that
I didn’t particularly like the selling end of the business, especially
when securities I had sold went down. However, in my day-to-
day visits with men in business I did acquire a yen to work with
a manufacturing firm — the product was more or less immaterial.
So, early in 1929 when I heard that the Studcbaker Corporation
in South Bend, Indiana, was looking for a bright young man to

[ 796 ]

253TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

work in the treasurer’s office I applied for and got — much to

my surprise —my second job. I have been with the company

ever since with the exception of two leaves of absence aggregat-
ing about six years, during which time I served the government.

During my services with the corporation I have worked in many

departments learning the business, but finally returned to the

treasurer’s office where I am now assistant treasurer.

My third job was as an officer in the U. S. Navy which I
joined in January, 1943. In as a lieutenant, out in December,
1945, aS a lieutenant commander; attached to the Office of
Industrial Relations. When I arrived on the scene in Washing-
ton, I was told that my job was to develop a suggestion system
for the civilian workers in the “Navy Department,” which I
construed to be the Washington Office of some 18,000 employ-
ees. After contemplating this for a day or so and wondering
how to begin, I was further enlightened when I was told that the
“Navy Department” meant all Navy civilian workers all over the
world — covering some goo,ooo workers in all. I had a lot of
fun and with some excellent assistance ultimately developed a
first-rate suggestion system. It was particularly effective in
connection with the ship building process at the Navy Yards and
resulted in audited savings of hundreds of millions of dollars.
Today the Navy has the finest suggestion system to be found
in the country. —

. After the war my stay with Studebaker was short-lived as my
boss, Paul G. Hoffman, took me on to Washington with him as
a special assistant when he became administrator of the Economic
Codperation Administration in 1948. I have never worked
harder or been more interested in my work which in one trip
with Mr. Hoffman took me around the world. This is no place
to discuss the ECA objectives nor the thrilling program devel-
oped to attain them. What was accomplished by ECA is now
history. When Paul Hoffman left ECA in the fall of 1950 to
become the head of the Ford Foundation, he asked me to join
his organization, but I chose to return to my old company —
Studebaker — “automobiles” being in my blood.

In retrospect, the thing in my life of which I am proudest is
my family —a wonderful and beautiful wife, Frances, whom I
married in 1940, and two lovely children who finally arrived

[797]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

after ten years of married life— Sam, Jr., now three years old,
and Nancy, two. They consume all of our time so Pll claim them
as my hobby.

JOHN ROBERT RICHARDSON

HOME ADDRESS: 60 Damien Rd., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 403 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: July 11, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Bertram Carver Richardson,
Helen Gertrude Sullivan.

PREPARED AT; English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1927; M.D.y
1931.

MaRRIED: Lorna Blanchard, July 6, 1932, Searsport, Maine. cHILpREN: Nancy
Lee, Jan. 30, 1935; John Robert, Jr., Jan. 31, 1937; Mary Blanchard,
Oct. 24, 1944; Helen Carver, May 10, 1946.

occupaTion: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Otolaryngologist, Newton-Wellesley Hospital, associate sur-
geon otolaryngology, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Massachu-
setts General Hospital; larnygologist, House of the Good Samaritan;
visiting surgeon, New England Peabody Home for Crippled Children;
consulting otolaryngologist, U. S. Marine Hospital, U. S. Public Health
Service; instructor in laryngology, Harvard Medical School.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Academy. of Oph-
thalmology and Otolaryngology; American Laryngological Rhinolog-
ical and Otological Society; American Broncho-Esophageal Association;
New England Otolaryngological Society; Massachusetts Eye and Ear
Alumni Association; Newton Medical Club; Harvard Club of Boston.

PusBLicaTions: “A New Treatment for Esophageal Obstruction due to Meat
Impaction”; “YTurbinate Treatment in Vasomotor Rhinitis”; “Foreign
Bodies in the Respiratory Tract”; and other medical papers.

UPON graduation from college, I became well occupied at the
Harvard Medical School and continued so for the next four
years. Then a general rotating internship at the Newton Hos-
pital filled in twelve instructive months. This was followed by
three years at the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary includ-
ing laboratory, research, graduate courses in laryngology and
otology, as well as the regular resident service. On August 1,
1935, private practice started. Slow at first, it has continued to
expand over the years. My connection with the Massachusetts
Eye and Ear Infirmary has been maintained and treasured. Each
morning for at least four months of the year, several hours are

[798]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

spent at the Infirmary operating and caring for service patients.
Emergency work is in addition. I have also cherished my teach-
ing at Harvard Medical School. Since 1935 I have helped to
teach each graduate course given in otolaryngology. The under-
graduate teaching is carried on at the Infirmary, and this occupies
two hours every other morning for an additional three months
a year. Of course, time is spent at other hospitals -— chiefly the
Newton-Wellesley Hospital, where staff work takes a few hours
each week throughout the year. I enjoy teaching and staff work
primarily because of the mental stimulus, and I find the teach-
ing of interns is mutually beneficial. In between times, so to
speak, private surgery fills the gaps in the mornings.

My professional hobby is broncho-esophagology, or the re-
moval of the sundry objects that inadvertently get caught in
the food and air passages. This is a specialty within a specialty
that tests one’s skill and acumen — presenting problems that
almost always can be successfully solved. I have written a few
medical papers and talked before various medical societies. Thus,
with teaching, operating, and a busy office practice, my days
are full.

For many years the month of August has been spent in Sears-
port, Maine. The family go to this quaint old town at the head
of Penobscot Bay as soon as school closes. Swimming, sailing,
fishing, and riding make it the ideal vacation spot. From the
sandy beach in front of our cottage the children learn to swim.
The water is cold and invigorating. The two eldest children
have become fair sailors. Our fleet consists of a motor boat, a
sailboat, row boats, and even a kayak. Clamming, fishing, racing,
and picnicking trips to various parts of Penobscot Bay round
out the days and make them pass far too fast.

Perhaps this is the place to which I shall retire. I could do
worse. But can any doctor today look forward to retirement?
Instead, our government seems to aim towards state medicine
and bigger and better taxes. A dreary outlook indeed! Another
still-hopeful Republican, I shall vote again this fall. Perhaps this
time —

[799 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

BLANCHARD LIVINGSTONE RIDEOUT

HOME AppREss: 110 Midway Rd., Ithaca, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Edmund Ezra Day Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y.

BorN: April 28, 1906, Johannesburg, South Africa. PARENTS: Nicholas Blan-
chard Rideout, Ida Franklin Titus.

PREPARED AT: Everett High School, Everett, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927, DEGREES: A.B. 72aga@ cum laude, 1927; A.M. 1930;
PH.D. (Cornell Univ.), 1936.

MARRIED: Anne Louise Roehrig, Aug. 22, 1937, West New Brighton, Staten
Island, N. Y. cHILDREN: Robert Blanchard, May 14, 1941; Richard
Francis, March 19, 1944.

occupaTION: Professor of Romance literature and director, Division of Un-
classified Students, Cornell University.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Director, Basic phase of Navy College Training
Program, 1943-45; supervised studies of apprentice seamen and marines
assigned to Cornell for V-12 training.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in French and Spanish, University of Vermont,
1927-28; instructor in Romance languages, Harvard College and Rad-
cliffe College, 1928-30; instructor in French, University of Rochester,
1930-33; instructor, 1933-38, assistant professor, 1938-42, associate pro-
fessor, 1942-52, professor, since 1952, chairman, Advisory Board for
Underclassmen, 1940-46, chairman Committee on Admissions, 1940-51,
assistant dean, 1946-51, director, Division of Unclassified Students,
since 1952, Cornell University.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Phi Kappa Phi, Statler Club of Ithaca.

PUBLICATIONS: Témioins d’Une Epoque, Oxford University Press, 1947; British
edition of same, London, 1950.

DIVISIONALS were hardly over when I made plans to attend
the Middlebury French School. A pleasant and profitable sum-
mer there was followed by a year of teaching at the University
of Vermont. After another summer at Middlebury, I returned
to Cambridge for two years of graduate work and part-time
teaching. My New England family was shocked when I crossed
the Hudson to take an instructorship at the University of
Rochester, and it did not please them when I came to Cornell in
1933. Starting as a part-time instructor, I have plugged along
through the ranks until a recent promotion made me full pro-
fessor of Romance literature.

Teaching college students has many compensations, and uni-
versity administrative work has also proved to be interesting.
For the last dozen years I have been gradually working myself
out of the classroom and into various administrative posts. As

[ 800 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

chairman of the Committee on Admissions for the College of
Arts and Sciences, I have had to pass judgment on some four
thousand applicants annually. Appointments as chairman of the
Advisory Board for Underclassmen, director of the Navy V-12
Basic Program, and assistant dean had led to two new responsibil-
ities: chairman of the Committee on National Scholarships, and
only a fortnight ago, director of the Division of Unclassified
Students, a new unit designed to aid the potentially able student
whose primary interests and aptitude lie outside the college where
he originally enrolled. In a university with eleven undergrad-
uate divisions, students are often misplaced and need to be
reoriented. The work promises to be challenging and exciting.

As a college admissions officer I have had frequent occasion
to visit secondary schools and address alumni clubs. Calling at
one of the schools near Boston where the headmaster is a Har-
vard man, I was stumped by his remark, “Oh, you are a Harvard
graduate? Well, what are you doing out at Cornell then?”
Another official at a school which prepares primarily for Har-
vard said, “Tell me, what kind of a school is Cornell?” Well,
it is just the kind of place for me, and I would be happy to remain
here until I am forced to retire at sixty-five.

Ithaca is an earthly paradise, and we have no need for looking
up a summer resort with the Finger Lakes all around us. We
live on the Heights a mile from the campus “far above Cayuga’s
waters.” It takes me over two hours to run the power lawn-
mower over our property, and I look forward to the day when
our two sons, now ten and seven, will lend me a hand. My
wife, a former Cornell student of mine who got a 90% in French I,
busies herself with the house we bought in °42, and fusses
around with the usual community activities such as the Ladies’
Auxiliary at the church. I am glad that she took French with
me because we all went to Paris for the year 1949-50. As director
of the “Junior Year Abroad” I served as director of studies, dean
of women, spiritual counselor, bail officer, and psychiatrist for
seventy American college boys and girls. While abroad we
crowded ourselves into one of those midget cars, a four-horse-
power Renault, and did all of France, Belgium, western Ger-
many, Austria, and Switzerland. Our Easter holiday on the
Riviera was somewhat extended when the kids came down with

[ 801 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

old-fashioned measles, something they refused to pick up in the
States although intentionally exposed several times. Our pre-
vious trip to Europe in ’39 was cut short by the outbreak of the
war. Thanks to sabbatical years, we are able to look forward to
more European residence and travel.

For exercise and relaxation I like to paint—no, not with
brush and palette — but with a four-inch brush. I have done the
exterior of the house three times, and am about to start on the
interior again. Another form of interior decorating I enjoy is
eating, and I spend hours in the kitchen making variations on
recipes. Lately I have taken to baking bread, well fortified with
soy bean flour, egg and wheat germ. I hate to follow a recipe
(French influence), and never write down the formula if any-
thing turns out particularly well. When I retire, I may write a
cook book in the continental style: “some flour, an egg, a little
shortening, and a jigger of Sauternes.” (It helps if you drink the
Sauternes first.) :

Our sons are too young to decide between Harvard and Cor-
nell, but the ten-year-old has already made one important deci-
sion. From close observation he has discovered that teaching is
its own reward, and he has also eliminated the ministry as a
career. He will most certainly become a business executive, and
T hope he is as happy in that capacity as I have been in the teach-
ing profession.

MARC AURELE RIEFFEL

HOME ADDRESS: go Summit Drive, Plandome, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 22 William St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 18, 1906, Algiers, Algeria. parents: Aristide Rieffel, Jeanne
Amelie Cune-Dauban.

PREPARED AT: Riverdale Country School, Riverdale, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: $.B., 1927; LL.B. (Fordham Univ.),
1942. |

MarRigD: Mary Hamphill Bush, July 2, 1936, Wilmington, Del. cHivpren:
Marc Aristide, Dec. 22, 1937; Alexis du Pont, Oct. 28, 1941; Robert
d’Origny, Oct. 16, 1943.

occupation: Trust officer, National City Bank of New York and City Bank
Farmers Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, 1937-38, 1944~45; treasurer, 1938-44, president,
since 1952, Harvard Engineering Society; chairman, 1949, vice-chairman,

[ 802 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1950, Manhasset Bay Chapter, New York State Council, 1951, United
World Federalists,; City Affairs Committee, Citizens Union, New York,
assistant cub master, 1947-50, chairman, pack committee, 1951, Boy
Scouts of America.

MEMBER OF: University Club of New York; American Bar Association; New
York Bar Association; New York Society of Security Analysts, Harvard
Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Various magazine articles.

I REMEMBER distinctly taking a good look at some of the
Twenty-fifth Reunion Class on Class Day, June 21, 1927, and
having the impression of seeing something like a burnt-out light
bulb; worn out, useless, and a trifle depressing. I assumed I would
be like that myself in what then seemed a long distant future.
The memory of that impression now bothers me every time I
think of our coming Reunion. I can’t help wondering if the
Class of ’27 will appear to ’52 as ’oz appeared to ’27, I'd like to be
able to let ’52 know in no uncertain terms — if only to reassure
myself! — that the impression is false, that we are in full bloom —
energetic, ambitious, and just getting started. Let’s see to it that
*52 doesn’t start life with false impressions.

Looking over my contributions to previous Class Reports, I
am surprised to find to what extent my ideas about some things
have changed. For instance, it is quite evident that twenty years
ago I was rather pleased at the prospect of living in New York.
Now, I am sure Gotham is no proper place in which to live or
raise a family. As a matter of fact, in 1916 New York was a
pleasant place in which to live. There were no parking or traffic
problems, clean beaches could easily be reached; Central Park
was like the country, and boys roller-skated down Park Avenue
when visiting one another. No one had heard of smoke control.
In 1930 I should have known better. In 1951 it is hard to imagine
why people keep piling up in this human beetle trap.

Still, it is true that time seems to evaporate more quickly than
it used to do. Either the mind is less impressionable than it was
twenty-five years ago or else we follow a daily pattern of living
which leaves little room for new impressions. In my case, at
any rate, there is little to remember that is new from day to day.
The fates have been kind to me. My home life has been a success.
I have been spared many sorrows and have had more than a fair
share of the good things of this world,

[ 803 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

1 would call it a complete success except for a feeling that man’s
existence is rather meaningless unless he has contributed some-
thing lasting or of substantial value to his fellow-beings. So far,
the wish is there, but the inspiration lacking. I haven’t yet dis-
covered how and where to make my contribution. However,
over the past years I have formulated three fundamental convic-
tions which I want to take this opportunity to express. They will
no doubt sound startling to some of you but in the end I believe
you will agree.

1. The world can be and eventually will be an agreeable
place to live in for all its inhabitants.

2. Problems caused by over-population in various regions
have in the past created a serious obstacle to attaining this goal
and this will be increasingly so in the future. Hence, peoples
will have to learn to control the growth of population.

3. It will also be necessary before we can reach our goal to
recognize the necessity of some sort of limited federal-form
government for the whole world. Obviously, we cannot achieve a
happy life for everyone, or even for most, in the present state of
international anarchy. The sooner we get behind the effort to
get world order, the sooner we shall bequeath to our children
the full benefit of life on this planet.

EDWARD HERBERT RIHBANY

HOME ADDRESS: 370 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: July 28, 1905, Toledo, Ohio. parents: Abraham M. Rihbany, Alice
May Siegel. 7

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927(28).

MarRIED: Helen A. Pedersen, Jan. 4, 1941, Brookline, Mass.

occupaTion: Advertising, retailing.

ONE of the few things I can say with assurance after twenty-
five years is that I have, during that entire time, maintained a
steady, resolute, and vociferous opposition to the conduct of
athletics at Harvard. This is the one firm rock to which I have
been able to hold in a fast-changing world. (My wife says
it’s good there’s something I stuck to.) About 1937 I turned
to watching professional sports and doubt if I'll ever be back

[ 804 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

(and who do you like in the sth at Santa Anita?). Well, so I
watch tennis occasionally!

But, getting back to historical data, I’m reminded that Groucho
Marx upon being introduced to a certain character (and I refer
to the former actor, G. Marx, with the frock coat and stoop to
match, and not to the impostor now on TV), said, “Pve heard
a lot about you . . . yes, and I’m getting pretty tired of it too.”
With this in mind I’m skipping any further details, but would like
to leave this one thought. I’m assuming, of course, that all of us
are happily living just the way we want to by now. However,
if there are just a few of us who still want that ranch in Cali-
fornia, homestead in Texas, or orange grove in Florida — but don’t
have it——remember there’s still time. But don’t wait. Send in
your check in the enclosed envelope now while the supply lasts.
You can still get out of the old rut if you really want to.

Well — see you at the office tomorrow.

ROBERT SANFORD RILEY

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Northmoor Rd., Hartford 5, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kaman Aircraft Corp., Bradley Field, Windsor Locks, Conn.

BORN: April 2, 1906, Worcester, Mass. parents: Robert Sanford Riley,
Katharine Elizabeth Higgins.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; S.B. (Massachusetts Inst. of
Technology), 1929.

MARRIED: Katherine Wethered Lilly, Oct. 17, 1931, Baltimore, Md. cHiLpreN:
Robert Sanford, 3d, Aug. 12, 1933; Margaret Putnam, April 25, 1936;
William Dixon, Sept. 1, 1938, David Prince, Oct. 6, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Chapin Riley, Engin. School, '30~31; Conrad Milton
Riley, m.v., 738.

OccuPATION: Helicopter manufacturing; project engineer in Test and Devel-
opment Department.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Cadet, U. S. Air Corps Flying School, 1929-303
2d lieutenant, Connecticut National Guard Air Corps, 1930-36; 2d lieu-
tenant, U. S. Air Corps Reserve, 1936-42.

MEMBER oF: Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity; Society of Automotive En-
gineers; Harvard Club of Connecticut; Hartford Golf Club; Hampstead
Hill Club; Hartford Tennis Club; Hartford Ski Club; Springfield Ski
Club. .

MY FATHER was an engineer and I had always been tinkering
with fifteen-dollar and twenty-five-dollar Fords, so I was headed

[ 805 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

for some kind of engineering from the start. However, because
I had had Latin before I came to college, I got an A.B. in engi-
neering sciences! While in college I became interested in flying
and joined the Harvard Flying Club. Then I heard about the
Aeronautical Engineering Course down the river at the Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology; so after four years of fun at
Harvard, I went to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to
get a job! The engineering I had had at Harvard was equivalent
to the first two years at M.L.T., so I had an S.B. in Aeronauti-
cal Engineering in two years. Since I already had a degree, I was
ineligible for crew at M.LT., but I filled in whenever anyone
was sick and also rowed at the Union Boat Club. I also joined
the Air Corps Reserve Officers’ Training Corps with the idea of
trying to get to Kelly Field and become a pilot. The result was
that when I graduated from M.LT., I had the choice of going
to the Henley races in England with the Union Boat Club, going
to Kelly Field, or my choice of about ten different jobs in air-
craft plants (those good old days in 1929!). I decided to try my
luck in the Air Corps and had the most carefree year of my life!
Eighty-seven of us started the class and thirty of us graduated in
June, 1930.

But the bottom had fallen out of business by that time, and I
worked for one dollar a week until I squeezed my way into the
Experimental Department of Pratt & Whitney Aircraft. There
I was in on all the development of the Wasp, Hornet, Twin
Wasp, Jr., Twin Wasp, Twin Hornet, and several others that did
not reach production, working my way up from test engineer to
project engineer. At the beginning of World War II, I switched
to field engineering at Pratt & Whitney, and although I had been
flying in the National Guard Air Corps, the Air Corps decided
I was too old and my job was more important. So I spent the
next five years touring the country getting Pratt & Whitney
engines to put out far more power than they were designed for!

In 1946, after fifteen and one-half years at Pratt & Whitney
Aircraft, I accepted a position as assistant to the vice-president in
charge of engineering at the Jacobs Chuck Company and was in
on all sorts of chuck development. I completed the production
design of the Jacobs Rubberflex Lathe Collet Chuck which
revolutionized the lathe collet chuck business as far as accuracy

[ 806 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

was concerned, I then spent two years organizing a separate
division to put the lathe collet chuck into production. When
that was completed and the job ran out in 1950, I joined the
Kaman Aircraft Corporation where I have been in the Test and
Development Department in charge of all ground tests of the
rotors for the helicopters we are producing.

As an avocation I bought a Waco Taperwing plane when I
got out of the Air Corps in 1930 and had many pleasant trips
until I cracked up myself and my wife in 1932. I couldn't resist
the temptation and bought a Waco Cabin ship in 1936, and our
second child had a ride in it the day before she was born! I sold
the ship for use by the Civil Air Patrol when World War II
started, as flying was so restricted. As a result of my initia-
tion into skiing during college, our whole family are sking
enthusiasts. We have had the usual quota of broken legs,
shoulders, etc., but still expect to be skiing at least until age sixty.
We have even tried it in Switzerland one year for two weeks,
but Aspen, Colorado, is our favorite spot.

Sandy, our eldest, just squeaked into the University of Colo-
rado this year and is headed for architectural engineering if the
draft doesn’t get him. Our daughter, Peggy Put, is now at Emma
Willard, and the two youngest boys, Dixon and David, are at
day schools in West Hartford. They are all looking forward to
the Twenty-fifth Reunion and so am I, if business doesn’t inter-
fere.

JOHN DUFFY RIORDAN

HOME aAppress: Proctor Street, Hopkinton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Business Statistics Organization, Inc., 90 Broad St. Babson
Park, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 19, 1905, Boston, Mass, parents: Charles Florence Riordan,
Agnes Antoinette Duffy.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MaRRiED: Elizabeth Ann Kelley, July 8, 1933, Hopkinton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Sarah Ann, Oct. 20, 1934; Antoinette, May 1, 1937; Susan Elizabeth,
July 8, 1943.

occuPATION: Editor-in-chief, business statistical publications, founded and
owned by Roger W. Babson.

[ 807 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

OFFICES HELD: Director, advisory department, Babson’s Reports Inc., Welles-
ley Hills, Mass., 1940-44; editor-in-chief, Babson Statistical Organ,
Wellesley Hills, Mass., 1945; editor-in-chief, Business Statistics Organ-
ization, since 1945; trustee, Hibernia Savings Bank, Boston, Mass., Bab-
son Protective Fund, Wellesley Hills, Mass.; director, Time Finance
Corporation, Brockton, Mass.

TIME is running out. Goad #1 stirred only a faint flutter.
Goad #2 also failed to light the spark. But then came Frantic
Appeal. With it welled a great sorrow in my heart — for George
Russell. It need not have been so— but alas, one of George's
stooges had copied my past record erroneously, and there was
nothing left to do but correct him. Couldn’t be, could it, that
George made that error on purpose, just to stir up the blue pen-
cil in me?

One of the most fortunate of my Class, I have somehow got
through the last twenty-five years without making any impres-
sion on that thing they call history. It has not been necessary
for me to jump out of windows, or to claim that my testimony
might incriminate me. Think of it, never joined a club, sub-
versive or otherwise. Never left any tracks on those sands. Marcus
Aurelius would have been proud of me.

But every rabbit in every rabbit patch in New England has
known me personally. If I haven’t missed him with my 20-gauge,
I have missed him with my 16-gauge. Failing either, he has been
fascinated by the bugling of my Bassets, from the heaths of
Nantucket to the cedar swamps of the Carabasset Valley. And
when the seasonal laws of men have bade the Bassets be still,
then, each year of the past twenty-five, has come the “dull
period” — those drab days twixt the closing of the hunting sea-
son and the opening of fishing. Such are days of dreaming and
planning, dreaming of the smart grouse that cut the wrong (for
me) side of that birch top, dreaming of the old hare that leapt
from hussock to hussock in the cedar swamp, leaving no scent
for old Butch. But of planning and working there has been
much — readying for the time of rod and reel. With maribou,
jungle cock, Chinese deer tail, vise, hackle, and lacquer, the dull
period soon passes. The new flies are waiting and eager for the
new season. The new hope blooms. The ever-changing course
of stream, river, and pond never fails to open yet another vista.

[ 808 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Those are the things that I remember of the last twenty-five
years. In their pursuit I have enjoyed the fullest support of Ann,
Sally, Toni, and Susan. Sometimes “on the team,” sometimes
“in the grandstand,” they have never once ever hinted that per-
haps there were broader horizons, more applauded goals.

Of other pursuits, there have also been many. Man must eat.
Looking back, however, should be devoted to touching on the
highlights. The shadows can be of little interest to others, or
to self. Let the wisdom of the Sun Dial prevail.

SAMUEL RISEBERG

HOME ADDRESS: 37 Cambridge Ave., Pittsfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 272 North St., Pittsfield, Mass.

BoRN: March 3, 1906, Marlboro, Mass. ParRENTS: Joseph Riseberg, Rachael
Zeiden.

PREPARED AT: Marlboro High School, Marlboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Sydele Goldberg, Jan. 31, 1937, Springfield, Mass. cxitp: Richard

Jay, Nov. 9, 1937.
occupation: Clothing merchant.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Berkshire County, Masons, B’nai Brith.

WITH basic training in sanitary chemistry, I became a clothing
merchant. That’s about the story after leaving Cambridge. It
took a year or so of floundering about before I landed in the
Berkshire Hills. That about settled it and here I’ve remained.
Between running two retail establishments and interpreting gov-
ernment regulations, I manage to keep pretty well occupied.

My athletic activities were dramatically curtailed when Coach
Farrell, in my freshman year, advised me to buy my own track
shoes —I was that good. Harvard lost a prospective track star
and the chess world gained a kibitzer. Vacations have been con-
fined to New England and New York. A couple of years ago I
took the family to California. I belong to the Temple Anshe
Amonim and Community Center. Politically, I’m independent.
At present it would be refreshing to have a new driver in the seat,
so I tend towards the Republicans.

[ 809 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

KENNETH MONTGOMERY RITCHIE

HOME apprEss: Kennebunk, Maine.

BORN: July 18, 1906, Prince Edward Island, Canada. parents: George Ritchie,
Lucy Montgomery.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

MAXWELL BENJAMIN ROBERTS

HOME ADDRESS: 75 Willow Rd., Woodmere, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Oppenheimer, Vanden Broeck & Co., go Exchange Pl. New
York 5, N. Y.

BORN: June 26, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Jacob Roberts, Clara D.
Benjamin.

PREPARED AT: Franklin School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926. .

MARRIED: Rhoda D. Klorfein, Sept. 8, 1935. Harrison, N. Y. cHiLtpren: John
Jacob, Nov. 22, 1936; Jeanne K., Nov. 20, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Irving Laurence Roberts, ’22; Jack David Roberts, ’31.

OCCUPATION: Economist; securities analyst; statistician; registered representa-
tive (N.Y.S.E.).

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, chairman, Planning Commission, public relations
officer, Village of Woodsburgh.

MEMBER OF: New York Society of Security Analysts; Financial Forum; Har-
vard Club of Long Island.

PuBLICATIONS: “Most of Us Keep Our Places on the Inflation Treadmill,”
Barron’s, “An Answer to the Nathan Report,” Railroad Earnings Pro-
jections,” Commercial and Financial Chronicle.

WALL STREET of the “Roaring Twenties” was quite attractive
to a neophyte — and I joined Gardner & Company. With enthu-
siasm I started at the same point of my knowledge of Wall
Street — zero—— and became a runner. Boy! Did I run! But it
really wasn’t long before I had gone through the various other
departments, although it seemed a century at the time. I finally
became an assistant bond trader to the senior partner. I weath-
ered the vagaries of the market during its collapse, and in 1930
the senior partner died. The firm liquidated, whereupon I joined
Alan Kempner, who was a bond broker on the floor of the New
York Stock Exchange. I was with him for five years — the lean
ones — how lean! Then came 1935, and things began to pop.
Practically at the same time as I joined Garcia Grande Cigar
Company as investment consultant (where I was to remain for

[ 810 J}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the next ten years), I was married. In 1936 I became father to
a possible member of the Class of 1958 —1 hope! In 1939 a most
unusual thing happened in our family. For the first time in five
generations, our team had a girl.

While at Garcia Grande Cigars I dabbled in insurance brok-
erage, dabbled in real estate management, brokerage, and owner-
ship; continued my hobbies of collecting United States stamps,
constructing ship models, and performed odd jobs around our
country home, etc. During the war, I took a leave of absence to do
some aeroplane lofting, after which I went back to the “Street”
(since Gracia Grande Cigars had ceased manufacturing cigars
and had become an investment trust). I became associated with
a succession of Stock Exchange firms, including Bendix Luit-
weiler & Company, Otto Fuerst & Company, Dreyfus & Com-
pany, and Hayden Stone & Company. I am now associated with
Oppenheimer, Vanden Broeck & Company as head of their
research department and as customers’ broker. (Come and have
lunch some time.) What with my family, my work in New
York, and working for my village, I manage to keep busy, keep
out of mischief, and lead the general life of a fellow twenty-five
years out of college.

DONALD WARREN ROBERTSON

HOME ADDRESS: 204 Elm St., West Hempstead, Long Island, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., Inc., 412 Greenpoint Ave., Brook-

lyn 22, N. Y.
BoRN: May 30, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: James Robert Robertson, Ruth

Anna Iverson.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.

marriep: Nancy Goddard, June 12, 1928, Boston, Mass. cyttp: Nancy Joan,
April 18, 1930.

HARVARD BROTHER: Clifford James Robertson, 31.

OCCUPATION: Chemist in charge of wax development work, Socony-Vacuum
Oil Company.

MEMBER oF: Alpha Chi Sigma, Professional Chapter, New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles in scientific journals.

MY FIRST few years following June, 1927, were spent in the
dyestuff industry in Buffalo, New York. In 1931 I joined the
Socony-Vacuum organization — first at its Paulsboro, New Jer-

[ 811 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

sey, laboratory and later at its Brooklyn laboratory. In the
ensuing years I covered many phases of petroleum chemistry
development work and during the last few years have become
. a wax specialist. Much of my time and energies for the past
twenty-two years have been spent in bringing up only one
daughter. Following her graduation from high school she spent
one year at the Oberlin Conservatory of Music and is now a
student at Keuka College, Keuka Park, New York.

My hobbies have included all of the chores and construction
projects that seem to fall to the lot of the modern home owner.
In other words, I am a jack-of-all-trades, master of none, includ-
ing carpentry, plumbing, masonry, electrical work, gardening,
etc. Much of my spare time for the past dozen years has been
spent on such projects, and I have enough more planned to keep
me busy for years to come.

As for my political convictions, I have suffered through the
years since 1932 and am still looking forward to the day when a
Republican enters the White House again. In the meantime, like
all good but grumbling citizens, I have continued to pay Harry
all of the taxes he has demanded with more and more of the fast
diminishing dollars. But hope springs eternal. This year of 1952

may go down in history for reasons other than the Twenty-fifth
Reunion of Harvard ’27.

THOMAS HENRY BLANCHARD ROBERTSON

HOME apprEss: 1083 Worthington St., Springfield 9, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 4, 1906, Clearfield County, Pa. parents: Thomas Henry Robert-
son, Katherine Moses.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln High School, Jersey City, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926. DEGREE: a.B. (Bluffton Coll.), 1933.

Marriep: Alberta Langley, May 10, 1946, Springfield, Mass. CHILDREN:
Katherine Frances, March 27, 1947; Vincent Langley, May 24, 1949;
Iris, June 21, 1950; Hermione, Sept. 22, 1951.

occuPATION: Tool grinder, American Bosch Corporation, Springfield.

I THINK possibly the knowledge of eternal things is even more

important in adversity than in good fortune. At any rate, Har-
vard remains my happiest loyalty.

{ 8r2 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN NEWBOLD ROBINSON

HOME ADDRESS: 800 Park Ave., New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 755 Park Ave., New York 21, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 6, 1903, Wakefield, Mass. PARENTS: Rowland Robin Robinson,
Mary Peace Hazzard.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: M.D., 1931.

MARRIED: Sylvia L. Beinecke, June 15, 1934, New York, N. Y. cHILpren;:
John Rowland, June 11, 1935; Linda, Jan. 30, 1939 (died Oct. 11, 1945).

HARVARD BROTHER: Rowland Robinson, 733.

occuPATION: Urological surgeon; associate clinical professor of urology,
Columbia University.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned first lieutenant, U. S. A. Medical
Corps, Nov. 5, 1940; promoted captain, Jan. 8, 1941; entered active
duty, Feb. 15, 1942, appointed chief of urology, Second General Hos-
pital; appointed consultant in urology S.0.S., E.T.O., April 22, 1943;
promoted major, Sept. 27, 1943; appointed senior consultant in urology,
E.T.O., Oct. 5, 1943; promoted lieutenant colonel, Feb. 19, 1945; assigned
Surgeon General’s office as consultant in urology; with Dr. George
Prather wrote history of urology in World War II, separated Dec. 7,
1945; received Legion of Merit decoration and Medaille @honneur de
Santé.

OFFICES HELD: Surgical internship, Presbyterian Hospital, June, 1931, to July,
19333 assistant resident in gynecology, Sloan Hospital, July to Decem-
ber, 1933; assistant resident and resident, Squier Urological Clinic, Pres-
byterian Hospital, January, 1934, to June, 1935; associate attending in
urology, Vanderbilt Clinic, since June, 1935; associate attending in
urology, Squier Urological Clinic, since June, 1935; director of urology,
Veterans’ Administration, Washington, D. C., since 1945; consultant in
urology, Fort Totten Medical Center, 1946-47; consultant in urology,
West Point Army Hospital, since 1950,

MEMBER OF: Union Club; Harvard Club; American Medical Association;
New York Branch, American Urological Association; New York Acad-
emy of Medicine; Royal Society of Medicine, London, England;
American College of Surgeons (fellow); Society of U. S. Medical Con-
-sultants in World War II; New York County Medical Society; Har-
vard Medical Society; American Urological Association; Association of
Genito-Urinary Surgeons; American Association of Military Surgeons.

PUBLICATIONS: Some medical papers.

HENRY SHAW ROGERSON |

HOME ADDRESS: 50 Sargent Crossway, Brookline, Mass.
OFFICE appress: Lee Higginson Corp, 50 Federal St., Boston, Mass. |
BORN: July 24, 1903, Milton, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Edward Rogerson, Anne
Greenleaf Johnson.
[813 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.; Newton Country Day School,
Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925.
marrigD: Grace Fessenden Sargent, June 30, 1926, Weston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Charles Edward, 2d, Aug. 6, 1927 (7. Caroline Daggett Wilson, Aug. 5,
1950); David Sargent, June 20, 1931.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Milton Rogerson, ’og, LL.B. ’11 (deceased); Fran-
cis Cushing Rogerson, ’13; Edward Greenleaf Rogerson, ’20 (deceased).
OccUPATION: Vice-president and director, Lee Higginson Corporation.
OFFICES HELD: Trustee, member Execuurve Committee, New England Deacon-
ess Hospital, since 1935; trustee, Home for Aged Couples, since 1948;
director, clerk of corporation, Home for Aged Men, since 1941; mem-
ber, since June, 1950, governor, Boston Stock Exchange; director,
Kelley-Koett Manufacturing Company, since May, 1951; president and
director, Lee Higginson Safe Deposit Company.
MEMBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline, Downtown Club, Boston; The
Bond Club of Boston (president, 1949).

UNQUESTIONABLY, the outstanding achievement of my
life was the inspired choice of a wife. The fact that she has
uncomplainingly put up with me for over twenty-five years and
rewarded me with two fine sons is positive proof.

After a brief time in real estate, 1 entered the investment bank-
ing business, just in time to experience the debacle of 1929. In
spite of the ups and downs, trials and tribulations of a hostile
administration, 1 have enjoyed it and am still with it.

Our elder boy took his turn in the Navy and is currently
working in Boston with Coffin & Burr. In August, 1950, he
brought into our family a lovely wife, giving us what we always
wanted, a wonderful daughter.

Our younger son is now a sophomore at Bowdoin College after
five years at Middlesex School. He is an average student and
above average athlete, and his mother and I have spent many
years of pleasure in sharing his victories and condoling with him
in his defeats.

Our travelling has been very limited, only one trip to Ber-
muda in 1934. I enjoy giving as much time as I can to various
charitable organizations, am still a Republican and cling to the
hope that some day common sense will again reign supreme in
our Capitol.

[814 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOSEPH ALBERT ROGULL

HOME aApprEss: c/o Zinkfine, 44 Tudor St., Lynn, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 18 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 14, 1903, Barditchef, Russia. PARENTS: Louis Rogull, Cecelia
Tolpin.

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1927; LL.B., 1931.

occuPaTION: Law.

*k ROBERT MARSHALL ROLOSON, JR.

BORN: July 7, 1903, Evanston, Ill. parents: Robert Marshall Roloson, ’o1,
Cary Bell Waller.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

MarkiED: Ellen Ballinger, Jan. 1, 1929, Evanston, Ill. (died April 25, 1943).
CHILDREN: Cary Bell, March 10, 1931 (died April 25, 1943); Robert
Marshall, 3d, Aug. 1, 1933; Edward Waller, May 20, 1937 (died April 25,
1943).

DIED: “Apt 25, 1943, Winnetka, Ill,

ROBERT MARSHALL ROLOSON, JR., his wife, and two of

their three children perished in a fire which swept through their

mansion in the Woodley sub-division, west of suburban Winnetka.

Roloson worked for six months after graduation with the

Packard Motor Car Company in Detroit. After his marriage he

joined the Northern Trust Company in Chicago of which he

later became second vice-president. He later relinquished his

position in the bank to accept the directorship of United Air

Lines. At the same time he served as a director of the North

American Accident Insurance Company. At the time of his

death he was operating his own banking and brokerage business

in Chicago in addition to his interest in United Air Lines and

North American Accident Insurance Company.

OSCAR SAMUEL ROME

HOME apprEss: 816 Bluff St., Glencoe, Ill.

OFFICE AppREss: 175 W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago 4, Ill.

BORN: Jan, 23, 1906, Fitchburg, Mass. parents: Lewis Rome, Julia Lavien.
PREPARED at: Fitchburg High School, Fitchburg, Mass.

[815 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. Cum Jaude, 1927.

MARRIED: Irene Adler, Nov. 16, 1932, Chicago, Ill. cuitpren: Ellen, Feb. 15,
19353 James Philip, June 22, 1942,

HARVARD BROTHERS: Leon Mark Rome, ’25; Harold Elliott Rome, °30; David
Rome, ’35.

OCCUPATION: Insurance broker.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Young Men’s Jewish Council (Boys’ Clubs), Chicago,
1936-38; board of directors, Chicago Chapter, American College of
Life Underwriters, 1936-37; trustee and director, Jewish Community
Centers of Chicago, since 1949.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Life Underwriters; American College
of Life Underwriters; Illinois Insurance Brokers’ Association.

I AM not the first and surely not the last of those, who, in answer
to a particularly compelling “Goad” (in the form of letter, post-
card, wife, daughter, and son) cry out: “What —so soon — it
can’t be possible that twenty-five years have come and gone.”
But it is a fact, of course. I must say I feel as young in heart and
spirit as I did in 1927; there’s no convincing my children of this.

Seriously, however, I believe it would be a strain on the read-
ers of the Report and on the Reunion budget for me to go into
detail about what has happened to me, 1927-52 inclusive, except
that I suppose it is expected from each of us who is so lucky as
to be a member of the Class of ’27.

My business is the same. I went into the insurance business
right after graduation; have been in it without interruption
since then; and I continue to find in it complete gratification —
for the material as well as for the inner man. Successful com-
pletion of the “greatest sale” ever made occurred on November
16, 1932: her name, Irene (Topsy) Adler (Wellesley). I am
happy to report that my marital status remains the same: I have
the same wonderful wife and children. Ellen graduates from
high school this coming June and hopes to make the grade for
admission to Wellesley. At this writing she has successfully
passed the first section of the College Boards. I’m sure she will
have a wonderfully gay time at Reunion. Jim is almost ten and
is all boy and then some. He combines splendid physical coor-
dination and all around athletic ability with excellent compre-
hension equipment. The day-to-day observation of his growth
and development is fascinating. In case you want more infor-
mation, please consult The Child from Five to Ten, by the fam-

[816]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ous Dr. Gesell of the famous (forgive me, please) Yale Child
Clinic. His descriptions of the normal, healthy boy are Jim to
a T.

In matters of politics, I am an Independent. In these past
twenty-five years, by and large, Democrats have offered the
majority of our citizens more of a meaningful platform and tan-
gible implementation of same. I expect to remain an Independent
even though the pressures to vote the straight Republican ticket
are incredible in the suburban North Shore area where we live.
This political situation is not surprising — it’s just dismaying.

My war service consisted of being in the Coast Guard Aux-
iliary Temporary Reserve. I was honorably disenrolled in 1945.
In addition I had the usual block warden and Red Cross assign-
ments.

I derive satisfaction from being able to be of service to the
community and have been privileged to serve on philanthropic
and community service boards. My family and I are members
of the North Shore Congregation Israel and I have been a trustee
of this Temple for several years.

Reading, going to the theatre, travelling a goodly amount, and
abundant opportunities to hear fine music are pursuits which
give us great pleasure. Many of our friends are similarly addicted
which makes these interests all the more fun. And while on the
subject of music, you among my good friends who recall my
many hours of devoted practising on the piano rented from
Briggs & Briggs, and which followed me from Standish to
Drayton, to 364 Harvard, will be glad (?) to know that I can
still “dish up” a Beethoven sonata. My fingers are not yet too
arthritic. Ellen plays the flute very nicely and Jim i is strong man
on the trumpet.

My family “balance sheet” for the past twenty-five years
shows plenty of “red” for the trials and tribulations which in
greater or less degree seem to befall every family. Happily, how-
ever, I can report that we are much more in the “black.” Added
to good health, I consider our greatest asset to be a composite
of happiness and contentment.

Enough about my family and me right now. There will be
lots of time in June to tell you more and to hear all about you.
In the meantime the four of us are eagerly looking forward to

[ 817]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Reunion and to the pleasure of seeing my friends and their
families.

ALLAN JACOB ROOS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 123 E. yoth St., New York 21, N. Y.

BorN: March 3, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Moritz Roos, Linda Levi.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School for Boys, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. Cu7 laude, 1927; M.D. (Johns Hop-
kins Univ.), 1931.

MARRIED: Dene Lindau, July 7, 1932, Blowing Rock, N. C. cHiLpreN: Joanna,
Jan. 26, 1938; Michael, Nov. 20, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Psychoanalyst.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S.N.R.: active duty, 1942-46; inactive duty

- since 1946; rank, lieutenant commander, Medical Corps, specialist in

psychiatry.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of Connecticut;
American Psychoanalytic Association; various professional societies.
PUBLICATIONS: Technical publications in psychiatry and psychoanalysis.

AFTER graduation J attended Johns Hopkins Medical School
from which I received my M.D. degree in June, 1931. I missed
Boston and its intellectual atmosphere very much indeed — Balti-
more seemed, save for its medical oasis, like a desert. From 1931
to ’32 I taught pathology at the Johns Hopkins Medical School,
then went into pediatrics at the Johns Hopkins Hospital for one
year, then for two years at the Children’s Memorial Hospital,
Chicago, where I was pathologist under the famous doctor,
Joseph Brennemann. I returned to New York to practise pediat-
rics and was an instructor in pediatrics at Cornell Medical
School from 1935 to 1941, meanwhile indulging my interest in
psychiatry and especially psychoanalysis. From 1942 to 1946, I
was on active duty in the Medical Corps of the U. S. Navy.
Since 1946 I have been teaching psychoanalysis at Columbia
University, College of Physicians and Surgeons, then private
practice in New York City, and membership in New York
Psychoanalytic Institute and Society.

_ JAMES J. RORIMER

HOME AppRESS: 1000 Park Ave. at 84th St., New York 28, N. Y.
OFFick appress: Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Ave. & 82nd St, New
York 28, N. Y.

[ 818 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BorN: Sept. 7, 1905, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Louis Rorimer, Edith Joseph,
PREPARED AT: University School, Cleveland, Ohio; Ecole Gory, Paris, France.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.

MARRIED: Katherine Newton Serrell, Nov. 25, 1942, Montvale, N. J. cam-
DREN: Anne Newton, Jan. 4, 1944; Louis, Feb. 17, 1947.

occuPATION: Curator, Department of Medieval Art, Metropolitan Museum
of Art; director, The Cloisters,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, U. S. Army 1942-45; chief of section,
Seventh Army, Western Military District, Monuments, Fine Arts, and
Archives; chevalier, Legion d’Honneur, Croix de Guerre, France.

OFFICES HELD: Member Advisory Committee, Cleveland School of Arts; chair-
man art technical section, Museums Association, 1948.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; American Federation of Arts;
American Geographical Society; American Institute of Decorators
(honorary member); Academy of Political Science; College Art Asso-
ciation; Medieval Academy; French Institute; France-America Society;
Société Frangaise d’Archéologie.

PUBLICATIONS: Use of Ultra-Violet Rays and Their Use in the Examination
of Works of Art, New York, 1931; The Cloisters, the Building and

the Collection of Medieval Art, New York, 1938; Unicorn Tapestries,
1938; Medieval Jewelry, 1940, Medieval Monuments at the Cloisters —
As They Were and As They Are, 1941; Survival, the Salvage and Pro-
tection of Art in War, New York, 1950; numerous contributions to
The Bulletin of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and other scholarly
publications.

AN EXEGESIS of the above curriculum vitae, which packages
a life so neatly but leaves much unsaid, might illuminate the barren
facts a little. To begin with, looking at my “home address” and
“office,” you will see that they are two blocks from each other.
This is luck on my part, not laziness. The words “office” and
“occupation,” to go on, concentrate in them most of what I
have been doing since 1927. Upon graduation I was appointed
an assistant curator in the department of decorative arts of the
Metropolitan Museum of Art. In 1934 I became curator of the
department of medieval art, which I have been ever since. It
would take too long and too many adjectives to describe my
_ work in building The Cloisters, a medieval branch of the museum
in Fort Tryon Park, whose objects are outstanding in world
collections. As the curator since its opening in 1938 (since 1949
I have been called its director), combined with even heavier
duties at the Museum, I was so occupied that I failed to realize
how quickly time was passing and that I had given no attention

[ 819 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

to prospects of matrimony. The scholar’s methods of research,
judgment, deliberation, and circumlocution applied to romance
worked out very well. Kay and I never have any skirmishes and
are exceptionally happy. We think our children resemble us,
combining our better qualities, so I hesitate to say that although
they may look perfectly average, they are actually the most
extraordinary children. |
My military record had an inglorious beginning as a private
in the infantry. My ultimate duties are reported in my 1950
book, Survival, the Salvage and Protection of Art in War, which
friends and strangers speak well of but which is not on the best-
seller list. In addition to civic duties, my life consists of curating,
collecting, travelling, research, study, lecturing, publishing, and
farming. There was a time when it included diapering, but we
are out of that now. Cooking is relaxation for me and my greatest
happiness is to be turned loose in the kitchen. We have inherited
property in Ohio and are reclaiming once fruitful acreage. Being
in New York or Europe and simultaneously running a farm in
Ohio has been made possible by the airplane and the tractor.
But Kay and I take a little credit unto ourselves for planning
and hard work. The children are helpful too, and we all have
happiness in building up things together, whether in New York
or in the country, and whether work or pleasure (which to me
are one and the same).

+ JOHN OPDYKE ROSECRANS

BorN: April 22, 1905, Milwaukee, Wis. paRENTS: Clarke M. Rosecrantz,
Susan Watkins.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927(28).
piep: May 4, 1928, near Longpoint, Ont., Canada.

DURING his undergraduate years at Harvard John Opdyke
Rosecrans was a member of the Football Team, the Iroquois .
Club, Hasty Pudding-Institute of 1770, the Fox Club, of which
he was president his senior year, and he took part in the Hasty
Pudding Show in 1926. While at college he became interested in
aviation and did a great deal of flying at the East Boston airport.
Later he had his own biplane, a Hess Bluebird, and he was recog-

[ 820 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

nized as a capable flier in the Milwaukee vicinity where he lived.
At the time of his death in a plane crash he was near completion
of his first year at Harvard Law School.

HAROLD ROSENWALD

HOME AppREsS: 14 Greenwood St., Newton Center, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Schneider, Bronstein & Shapiro, 85 Devonshire St., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: July 23, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Moses Rosenwald, Etta
De Young.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; LL.B. cum laude,
1930.

MARRIED: Betty Booth, May 1, 1932, Boston, Mass. cuitp: Martha Knox,
Feb. 22, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Benjamin Isaac Rosenwald, ’26 (deceased).

occupation: Lawyer; general practice, associated with firm of Schneider,
Bronstein & Shapiro.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant (j.g.), U. S. Navy, Feb-
ruary, 1943; judge advocate of General court martial and assistant legal
officer, Seventh Fleet, in Australia, New Guinea, and Philippines; assist-
ant legal officer, 11th Naval District; received letter of commendation
from Commander Service Force, Seventh Fleet; presently lieutenant
commander, Naval Reserve.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Special assistant to Attorney General, Depart-
ment of Justice; legal staff and later assistant chief, Enemy Branch,
Board of Economic Warfare.

OFFICES HELD: Training officer, Volunteer Legal Unit, Third Naval District,

1951.
PUBLICATIONS: Editorial notes in Harvard Law Review, 1928-30.

MY CAREER and other activities have been shaped by the events
of the period since college and a desire to take part in those
events. After private law practice for about a year in Boston, I
became assistant counsel to the Reconstruction Finance Corpora-
tion in Washington in the depths of the depression. I partici-
pated in the efforts of that organization to save the banking
structure of the nation in 1932 and in the more successful reha-
bilication of that structure in 1933. Thereafter, I spent several
years in the conduct of litigation against the stockholders of the
Dawes bank of Chicago to recover a portion of the $90,000,000
loan made to that bank by the RFC,

In 1939 I transferred to the Criminal Division of the Depart-

[ 821 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

ment of Justice, and took an active part in a series of prosecu-
tions in Louisiana that resulted in the conviction of a former
governor, the president of the State University, and other persons
prominent in political and private life. These convictions caused
the election of a reform governor and introduced a new era of
honesty in the state government. It seemed at the time that we
had won a permanent triumph over all corruption. At this writ-
ing the triumph appears to have been temporary. But each dec-
ade has its own struggle for freedom and decency and cannot
rest upon the success of the prior decade.

In the initial stages of the war, I was engaged in government
work as a civilian lawyer. Early in 1943 I was commissioned as
a lieutenant (jg) in the Navy. I served in the southwest Pacific,
as a judge advocate of a general court martial and as an assistant
legal officer. This work involved human problems of great
interest, and in my experience the problems were handled with
complete understanding and fairness. I have continued to main-
tain an active participation in legal and disciplinary matters in
the Navy.

At the present time I am engaged in private law practice in
Boston and am enjoying suburban life. It is a pleasure to live
quietly after the excitement that started with the depression and
ended some time after the end of the war. Since I agree with
Pericles that the citizen who takes no part in public affairs should
not be regarded as “quiet” but as “useless,” I suppose that the
present peacefulness will not continue indefinitely.

My chief hobby is my young daughter, Mardie, who in a
matter of days will be “really two.” I still play tennis with
enthusiasm and enjoy bridge.

ROBERT DAWES ROSS

HOME AporEss: 621 N.E. 3oth Terr., Miami, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 513 Ingraham Bldg., Miami, Fla.

BoRN: Oct. 8, 1904, Orange, N. J. parents; Walter Willard Ross, L.B., ’90,
Jane Rose Ames.

PREPARED AT: Asheville School, Asheville, N. C.,; Lawrenceville School, Law-
renceville, N, J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREE: B.S.L. (Northwestern Law School).

marrigp: Helen Trippe, October, 1944, Fairfax, Va. (deceased); Joan H,

[ 822 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Libera, March, 1950, Miami, Fla. cup: Rosemary, December, 1940
(by prior marriage).

OccUPATION: Lawyer, general practice.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Attorney, Office of Chief Engineers, Wash-
ington; economic analyst, Foreign Service Auxiliary, State Department,
Consulate General, Algiers.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant U.S. Attorney, 1931-33; attorney, Interior Depart-
ment, Washington and Omaha, 1935-38.

MEMBER OF: Dade County, Florida, Bar Association.

puBLicaTions: The Trial of Al Capone (printed paper-bound book), 1933;
The Soldiers Tax Guide, 1944.

AFTER my sophomore year in college I went for the summer
to Aix-les-Bains, in the south of France, where 1 worked as a
counselor in an American boys’ camp. I remained in France
during the fall, winter, and spring, wintering on the Riviera,
doing a little newspaper work. The following fall I entered St.
John’s College, Cambridge, where I remained for a college year.
Returning to my home in Evanston, I spent the following three
and a half years at Northwestern Law School, and became a
member of the Illinois Bar in 1931. For two years I served as
an Assistant United States Attorney in Chicago, and wrote a
paper-bound printed book called The Trial of Al Capone. 1 had
nothing to do with Capone’s trial, but happened to be in the U. 5.
Attorney’s office during his prosecution and conviction.
Thereafter I worked for a Chicago law firm, later became
associated with my father, a Chicago lawyer. During the de-
pression I served two and a half years with the Interior
Department in Washington and Omaha. While in Washington I
saw a good deal of Franklin Q. Brown, Jr., a classmate.
Starting in late 1938 I spent a sort of sabbatical year in Europe,
visiting France and Italy and spending eight months in Berlin,
primarily taking advantage of the low rate of exchange. The
first month of World War II, I spent in Berlin, returning to
Chicago easily via Munich, Rome, and a boat from Naples.
After practising law in Chicago with my father, I went to
Washington in 1941, seeking a commission, having missed the
draft by eight days, but ended up as an attorney in the Office of
the Chief of Engineers. Asa sideline I ran a column as “Taxpert,”
in question-and-answer form, on the new income tax changes,
withholding, declarations of estimated tax, etc., in the Washington

[ 823 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Times Herald, and published a pamphlet telling servicemen how
to obtain tax refunds, The Soldiers Tax Guide, selling some
thousands thereof through post exchanges and ship’s service
stores. |

In 1944 I transferred to the State Department. As an economic
analyst in the Foreign Service Auxiliary I spent almost a year in
Algiers, where I saw much of Colonel W. K. Rice, a classmate
and active sleuth for the armed services at the time.

Upon returning to this country late in 1945, my then wife,
since deceased, and I thought we would like to try Florida, so
we journeyed to Miami Beach. I prepared tax returns as a tax
consultant during the winter of 1945-46, became a Florida
lawyer in June, 1946, after taking the examination required of
out-of-state attorneys, and since then have been practising law
in Miami in the same offices.

A year or two after my wife’s death here in Florida, I married
her twenty-six-year-old niece, a native of Minnesota, and we
seem prepared to live happily ever after. Quimby Brown and
Bill Rice, classmates, have honored us with several visits. Bill
Rice, when last heard of, had returned permanently to Algiers.

During the past five winters, almost as a hobby, I’ve run a
question-and-answer column on income taxes, in the Miami
Herald, as “The Herald Tax Adviser.” Several years ago |
syndicated the column nationally, but without much success.

To keep my weight under two hundred, I play tennis year-
round here in south Florida, at night under lights, as well as
over weekends. Also, in the apartment house on Biscayne Bay
where we live with my eighty-six-year-old father (LL.B., ’90),
and with “Ali,” a dog without pedigree I brought back from
Algiers, there is 4 salt-water swimming pool. |

REUBEN ROTHBLATT

HOME ApprEss: 8 Willard St., Willimantic, Conn,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 672 Main St., Willimantic, Conn,

BORN: Jan. 18, 1906, Willimantic, Conn. parents: Hyman Rothblatt, Eva
Boyer.

PREPARED at: Windham High School, Willimantic, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; M.v. (Tufts Coll.), 1932.

marrigp: Belle Newman, April 7, 1940, Hartford, Conn, cuttpren: Marjorie

[ 824 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY -REPORT

Ellen, July 1, 1941; Edwina, May 10, 1945.

OccUPATION: Physician; general practice of medicine.

OFFICES HELD: President, Windham County Medical Society (formerly
member active staff, Windham County Memorial Hospital; health
officer, City of Willimantic (for past ten years).

MEMBER oF: American Medical Association; Connecticut State Medical
Society; Connecticut State Board of Health; American Public Health
Association, Windham County Medical Society, New England Pediat-
ric Society; American Academy of General Practice, Willimantic

Country Club.

TO GIVE a didactic outline of the past twenty-five years
would be stereotyped, dry, and presumably uninteresting. I feel
that the following treatise would be more in the nature of a
philosophy that has crystallized slowly over the past two and a
half decades.

Some kids want to be firemen when they grow up. Other
kids want to be football players or cowboys. I was twelve
years old when I decided to be a doctor. Nine years later I
graduated from Harvard. And five years after that I became a
doctor. If you had asked me at the time why I wanted to practise
medicine, I could not have given you an honest answer. I didn’t
know. I didn’t know when I was twelve. I still didn’t know
when I received my medical degree and began to intern. But
when I finished interning —I knew. I wanted to be a doctor
then because it was the one way I could support myself and
support humanity at the same time. From the beginning I found
medicine exciting. In the beginning, tracing down the criminal
virus in a patient was fascinating detective work. I relished it
just for the intellectual challenge. But simultaneously I realized
that something much more profound than personal titillation
was involved here. I, Reuben Rothblatt, had the power to hurt
or help permanently hundreds of human beings. The day I
learned that I left my medical adolescence forever.

Doctors mature early. They have to. Take any intern on
ambulance call—this young man is faced by such a fantastic
variety of homicides, blood-letting, medical, surgical, and ac-
cident cases in the course of his working day that the tragedies
of Aeschylus become rather comic in comparison. Now I have
been working in the vineyards planted by Hippocrates for over
twenty years. I am twenty-five years away from Harvard — and

[ 825]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

am forty-six years old and feel it. I am a G, P. and those initials,
if you'll excuse the pun, cover a multitude of ills. I am haunted
by two personal tragedies. I haven’rt the time to do all the
reading in my field that I ought to do. And I haven't the time
to spend with my wife and two daughters that I ought to spend.
I have no time for hobbies, no time for theatres, no time for
fun, and not enough time for medicine. My wife sometimes
wishes I'd give it all up. She says a doctor should be of social
service to his family as well as his community. She’s probably
right, too. But doctors, like beggars, cannot be choosers. We
are limited to twenty-four hours a day. Do I really have a
choice between playing for an hour with my daughters before
their bedtime or calling on that sick patient who phoned just
before I came home? Last year, under the double duress of
wife and work, we stole off to Florida for ten days. My wife
thinks I’m neurotic because I several times phoned the colleague
to whom I turned my patients over. She is certain I should see
a psychiatrist because I consulted train and plane schedules back
home within two hours after we arrived in Florida. My wife
is probably right too. A doctor should not take his patients with
him on vacation any more than a bride should take her mother
with her on her honeymoon.

If you ask me what I have got from medicine the past twenty-
five years, I'll be frank. I’ve got the satisfaction of doing a job I
love to do. I’ve got the double satisfaction of knowing I’ve
helped some people. I have been paid for my work in money
as well as satisfactions. I make enough to pay for the car —to
meet the mortgage payments on my house, to pay the taxes, and
to make my insurance man happy. If you ask me what I’ve given
to medicine, I'll be frank. I’ve given everything.

ROBERT WILLIS ROUNDS

HOME Appress: 11 Cedar St., Oneonta, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: State Teachers College, Oneonta, N. Y.

BORN: April 2, 1905, Whitewater, Wis. parents: Charles Ralph F Rounds,
ED.M., 24, Mabel Willis.

PREPARED AT: Riverside High School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: 8.B. 1927; A.M. (New York Univ.),
1932; ED.D. (ibid.), 1942.

marriep: Ruth Alexander Richardson, Dec. 27, 1934, Montclair, N. J. cun-

[ 826 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DREN: Peter Clark, Nov. 15, 1936; Stephen Ralph, May 10, 1943; Christo-
pher Robert, Jan. 4, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Edward Rounds, ’29.

occuPATION: Teacher of English.

PUBLICATIONS: Seventh-grade language and composition book scheduled to
be published by Macmillan, 1952; articles in English Journal,

AFTER some post-graduation floundering, I found myself
teaching English in a New Jersey junior high school in 1929,
and for fifteen years that was what I did. I commuted to New
York University for graduate work, rode bicycles around Europe
during the summers of 1932 and 1933, married in 1934, had an
exchange job in Oakland, California, in 1937-38, and moved to
Oneonta in 1944.

I had an experience in the fall of 1950 that might interest some
people. It comes under religious convictions | guess. A plane
came over town with a loudspeaker in it and an evangelist at
the microphone. Out of a bright October Sunday afternoon this
fellow began to urge us to get straight with Jesus. Between
exhortations he played scratchy but very loud recordings of
such songs as “The Old Rugged Cross.” I was sore. What
right . . . etc. So I wrote a letter and took it down to the Star,
which printed it next morning. That afternoon he was back
again, aiming his talk at me, without naming me, Another letter
next day. Quite a strange battle. I really didn’t stand a chance,
because he went up and talked whenever he felt like it, and all I
did was write two letters to the paper. I got hold of some city
ordinances on sound trucks, but I never got anything that
touched planes. I meant to write one up, but never got round
to it. I thought maybe he’d be back this fall and I’d get the
spirit, but he didn’t come.

Another thing some people might be interested in is Teruko
Tasaka, our Hiroshima “orphan.” We adopted (morally — we
just send the orphanage some money and write to Teruko, and
my wife sends her birthday presents) — we adopted her after
reading Norman Cousin’s article, “Hiroshima Revisited” in the
fall of 1949. That contact with Japan was responsible for my
bringing a Japanese minister, Kiyoshi Tanimoto, to Oneonta in
February, 1951, to talk to the college and to other sroups in
town about Hiroshima. That was a good experience.

[ 827 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

I belong, with Ruth, to a peace group here in town. I am not a
pacifist, but I believe in doing all I can to help try to find solutions
for problems other than arms. The group sponsored discussion
programs on the local radio last year and is doing the same this
winter.

I have a very strange Sunday School class. We have coffee
brewed by the minister and we sit around talking about ideas. For
two years we used Overstreet’s The Mature Mind as our base.
This year it’s Hayakawa’s Language in Thought and Action. The
class was designed to attract young married people and college
students, but it seems to fit more nearly the needs of fathers and
mothers who have brought their children to Sunday Schoo!
and might as well stay themselves.

STOWELL ROUNDS

HOME ADpREsS: Cannon Road, Cannondale, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Office of Price Stabilization, Hartford, Conn.

BORN: June 9, 1906, New York, N. Y. Parents: Ralph Stowell Rounds, Mary
Helena Ricks.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927 (28).

MARRIED: Caroline Cary Curtis, May 19, 1939, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Thomas Stowell, Feb. 20, 1941; David Atwater, Dec. 26, 1942; John
Cary, Dec. 31, 1946.

OccUPATION: Attorney.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Price attorney, O.P.A., 1942-46.

OFFICES HELD: President, Wilton Library Association, Wilton Cooperative
School; City Committee, Citizens Union of New York; justice of the

eace.

meaoen oF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York; Wilton Rid-
ing Club; Loyal Legion (New York chapter) Ex-members Association
of Squadron A; 23rd Assembly District Republican Club, New York
City; National Republican Club, New York City, City Club of New
York.

TO REVIEW a quarter of a century of living is a humbling
and soul-searching task. By hindsight, too much of that living
has been miscellaneous and apparently undirected. Thinking back
to Harvard days, one believes that one has grown closer to the
College intellectually, or at least to the Harvard that one re-
members. One has tried, with more or less constancy, to be
faithful to its inspiration and precepts. Yet perhaps that is not

{ 828 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fair to the College, as it is today. For the vines have grown over
the concrete walls of the Stadium, obscuring the outlines just
as encrusting memories distort the Jess tangible features of the
College and its teachings. After so long the memories speak not
to one’s present self, but turning their faces away from us today,
address persons now gone, of another time, or at best greatly
changed. Seen, as it were, foreshortened, through the wrong
end of the field-glasses, it is hard to believe that the world of
the twenties is the predecessor of ours. Dreams that we dreamed
are forgotten, or have turned to nightmares. American isolation,
as one, hopes, never was translated — or can be — into flesh and
blood, while those who planned a world dominated by the
dialectic of materialism have ground for dismay. But perhaps a
connection can be found. Those of us who have come this far
may look forward to another two or three decades of active life,
and basically we must set our sights by the contemporary world.
We cannot go back; the doors of Lamont are closed to our
visits, and will not open to let us refresh or renew the patterns
learned in Widener. But though the America of the fifties was
not made under the tri-liberal shield, to an extent it was shaped
by it, and something of the approach it suggested to the graduates
of 1927 may still be valid in 1952.

For the record, I have been practising law in New York,
with varying degrees of satisfaction, since 1933. Today I am
following up a spot of government work during the late war
with another try at making economic controls feasible and
tolerable. In a way, I am testing the theory that if everyone
Should come to believe and to act on the belief that ten years
or so of one’s life should be spent in the service of one’s country,
as an obligation to society, we may achieve something more
approaching efficient and inexpensive government than anything
we have enjoyed to date. The alternative to a padded payroll
should not be to cut back necessary operations. If we make
government literally, and not just in theory, everyone’s business,
then the voter may have more confidence in the sincerity of his
representatives and the newspaperman, businessman, and even
the doctor in his social and professional ivory tower, may arrive
at a better understanding of the problems of political administra-
tion. And the aphorism that everybody’s business is nobody’s

[ 829 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

business is no safe guide; those whose interests are strictly selfish
will surely take over if others, too much occupied with their
personal interests, default. Our ideal should be to make our cities
and our countryside, even our world, the living monuments of
our civilization, and not places to be ventured into only with
rubber boots and bullet-proof vests.

My hobbies are or have been equitation, motoring, reading
science fiction, raising money for organizations exempt from
income tax under Section 101 of the code, and attending meetings.

EDWARD MICHAEL ROWE

HOME ADpRESS: 19 Ware St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rowe & Walsh, 53 State St., Boston, Mass.; Massachusetts
Senate, State House, Boston, Mass.

BORN: March 17, 1902, Indianapolis, Ind. parents: Pierce Edward Rowe,
Cecelia Elizabeth O'Toole.

PREPARED AT: Arsenal Technical School, Indianapolis, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1927. DEGREES: S.B., 1927; LL.B., 1931.

marRieD: Mary Elizabeth Garde, June 27, 1937, Cambridge, Mass. cuit:
Pierce Edward, Sept. 11, 1940.

occuPATION: Law; partner, Rowe & Walsh.

OFFICES HELD: Senator, General Court of Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
from Second Middlesex Senatorial District; chairman, Joint Commit-
tees on Education, Legal Affairs, and Taxation.

PAUL NICHOLAS ROWE,

HOME apprEss: R.R. 1, Box 289, New Augusta, Ind.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 810 Fletcher Trust Bldg., Indianapolis, Ind.

Born: Aug. 27, 1904, Indianapolis, Ind. parents: Pierce Edward Rowe,
Cecelia Elizabeth O'Toole.

PREPARED AT: Cathedral High School, Indianapolis, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: S.B., 19273 LL.B., 1930(31).

MARRIED: Dorothy Margaret Meier, April 18, 1931, Indianapolis, Ind. cu-
pREN: Edward Francis, Feb. 8, 1937; Norman Pierce, July 14, 1938.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Edward Michael Rowe, '27, Lu.B., 31; Cecil Francis Rowe,

LL.B., "39.

occuPATION: Lawyer; partner in firm of Baker & Daniels.

MEMBER OF: Indianapolis Bar Association; Indiana State Bar Association;
American Bar Association; American Law Institute; Lawyers’ Club,
Indianapolis, Estate Planning Council, Indianapolis; Columbia Club,
Indianapolis.

[ 830 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I HAVE practised law continuously in Indianapolis since finish-
ing Law School in 1930, first as an associate and since 1938 as a
partner in the firm of Baker & Daniels. I have given my full time
to a most active law practice, and in that connection I have been
actively interested in the affairs of the Indianapolis Bar Associa-
tion and the American Law Institute. I have served the Indian-
apolis Community Fund, Riley Hospital for Children, and the
Peabody Memorial Home for the Aged. Not the least, I have
had great pleasure recently in organizing the volunteer fire
department in the rural community in which I live.

Lately, my principal hobby has been my country home. For
such an uneventful career, it can only be said that I have enjoyed |
the practice of law and in the unrelenting work which it has
yielded I have found the best escape from desperation and defeat
in contemplating life’s insoluble questions. I have much to be
thankful for, and this report would be incomplete if I did not
here record my gratitude, first, to my brother Edward for his
help and guidance through the educational processes to a legal
career and, second, to my senior law partner, Joseph J. Daniels,
not merely for affording me the opportunity to practise law but
for his continued interest, encouragement, direction, and example
which have literally guaranteed my professional success.

SARGENT STEPHEN ROWE

HOME AppREss: 40 Worcester Lane, Waltham 54, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: State Street Trust Co., State & Congress Sts., Boston 1, Mass.

BoRN: Oct. 23, 1906, Waltham, Mass. parents: Willard Mariner Rowe, p.M.b.,
’99, Alice Lyman Tomlinson.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 77agna cum laude, 1927; M.B.A.
1929.

OCCUPATION: Assistant trust officer, State Street Trust Company.

EXCEPT for an interlude in the depression of the early 1930's

and another during the war, I have spent most of the last

twenty-five years in the field of investment analysis. After

graduating from the Harvard Business School in 1929, I went to

work for an investment house just in time to see at first hand

the collapse of that “new era.” A couple of years later, the end

of the new era caught up with the brokerage house. Then

[831 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

followed a succession of miscellaneous jobs, including a year and
a half with a financial publishing house which was later absorbed
by another publisher which had, apparently, a better crystal ball.
The winter of 1934-35 I spent in Pittsburgh with the Bureau
of Business Research of the University of Pittsburgh, working on
a study of the steel industry under the auspices of the Falk
Foundation. In the spring of 1935 I returned to Boston. By
May, 1942, it was clear that any contribution I might make to
the war effort was not going to be made in the armed forces. For
the balance of that year I tried collecting cases in war conversion
problems for the Business School. In January, 1943, I went to
work in the business department of Radio Research Laboratory,
Harvard’s wartime center of radar countermeasures research. As
head of the accounting division for the last two and one-half
years, until the closing of the laboratory after the war, I learned
a good deal about the workings of the scientific mind as well as
the complications of the bureaucratic outlook. At the end of
May, 1946, I joined the statistical department of the State Street
Trust Company.

SIDNEY STANLEY RUDMAN

HOME AppREsS: 126 Amory St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Old Colony Furniture Co. 29 Crown St., Nashua, N. H.

BORN: Dec. 6, 1903, Bangor, Maine. parents: Abraham Howard Rudman,
Dora Rebecca Gordon.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

mMargieD; Evelyn S. Hurwitz, June 23, 1929, Boston, Mass, cuitp: William
Nicholas, June 27, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Maurice Aaron Rudman, 718.

OccUPATION: Partner in charge of sales, Old Colony Furniture Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted early in 1942; OCS, Miami Beach; infor-
mation and education officer; separated captain, Wright-Patterson Field,
October, 1945.

orFices HELD: Director, Modern School of Applied Art.

MEMBER OF: Newton Squash & Tennis Club.

IT IS hard to believe that twenty-five years have elapsed since
that lush spring of 1927 when I planned to enter a brokerage
office upon graduation. Fortunately, perhaps, these plans never
materialized and I went into the manufacture of hand-made

[ 832 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

furniture with one of my brothers. My job is to style the line
with our designers and I am in charge of sales. The sales end
takes me into almost every state in the Union and by now I feel
I have paid for many a commercial airliner. Although we are
not counted among the largest, nor the top in profit-making
(eating steak occasionally), we are considered to be one of the
finest makers of furniture in the U. 5. Most of the reproductions
used in the restoration of the Village of Williamsburg were made
in our factory. When the present House Plan was inaugurated at
Harvard, we were selected to make the furniture for the pro-
fessors’ homes.

In 1942 I enlisted in the Army Air Technical Service Command
and served for three and one-half years. 1 was married in 1929
and my one son and heir was born fourteen years later. He is
only as spoiled as you would expect under such conditions.
Travelling a great part of each year as I do, I spend most of my
time when home with my wife and son. I can draw the floor
plan of the Peabody and Science Museums and the local zoos with
my eyes shut. Once again I find myself playing baseball and
football, but now I play with half-pints possessed with super-
human energy. I am balder, but not fatter than in ’27 and I
accredit my leanness to the fact that I gave up golf (after a two-
year try in ’29 and ’30) and have stuck to squash and tennis. My
wife is deeply interested in helping those afflicted with cerebral
palsy and she is very active in the local United Cerebral Palsy
Associations. I share her interests and help whenever I can. We
both enjoy the theatre and see most of the plays that come to
town. I suppose we socialize as much, or as little, as most people.
We love our few friends, enjoy our acquaintances, and hope
that the next twenty-five years will be as good as the last.

RICHARD RUSH

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

Born: Feb, 25, 1905, Bethlehem, Pa. parents: Arthur Temple Rush,
Ayliffe Malbone Borie.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: $.B., 1927; M.F. (Yale Univ.), 1928.

MARRIED: Mary Stevens Conover, July 26, 1935, Bedford, N. Y. critpren:
Thomas Walker, Feb. 8, 1941; Robert, Dec. 17, 1943; Susan Borie,

June 22, 1948.
[ 833 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

occupation: Schoolmaster; teacher of mathematics.
OFFICES HELD: Master, Blazing Star Lodge, F. & A. M., Concord.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Xi; Harvard Club of New York; National Rifle
Association.

IT IS so long ago that we were dating letters “1927” that I find
it hard to recall those days. That is probably fortunate, as I still
blush to think of some of the things I did and thought of. It is
a comfort to find that others feel the same way.

After graduation I went to the Yale School of Forestry (for
a little intellectual slumming, I told them), and after having
spent two years learning how to preserve the forests, I joined
the sales staff of a paper company, which was interested in de-
stroying them as fast as possible. Operating in New York,
and later Atlanta, I watched my bosses growing ulcers and
getting drunk with the company’s clients, until it entered my dull
brain to wonder what they were getting out of it. I recall that
at one stage I found myself in charge of dispensing over a million
dollars worth of freight, and hence able to obtain all sorts of
favors from freight agents and the railroad companies. It was
power, and a lot of fun, but it lacked something.

So I finally decided to quit the city, and came back to St.
Paul’s School, where I had been as a boy, at half the salary and
many times the satisfaction. And here I have stayed ever since
— eighteen years. As I look back it seems uneventful, but it has
never been dull. Each day and each boy present problems —
little ones, but human ones, and therefore important. I have
avoided administrative work, for the fun is in the teaching and
other work with the boys. And believe me, the future genera-
tion is a grand lot! I am not satisfied with the job I do, but I hope
to go on doing it as long as I can, for I know the school is doing
a fine work, and it is a privilege to have some part in it.

My biggest personal moment was my marriage to a girl who,
as far as I know, still has no plans for divorce. Having none of
our own, we adopted three children, who are both hellish
nuisances and wonderful blessings. I find that they leave me
little peace or time for hobbies and outside activities. We play
no golf or bridge, and don’t miss them. I do get out to vote and
try to take an interest in local public affairs.

Politically, I am a Republican who voted for F.D.R.—at

[834].

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

times. But I find it hard to stomach the Taft-Martin brand of
Republican leadership today, and my last vote was one of protest
—for Norman Thomas. Nor can I go Democratic while the
Harrys, Truman and Vaughn, hold sway.

I like to get out in the woods when I can, and we have a
wonderful house in the country at New Milford, Connecticut,
where we spend the summer in old clothes, hacking around at
odd jobs or swimming in our pool.

I did not get into the service during the war, as I was told
to keep on my work of teaching mathematics to boys. This is
the only big regret of my life. I did some civilian defense, of
course, plane watching, big gardens, and gave some courses in
map reading, navigation, as well as teaching the rudiments of
rifle shooting to a lot of kids, But it didn’t add up to much
when some of those same kids were killed.

We lead a pleasant life, and a full one, both at school and in
the summer, and we seem to have a lot of good friends. I haven’t
done anything to be proud of, and I think I have been very
fortunate in every way. Would I want to live the same life
over? Yes, and I am sure I could do it better.

EDWARD RUSIN

HOME AppRESS: 18 Sunset Blvd., Pittsford, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Eastman Kodak Co., 343 State St., Rochester 4, N. Y.

Born: March 2, 1906, Alden Station, Pa. parents: John Rusin, Margaret
Furman.

PREPARED AT: St. John’s Preparatory School, Erie, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.

MARRIED: Mary-Louise Baxter, Dec. 26, 1934, Rochester, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Mary-Louise, Jan. 8, 1936; Edward Baxter, May 14, 1938.

OccuPATION: Assistant manager, medical sales division, Eastman Kodak Com-

any.

menoen or: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of Rochester; Mon-

roe Golf Club, Pittsford, N. Y.

UPON graduation, I found myself floundering about and
decided to try teaching for a while hoping, meanwhile, to for-
mulate some definite ideas regarding the course I wished to follow
by way of making a living at something fairly remunerative as
well as productive of happiness and a genuine feeling of satis-
faction.

[ 835]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

I enjoyed teaching mathematics to high school students in
Rochester, especially the first year. The second year became a
bit less interesting and I soon changed over to the Eastman
Kodak Company, trying to put my scientific training —I
majored in physics—to good use in one of the experimental
divisions. Although dealing with objects, machines, and manu-
factured items was sometimes very intriguing, I began to realize
that nothing could take the place of coping with the human
species.

J, therefore, asked for transfer into the sales division and par-
ticularly the department dealing with the medical and dental
profession, and industrial plants. The product I was selling and
still sell is X-ray films— medical, dental, and industrial — and
items manufactured by us related to these products. I did one
trek through the Southwest, and worked the Philadelphia and
New York City areas. In 1948 we went to Washington, D. C,,
where I spent a year and a half trying to unravel the red tape
involved in selling to and contracting with the government.
This was a losing fight and the Kodak Company bailed me out
by offering me the assistant sales managership of its medical sales
division in Rochester, New York. This is where I am at the
present time, and living happily with my family in suburban
Pittsford. I find this work quite interesting since the job takes
me to New York, the West Coast, and almost every other city
at some time or other.

When I’m not puttering around in the garden, I get in some
pretty atrocious golf, or try to outdo my thirteen-year-old son
at baseball — and he’s pretty good! Hope he can make the var-
sity at Harvard. I didn’t!

Like others who are trying to make an honest living, I find the
present administration rather sickening, and will do my part
towards effecting a change in the fall.

ARTHUR JOSEPH RUSSELL, JR.

HOME ApprREss: Father Peter’s Lane, New Canaan, Conn.
OFFICE ADpRESS; The New Yorker, 25 W. 43rd St., New York 18, N. Y.

BORN: Dec, 11, 1903, Weston, Mass, parents: Arthur Joseph Russell, 95
Elizabeth Heard.

[ 836 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.; Williston Academy,
Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924.

MARRIED: Barbara Scott, 1924; Barbara Smith, Jan. 2, 1932, Newton Center,
Mass. CHILDREN: Joan Russell Turner; Channing Heard.

occupaTIon: Retail advertising manager, The New Yorker.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcorD: 8th Air Force, England, January, 1943-May, 1944;
O.S.S., Morale Operations, France, Luxemburg, Belgium, and Germany,
1944-June, 1945.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

PuBLications: “New York Blackout,” Collier’s and Readers’ Digest, 1941.

GEORGE OTIS RUSSELL, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 713 Boston Post Rd., Weston 93, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 60 Congress St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 20, 1904, Arlington, Mass. parents: George Otis Russell,
Emma Frances Dupee.

PREPARED AT: Culver Military Academy, Culver, Ind.,; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1927(28).

MargieD: Olive M. Johnson, Sept. 23, 1929, Belmont, Mass. cHILDREN:
Constance Adelaide, Dec. 30, 1930; Anne Frances, Feb. 1, 1932.

OccUPATION: Insurance agent and broker.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chairman, Price Panel, War Price & Rationing
Board, Weston, Mass.

OFFICES HELD: Director, 1942-48, president, 1944-48, Weston Golf Club;
town chairman (Weston), 1943, West Metropolitan chairman, 1945,
Greater Boston Community Fund, Standing Committee, 1947-51,
chairman, 1950-51, The First Parish in Weston; Executive Committee,
1948-51, secretary-treasurer, 1950-51, Massachusetts Golf Association;
incorporator, vice-president, Francis Ouimet Caddie Scholarship Fund,
Inc., 1949-51; Executive Committee, N. E. Golf Association, 1950-51;
secretary, Massachusetts Pre-Seniors Golf Association, 1949-51; town
chairman, Republican Finance Committee, Weston, 1950.

MEMBER oF: Weston Golf Club; Society of Colonial Wars.

THE insurance business still continues to be my bread and butter.
Since the last Class Report in 1947, I have purchased another
agency and am now in the process of merging the accounts.
Our elder daughter is now a senior at Wheaton College where
she is majoring in chemistry and is most enthusiastic about life
in a small college. Our younger daughter graduated in June,
1951, from Bradford Junior College and is now studying interior

~ [837]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

decorating in Boston. Both girls enjoyed a seven weeks’ trip to
Scotland, England, and France during the past summer.

As our two children grew up and attended boarding school
and college, my wife and I found that we had time to indulge
ourselves in various interests and hobbies. Life in a small suburb
of Boston gives opportunities to let off steam through not only
local interests, but also a few city and statewide affairs.

Although just an average golfer, I have become very much
interested in the state association and various affiliated organiza-
tions. As a consequence of my work with the Massachusetts
Golf Association, I was fortunate to become associated with the
group that organized the Francis Ouimet Caddie Scholarship
Fund. This fund makes scholarship grants to worthy caddies,
thereby enabling them to attend college. It is an absorbing
interest and brings contact with many sincere, hard-working,
ambitious boys, always with heart-warming and gratifying results.
We have several “Ouimet Scholars” in Harvard at present.

Our 250-year-old First Parish Church in Weston and local
charitable organizations have absorbed much of my time and
interests. Taken altogether, life has been reasonably full and
happy. Our travels have not been extensive; as, other than
trips to the South and Midwest, we have pretty well confined
ourselves to New England. My entire family is looking forward
to Reunion when we hope to renew old acquaintances.

GEORGE ROBERT RUSSELL

HOME aApDpRESS: 3001 Throckmorton St., Dallas 4, Texas.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Radio Station KSKY, Hotel Stoneleigh, Dallas, Texas.

BoRN: Dec. 12, 1905, Milton, Mass. parents: James Savage Russell, ’87,
Emily Tyson Perry.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B 1927(28); A.M., 1933.

MARRIED: Leuna Little, March 22, 1939, Rockwall, Texas.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Forbes Russell, 33, Robert Shaw Russell, 35.

OccUPATION: Radio announcer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered service April 9, 1942; technician sth
grade; stationed at Camp Wolters, Texas, Fort Crockett, Texas, Camp
Crowder, Missouri; Post Librarian, editor Fort paper; Special Services
instructor, separated Jan. 18, 1945. ,

MEMBER OF; Harvard Club of Dallas; Dallas Little Theatre.

[ 838 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER leaving Cambridge in the summer of 1927, I went to New
York for a year. In the summer of 1928 I joined a straw-hat
theatre at Scarborough, New York, under the direction of Ham-
ilton MacFadden and that fall I joined the Philadelphia Rice
Players of Boston. I later worked with the short-lived University
Film Foundation in Cambridge, and returned to Harvard for an
A.M. in English. In the fall of 1932 I went to Covina, California,
to teach at the California Country Day School for Boys under
Dr. Murray Brush.

I moved to Dallas, Texas, in 1934 where I taught English (et
al.) at the Texas Country Day School (now the St. Paul’s Epis-
copal School of Dallas) under headmaster Kenneth Bouvé. Since
then I have been in Dallas except when rhythm-stepping for
Uncle Sam (my induction was a dead loss to the country). I
have become a Texan, spelled in my case, “Southern Yankee.”
In 1939 I was lucky enough to find a most attractive girl who
could tolerate my absent-minded ways, and we have been married
nigh thirteen years. We are both active with the Dallas Little
Theatre, like to act, and help make shows go.

For a few years now I have enjoyed doing considerable Boy
Scout work, brought on through my position as officer in a
Dad’s Club (we have no children). Since June, 1945, I have
been associated with radio station KSKY, doing all the things that
announcers do.

Unless we bog down unexpectedly, we are looking forward
to seeing you this coming June. But don’t listen for a Texan
accent, I’m too much of a Yankee to have grown one.

HENRY STURGIS RUSSELL

HOME ApprEss: Casitas Road, Carpinteria, Calif,

BORN: Feb. 24, 1905, Milton, Mass. parents: Howland Sturgis Russell, Katha-
rine S. Thayer.

PREPARED AT: Santa Barbara School, Carpinteria, Calif,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924-

marrige: Caroline Towle, June 26, 1926, Boston, Mass. cumpren: Henry
Sturgis, Jr, April 10, 1927; Susan W,, Feb. 23, 1929; Howland S..
Feb. 27, 1933.

occupation: Agriculture.

[ 839 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

PHILIP CASTEEN RUTLEDGE

HOME AppREsS: Darien, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Moran, Proctor, Mueser & Rutledge, 420 Lexington Ave,
New York 17, N. Y.

BoRN: Feb. 17, 1906, Champaign, Ill. parents: George Rutledge, Rella
Casteen.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. .DEGREES: S.B. 19273 S.D. S.M. (Massachusetts
Inst. of Technology), 1933; s.p. (Harvard Univ.), 1939.

MARRIED: Dorothy Loomis, June 16, 1934, Hartford, Conn. cHiLpren: John
Loomis, Jan. 29, 1938; Cecily, March 21, 1940.

occupation: Consulting engineer; partner in firm specializing in foundations
and marine structures. .

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Consultant for Office, Chief of Engineers,
U. S. Army, on airfield pavement problems, frost action, permafrost,
and construction in arctic regions, etc., received War Department
Certificate of Appreciation for services in development of air field
pavements for very heavy aircraft during World War IL.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Soil Mechanics and Foundations Division, American
Society of Civil Engineers, 1949-51, U. S. National Committee on Soil
Mechanics, 1947-48; vice-chairman, U. S. National Council on Soil
Mechanics, 1948-52; panel chairman, Committee on Geophysics and
Geography, Research and Development Board, 1949-52; chairman,
technical committees in American Society of Civil Engineers, treasurer
and member Editorial Board, First International Conference on Soil
Mechanics and Foundation Engineering, 1936; professor of civil engi-
neering and chairman of department, Northwestern University, 1934-52.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Civil Engineers; American Institute of
Consulting Engineers; Boston Society of Civil Engineers, American
Geophysical Union, Highway Research Board; Sigma Xi, University
Club of Evanston; Harvard Club of Chicago; Phi Kappa Sigma.

PUBLICATIONS: Technical papers in Proceedings of American Society of
Civil Engineers and in miscellaneous proceedings of soil mechanics
meetings.

THIS twenty-fifth year after graduation from Harvard has
proved an eventful one in my career. On January 2, 1952, I
became a partner in the firm of Moran, Proctor, Mueser & Rut-
ledge (formerly Moran, Proctor, Freeman and Mueser),
consulting engineers, 420 Lexington Avenue, New York City.
This means stepping out of University life after eighteen years
of association as professor and as chairman of my department.
During these years I have carried on a private consulting prac-
tice in specialized foundation problems, which has finally increased

[ 840 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to the extent that I now welcome the opportunity to concentrate
on it entirely instead of having to divide my thoughts and efforts
between two responsibilities, however closely related. I look
forward with enthusiasm to the new venture with a firm whose
reputation is known the world over in the fields of foundation
engineering and marine structures.

Following graduation I spent a year at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, four years with a construction firm in
New York and with Stone and Webster Engineering Corpora-
tion, and then returned to the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology for graduate study. I received a Master’s degree
in 1933 and since have concentrated in research and teaching
in soil mechanics and foundation engineering. In 1939 I received
the degree of Doctor of Science from Harvard. The years
between then and now have been stimulating and satisfying, three
at the Harvard Graduate Engineering School, six at Purdue
University, and the last nine years at Northwestern’s new and
rapidly growing Technological Institute where, for the last five
years, I have been head of the Civil Engineering Department.
Relatively light teaching loads, time for research and writing, and
freedom to investigate interesting problems in the field from
coast to coast have made ideal working conditions. For many
years I have had close association with the research projects of
the armed forces in my field, particularly through services on
consulting boards for the Office of the Chief of Engineers
of the Army and for the Research and Development Board. This
has led to such interesting work as guiding the research in the
new field of snow, ice, and permafrost research and a field in-
vestigation of airfield pavements and military construction in
Alaska. Other projects have included work with the Atomic
Energy Commission and large industrial construction in all
parts of the country. My new work will be all over the world
at times, and it is this broadening of horizons that tempts me,
as well as a close association with my partners, two of whom I
have known and admired for many years.

Just before the Reunion we expect to be in the throes of
moving from Chicago to New York. This means leaving behind
perhaps our most interesting project of recent years, namely the
house we built in Winnetka. Shortly after the war, with plenty

[ 841 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

of sweat and agony, we finally achieved the perfect dream
house, both beautiful and functional: fireproof steel and masonry
structure, brick walls except for the south away from the street,
which is all thermopane glass, radiant heat, a bathroom for each
member of the family, and all the automatic equipment known
to woman. Everything runs on a push button, beginning with
the garage door. But such is the flexibiliry of human nature that
we now find ourselves looking at remodeled farm houses and
colonial houses around Darien and New Canaan, Connecticut,
optimistically reminding ourselves that we can always knock out
a few walls to let in more sun and modernize here and there.
Building is an interesting and, in our case, satisfactory experience
but also exhausting, and we have no desire to repeat it. The return
to our favorite part of the country, however, compensates for
many things. Our two children, John, fourteen, and Cecily,
twelve, whose main hobby is now showing two blue-ribbon
dachshunds at the local dog shows, look forward to a new interest
in dinghy sailing in the Sound, Lake Michigan having been too
unprotected and dangerous for small boat and small-fry sailing.

WENDELL EGERTON RYERSON

HOME ADDRESS: 12 Coulton Park, Needham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 945 Great Plain Ave., Needham, Mass.

BorN: April 3, 1906, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Harry Caldwell Ryerson,
Jennie Maude Rice.

PREPARED AT: Canton High School, Canton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; LL.B., 1930.

Marrigp: Susan I. Souther, June 17, 1937, Melrose, Mass. CHILDREN: Richard
Alan, May 6, 1942; Judith Ann, Jan. 17, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Selectman, Town of Needham, 1942-44.

MEMBER OF: Norfolk Lodge, A. F. & A. M.; St. Paul’s Chapter; Boston
Commandery; Aleppo Temple; Needham Rotary Club; Massachusetts
Bar Association; Norfolk County Bar Association; Masachusetts Con-
veyancer’s Asociation.

AFTER having been admitted to practice at the Massachusetts
Bar in 1930, 1 became associated with a Boston law firm and
remained with them until the spring of 1933. In that time of
bank holidays and universal thanksgiving to God for a leader
of such courage, vision, and wisdom to declare them, I decided

[ 842 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to establish practice in my home town of Needham, Massachu-
setts. I have often been sorely tempted, but not quite sufficiently,
to change that decision. The even ranks of commuters briskly
passing my home to catch the 8:15 and re-passing somewhat
more stolidly ten hours later have always acted as a sufficient
deterrent. Consequently my activities have been largely centered
about this community. I have served the town for two terms as
selectman and in various other capacities.

My legal practice has undoubtedly been shaped more by
coronary thrombosis than any other factor. The corona
widows are my most valued, most appreciative, although not
always the least troublesome of my clients. Nursing their modest
nest eggs and guarding them from the hungry clutches of
pseudo-investment councillors, practical nurses, and other assorted
adventurers has become a specialty with me, richly rewarding i in
a deep understanding of human nature and in the knowledge that
my clients have placed complete trust and confidence in me.

I have two children, Richard and Judith, aged nine and eight.
While most of my friends are busy attempting to balance the
scales between adequate college advantages for their children
and insolvency, my nearest approach to their plight is whether
Judy should receive ski boots this year or continue through the
rest of this winter with overshoes. Despite a very painful and
disabling injury while skiing on Thorn Mountain two years ago
I cannot bring myself to make the decision to give up skiing.
That one sport seems to me the acid test in determining when
one has resigned himself to decrepitude and the declining years.
My summer home on Cape Cod was given up last year at the
insistent demands of my children who are determined to see
Canada, Texas, and California before they die. We are still
looking forward to Texas and California.

SERGE SACKNOFF

HOME ADDRESS: 3734 Oliver St., N.W., Washington, D. C.

OFFICE AppREsS: Mayer & Co. Inc, 421 7th St, N.W., Washington, D. C.

BORN: Jan. 6, 1906, Portland, Maine. parents: Morris Sacknoff, Sara Esther
Bermann.

PREPARED AT: Portland High School, Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927,

[ 843 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MARRIED: Mary Louise Strauss, Jan. 4, 1942, Cincinnati, Ohio. cxiLp: Mari-
anne, Feb. 27, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Mayer & Company, Inc., furniture and interior
design.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U, S. Coast Guard Reserve, May 12, 1942; U.S.
Navy, June, 1943, gunnery officer, rank of lieutenant, served aboard
USS. Woonsocket, anti-submarine duty; separated September, 1945;
received European Theatre and American Coastal Defense ribbons.

MEMBER OF: Corcoran Art Gallery, Washington, D. C.; Harvard Club of
Washington, Woodmont Country Club; Campaign Fund Committee,
National Symphony Orchestra; American Institute of Interior Decora-
tors.

GEORGE HENRY SAGE

HOME ADDRESS: 34~24 82nd St., Jackson Heights, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 74 Trinity Pl, New York 6, N. Y.

BORN: Feb, 2, 1906, Cambridge, Mass. paRENTS: Samuel Sage, Dora Clemens.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B, magna cum laude, 1927; LL.B.,
1930; M.B.A., 1932.

MarRIED: Pauline C, Sage, Oct. 7, 1932, New York, N. Y.

occupation: Law.

PUBLICATIONS: Basing-Point Pricing Systems under the Federal Antitrust
Laws, 1951; innumerable articles on legal aspects of various legal prob-
lems in business.

UPON graduation from the College, I still lingered on the Har-
vard scene, serving two further “stretches.” First three years
were spent at the Law School; then, moving across the River to
be nearer the Stadium and its football games, two years at the
Business School. Unable to find any additional excuse for further
avoiding gainful employment, I sought the goal of every Jaw
school graduate — an association with a “leading” law firm. It
was located in Chicago, the “Windy City.” Besides the stock-
yards and the mail order houses, Chicago was then best known
for its gangland killings and rackets. I was undeterred, however.
On the strength of this job, Paula and I were married. With
warnings still ringing in our ears against strangers wearing soft
black hats and keeping their hands in their side pockets (in
the best “public enemy” style, as shown in the movies), we
regretfully bade “‘au revoir’ to the cultural charms of Boston and
proceeded west into the hinterland to seek our fortune.

[ 844 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

We remained in Chicago all of twelve years. Such stay
included the whole period of the Great Depression when the
popular song “Who's Afraid of the Big Bad Wolf?” was fast
on its way to becoming the popular national anthem, and the
early hectic years of the World War II period. My work at the
law firm, however, proved most interesting and absorbing, pro-
viding invaluable experience. The city itself offered to new-
comers, especially former Bostonians, certain attractions in its
easy-going and unrestrained mores. The natives proved most
friendly. Opportunity, which had somewhat tarried along the
way, finally knocked. We left Chicago to come to New York
City. Here we have remained, enjoying the variegations of the
city as eternal tourists with the greatest relish.

As for hobbies, mine are the “busman’s holiday” type. I
engage in legal research and writing. My training has included
Jaw, business, and economics; while my professional experience
has been principally in the corporation and business law fields.
I have accordingly acquired an intense interest in business, in
all its complexity. The systematic analysis of business setups and
operations, for the determination of the legal problems present,
in their legal, business, and economic aspects, has proved most
fascinating. This research, in which I engaged from the very
beginning of my career, has naturally led to the writing of lit-
erally scores of articles, while the writing of these articles has
naturally led to more ambitious projects — the writing and pub-
lication of a book, with another now in the seventh month of
the gestation stage.

Incidentally, I may add in passing, although the subject of
the book was a serious one (basing-point pricing system under the
Federal Antitrust Laws) yet, with one eye cocked on the mass
market, I spent sleepless nights trying to figure some way some-
how to work in a little sex. But try as I did, it was to no avail.
Basing-point pricing systems and sex just did not seem to mix.
My friends, however, with the same thought in mind are urging
me to write on a more appropriate subject.

The above summarizes very roughly the past years, ending on
an appropriate light note. The details I am leaving to my official
biographer. In closing, however, I may add that if there is any
rule of living that I have learned over the years it is never to take

[ 845 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

anything or anyone seriously, far less one’s self. Vanitas vanita-
tum, et omnia vanitas. It won't make any difference seventy-five
years from now — or less.

ARTHUR JOSEPH SALTMAN

HOME AbDpREsS: 79 Florence Ave., Revere, Mass.

BorN: March 8, 1907, Boston, Mass. paRENTS: Louis Saltman, Jennie Kaplan.
PREPARED AT: Senior High School, Revere, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MaRRIED; Rona Cohen, Dec. 23, 1934, Revere, Mass. (divorced July, 1942).

ARTHUR JOSEPH SALTMAN has been ill for many years.

JOHN BERTRAM SANDERS

HOME AppREss: 224 The Grange, Bermondsey, London S. E. 1, England.

OFFICE ADDRESS: c/o Cambridge Trust Co., Harvard Square, Cambridge, Mass.

BorN: March 14, 1897, Danvers, Mass. parents: Nathaniel Saltonstall Howe
Sanders, ’92, Mary Kemele Webb.

PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.; “La Villa” (Auckenthaler),
Lausanne, Switzerland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Helen Barker Craigie, June 6, 1928, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
John Bertram, Jr., March 31, 1929; Helen Bradley, Feb. 14, 1934.

RICHARD BLODGETT SANDERSON

HOME ADDRESS: 121 Raymond St., Cambridge 40, Mass.

OFFICE AppREsS: Sanderson List & Mailing Service, 121 Raymond St. Cam-
bridge, Mass.

BORN: July 9, 1905, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Ernest Jerome Sanderson, ’oo,
Marjorie Peabody.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928.

marriep: Louise F. Tyler, July 10, 1933, Whitinsville, Mass. cHitpren: Rich-
ard Blodgett, Jr., July 20, 1935; David Tyler, May 23, 1939.

occuPATION: Owner and operator of a mail advertising service for educa-
tional institutions.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active duty from May, 1942, to May, 1944; cap-
tain; service in U.S.

MEMBER oF: Mail Advertising Service Association, International.

ENJOYING all the excitement of my father’s Twenty-fifth
Reunion in 1925, the idea of my own Twenty-fifth Reunion,

[ 846 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

twenty-seven years from then was something that seemed so
remote and distant that it was very difficult to visualize. Now it
is here and the time seems very short indeed.

To give a brief resumé of my business activities since gradua-
tion (which have also appeared in previous Reports): a couple of
years’ experience as a salesman and another couple of years in
the production department of the Western Electric Company in
New Jersey found me at the height of the depression with no
job. So I decided that if no “boss” would have me I would
become my own “boss,” which I have been ever since. The busi-
ness is small, but very much specialized and unique so that com-
petition is at the minimum, but still enough to keep me striving
for improvements in services to be rendered. Most of my con-
tacts have been very “interesting.”

In 1933, after several years of postponing “on account of the
depression and out of a job,” I married a gitl who had attended
the same Cambridge public schools as I did, at the same time as
I did, and who graduated from Radcliffe in 1927 but whom I had
not “noticed” until 1928. And in 1952 we are still as much in love
as we were in the ’30’s. She has been a great help in the building
up of my business from scratch and did a wonderful job in keep-
ing it going for the two years that I was in the service.

My interest and activities, other than business, are practically
entirely wound up in my home and family. After the war I
acquired a thirteen-room house, built in the 18g0’s at a time when
houses really were constructed and not just thrown together.
Besides ample living quarters, I have sufficient space from which
to conduct my business, a chemistry laboratory set up in the
basement for my elder boy, and a playroom on the third floor
large enough for an electric train set-up, a ping-pong table, and
other smaller playroom features.

Interested as we are in schools from a business standpoint and
from the standpoint of parents of two school-age boys, both
my wife and I have been very actively associated with the local
P.T.A. groups; she, having been president for two years of the
elementary school association and I am now treasurer of the high
schoo] association.

My main thought, as I close this report, and one which is
probably uppermost in the minds of most parents of teen-age

[847].

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

boys, is what can be done and what will be done to eliminate
the vast uncertainty which exists now regarding the further educa-
tional and future business plans of all boys finishing high school.

ANDREW ROBB SANSON

LAST KNOWN aporess: Muskogee, Okla.

BoRN: Oct. 12, 1890, Muskogee, Okla. parents: William Herbert Sanson,
Mary Robb.

PREPARED AT: Henry Kendall Preparatory School.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926. DEGREES: B.R.E. (Boston Univ.), 1928; A.M. (San
Francisco Theological Seminary), 1936.

ANDREW ROBB SANSON has been carried as a “lost” man
on our records since 1947.

WILLIAM COOPER SARGENT, II

HOME ADDRESS: 470 Kittson St., St. Paul 5, Minn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Battery Co., St. Paul, Minn.

BorN: Dec. 11, 1906, St. Paul, Minn. parents: Howard Harrop Sargent, ’o1,
Mary Hale Cutler.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 72agna cum laude, 1927.

MARRIED: Antoinette Marie Huot, April, 1928, St. Paul, Minn.; Louise
McTyre, March 21, 1939, Daingerfield, Texas. cuitpren: Adele Huot,
Dec. 29, 19313 Ruth Cutler, Sept. 21, 1933.

OCCUPATION: Engineering.

+ HENRY SUYDAM SATTERLEE, JR.

BorN: Dec. 17, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: Henry Suydam Satterlee,
96, Ethel Alice Whitney.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926. DEGREE: A.B., 1027.

MARRIED: Asta Brandin.

DIED: Sept. 19, 1947, Pasadena, Calif.

WITHOUT attending college his senior year, Henry Suydam
Satterlee, Jr., finished his courses with a required English essay,
while tutoring in Bar Harbor, Maine, and later teaching at St.
Bernard’s School in New York. For the next year he travelled
and tutored in Florida, and from 1928 to 1933 he was an air-
plane and student pilot. He held various jobs with aircraft com-
panies, then went to Montana for two years. In 1936 he became

[ 848 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a flying student at the Aviation School in Dallas, Texas. Shortly
thereafter he joined the Northrup Corporation in Inglewood,
California. His home was in Pasadena.

WINFIELD GARVIN SAUNDERS

HOME ADDRESS: 49 Maplewood St., Larchmont, N. ¥.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1740 Broadway, New York 19, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 1, 1906, Winsted, Conn. parents: Norman Brown Saunders,
Grace Mabel Garvin.

PREPARED AT: Mount Vernon High School, Mount Vernon, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; J.D. (New York Univ.),

193K.
MARRIED: Julia A. Richardson, July 2, 1932, Florence, Mass. cHILDREN:

Judith Ann, May 16, 1933; Elizabeth Jean, July 16, 1936, Patricia
Eleanor and Penelope Grace (twins), April 7, 1939.
HARVARD BROTHER: Nelson Tillinghast Saunders, 33.

OCCUPATION: Assistant counsel, Mutual Life Insurance Company of New
York; legal work in connection with security investment matters.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; New York State Farm Bureau.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional article or story in popular magazines.

WITH me the quarter-century has been a period of gradually -
broadening and deepening of interests and activities rather than of
any particularly noteworthy achievements. Following gradua-
tion I had a brief fling at public accounting but found it uncon-
genial and switched to the law. I went to law school nights,
working daytimes on Wall Street. My first and only legal
employment has been my present job at which last year saw
my twentieth anniversary at the Mutual Life home office. My
diet now is security investment matters, especially “private
deals.”

My most successful effects, however, have been on the domestic
front. At the bottom of the Depression, Julia, a young school
teacher in Northampton, was bold enough to marry this poor
law clerk. Since then we have produced four daughters, each as
pretty as her mother and all smarter than either parent. Judith,
the eldest, is now completing her first year at Vassar —so the
wheel has almost made full circle already! Our home in Larch-
mont we acquired in 1938. Later this was supplemented by a
cabin cruiser we operated with uncertainty and confusion on the
waters of Long Island Sound. This has now been most happily

[ 849 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

replaced by the farm, complete with 144 rocky acres in Dutchess
County. (A Pore Place but Mine Own!)

My interests and hobbies have become embarrassingly profuse.
My major at college was fine arts, but this interest has faded
slightly and is now at the level of genteel but sporadic dilettantism.
Other fields which I never studied, however — philosophy and
theology — have become absorbing. I have also dallied with
photography, oil painting, and abnormal psychology. But from
here on out, my spare time will be divided between various
projects at the farm and my efforts to make further sales of

opular stories and articles in magazines. I’ve changed the least
politically — still slightly left of center: anti-McCarthy et al., pro
U.N. and internationalism. The next quarter-century I anticipate
with as much if not more gusto than the last. In spite of the
most dismal foreboding so far as the world in general is con-
cerned, I expect nothing but good to come my way —and to
hell with consistency!

MAX SAVA

HOME ADDRESS: % David Sava, 44 Crawford St., Roxbury, Mass.

BorN: Nov. 28, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Jacob Sava, Anne Wein.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MEYER SAVAL

HOME AppRESS: 26 Aquavia Rd., Medford, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Saval's Inc., 420 Salem St., Medford, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 5, 1905, Pawtucket, R. 1. parents: Joseph Saval, Eva Meyers.

prepAReD AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925.

MaRrRieD: Jeanctte Kopelman, July 8, 1931, Chicago, Ill. ctimpren: Dorothy,
Oct. 10, 1932; Richard Allen, Sept. 3, 1938, Lois Ann, July 19, 1949.

OCCUPATION: President, Saval’s Inc., 5¢ to $5.00 retail stores.

OFFICES HELD: President, Everett Lodge of B'nai B'rith, 1951-52.

MEMBER OF: B'nai B'rith; Harvard-Radcliffe-Hillel Foundation.

AFTER leaving college, I went to work for a variety chain store
firm, currently known as the HI. L. Green Company. This turned
out to be one way of secing most of the country, for in my
travels for this firm, I spent some time in most of the large cities
comprising the area encompassed by New York City, Balti-

[ 850 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

more, Louisville, Duluth, and Butte. On one of my trips to
Fargo, North Dakota, in 1930, I met the girl I married the follow-
ing year. For this alone I am grateful to my old firm! On
October 10, 1932, our first child, Dorothy, was born in Everett,
Massachusetts. She’s grown up to be quite a young lady and is
now a sophomore at Brandeis University where she’s on the Dean’s
List. She must take after her mother who was an honor student
at the University of Wisconsin.

From 1933 to 1941, I managed stores in New York City for my
firm. The only event of interest, as far as I’m concerned,
occurred during the wee hours of September 3, 1938, when I kept
pacing the corridors of the Polyclinic Hospital untul 5 A.M. Dr.
Hawks was a “regular guy” and invited me into the delivery
room where I met Richard for the first time. At this time we
thought our family was complete. From 1941 to 1944, I was with
the John Shillito Company, Cincinnati, as a department manager
and buyer. In 1944 I went into business for myself by purchas-
ing a 5¢ to $5 store. In 1946 a second unit was added. These two
stores keep me reasonably busy but leave me enough time to
participate in some community affairs. On July 19, 1949, we
added our third unit; but this one was another daughter rather
than another store. With our first two children independent in
all respects except financial, the baby is a great joy to both my
wife and me. That’s the story as of ’52.

ROBERT SINCLAIR SAVORY

HOME ApprEss: 186 Toll Gate Rd., Warwick, R. I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Newton Cemetery, Newton, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 11, 1904, Newtonville, Mass. parents: Edward Everett Savory,
’06, Lida May Ross.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

Marrigp: Eleanor Angier Davies, Nov. 24, 1928, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Robert Sinclair, Jr.. June 26, 1929; Dean Rose, June 13, 1931; Richard
Edward, 1937; Linda Angier, 1942; twin sons, 1934 (died 1944).

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Everett Savory,.’29.

OCCUPATION: Assistant superintendent, Newton Cemetery.

AFTER over twenty years as salesman and sales manager, I am
now the assistant superintendent of the Newton Cemetery , New-
ton Massachusetts. I worked here eleven years to get money

[ 851]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

enough to go to Harvard, and now Harvard has completed
the cycle.

ALBERT HAROLD SAYER

HOME ADDRESS: 1270 E. 19th St., Brooklyn 30, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: High School of the Air, 29 Fort Greene Pl., Brooklyn 1,
N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 20, 1907, Springfield, Mass. parents: Raphael Swirsky, Rose
Albert.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927; A.M.
(Columbia Univ.), 1932.

MarRiED: Florence P. Ritter, July 7, 1930, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Susan Marian, July 25, 1934; Michael Irwin, April 4, 1941.

occupation: Teacher of social studies, Board of Education, New York City.

OFFICES HELD: President, Association of Teachers of Social Studies (New
York City), 1942-43; vice-president, New York Teachers’ Guild (Local
z, American Federation of Teachers, AFL), 1940-50.

MEMBER OF: National Council for the Social Studies.

PUBLICATIONS: Economics in Our Democracy, Harper, 1950; Revising Our
Tax Structure — New York State and New York City, 1941; Materials
for the Study of Economics, 1935, revised 1941; miscellaneous articles
on supervision in the social studies, ability grouping of high school
students, and other educational problems.

PVE BEEN postponing this “life” because I’ve wondered how
one writes about oneself (for publication) without sounding like
a smugly successful materialist, or a whiningly unsuccessful
materialist, or a starry-eyed idealist. Perhaps also it’s that, since
I do a lot of writing, this project is just another desk job instead
of a psychiatric adventure. And how does anyone who is not an
extrovert and a talented writer convey to others those intangibles
which have brought each of us a particular mixture of happiness
and unhappiness?

I can’t complain. As I look back over the quarter-century, |
find it hard to think of any moment that wasn’t tough and ex-
citing. Never the despair of being unemployed, nor the tense-
ness of digging for gold; not even the pressure of “meeting a pay-
roll.” But the job of making a living in the way you want to,
the zest of joining in the fights for significant causes, the satis-
faction of seeing your kids grow up with a strong feeling for
those values in life which are independent of fame and fortune.

[ 852]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

On second thought I do have a complaint, not for myself but
on behalf of the profession in which my wife and I have worked
together for twenty years. It is the oldest of the noble profes-
sions, but the one most taken for granted. You who are reading
this — you pay as much as is necessary to get the best medical,
legal, accounting, and engineering services available. But have
you ever stopped to figure out how much you and your fellow-
citizens should be willing to pay to get the best possible teaching
services for the young people of this country, so that each gener-
ation of Americans will be effectively prepared to fulfill their
responsibilities in carrying on our free way of life? Have you
done your share to help your community solve this problem?

Twenty years now of aiding young men and women to grapple
with the most complex problems the world has ever faced. Why
did we have depression and unemployment? What was the
real meaning of the New Deal? Why did we go to war? Who
was responsible for the postwar inflation? How can we preserve
and improve democracy? You think you have a hard job!
Twenty years of resisting bigots, chauvinists, and Fascists who
pressure subservient officials into restricting freedom of teaching;
of checking the ceaseless efforts of Communists and fellow-
travellers to control and exploit professional organizations,
trade unions, and civic groups. Nerve-wracking, but fun!

Most important of all, twenty years of talking shop with the
Mrs. — it was she who sold me the idea of going into teaching.
She has an inexhaustible fund of stories about her precocious
misfits and their doting parents — she is a specialist in the teaching
of “deviates,” the extremely bright and the slow learners; but in
recent years has been in an experimental school for the bright.
My primary interest has been improving the teaching of
economics, as well as history and geography, to high school
students. So I’ve served on curriculum committees, taught spe-
cial classes, and worked out text materials. For the last three
years, however, I have been associated with an experimental
project for teaching homebound students through radio and
television. So there has never been a lack of material for shop
talk at the dinner table.

And there has been a normal amount of home life, too; ever
since Susie came into a troubled world, and we had the assistance

[ 853 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

of a wonderful Father Divine follower in getting Susie bathed,

dressed, and fed. Some of this woman’s predictions of good things

to come proved to be true. To Susie we have preached, “To

thine own self be true.” Now that she is away at college, and

on her own, we'll see how well we succeeded. Mike is too young

for philosophy, and is busy propagandizing for a special high |
school in which the core of the curriculum would be sports,

especially baseball. I command his respect because, despite

certain signs of middle age, I can still beat him at baseball,

handball, tennis, etc.; not much longer, though, and as soon as
Mike collects a sizeable bonus from the Dodgers for signing a
contract, I quit working.

Speaking of retirement reminds me that I’ve gone back to
school. After a gap of fifteen years I’ve entered upon a bit of
research work at Columbia, in the field of municipal finance, to
carry further some work I did ten years ago. In two or three
years I hope to have something to say on that subject — if
anybody will sull be around to listen.

MADISON SAYLES

HOME ApprEess: Four Winds Farm, Box 394, R.R. 1, Chestnut Hill Rd.,
Norwalk, Conn.

OFFICE appress: W. B. Bradbury Co., 122 E. qznd St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: July 31, 1905, Clematis Brook, Mass. Parents: Dwight Madison
Sayles, Eliza Marian Morrison.

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; M.B.A., 1929(30).

marRieD: Dolores Maddocks, Sept. 30, 1933, Winchester, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Irving Monroe Sayles, ’22; Howard Walling Sayles, ’28.

occuPATION: Publishers’ representative, partner, W. B. Bradbury Company.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant varsity football coach, 1927-31, head coach, varsity
lacrosse, 1927-31, assistant dean, Graduate School of Business Adminis-
tration, 1929-32, Harvard University; director, Cranbury Association,
Norwalk, Conn., since 1947, trustee, Norwalk General Hospital, since
1950.

MEMBER OF: Hlarvard Club of New York.

AFTER graduation I went to the Harvard Business School.
While studying there I proctored in the freshman dorms, coached
various divisions of the football teams including the varsity,
coached the varsity lacrosse team, and played football for Battery
A and the South Boston Fittons, After struggling to get my

[ 854]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Master’s degree, I was an assistant to the Dean at the Business
School. During the summer of 1931 I guided a tour through
Europe, I, who had never been east of Boston Light and spoke no
foreign languages. ‘The next summer I took a group of people
to the west coast to see the Olympic games. Again I was un-
travelled in that direction never having been west of Springfield,
Massachusetts. That fall a guy by the name of Warren Bradbury,
’29, and I started a publishers’ representative business in New
York City, representing college comic magazines. That next
year I was married and started living in Darien, Connecticut.
During 1934-35, my wife and I toured this country visiting most
of the colleges to get their magazine business. In 1935 we built
a house which my wife designed. This was in Darien. The
next year we took a Caribbean cruise. After working like dogs
on our Darien twelve acres, we decided we wanted more to do.
Crazy! So we toured lower Connecticut until we finally found
in 1940, our sixty-eight-acre farm in Norwalk where we now
live. It has a pre-Revolutionary house to which everyone who has
owned it has added, including ourselves. We moved just in time
to have the war catch us trying to get started as farmers. The
war, of course, killed most of our business with the colleges, so
we, Brad and I, went into the manufacturing of mattress covers,
mosquito bars, etc., for the armed services. They, the services,
wouldn’t have me because of my bum eyes so I fought the war
as an air raid warden. After the war we went to Florida for
a brief stay for two winters and in 1949 went to Bermuda. With
- the Korean crisis the colleges were hit again so Brad and I decided
to represent the newspapers at the various army and air bases,
still with the youth market. We also are publishing yearbooks
for colleges and schools by offset process which enables them to
get excellent books at a low cost. I’m sort of semi-retired since
Brad and I both go in to the office on Wednesdays and then
only one of us goes in until the next Tuesday. It works swell.
As for our livestock, we have three dogs: a St. Bernard, “Penny
Sayles,” twin white collies, “Bargain Sayles” and “January White
Sayles”; plus Nubian milk goats, sheep, hens, steer, ducks, geese,
guinea hens, etc. If you're feeling hungry we'll fix you up. My
latest war effort is being an auxiliary policeman. I’m a sergeant,
no less, small brass! Oh, yes, I’m a dyed-in-the-wool Republican.

[855 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

I’m tired of a necktie salesman, who was a poor one at that. Let’s
change him for a better person all around.

+ HENRY FRANKLIN SAYWARD

BORN: June 11, 1905, Allston, Mass. PARENTs: William Allen Sayward, Mary
Elizabeth Hayes.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.

marrigD: Mildred Vera Fenton, Dec. 31, 1932, Allston, Mass. cyto: Dorothy
Jennifer, Jan. 8, 1935.

pieD: July 17, 1943, Brighton, Mass.

HENRY FRANKLIN SAYWARD majored in economics, his-
tory, and government at Harvard and won the Burr Scholarship
for his senior year. Following graduation he became associated
with Lever Brothers Company in Cambridge. He started as
messenger and worked his way up to head of the sales super-
vision department, the position he held at the time of his death.
He was active in community affairs, was a Past Master of Eben-
ezer Fuller Lodge, A.F. and A.M., of Brighton, and a 32nd
degree Scottish Rite Mason. He was residing in Lexington at
the time of his death and was survived by his wife and daughter.

LAWRENCE EUGENE SCHEFFREEN

HOME ADDRESS: 299 W. 12th St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Empire Lithographing Co., 333 Hudson St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 19, 1907, Dorchester, Mass. parents: Charles J. Scheffreen, Dora
Fogel.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

marriep: Alice Hailparn, Sept. 23, 1940 (divorced 1951). CHILDREN: Bernard,
1933 (adopted); William, 1937 (adopted).

HARVARD BROTHER: Bertram Fogel Scheffreen, ’24.

occupation: Lithographic sales.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S, Army, March, 1943-October, 1945.

THINKING over the last twenty-five years, what I have done
and what has been done to me — some events good, some bad,
some happy, and some sad—I realize there is one thing “for
sure”: the next twenty-five are going to be different. In fact,
the sheer elapse of twenty-five years will take care of the differ-
ence.

[ 856 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM EDWARD SCHEVILL

HOME aAbDpREss: Concord, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Mass.; Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods
Hole, Mass.

BORN: July 2, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: William Valentine Schevill,
Elizabeth Porter Meier.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 10923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; A.M., 1929.

MaRRIED: Barbara Lawrence, Dec. 23, 1938, Concord, Mass. CHILDREN:
Lee, Oct., 1945; Edward, Jan., 1948.

OCCUPATION: Scientist; associate curator of invertebrate paleontology,
Museum of Comparative Zodlogy; associate in physical oceanography,
Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II, O.S.R.D.; duties with Navy.

I HAVE remained at Harvard in the Museum of Comparative
Zodlogy and lately have also been working at oceanography for
the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. Before the war
fossil-hunting used to lead to a good deal of travel; more recently
I have also taken to the water and have been devoting a good
deal of time and effort to studying and recording the underwater
sounds made by whales and other talkative aquatic animals.
When not away on this sort of business, I try to take comfort
at Concord.

HUGO CHRISTIAN SCHLAIKJER

HOME ApprEss: Vineyard Rd., P. O. Box 273, Halesite, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE aDpRESS: Gibbs & Hill, Inc., Pennsylvania Station, New York, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1904, Newtown, Ohio. parents: Erich Hansen Schlaikjer,
Clara Ryser.

PREPARED AT; Winner High School, Winner, S. Dak.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREE: S.B. IN E.E., 1927.

MarrteD: Dorothy Parsons Beardsley, Dec. 29, 1934, Brooklyn, N. Y. CHILD:
Dana Christian, Dec. 26, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Oscar Asmus Schlaikjer, °26, LL.B. °28; Erich Maren
Schlaikjer, ’28.

OccupATION: Electrical engineer with Gibbs & Hill, Inc., supervising elec-
trical design work.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Electrical Engineers; Gas Engineering
Society of New York City; Harvard Engineering Society; "Masonic
Lodge No. 855, Port Washington, N. Y. "

[ 857]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927:

UPON graduation in 1927, I joined the Brooklyn Edison Com-
pany, as a cadet engineer. ‘Then I kept busy learning the utility
business from all angles. We built the largest and most modern
steam electric station in the world and all the stuff that goes
with such an enterprise. Everything went along fine; then in
1937 the Consolidated Edison Company of New York absorbed
Brooklyn Edison. Then I started modernizing power plants in
New York City. Modernizing means to rebuild antique power
stations to be many times more powerful (in less than original
space) and making them satisfactory to everybody in New
York. That means no noise, no smoke, no smell, and practically
no profit. A power plant makes a wonderful football for the city
politicians. Be

Well, I guess I learned the utility business from top to bottom
— engineering, personnel, statistics, customer relations, and even
a few years in the gas production department. For the last I
gained the reputation of being a darned good gas engineer, which
is an accomplishment for an electrical engineer. During World
War II, I did my bit in the Edison Company keeping everybody
supplied with sufficient and reliable power.

In March, 1951, after twenty-four years of the utility business,
_ I joined Gibbs & Hill, Inc., consulting and design engineers in
New York City. Now we are engaged in a big job for the Atomic
Energy Commission down South. I’ve got a pretty big and im-
portant part of it and find it very interesting. It is too bad so much
has to be spent for such projects, but perhaps it will ultimately
prove worth while.

During my spare time | relax with fishing, wood-working,
shopwork, and one of my first loves — geology. I owe a lot to
geology, since it helped send me through Harvard. My political
beliefs are brief. Along with millions of others, I believe we
have had too much of our present administration. We are not
going in the right direction, and the sooner we all realize it the
better. The present-day politician gives the people what they
want and disregards any consideration of what is needed to
preserve our liberties. We are paying more and more for less
and less.

[ 858 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD BELL SCHNEIDER

HOME ADDRESS: 26 Stoneleigh Park, Westfield, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: W. R. Grace & Co. 7 Hanover Sq., New York, N. Y.

BorN: March 14, 1906, Binghamton, N. Y. parents: Frederick George
Schneider, Rose Amelia Bell.

PREPARED AT: Binghamton Central High School, Binghamton, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Irene Mildred Edmonds, April 18, 1931, Syracuse, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Richard Edmonds, July 29, 1935; Gretchen, June 12, 1939.

OCCUPATION: Assistant vice-president, head, Chemical Development Depart-
ment, W. R. Grace & Company.

MEMBER OF: Chemical Market Research Association; Commercial Chemical
Development Association; Society of Chemical Industry; American
Chemical Society; Boston Security Analysts Society; Harvard Club of
Boston; Harvard Club of New York; Weston Golf Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Warious miscellaneous articles for trade papers and journals.

IN CONTRAST to others of the histories appearing herein, my
career has been distinguished mainly by daily work to earn the
ordinary living needs and a few of the more modest luxuries. I
am increasingly sickened by the knowledge of the hypocrites
and parasites in government service, the dishonesty and double-
dealing which consume my tax dollars and then demand more for
the same questionable ends. I am not necessarily bitter, but
certainly thoroughly disgusted. Even were I so inclined, the
nature of my business is not such that I could participate in polit-
ical activities. Hence I can only express my feelings and hope
that, combined with those of others, they may grow in influence
and “chase the rascals out.”

We have lived in several cities in as many states, have affiliated
with the Presbyterian churches in three of them and with the
Congregational church in our present community. Our two
children are popular in school and with their friends, like New
England, and seem to be developing sound and _ individual
personalities. |

My own work necessitates considerable travel and association
with leading industrial companies in the chemical and related
fields and with major financial houses and institutional investors
as well. It is sufficiently interesting and profitable to keep us
content except on occasions when we make a determined search
through House and Garden, Holiday, and the Sportsmen’s Show

[859]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

at Grand Central Palace. I probably should have more hobbies

than golf and tennis and by the time I am completely bald, perhaps
I shall.

(Before this Report went to press the Secretary was informed
that Schneider had resigned from Arthur D. Little, Inc., as of
December 31, 1951 and was moving to New York to join W. R.
Grace & Company as an assistant vice-president to head the
newly created Chemical Development Department.)

LEOPOLD JOHN SCHREIBER

HOME ADDRESS: 127 Court St., Plymouth, Mass.

BorN: Oct. 16, 1904, Plymouth, Mass. parents: Leopold Joseph Schreiber,
Mary Smith.

PREPARED AT: Plymouth High School, Plymouth, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B.. 1927(28).

NORMAN WARREN SCHUR

HOME AppRESS: Davis Hill Road, Weston, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 515 Madison Ave. New York 22, N. Y.

Born: Oct. 7, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Isaac Harry Schur, Martha
Reinherz.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926. DEGREES: A.B. sumrmia cum laude, 1927(26); LL.B.
(Columbia Univ.), 1930.

MARRIED: Rosabelle Paris, Dec. 21, 1928, New York, N. Y.; Marjorie Tas,
Dec. 31, 1941, Greenwich, Conn. cHILDREN: Joanna, aged 8; Christopher,
aged 4; Moira, aged 1.

HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Leon Schur, °17 (deceased).

occuPATion: Attorney-at-law, senior member of law firm of Simons, Schur
& Straus.

OFFICES HELD: President and chairman Board of Directors, American Man-
agement Counsel, Inc.; treasurer, University Foundation, Incentive In-
stitute; member trustee, Parapsychology Foundation, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa Society; National Democratic Club.

pusLications: Author of legal section in Harper's “Big Business Thinking
For Your Business” (tentative title) to be published by Harper’s, March,
1952.

MY FIRST three autobiographical exercises were in the form of
extremely long novels which somchow failed to get themselves

[ 860 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

published. Since I suspected all along that they weren’t going
to be read by anybody, I was able to let myself go. In this case,
with a ready-made publisher and readership, I feel appropriately
inhibited.

I graduated in 1926 (as of 1927). I had majored in Latin and
Italian literatures (a field, I believe, especially created to meet
my individual tastes) but had somehow also taken the required
pre-medical courses and had enrolled at the Harvard Medical
School. My diploma indicates that | was awarded swmmos bonores
in the eclectic field just described and that I received my A.B.
summa cum laude. | was made a Sheldon Fellow and continued my
studies, particularly in medieval Romance literature, at the Uni-
versity of Rome and the Sorbonne. The split-personality problem
indicated by the above record was somehow solved by regis-
tration at Harvard Law School — obviously on the theory that a
man who didn’t know whether he wanted to be a physician of
the body or a physician of the soul had to become a lawyer.
After a year at Harvard Law School I transferred to Columbia
Law School, from which I graduated in 1930. (The transfer
had in it no element of disloyalty — it was not that I loved my
alma mater less but that I loved a certain girl residing in New
York more.) Almost immediately following my graduation
from Columbia Law School, I went to work for Proskauer,
Rose & Paskus (now Proskauer, Rose, Goetz & Mfendelsohn).
They hired me, I believe, not for my excellence as a lawyer but
because my dossier indicated that I spoke a number of foreign
languages and they had a number of foreign clients. As a student
of Latin and Italian literature who had enrolled at medical school
and became a lawyer, I was not surprised when, as a lawyer
hired because of fluency in a few foreign languages, I found my
work confined to Surrogate’s practice, strictly in English.

My three-year apprenticeship in desk work as a decedent’s
estate and inheritance tax expert hardly satisfied my idealized
image of myself as a forensic giant. I fashioned my own shingle
and have been keeping up the overhead ever since. At Colum-
bia Law School, due to the accident of alphabetical arrange-
ment of names, I met one Gustave Simons, who became and has
since remained my best friend. After years of reciprocal refer-
ence of legal matters (he to me in general practice and I to him

[ 861 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

we decided to consolidate the files and in

in tax cases), Straus,
formed the law partnership of Simons, Schur & Straus

Our firm has an interesting and varied practice, revo
i reat semantic problem. P,

about a specialty which raises 4 § jo?” and it is b
I meet keep asking me: “What do you O: ar
keep the answer brief. We serve chiefly large Corporations
their executives and are called in as “specialist's specialists
other law firms, accountants, banks, investment houses, mang
ment engineers or labor relation consultants to formulate
ductive Capital Formation programs for their clients. Such p.
grams implement some twenty provisions of Revenue Ae
intended to encourage the development of productive capit
through tax incentives. These include profit-sharing trusts, r
search and educational foundations, resource development cor
panies, foreign development companies, business holding compa
Mies, asset alionment companies, personal trusts, satellite develop.
ment companies, stock bonus trusts, executive incentive com-
panies, etc.

Cornelia, the mother of the Gracchi, pointed to her children
a et “These are my jewels.” That was a different kind of
lovely wife named i this field I must say that I acquired a

arjorie Tas on New Year’s Eve in 1941,

who

y bes Produced three fine children, Joanna, aged eight, Chris-

cn > aged four, and Moira, aged one. We live in Weston,
Hecticut, in a house constructed IN 1710

HOME ADDRESS: W oodstock, N, Y.

; 1904, Mil i
Birkenwald. 4+ Niulwaukee, Wis. PARENTS: Charles Schuster, Rose
PREPARED AT; Phillips Ex

et
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927, mandemy, Exeter, N. i.
‘ . ‘ RE :

(Univ. of Vienna), 1934 BS: A.B. eur laude, 1927; A.M. 19303 DR-PHIL-
OccuPATION: Research.
PUBLICATIONS: Eyybyoj

: oider
1936, no, 202; o vebtember

, Josef § . 3) 1935, . 87-06: tember,
der ‘bildenden Kune YBOwski, Spuren PP 7-96; Man, Septembeh
Monumenta oo

. delber. ndogermanischen Glauben
Serica, Pej 8 1936, PP- 326-44 (interpolation);
» PP. 21-80; Asia, January, 1937-

[ 862 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

- LOUIS NATHANIEL SCHWARTZ

HOME ApDpDRESS: 43 Druce St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 484 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1905, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Nathan Schwartz, Anne Han-
flig.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.D. (Univ. of Chicago),

1932.
MARRIED: Shirley B. Ruby, Dec. 22, 1933, Brookline, Mass. cuitpreNn: Neil
Jay, Feb. 9, 1938; Peter Alan, Jan. 10, 1941; Michael Lee, May 21, 1950.

occupPaTION: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commander, U. S. Navy, 1942-46; two years’
service in the Southwest Pacific and Philippines, with a base hospital
unit, and medical officer aboard an ammunition ship.

MEMBER OF: Masons; Boston City Hospital Alumni Association, Zeta Beta
Law Club; Phi Delta Epsilon; Massachusetts Medical Society; National
Gastroenterological Society.

TWENTY-FIVE years ago, 1 was an average student rather
confused, but being normal in being confused. Mature in
accepting my responsibilities and the challenge of growth; imma-
ture to the extent of living in an introverted world. It was this
ambivalent existence that caused my confusion. One day I was
a Republican, the next a Democrat, a capitalist then a socialist,
an atheist and then a high priest. It seems as if I was trying to
find myself in some cause or objective whereby I could gain
recognition or happiness.

The confused student of nineteen twenty-seven has developed
into a balanced mature man. What I am today is the result of
my marriage, my life in hospitals, the Navy, and, in great meas-
ure, my patients. For it is in their problems and their solutions
that I actually found myself. The recognition of “myself” is
my basic happiness or emotional maturity. It all stems from the
_ fact that I cam exist alone in a real world and be content and

happy. My personal identification to myself is “well being.”

moron can have basic happiness. With my limited “grey
matter” I have attempted to add as much of the worldly goods
as I could obtain. Homes, automobiles, friends, money, travel,
clubs, a profession, and a family have enriched the past twenty-
five years of my life.

The first fifteen years after leaving Harvard were spent in

[ 863 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Medical School and at the Boston City Hospital. I was an intern,
resident, and executive during the depression at the city institu-
tion. It was this close contact with thousands of human beings
from all walks of life that broadened my outlook in regard to
human life and what little true happiness most people get out of
a lifetime. It is amazing how few people ever stop long enough
to question what they should try to get out of a lifetime.

My four years in the Navy covered time spent in the Southwest
Pacific, Philippines, and a short stay in Australia. 1 was on many
of the small islands in the Pacific with a small base hospital and
finished my tour of duty as medical officer aboard an ammunition
ship. The islands were significant because of their coral, natives,
malaria, dengue fever, diarrhoea, and shells. The life of a medical
officer aboard an ammunition ship could be a monotonous one.
All in all, life in the Navy wasn’t bad but I wouldn’t demand a
repeat performance.

My home, my three boys, God bless them, my garden, and
work are all the hobbies for which I have time. I suppose I get
as much pleasure out of football, baseball, hockey, and horse-
racing as the average American does. My patients are my pride
and joy. It is extremely gratifying to feel their confidence in
me, and to see how much happiness I can make them feel in
themselves. Their “well-being” makes me feel “good,” and in
addition, they pay me, hence I get paid twice for my efforts.

With all these blocks of added happiness, my life still would
not have been complete. One must find a mature woman in order
to have absolute happiness. Such a state can be obtained only in
a mature union. Each partner builds a competitive different world
for his mate. The woman builds an emotional and the man an
economical world and the building progresses on a competitive
basis. Each contribution is merely an expression or signpost of
their love. Such a union can create enormously not only for
society but with equal intensity for itself. Many great men have
given of themselves and their fortunes to society, but have never
been able to create an intense life for themselves. It seems to me
that their drive was merely a search for a mature woman. If
obtained, their drive would have been an expression rather than
a search for a constant intense feeling. What a difference!

[ 864 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD SANDERS SCOTT

BORN: Sept. 8, 1904, Kittery Point, Maine. parents: Hugh David Scott, ’98,
Helen Livingston Sanders.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923~1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MaRRIED: Caroline Hunnewell, June 6, 1937, Boston, Mass. cHi_pren: Rich-
ard Sanders, Jr., Oct. 27, 1938; Caroline H., Oct. 29, 1940.

pieD: Dec. 7, 1942, in North Africa.

DURING his freshmen year Richard Sanders Scott played on the
football, hockey, and baseball teams, and was a member of the
Freshman Jubilee Committee. Throughout the rest of his under-
graduate years, he played on the Second Football Team and
the Hockey Team and held memberships in the Varsity Club,
S. K. Club, Porcellian Club, and Hasty Pudding-Institute of 1770.
After graduation he travelled in Europe and in the fall he entered
Cambridge University to study history. He spent the next
summer at Professor Zimmern’s School of International Study at
Geneva and, after returning home, he taught English in the
Evans School in Tucson, Arizona. Late in 1929 he joined J. P.
Morgan & Company where he worked until 1934. He then
took a job with the government in Washington, and _ later
became associated with the Fiduciary ‘Trust Company in New
York.

With the outbreak of World War II, Scott went with the first
group to Plattsburg in 1940. He was commissioned in the New
York State Guard upon his return and shortly thereafter was
sent on a special mission to Spain, France and Switzerland. In
1942 he became a captain in the U. S. Army Air Forces and
went overseas as a Combat Intelligence Officer with a squadron
of B-24’s. In England he was promoted to Group Intelligence
Officer of the 93rd Bombardment Group. After being overseas
just three months, he was killed over Oran in North Africa on the
first anniversary of Pearl Harbor.

[ 865 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

BARRETT SCUDDER

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Fairway Lane, Northbrook, Ill.

OFFICE appREss: Jas. P. Marsh Corp., 3501 Howard St., Skokie, Tl.

BORN: Sept. 2, 1904, Chicago, Il]. parents: John Arnold Scudder, Alice
Barrett.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Joan Stuart, May 4, 1929, Hubbard Woods, Ill. (divorced 1951).
CHILDREN: Stuart, June 16, 1932; Alice, Sept. 2, 1935.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Armold Barrett Scudder, ’25 (deceased).

occupation: President, Jas. P. Marsh Corporation, manufacturers of
pressure gauges and heating equipment.

OFFICES HELD: Alderman, Lake Forest, Ill, 1948-51.

MEMBER OF: Onwentsia Club, Winter Club, Chicago; Commonwealth
Club.

ON LEAVING college, a decision had to be made, and promptly,

as to what to do for a living. I ran through some of the possibil-

ities, such as streetcar motorman, taxi-driver, gas station attendant,

and other semi-technical jobs for which I considered myself

qualified by my training in engineering and economics. Well, I

finally got a job as a trainee in the Buda Company, manufacturing

gasoline motors, at twenty-five cents per hour and supper money

for overtime. How things have changed! Marriage ensued in

1929, children came along, and I changed to a better job to

keep pace with my new and growing responsibilities, moved to

Lake Forest, Illinois, and settled down until the depression socked

in, which upset all plans for a while and somewhat cramped my

style economically. By a stroke of good fortune (and this

shows that it’s an ill wind that doesn’t blow somebody good) a

company manufacturing gauges and other gadgets was about to

go defunct because of this same depression. At this point Connie

Olmsted, ’29, and I pounced upon the opportunity, bought the

remains of Jas. P. Marsh & Company, and have spent the last

eighteen years trying to rejuvenate it— with moderate success

and mostly for the benefit of Uncle Sam.

The children — now no longer children — have occupied most
of my spare time, outside of games of squash and tennis (now
reduced to doubles only) and very occasional games of golf.
(What a game!) Most of my summers are spent at a camp in
Canada, where we sail, swim, and very infrequently fish. Now

[ 866 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the family is broken up, with Stuart, aged nineteen, at Colorado
College, and Alice, aged sixteen, at Farmington, and me living
alone with “Butch,” a friendly Dalmatian (or almost Dalmatian).

Politically, I have limited my interests to local problems, having
served on the city council of Lake Forest as alderman for
several years. I received a unanimous vote in my ward, that is,
twenty-six votes “for” and none “against.” I must admit it’s a one-
party “citizens’” organization. Flying is still my hobby, and I
have been “practising” on a company plane of one kind or
another for many years, taking business trips around the country
and, naturally, occasional pleasure trips.

So, leaving out the sordid details, that just about sums it up for
the last twenty-five years, and I think I’m. good for another
twenty-five at the present rate.

FREDERICK EDMUND SEARS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 278 Waltham St., West Newton 65, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fessenden School, West Newton 65, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 8, 1905, Baltimore, Md. PARENTS: Frederick Edmund Sears, ’95,
Mary Ellen Balch.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 19273; A.M., 1933.

MarRIED: Charlotte Allen Kitchin, Sept. 7, 1929, Methuen, Mass.,; Kathryn
Sears, June 25, 1938, Hawley, Mass. cumpren: Frederick Edmund, 34,
Aug. 26, 1930; Kathryn Balch, Aug. 14, 1942; Paul Franklin, Jan. 10,
1945.

OCCUPATION: Teacher of French, Latin, mathematics; hockey coach.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity.

IT HAS been a very unexciting life to anyone else, but a very full
and rewarding one to me. Teachers are not wealthy, but there
is much to be said for such a life, particularly if one is fond of
children. |

FREDERICK MANNING SEARS, JR.

HOME ApprEss: Centre Street, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Weston, Patrick & Church, 84 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: March 16, 1905, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Frederick Manning Sears,
Laura Marjorie Lawson.

PREPARED aT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927+ DEGREES: A.B. 1927; LL.B., 1930(31).

[ 867 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

marriep: Ruth Gibson Haynes, Aug. 12, 1938, Wellesley, Mass. cHiILDREN:
Frederick Gibson, Nov. 17, 1939; Philip L., March 19, 1942; Joanne H.,
Aug. 15, 1949.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Director and attorney, West Newton Codperative Bank, since
1942; attorney, West Newton Savings Bank, since 1946.

MEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association; Massachusetts Bar Association; Norfolk
County Bar Association.

I BEGAN the practice of law in 1932 and, except for the period
from 1941 to 1942, I have continued up to the present time.
During those two years I worked in the Income Tax Department
of the Boston Safe Deposit and Trust Company. High lights in
the last twenty-five years include eating, sleeping, and drinking!

LEWIS SEARS

HOME AppREss: 14 Julian St., Norwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADpREsS: 257 Main St, Norwich, Conn,

BORN: June 12, 1905, Norwich, Conn, parents: Jacob Scars, Rose Righter.

PREPARED AT: Norwich Free Academy, Norwich, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREE: M.D., 1929.

MARRIED: Grace Silverman, 1943. cHiLD: David, April 12, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Berell Sears, °23, M.p.. °27; Bernard Righter Sears,
"4l.

OccUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Physician to Norwich Academy; attending physician, W. W.
Backus Hospital, senior examiner, Metropolitan Life Insurance Com-
pany.

MEMBER OF: New London County and Connecticut State Medical Societies;
American Medical Association.

AFTER two years in the College, I was admitted to Harvard
Medical School, where four very happy years were well-invested.
Then I went to Hartford Hospital for a two-year general intern-
ship, followed by a residency at the Boston City Hospital. I
have been in the active practice of medicine and surgery since
1933. This has proved a most gratifying vehicle in which to travel
life’s highways and byways.

In spite of a busy professional routine, 1 have found time to
enjoy the piano and ’ccllo, to collect antiques, to emulate Isaak
Walton, and to indulge in squash and badminton. Strenuous
activity was suddenly terminated by the onsct of gout in 1940.

[ 868 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Outdoor sports being curtailed by this painful ogre, I turned to
the indoor variety and marriage in 1943. My gracious wife, a
graduate of the University of Kentucky, was Miss Grace Silver-
man of Brooklyn, New York. We were blessed with a son,
David, on April 12, 1951.

RICHARD NILES SEARS

HOME ADDRESS: East Woodstock, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bates Shoe Co., Webster, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 21, 1905, Webster, Mass. parents: Frank Irving Sears, Anne

_ Frances Bonney.

PREPARED AT: Hoosac School, Hoosick, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927(28); A.M. (Columbia
Univ.), 1930; PH.o. (Harvard Univ.), 1934.

MARRIED: Katherine Ware Haskell, June 17, 1933, Cambridge, Mass.
(divorced 1940); Hazel E. Keith, July 5, 1941, Thompson, Conn.
CHILDREN: Anthony Thacher, June 28, 1934; Keith Gaskin, Jan. 26,
1935 (adopted); Richard Crosby, Oct. 22, 1936, Sara Marion, June 25,
1938 (adopted); Christopher Dean, Sept. 24, 1943; Paul Niles, Sept. 14,

1949.

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president, Bates Shoe Company.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member, Area War Manpower Board.

OFFICES HELD: Associate, American Psychological Association, since 1937;
director, since 1944, fund chairman, 1944-46, Webster Chapter, American
Red Cross; member, since 1949, chairman, since 1950, Board of Educa-
tion, Woodstock, Conn.; trustee, Woodstock Academy, since 1950.

MEMBER OF: Woodstock Players, since 1944; Webster Rotary Club; Muddy
Brook Fire Department, since 1943 (president, 1945-49); Harvard Club
of Connecticut.

TO A reflective middle-aged business man, September, 1923,
and eight freshmen in a beachwagon bound for Revere Beach
seem more than twenty-eight years away. But that was when
all this started, and now, to try writing about what has happened
since then, you somehow get a sense of being squeezed into a
Marquand novel. As Monk Russell’s deadline notices pile higher
on the desk, the pressure grows. You sit in your office, November,
1951. How to start over again in 1927? Well, here goes.

The questionnaire starts with “family.” I’ve had two—see
statistics above — and now live, work, and play with the second
one in Woodstock, Connecticut. From the first family, two sons
are currently at school, Tony the elder threatening to enter

[ 869 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Harvard with the Class of 1956. The other one, Dick, should

follow a year later.

The second family consists of a wife who loves the theatre,
and four children (probably five by the time you read this).
Keith, the oldest of these, is also away at school, while the
remaining few either attend local schools, or gurgle in a playpen.

The first seven years after graduation I spent teaching school
and amassing degrees (scholastic). The last of these was a
doctorate in psychology, earned—and I mean earned —at
Harvard. Those seven years were well spent and I learned a lot
that has been useful. In 1934, however, the lean years of the
Great Depression were closing departments of psychology. I
already had a family. The need for food and clothing turned
me slowly but surely into the shoe business operated by my
father, and I have been there ever since.

Although this work requires my presence in Webster, Massa-
chusetts, our family chooses to live in nearby Connecticut. In
1943 we bought an old farmhouse with over seventy acres in
Woodstock, a beautiful New England country town of farmers,
and business men like me who work nearby. For two years, what
with shortages and all, we managed with fireplaces, space heaters,
and an 1898 plumbing system. Came V-J Day. With great
enthusiasm we started to remodel. Mr. Blandings? One should
mock such tragic matters!

Of course this divided residence means, as always, dual
activities. Before, during, and since the war I was and have been
active in service, civic, and business clubs, fund drives, and town
affairs in Webster. In Woodstock, the same pattern is followed,
but in a more personal and interesting design. There the Service
Club gives way to the Woodstock Players, a little theatre group
that reaches into half a dozen towns in Connecticut and Massa-
chusetts; the Business Bureau to the School Board and the Volun-
teer Fire Department. It is surprising how intricate, lengthy, and
absorbing the local problems in these organizations can become.
In a small way it is a full life.

[ 870 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WALTON HARVEY SEARS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 144 Archwood Ave., Annapolis, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Mathematics, U.S, Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.

BoRN: Aug. 4, 1906, Arlington, Mass. parents: Walton Harvey Sears,
Edith Russell Teel.

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B, ¢u7 laude, 1927; aM. (Univ, of
Vermont), 1930; a.M. (Harvard Univ.), 1933.

MaRRIED: Carol Foster, June 20, 1936, Dunstable, Mass. cutcp: David Foster,

Jan. 25, 1945.
OCCUPATION: Associate professor of mathematics, U. S. Naval Academy.

FROM 1927 to 1931, I was instructor in mathematics at the
University of Vermont and during the next four years I was a
student at the Harvard Graduate School. From 1935 to 1941,
I was instructor in mathematics at Georgia Tech and since then
have held the same position at the U. 5. Naval Academy.

WILLIAM SEAVER

HOME appreEss: 130 Lindbergh Ave., Needham Heights 94, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Edison Co., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Oct. 27, 1904, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Llewellyn Davenport Sears,
Mary Cole.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927}; $.M., 1929.

MARRIED: Theodora Smith, June 28, 1929, Yonkers, N. Y. (died 1939);
Olive L. Hansen, 1940, Boston, Mass.; Marie C. Warner. CHILDREN:
Llewellyn D., Sept. 26, 1930; Mary D., Oct. 4, 1934; George A., June 16,
1937; Martha L, Nov. 10, 1942; Janet M. Warner (stepchild), aged
seventeen years; Richard S, Warner (stepchild), aged thirteen years.

OCCUPATION: Staff assistant, employee relations, Boston Edison Company.

HORACE ALEXANDER SECRIST

HOME ADDRESS: 136 Village Ave., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kendall Mills, Walpole, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 4, 1905, Madison, Wis. PARENTS: Horace Secrist, May Alexander.

PREPARED AT: Township High School, Evanston, IIl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

MaRRIED: Helen Elizabeth Sawyer, Sept. 23, 1933, Winchester, Mass, cHIL-
prEN: Horace William, Sept. 21, 1936 (died June 13, 1943); Philip Brett,
Nov. 17, 1938; Lee, April 25, 1943.

OccUPATION: Director of Research, Kendall Mills, Division of the Kendall
Company.

[ 871]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Director of research, Research and Develop-
ment Branch, Office of Quartermaster General, Washington, Septem-
ber, 1942-June, 1943. .

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; American Chemical Society; American
Statistical Association; Textile Research Institute; American Association
for the Advancement of Science; American Association of Textile
Chemists and Colorists.

IT IS alleged in a “Frantic Appeal” that no fewer than eight
separate messages (and one telephone call since) have been sent
me asking that I fill out and return my Class questionnaire. Such
an accounting system must cost something. This assault on my
conscience has finally outweighed the terrors engendered by the
brilliant sample autobiography from a previous class enclosed with
Appeal No. 1.

I have done many foolish things and a few wise ones. The first
— in point of time — of the latter was to marry Helen Elizabeth
Sawyer, daughter of Philip Brett Sawyer, Class of ’98. We have
built a home life which I think is more than ordinary. Betty
and I ski, bicycle, play tennis, paint water colors, listen to music,
and have an active social life together. Philip is thirteen, Lee,
our girl, is nearly nine. They are entering many of our activities
and we look forward to an increase of this. Horace (Hoddy) was
our first-born. He died by accident in 1943. It seems his loss
becomes less present as time goes by but I know it has had on
the family a permanent effect we can only partly appreciate.

Another wise choice was to join what is now the Kendall Mills
Division of the Kendall Company soon after graduation. We
have got along happily. They have done a fine and human job of
accepting my weaknesses, making the most of my good points,
teaching me a great deal and pushing me in the directions I was
meant to go. Soon after I joined them, they decided to establish
research work, aimed at new product development. They sensed
this was my dish. We have grown together. I have a department
of about twenty-five and have the pleasure of daily work with a
very fine, intelligent group. I am not famous or rich but am
happy and successful in a modest but eminently suitable task.

I read a fair amount but not enough of a general nature. I
recognize in myself the biological changes of the aging process.
I think I have written enough.

[872 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD THOMAS SEXTON

HOME ADDRESS: 14 N. Forest Circle, West Haven, Conn.

porN: April 26, 1904, Boston Mass. PARENTS: Thomas Henry Sexton, Beatrice
Frances Doherty.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928.

marrigD: Marie R. Wintrich, Oct. 20, 1934, New York, N. Y.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

HARRY HERBERT SHAPIRO

HOME ApDpREsS: 60 Colbert Rd., West Newton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 434 Norfolk St., Mattapan, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 1, 1905, Russia. parents: William Shapiro, Rose Lieber.
PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B, 1927; M.D. (Boston Univ.),

1932.
MaRRieED: Beatrice S. Miller, Dec. 28, 1930, Seabrook, N. H. cHILpren:

Rachel, May 27, 1936; Martha, May 14, 1942.

OccuPATION: Physician.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; New Century Club; Germania
Lodge of Masons; Norfolk Medical Society.

ON THE whole, I have led an interesting but uneventful life
since leaving Harvard. After receiving my medical degree from
Boston University School of Medicine in 1932, I became a house
officer at the Boston City Hospital. From there I entered the
practice of medicine in Boston and have been here ever since.

I was married to my charming wife while still a medical
student and have two lovely daughters, Rachel and Martha.
These three have been and still are sources of inspiration and
great happiness which has been my lot. In my chosen field of
work I have made no startling discoveries, received no great
honors, but have been a contented toiler. This has been a great
and soul-satisfying experience. I have made many, many friends
and led a very busy life.

My hobbies have been my work, my family, and occasionally
a little fishing. For the past ten years we have managed to get
away once or twice yearly and have seen various parts of our
country. In fact, I am writing this in San Juan, Puerto Rico, a
lovely country. Soon I shall be back at my usual routine, and I
can think of no better way to spend my time. Twenty-five years

[ 873 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

after graduating from Harvard, I can say truthfully that I would
not change one iota of what has happened to me. I can only hope
that the future may be no worse than the present.

HIRSH SHARF

HOME ADDRESS: 143 Woodchester Drive, Chestnut Hill, Mass.

OFFice appress: M. Sharf & Co. Inc., 399 Atiantic Ave., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 14, 1906, Malden, Mass. parents: Max Sharf, Rose I. Cohen.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Nannette S. Gutman, Dec. 27, 1931, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Frederic Alan, Aug. 13, 1934; Nancy Ellen, Nov. 27, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Nathaniel Sharf, ’29.

OccuPATION: President, M. Sharf & Company, Inc.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Massachusetts State Guard, Third Motor
Squadron, 1942-45; served as volunteer worker, U.S.O., 1942-45.
OFFICES HELD: Assistant residential chairman, Newton Community Chest,

1946-49; president, Temple Israel Brotherhood, 1949-51, New England
Toy Wholesalers’ Association, 1949-52; alderman, City of Newton,
Mass., 1951-53; National Board Temple Brotherhood, 1950-52; National
Board of Chautauqua Society, 1950-52; civil defense chairman, Waban
Village, Newton, 1951; Advisory Committee, New England Hardware
Association, vice-president, Jewish Vocational Service, Boston; Execu-
tive Board American Jewish Committee, Boston, 1951-53.
MEMBER OF: University Club of Boston.

IT DOESN'T seem possible that I have been out ewenty-fve
years and that this fall will see my son entering Harvard as a
freshman, I hope! How can twenty-five years go by so quickly?

After graduation I entered my father’s business, and with the
help of my brother (Harvard, ’29), we decided to branch into
the sporting goods and toy field. This was my first job and I
have been at it ever since, supervising sales and buying. It is a
fascinating business with thousands of items and always something
new and different on the horizon.

During college days, 1 enjoyed many trips to Wellesley (didn’t
we all?); in 1931 I married this Wellesley girl and all my com-
muting was not in vain. As the depression surrounded us in
December, 1931, and banks started to close, we decided to go to
Europe for six wecks on our honeymoon, What a wise decision!
Had a fabulous trip and came back to face 1932 with courage
and fortitude.

[ 874 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Our family has been a most happy one and we have had fun
together. Fred, our first-born, is a tall rugged fellow. He loves
football, skiing, and lacrosse, also plays tennis doubles (with me
as a partner) and we do fairly well. He has a better way with
the books than I ever had, and his marks must reflect his mother’s
brain. Nancy, our second offspring, is a vivacious, spirited girl,
whose personality and bounce keep us young. Horseback riding,
skiing, and all sports intrigue her. She loves to read, play the
piano, after a fashion, and is interested in most everything. We
love to travel and have taken some nice motor trips with the
children. When we get real selfish, the two of us go to Bermuda,
or on a South American-West Indies cruise. Rockport, Massa-
chusetts, is our summer home, and we are enthusiastic about the
beauty of this quaint New England sea resort. |

My hobbies are reading, sports, and civic affairs. I still play
squash, tennis, and ski (when it snows). The community has
taken much of my time. I think every man has the obligation
to serve his city and its religious and philanthropic institutions
so that they may benefit from his experience and background.
Unless you move out into a larger horizon and meet new people,
who are also interested in the problems of a growing community,
you have a tendency to live in a narrow rut.

Politically —an independent liberal. Voted for F.D.R.. and
still admire him as a great leader during very difficult times.
Today, I vote only on issues and do not follow any party line.
Hope we get new faces in 1952. I have just entered politics
myself and am serving as an alderman in Newton, Massachusetts.
In religious matters I am active in Reform Judaism and in many
other aspects of our Jewish community. I am very proud of the
Harvard of today, and for what it stands. I think we were all
very lucky to have chosen so well. ©

OTIS EMMERTON SHATTUCK

HOME appress: Topsfield, Mass.

BORN: May 25, 1903, Salem, Mass. parents: George Hodger Shattuck, Annie
Bertram Emmerton.

PREPARED at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

occuPATION: Manufacturing.

[ 875]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MUNSON GALLAUDET SHAW, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 270 Park Ave., New York 17, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Munson G. Shaw Co.,, Inc., goo Madison Ave., New York 17,
N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 2, 1905, Staten Island, N. ¥Y. parents: Munson Gallaudet Shaw,
’o1, Netty Clifton McGuire.

PREPARED AT: Downside School, Stratton-on-the-Foss, Bath, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Jeanette Schwengel, May 10, 1941, Scarsdale, N. Y. (died Nov. 23,
1948). cup: Frank S., Oct. 28, 1930 (stepson).

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president and director, Munson G. Shaw Com-
pany, Inc., importers of wines and spirits. ,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered active duty with U. S. Naval Reserve,
January, 1942; separated as lieutenant commander, March, 1946.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Squadron A Ex-Members Asso-
ciation, New York.

AFTER graduating from Harvard in June, 1927, I gave myself
the pleasure of a vacation until after Labor Day of that year.
Then I was hired as a runner in Wood, Struthers & Company,
a well-known investment house in Wall Street. When I applied
for this job, one of the partners of the company asked me if I
was a college graduate, and naturally I said yes. So he then replied
to me that that made a big difference. Their policy was to start
the college graduates at sixteen dollars per week and the non-
graduates at fifteen dollars. So—four years of Harvard boiled
down to one dollar per week extra in the pay envelope. I stayed
with Wood, Struthers & Company until 1930, when I joined my
father’s firm in a minor capacity and I have been with the
company ever since then. While perhaps a minor percentage
of our classmates do not indulge in the pleasant pastime of en-
joying wines with meals, I must say it is really something to con-
template. It makes for good fellowship and a better enjoyment
of eating. My business has taken me to almost every state in
the Union and has given me the opportunity to visit the
European countries.

[ 876 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

4EMMET JOSEPH SHEA

BORN: Jan. 18, 1906, Boston, Mass, parents: Michael Melrose Shea, Ca
Sullivan.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927, DEGREES: A.B. 1927; A.M. 1929; ED.M., 19-
marriep: Nell Cashman, Cornwall-on-Hudson, N. Y.

pie: July 25, 1944, Cornwall-on-Hudson, N. Y.

DURING the summer after graduation Emmet Joseph

travelled in Western Europe, through France, Germany
England. Upon his return he spent the winter in the S
as a private tutor. He received his A.M. from the Har
Graduate School in 1929 and then became an instructor
French, German, and dramatics at the Oak Lane Country I
School of Philadelphia. In 1930 he went abroad again :
returned to study for his Ed.M. which was granted in 1933.
year later he joined the faculty at New York Military Acade1
as an instructor in German and modern history. After t
years he was made registrar and in 1940 was appointed assista
to the superintendent. He was a member of Phi Delta Kapp

an honorary member of the N.Y.M.A. Alumni Association, ar
of Alpha Chi Sigma, N.Y.M.A. chapter.

HERBERT NATHANIEL SHRIFTE

HOME appress: 59 W. r2th St., New York 11, N. Y.

OFFICE appress: H. Wolff Book Manufacturing Co., 508 W. z6th St., New
York, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 20, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Nathan Herbert Shrifte,
Blanche Wolff.

PREPARED aT: Townsend Harris Hall, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: 5.B. cum laude, 1927.
Marriep: Miriam Harriet Lubell, May 5, 1936, New York, N. Y.
occupation: Executive, H. Wolff Book Manufacturing Company.

SIDNEY NICHOLS SHURCLIFF

HOME appress: Argilla Road, Ipswich, Mass.
OFFICE appREss: 14 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

*96, Margaret Homer Nichols.
PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

[ 877 ]

BORN: March 24, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Arthur Asahel Shurcliff,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927.

MARRIED: Katherine Noyes Balch, June 28, 1935, Boston, Mass. cuitp: James
C. Heigham (foster son), 1930.

HARVARD SON: James C. Heigham, ’51.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Asahel Shurcliff, °30, a.m. 731, PH.D., °34.

occupation: Parmer, Arthur A. Shurchff & Sidney N. Shurcliff, landscape
architects and town planners.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U.S.N.R., Oct. 6,
1942; duty in Security Office, First Naval District, through Oct. 10,
1943; duty on Staff, Commander in Chief, Pacific, Pearl Harbor, Guam,
and on aircraft carrier, Hancock, Nov. 1, 1943, to June 1, 1945; joint
target group, Pentagon, Washington, D. C., July 1, to Oct. 2, 1945;
promoted lieutenant commander, September, 1945; received Atlantic and
Pacific Ribbons, Philippine Liberation Ribbon with Battle Star, and
Unit Citation.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Site Plans for Harbor Defenses, Portland,
Maine, and Portsmouth, N. H., 1940-41; civilian agent, Security Office,
First Naval District, 1942.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Ipswich Beach Committee, 1938-42; president,
Boston Society Landscape Architects, 1946-50; trustee, New England
Chapter, American Society of Landscape Architects, 1951-52.

MEMBER OF: American Society Landscape Architects, 1933, fellow, 1950;
American Institute of Planners, 1948; Ipswich Housing Authority,
1948-51; St. Botolph Club, Veteran Motor Car Club of America;
National Association Housing Officials; Harvard Travelers Club.

pustications: Jungle Islands, The Illyria in the South Seas, G. P. Putnams
Sons, 1930; Master Plan for Dedham, Mass., 1948; Master Plan for
Falmouth, Mass., 1951; numerous magazine articles; also the following
films for lecture purposes, “Jungle Islands,” 1929, “Restoration of
Williamsburg, Virginia,” 1932, “Ski America First,” 1937, “Ski America
Second,” 1939, “Skiing Again,” 1941, “Pass the Ammunition,” 1943,
“New Landscapes for Old,” 1949.

SINCE graduation, aside from a year’s adventure trip with the
Crane South Pacific Expedition during 1928-29, two years at the
Harvard School of Landscape Architecture, and three and a half
years in the Navy, I have stuck closely to the fields of landscape
architecture, town planning, and lecturing.

My professional partner is my amazing father who in his
eighty-second year is sull active and keeps a critical eye on most
of our larger jobs. Our firm has handled many interesting assign-
ments including the restoration of the grounds at Williamsburg,
Virginia, the development of the Storrow Embankment along
the Charles River Basin in 1930, and now again (1949-52),
preparation of master plans for several New England towns, site

[ 878 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

planning of twenty-two postwar housing projects, building a
huge bathing beach in the mud flats of East Boston, the site de-
velopment and planning of Shoppers’ World in Framingham,

_ Massachusetts (parking for 6,000 cars), and work for many insti-
tutions, schools, colleges, commercial ventures, private clients,
and, last but not least, cemeteries. Much of our work is done in
coéperation with architects whom we find most stimulating
associates.

In 1939 we took two British evacuee boys, Tony and James
Heigham, then aged seven and ten respectively, of whom we
became very fond. When the war ended Tony went home but
James has remained with us. He graduated in the Harvard Class
of ’51 and now is in Harvard Law School. Tony has also come
back to visit.

Travels, in addition to those described above have included
Europe in 1932 and 1935, Mexico in 1950, and Jamaica in 1951.
The latter two countries were far more interesting than we had
anticipated, and we hope to go to Guatemala next.

Politically, my wife and I are both independents and ready, at
the drop of a hat, to argue against the more rabid members of

either political party.

_ *+EDWARD CARROLL SIBLEY

BORN: Jan. 18, 1906, Toledo, Ohio. Parents: James Albert Sibley, Lavinia

Bird Johnson.
PREPARED AT: Kirkwood High School, Kirkwood, Mo.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1927(33); A.M. (St.

Louis Univ.), 1935.
marrigp: Isabelle Brooke Bond, Feb. 10, 1930, Detroit, Mich. CHILDREN:

John Scudder, March 1, 1931; Edward Carroll, 2d, Oct. 1, 1932; James
Anderson, Jan. 13, 1934; Ronald Brooke Bond, Jan. 23, 1943.
bDIED: Jan. 6, 1949, St. Louis, Mo.

DURING his three years as an undergraduate, Edward Carroll
Sibley rowed on the 150-pound Crew and was a member of the
Debating Union, Debating Council, Liberal Club, Philosophical
Club, Phillips Brooks House Association, Kex Club, and Delta
Sigma Rho, of which he was secretary in his senior year. For two
years after graduation he studied at the University of Heidelberg
and the Sorbonne. Upon his return he entered the investment

[ 879]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

banking business in St. Louis. In 1929 he was a co-founder of
Morse, Sibley & Company and in 1935 he was elected president of
the Sibley Investment Company. After seven years in the
investment business, he became public relations counsel in Los
Angeles and conducted the “Common Sense Hour,” a radio
economic forum, with Dr. Thomas Nixon Carver, professor of
olitical economics emeritus, at Harvard.

Sibley became a well-known author and lecturer. Some of
his books are, Dickens for Moderns, Barrie and His Contempo-
raries, and Nor Time Nor Tide. Also he wrote many magazine
articles, stories, essays, and reviews, and he had numerous one-act
plays produced. As a lecturer he was in great demand as the guest
of civic and service organizations. At one time he averaged three
hundred public addresses annually throughout the United States
and abroad. In 1944 he was elected to Who’s Who in America
and had received the honorary degrees of Litt.D., D.D., and
LL.D. He belonged to many clubs and organizations, press and
literary societies, and he was active in the Boy Scouts of America
from whom he received the highest award, the Eagle Medal with
five silver palms, representing all the merit badges available to
the membership.

During World War II he served as liaison public relations
and intelligence officer attached to Supreme Headquarters in the
European theatre. He was discharged with the rank of lieutenant
colonel. In 1947, just two years before his death, he joined the
faculty of Washington University as assistant professor of com-
merce and finance.

KARL LEOPOLD SICHERMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 5060 Otis Ave., Tarzana, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 18669 Ventura Blvd., Tarzana, Calif.

BORN: May 26, 1906, Akron, Ohio. parents: Armin Sicherman, Rose
Loewy.

PREPARED AT: West High School, Akron, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; M.D. cum laude (Univ.
of Michigan), 1931.

MARRIED: Rosamund Ashley Jenney, Sept. 30, 1933, Riverside, Calif.
CHILDREN: Carolyn Robin, June 11, 1935; Margaret Ann and Jean
Audrey (twins), Aug. 26, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Merry] Frederick Sicherman, 723, LL.B, ’26.

[ 880 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Physician and surgeon, specializing in internal medicine.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served as reserve 1st lieutenant, Medical Corps,
with C.C.C, April, 1933, to June, 1945; inducted as captain, U.S.A.
Medical Corps, April 24, 1941, assigned gist Division; arrived Melbourne,
Australia, April 10, 1942; assigned rosth General Hospital, 1942; 155th
Station Hospital, 1943; 47th Station Hospital, 1943, later C.O.; 13th
Station Hospital, Mindoro, P. I., April, 1945; returned to U. S., Aug.
14, 1945; terminated active duty as lieutenant colonel, Jan. 15, 1946.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Appointed second heutenant (honorary)
in the Netherlands Indies Civil Administration at Biak, N. I. Nov.

I, 1944.

MEMBER OF: Los Angeles County Medical Association; California State
Medical Association; American Medical Association; Los Angeles and
California Societies of Internal Medicine; American Heart Association;
Harvard Club of Southern California; Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Small Numbers.

THE transition from the sedate atmosphere of Cambridge to the
friskier, coeducational setting of the University of Michigan
Medical School in 1927 turned out to be not nearly so degrading
as I had anticipated. So well did I adjust myself to the change,
in fact, that I became engaged to an especially toothsome co-ed
during my junior year in Ann Arbor. The young lady does not
appear again in this chronicle: I mention her only because her
home was in the far West, for it was this that decided me, in my
senior year, to select an internship at the California Hospital in
Los Angeles. While doing my stretch there, I met the sister of
a brother intern; one thing led to another, and a year and a half
later we were married. The issue of this union, detailed else-
where herein, is three teen-age daughters given to such teen-age
delights as horses, $15.00 permanents, chili and beans and apple
pie for breakfast, summer camping in the deep woods, and
television — which, happily, they are as yet able to view only
at homes other than their own.

All through medical school and my internship I had burned
with an urgent determination to go on into psychiatry; so that,
to those who know me, it will come as no surprise to learn that
on completion of the internship I look a six months’ residency in
obstetrics. It would hardly be fair to say that I entered private
practice after that residency, for the banks closed in March, 1933,
and when I threw in the towel the next month, it could certainly
not be said that I had actually made an entrance. I retreated

[ 881 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

into the CCC for two years, accumulated enough cash and

nerve to start again, and hurled myself once more at the world

in May, 1935. The world, unimpressed, promptly hurled me
back; but, as the years crawled by, things slowly began to look
better until, late in 1940, solvency first appeared as a dim, unbe-
lievable glimmering on the almost invisible horizon. In April,
1941, however, a youthful folly caught up with me: I had joined
the Medical Reserve as an innocent intern in 1932, little dreaming
that there would ever be a Hitler, much less a Stalin; and now I
was Called to active duty. Thus I was snatched, untimely, from
the brink of security and served with the Army until my ter-
minal leave ended in January, 1946. Forty-two months of this
time were spent, animation almost entirely suspended, in
Australia, New Guinea, Biak, and the Philippines. My only
happy memories of the war years are of Brisbane, Australia, and
the very dear friends I knew there. As for the rest, one word
can cover it all very precisely: pfui!

I returned from the wars, no more atabrine-tinged and mal-
adjusted than the average citizen after so many years away from
home, and took up the practice of medicine again, but far from
where I left off. In my absence, my wife and daughters had taken
up residence with my wife’s father in what was then (1941) 2
remote and rustic suburb of Hollywood in the slumbrous San
Fernando Valley. That hamlet, Tarzana, has grown, almost ex-
plosively, subdivision by subdivision, into a bustling, burgeoning,
mediocre, no-longer spacious appendage of Los Angeles with its
own Kiwanis, Rotary, Lions, Chamber of Commerce, super-
markets, and even its own traffic jams. I can recall many a Sunday
afternoon, five years ago, sitting in the patio with my four
lovely females and from two to seven dogs, grateful for the shade
of the enormous black walnut tree protecting us; and a car
loaded with gawking city-folk would crawl down the dirt
road, almost stop at our fence; and often a child’s amazed voice
came to our ears: “Gee, Ma, lookie— people!” ‘This sort of
thing no longer occurs, however, for all of those jerks, I think,
moved out here.

Still, I like it. I intend to stay here for many years — possibly
even until that minor millennium when my new X-ray machine
is fully paid for, when the several pieces of real estate bought long

[ 882 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ago on speculation for a quick turnover can be fobbed off on
some other sucker for perhaps half of what I paid for them, and
when — who knows? — the loans against my overwhelming life
insurance have been redeemed. I have even been toying with the
idea of my own medical building. With luck, it might materialize
before 1953.

In the political field I remain an unreconstructed Republican,
one of the not-so-loyal opposition ever since 1912, when a back-
sliding uncle plied me unsuccessfully with Hershey bars in a
sly attempt at switching my vote from Taft to Roosevelt I. In
matters of religion, I belong to no church; I try to practise a
tolerance both catholic and agnostic, My social life is sharply
restricted by the demands of the practice of medicine: there is
never time enough for all the unfinished work, much less for the
social swing. The evenings once devoted to amateur photog-
raphy, hand weaving, music, or the concoction of whodunits
are gone, only occasionally now is there time for a few record-
ings of chamber music; and even those few are likely to be inter-
rupted by the importunings of a patient nagged for three weeks
with a lame back and now, at 11 P.M., panicky with cancero-
phobia. Over the weekends there are always weeds to be battled,
an orchard to irrigate, household repairs to be gummed up, and
such innocent diversions as horseshoes and badminton — at
which, by the way, I recently find my style far more resem-
bling the stately measures of a minuet than a tarantella.

It seems to me that my household is, at least statistically, a
typical example of the American college graduate’s family:
three children, two cars, two dogs, and two mortgages. And if
my recent, passport-type photograph bears no resemblance to
earlier studies of the same subject, the fault is the camera’s, not
mine. I don’t feel anywhere near that old!

ROBERT JULES SILBERSTEIN

HOME apprEss: 138 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn 2, N. Y.

OFFICE AppRess: 40 Exchange Pl, New York 5, N. Y.

BorN: March 23, 1905, Detroit, Mich. parents: Solomon Silberstein, Mary
Rosenberg.

PREPARED AT: Detroit General High School, Detroit, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: 8.B. cum laude, 1927; LL.B., 1930.

[ 883 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

sarrieD: Dorothy Jane Imbrie, Nov. 6, 1937, New York, N. Y. cnivpren:
Seth, aged three; Mary, aged seven months.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Signal Corps, 1942-46; discharged as first lieu-
tenant.

OFFICES HELD: National executive secretary, National Lawyers’ Guild.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York.

I WAS admitted to the New York Bar in 1932 and practised in
New York City until March, 1947, except during military service
in the Army Signal Corps from 1942 to 1946. From April, 1947,
to September, 1951, I served as national executive secretary of
the National Lawyers’ Guild in Washington, D. C., and am now
serving in the same capacity at the national office of the Guild in
New York City.

MAURICE HERMAN SILVERMAN

HOME apprEss: 28 Fernald Drive, Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE aAppress: Weather Master Alsco of New England, 445 Cambridge
St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: May 30, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Abner Silverman, Lillian
Kaplan.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; LL.B. (Northeastern
Univ.), 1931.

marRIED: Estherlea Aaronson, May 30, 1933, Baltimore, Md. cnmp:
Jonathan Orrin, April 11, 190.

HARVARD BROTHER: Carl Silverman, ’30.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president in charge of sales, Weather Master Alsco of
New England, Inc.

LUNCHING in the Yard in June, 1927, as a guest of the Class
of 1902, I overheard a classmate remark that our hosts were “old
timers bringing their wives and children back to the scene of the
crime before going home to die.” As a returning member of the
Twenty-fifth Reunion Class, I can appreciate the vagaries of
youth.

With a background of Romance languages, I entered the for-
eign department of the First National Bank of Boston and spent
the first two years out of college learning that for success as a
banker a private income was more desirable than half a dozen
languages. The next seventeen years —they went just that fast
because they were pleasant and fairly fruitful —I dedicated to

[ 884 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the sales department of the Red Top Brewing Company of Cin-
cinnati. For ten of the seventeen years, I carried the title of
vice-president. When I found it impossible to become presi-
dent, I hurdled that obstacle by forming a company of my own
in Augusta, Georgia. For good measure I became president of
the Temple and president of the Civic Theatre. I knew these
titles were important, as I was anticipating the eventual writing
of the interesting report which you are now reading.

After five happy years in Georgia, I was to find no school
facilities adequate enough to give my son, Jonathan, the necessary
preparation for the Class of 1961. I relinquished all the titles and
now find myself, geographically at least, exactly where I was
twenty-five years ago, once more a resident of Cambridge. My
son is now a student at Shady Hill, and we are living under the
very shadows of the University. There is also a strong Har-
vard flavor in my present business association with classmate
Fred Solomon. Amateur theatre and golf have received much
of my attention with emphasis on the latter. After sustaining a
broken leg in 1948 playing football with my son and his friends,
not one of whom was over nine years of age, I lost all enthusiasm
for bodily contact in sports. If the “boys” of 1927 seem rather
old looking to the Class of 1952, it’s not because we’re that old
at all — those kids are just so young! I know.

GODFREY BALDWIN SIMONDS

HOME appREss: 97 Williams St., Providence, R. I.

OFFIcE AppRrEss: G. H. Walker & Co., 15 Westminster St., Providence, R. I.

BORN: Aug. 13, 1904, Belmont, Mass. parents: Philip Baldwin Simonds,
Persis Emelina Godfrey.

PREPARED AT: Moses Brown School, Providence, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927-

MarRieD: Mary Carolyn Vail, Feb. 22, 1930, Providence, R. I. CHILDREN:
Carla Godfrey, June 13, 1932; Linda Vail, Aug. 13, 1936; Phillis
Baldwin, Sept. 5, 1937-

OccUPATION: Investment banker; managing partner, G. H. Walker &
Company.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT PosTs: Chairman, U. S. Treasury Victory Fund
Committee for Rhode Island, 1943-45.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Providence Community Chest, 1943-44, Rhode
Island Children’s Friend Society, 1946-49, Smith Hall Girls’ Club,

[ 885 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

1946-48, Textron, Inc., Plantations Bank of Rhode Island, Southern
Clays, Inc., Flightex Fabrics, Inc., Caneel Bay Plantation; chairman
Finance Committee, Providence Chapter, National Foundation for
Infantile Paralysis, Inc. since 1946; governor, Investment Bankers
Association of America; former treasurer, First Congregational Church
(Unitarian), Providence.

I will not write in narrative style
The way that I am told.

A banker’s life is lyrical,

While prose is dull and cold.
Investments are my business,

My trade can swell your purse,
And so in writing out my life,

I plan to use bank verse.

A montage of my adult years
Might look a little funny:

A fishing fly, a shotgun shell,

A background of your money,

A photograph of little girls,

Maps of the Virgin Isles,

A snip of Textron’s newest cloth,
A chart to office files;

Certificates of gratitude

For heading charities,

A widow’s thanks, a pitchman’s curse —
These are my verities.

An artist has his seeing eye,

A loafer has his ease —

Investment bankers have their faith,
‘Their own securities.

The years have brought me a number of things,
A balding head and diamond rings,

A love of books, a love of God,

A disregard for seeming odd,

A wife who still is smart and pretty,

A country house, one in the city,

Three daughters who can walk like queens,

But talk like children above their teens,

[ 886 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

A partnership with G. H. Walker —
I have no right to be a squawker.
And so, reporting to my class,

I bow respectfully,

And hope that God has treated you
As He has treated me.

I think that all of us can look
Ahead most hopefully —

Our quarter-century’s been tough,
But so, by God, have we!

CLIFFORD OLIVER SIMPSON

HOME ADDRESS: 105 Chestnut St., Manchester, Conn.

OFFICE AppREss: Center Congregational Church, Manchester, Conn.

Born: April 15, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Dana Philip Simpson, Maude
Etherl Smithe.

PREPARED AT: Hyde Park High School, Hyde Park, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; A.M. (Pacific School of
Religion), 1931; Bp. (Union Theological Seminary), 1933.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Cornell French, May 23, 1935, New York, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Paul Dana, Jan. 27, 1938; Elizabeth Ann, April 26, 1939;
Martha Jane, Nov. 10, 1943.

OccUPATION: Minister of the Gospel.

OFFICES HELD: Lecturer, Rhode Island Ministers Convocation, Vermont

Congregational Conference; scribe, General Council of Congregational
Churches; director, Connecticut Council of Churches, chairman, War

Fund, American Red Cross.
MEMBER OF: Friars Club; Plymouth Club; Fortnightly Club; Connecticut

Valley Theological Club; N.A.A.CP.
MY MAIN job since leaving college has been the preparation
for and the preaching of the Gospel. After college 1 worked at
the University of Maine for two years, then went to the West
Coast for two years of school. While there I travelled to Hon-
olulu, Alaska, and Panama. Leaving there with an A.M., I went
to Palestine to do archeological work digging up the old city of
Mizpah, En route home via Black Sea, Danube, Rhine, etc., I
attended W.S.C.F. General Committee in Holland. I arrived
home just in time to start my third year of seminary schooling
in New York City where I worked in Riverside Church and
Broadway Tabernacle. Here I met my wife-to-be, but it took
two years of persuasion. After serving in Arlington, Massachu-

[ 887 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

setts, for seven years and acquiring two children and an old
Buick, we went to Springfield, Vermont. Through this time I
served on various church committees and boards, usually attend-
ing the General Council. Summers we went to Lake Winnipe-
saukee (where we still go) in New Hampshire. There we sleep,
swim, canoe, and act like vegetables. Occasionally we climb a
mountain. (Last fall just before snow fell, I climbed Washington
up over the Ravine.) One exciting day was spent on Passacon-
naway with my two older children. We came to Manchester in
1944 and are still preaching to the sinners.

Usually I vote Republican — who won’t in 1952? I play chess
on occasion, play tennis summers, squash in winter, and when
we can we ski. Almost all my time is consumed by preaching,
teaching, counselling, lecturing, or organizing. Each year brings
greater satisfaction than the year before. God has been good to
me — and I’m thankful for the job I’m in. In 1948 I went back
to Europe again to visit eight countries and attend the World
Council of Churches in Amsterdam. My wife says the next trip
is hers.

++ JOHN ROGER SIMPSON

BORN: May 16, 1906, Colebrook, N. H. parents: Hiram LeRoy Simpson,
Iola Mary Russell.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: $.B., 19273; M.B.A., 1929.

MarrieD: Helen M. Crowley, June 17, 1932, Newport, R. I. camp: John L,
March 20, 1933.

bDIED: Sept. 4, 1945, Oakland, Calif.

JOHN ROGER SIMPSON entered Harvard College after
studying for two years at the University of New Hampshire.
Following graduation he attended the Harvard Business School,
received his M.B.A. degree, and became a salesman for United
Drug Company in Boston. In 1937 he moved his family to Albany
and, still with the same company, he travelled the eastern New
York State territory.

During World War II, he served in the Navy as Pharmacist’s
Mate, 3d class, and earned the American Campaign Medal and
the World War II Victory Medal.

[ 888 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES ADOLPH SINGER

HOME ADDRESS: 53 Picardy Lane, St. Louis 24, Mo.

OFFICE ADpDREss: Lewis, Rice, Tucker, Allen & Chubb, 408 Olive St., Suite
500, St. Louis 2, Mo.

BoRN: May 26, 1906, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Adolph Singer, Josephine
Block.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; LL.B. (Washington
Univ.), 1930.

married: Carolyn Bendell England, Dec. 15, 1932, Pittsficld, Mass. cHiLorEN:
Joan Carolyn, Sept. 5, 1934; Danicl England, Nov. 18, 1936, Barbara
Jean, May 18, 1950.

occuPATION: Lawyer; partner in firm of Lewis, Rice, Tucker, Allen &
Chubb.

OFFICES HELD: St. Louis Councilman, Fourth District; chairman, St. Louis
County Council, 1951, Program Committee, Associated Harvard Clubs
Meeting, 1952, Health and Hospital Division Social Planning Council; -
vice-president, Washington University Law Alumni; president, member
Scholarship Committee, St. Louis Country Day School Alumni Associa-
tion (formerly); president, Missouri Maternal Health Association and
Planned Parenthood Association of St. Louis; vice-president, 1943-44,
president, 1945, St. Louis Harvard Club; officer and director, corporate
clients; trustee and executor, estates; member Board of Directors, St.
Louis and St. Louis County Social Planning Council, Missouri Society
for Crippled Children and Adults, Inc, Council House (neighborhood
charity); member, Health Planning Committce of Jewish Federation
of St. Louis, Social Planning Council Legislative and Publicity Com-
mittee, board of Junior Chamber of Commerce of St. Louis County,
Republican Advisory Finance Committee of St. Louis, Ladue District
Committee, Board of Trustees of St. Louis Country Day School,
Associated Harvard Clubs Schools Committee, 1949-52, Advisory

' Board, Thomas Jefferson School, St. Louis County.

MEMBER OF: St. Louis, Missouri, and American Bar Associations; St. Louis
County Chamber of Commerce; Missouri Association for Social
Welfare; Republican Township Clubs, St. Louis County; St. Louis
Harvard Club.

puBLicaTions: Unprinted speeches, reports, and ordinances having to do
with county government.

DEAR George Russell:

I have just received your urgent request for return of the
Class of 1927 Twenty-fifth Reunion questionnaire. My apologies
for my tardiness. The years, and now even the hours, have been
so short that I have long since lost track of the calendar and

[ 889 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

discarded my watch and confess to the title of “The Late Mr,
Singer.”

The academic year 1927 to 1928 found me enrolled in Harvard
Law School in a year of indecision in which I enjoyed travel-
ling through New England, with frequent visits to New York,
Philadelphia, and Washington. I was unwilling to concede that
a professional school could demand constant and regular attend-
ance that would interfere with habits acquired at college. In
the fall of 1928 I returned to my home in St. Louis and enrolled
in Washington University School of Law. In June, 1930, |
completed two busy and impatient years of further study and
acquired an LL.B. Entry into practice with the firm of Lewis,
Rice, Tucker, Allen & Chubb followed immediately. I have con-
tinued in the association with the same firm and in due course
became a partner in this firm.

Time has permitted only one winter vacation, and that was
our honeymoon following marriage to Carolyn England in Pitts-
field, Massachusetts, on December 15, 1932. Our daughter,
Joan, has passed her seventeenth birthday and has at that age
acquired wisdom beyond our years. She advises us that she will
go back east to college next fall. Our son, Dan, is completing
his sophomore year at St. Louis Country Day School, senti-
mentally following in the footsteps of his father but doing far
better in all respects. Our daughter, Barbara, is normal and nine-
teen months (although we believe her exceptional). If I can answer
the query of “What shall we do with the baby?” we shall return
en masse for the Twenty-fifth Reunion this June. Ours is a busy
and hectic household with legal, political, scholastic, and varied
other interests furnishing ample stimulation, heavy traffic but little
time off. Such holidays as we have taken have brought us back to
the Berkshires with brief visits in and about Boston. We have used
the occasion of Associated Harvard Clubs meetings and various
political meetings for other limited jaunts.

While in college I became interested in politics but was advised
to complete the study of the law before actively entering into
this field, Once engaged in the practice of law, I found that
there was little time for politics. Elowever, I happened to
become interested in health and hospital organizations and con-
tinued my interest and service in this field in the St. Louis area.

[ 890 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The local secondary schools, both public and private, presented
some problems which also occupied my time. The St. Louis
Harvard Club and the activities of the Associated Harvard Clubs
seem to have acquired the status of a hobby over the past years
which has been added to my earlier hobbies.

In 1940 I had a flash of enthusiasm and hope which sparked
my interest and activity in behalf of Wendell Willkie’s cam-
paign. My interest in politics continued, and in 1950 St. Louis
County adopted a Home Rule Charter. With two kindred
spirits, strangely enough from Yale and Princeton, we banded
together to run for office at county, township, and state levels.
We were variously labeled by the newspapers as “the three
Musketeers,” “The Ivy League,” “The Three Blind Mice.”
In spite of, or perhaps because of this, we were elected to our
respective offices. My first council has just ended. It has been
a challenging and fascinating occupation.

This year of 1952 will be a busy one for the Singer family.
On May 16, 17, and 18 the Associated Harvard Clubs will meet
in St. Louis, and I am currently wrapping up the program
for that meeting. Early in June our daughter graduates from
John Burroughs School. Then comes Reunion in Cambridge;
then comes the Republican Convention in Chicago; following
that the primaries in Missouri and the elections in November.
On reflection, each year since 1927 has seemed just as crowded.
We look forward to joining you.

SIDNEY SINGER

HOME aApprEss: 83 Overlook Rd., New Rochelle, N. Y.

OFFICE appREss: 25 W. 14th St., New York 11, N. Y.

BORN: June 26, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Max Singer, Ida Hirshon.

PREP4RED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS AT COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; LL.B. 1930.

MmarRigeD: Dorothy Hirshberg, Aug. 18, 1930, Marblehead, Mass. CHILDREN:
Sidney, Jr., March 12, 1933; Stephen, Aug. 12, 1935.

HARVARD SON: Sidney Singer, Jr., ’54.

HARVARD BROTHER: Milton Singer, 733.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and general manager of chain store jewelry firm.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned 2d lieutenant, U.S.A.AF., 19423
assigned Army Air Force Hdqtrs., stationed in Washington, D. C.;
assigned to represent A.A.F. on the Joint and Combined Chiefs of
Staff; separated as major, 1945.

[ 891 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Finlay Straus, Inc.; president, Associated
Credit Jewelers of New York and New Jersey; chairman, Joint
Defense Appeal for the Jewelry Division of Greater New York.

MEMBER OF: Quaker Ridge Golf Club of Scarsdale; New Rochelle Tennis
Club; Massachusetts Bar Association.

I ALWAYS had difficulty in writing my English A themes, but
never nearly as much trouble as I had in composing this unim-
portant contribution to this Class Report.

In spite of the fact that world-shattering events have taken
place in the past twenty-five years, somehow or other, my own
experiences seem very uneventful. Not that wars and depressions
have passed me by . . . I’m just not good copy.

The time schedule was perfect! In June, 1930, the market
for cub-lawyers was more bearish than for low-grade stocks.
Just then Harvard gave me a neat slip of paper marked LL.B,
and closed the door quickly after seven homelike years. My
theory was that “prosperity was just around the corner.” Well,
maybe, at least. My personal “corner” landed me in one of Bos-
ton’s leading law firms. At the end of the year we parted with
polite reluctance, when I set out for New York and my present
association.

Meantime, a wonderful girl married me and in the normal
course of events we had two sons. Sidney, Jr., is in the Class of
"54 and putting the old man to shame at tennis, squash, band, and,
for all the play, at studies too. Stephen, still in high school, looks
forward to making it an all-Harvard family.

Little by litcle I switched from squash to tennis, to horses, and
now to golf. Golf . . . that game that seemed so silly to the boy

athlete . . . is still the master of my middle age. It’s that once-in-
a-while low round that’s to blame.

But, back to business, In 1942, the U. S. Air Force called: me
from the commuter’s run, workaday life to be an officer (and a
gentleman). The job was a sinecure ... but top brass didn’t
know and handed me a couple of citations, and followed that
with an honorable discharge . . . and it was back to the old firm
and really working.

As to our travels... they’ve been fun and we look for more.
Our honeymoon on a North Cape cruise was wonderful as
honeymoons are. During the war most of my travelling was

[ 892 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

confined to flying between Army Air bases in the United States.
Once in awhile, I had to take a trip into the cold wastes of Can-
ada, Labrador, and other spots on the north Atlantic air route.
More recently we have taken some wonderful trips to California
and Central America. There is still a lot of the world I hope we
shall be able to travel to, if only the more belligerent folk with
whom we are trying to negotiate peace treaties don’t get there
with atomic bombs and the like first.

JOHN FRANKLIN SINGLE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Grassy Hill Road, Orange, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Southern New England Telephone Co., 227 Church St., New

Haven, Conn.
BORN: Sept. 11, 1905, Brooklyn, N. Y. PARENTS: John Franklin Single, Nellie

Dorin.
PREPARED AT: Barringer High School, Newark, N. J.; Ithaca High School,

Ithaca, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH. ENG. cum laude, 1927.

marrieD: Mildred Kullman, Aug. 31, 1929, New Haven, Conn. cuttp: John
Franklin, 3d, Aug. 20, 1938.

occuPaTION: Telephone engineer, engineer of exchange fundamental plans,

Southern New England Telephone Company.
MEMBER OF: American Institute of Electrical Engineers; New Haven Power
Squadron (secretary since 1944); Harvard Club of New Haven (presi-

dent, 1951).
I HAVE been in the telephone business in. New Haven since
1929, and am now responsible for all long-term planning of
exchange plant extensions for the Southern New England Tele-
phone Company.

In 1945 we bought an old colonial house (called the Isaac
Treat House, which was built in 1776) with about two and a
half acres of land in Orange, Connecticut. Since then we have
been busy caring for an old apple orchard, a good-sized lawn,
flower garden, and vegetable garden. Good use of the last
is made in keeping the deep freezer as full as possible.

Despite the fact that I am located in New Haven and vicinity,
I have run across a considerable number of Harvard men in this
area,

My politics? I have not voted for a winner since 1928, but I
think my luck is bound to change this fall.

[ 893 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

STEPHEN STANISLAUS SKRYPZAK

HOME AppREss: Route 1, Box 479B, Beaumont, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 16, 1905, Erie, Pa. parents: Joseph Skrypzak, Anna Schedds.

PREPARED AT: St. John Kanty High School, Erie, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Sophia Stephany Rye, June 24, 1930, Erie, Pa. Ccumpren: Stephen
John, June 11, 1933; Anthony, Nov. 10, 1937; Martin, Nov. 3, 1939,
Michael, Dec. 3, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Rancher; Orchardist.

BENJAMIN SLADE

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Washington Ave. Morristown, N. J.

OFFICE AppRESS: Bell Telephone Laboratories, Murray Hill, N. J.

Born: April 11, 1905, Fall River, Mass. parents: Louis Palmer Slade, ’97,
Charlotte Keach Boone.

PREPARED AT: New Britain Senior High School, New Britain, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B. IN FE. COM. ENG. cum laude, 1927.

MARRIED: Katharine R. Fagan, May 14, 1938, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Ruth Borden, June 28, 1940; Susan Gifford, Jan. 23, 1943-

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Milton Slade, ’28; Harry Boone Slade, ’33, 8.M., '34-

OccuPATION: Member of technical staff, Bell Telephone Laboratories.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Morristown Planning Board; past president, Morris-
town Civic Association.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society; U. S. Power Squadrons, New
England Historic Genealogical Society; Tau Beta Pi.

AFTER graduation I accepted a job with the Bell Telephone
Laboratories and settled down in New York City, as a star
boarder at the home of my married sister. It was not very long
before the depression descended upon us, cutting our income and
increasing our free time. Going to movies and building radio
sets were then my chief amusements. I can remember going to
a movie on a weck-day afternoon, seeing two feature pictures, a
newsreel, a serial episode, and getting a headache for fifteen cents.

Finally business began to pick up and I could see that bachelor-
hood was without dividends. So fortified with courage from
Arthur Murray, and articulation from a course in public speaking,
I timidly trod the path of courtship. In 1938 I was married —a
complete success.

The next several years were spent in establishing a family and
purchasing a house. Asa result of the present economic situation

[ 894 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and a natural liking to putter, 1 have acquired a passable proficien-
cy for most home repair jobs. They take a lot of time but the
satisfaction is rewarding.

Several years ago I contributed some effort to the local civic
association and before [I realized it 1 was snared. The resulting
entanglements often require my attendance when I would much
rather be at home. I am secretly pleased when my wife and
daughters object to my being away for these civic commitments.

Throughout the years I have worked for the Bell Laboratories,
mostly on apparatus development. During the war a great deal
of our work was for the armed forces. After the war I was a
member of the team that produced the repeaters for the Key
West-Havana Submarine Cable which was laid in 1950. This is
a 2q-channel carrier frequency cable with repeaters contained
within the cable itself. Presently I am occupied in development
work on deposited carbon resistors. When time permits I enjoy
tinkering in the cellar with clocks, watches, and electronic devices.

HOWARD SLADE, II

HOME AppREss: Syosset, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE AppRess: t Wall St. New York, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 20, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Winthrop Slade, Anne
Abeel Hall.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.

Marriep: Cecily Sheldon Work, May 12, 1934, Cold Spring Harbor, Long
Island, N. Y. crmpren: Cecily Sheldon, June 20, 1935; Anne Abeel,
Feb. 1, 1938; Elizabeth Marbury, March 1, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Winthrop Slade, Jr., ’21.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Fiduciary Trust Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Office of Under Secretary of War, March, 1941;
commissioned major AUS, January, 1942; Command and General Staff
School, 4th ASF Course, 1943; special service officer, 42d Infantry Div.,
1943-45; ETO, January-September, 1945; discharged January, 1946, rank
of lieutenant colonel.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Green Vale School.

MEMBER oF: Down Town Association; Cold Spring Harbor Beach Club.

IF YOU have read the depressing best-seller, Point of No Return,
and have kept abreast of Operation Long Island Railroad, you

[ 895 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

have a complete picture of my activities. For the benefit of our
scholars, Leo and Tito, I quote a French jingle brought to my
attention by an intimate and sympathetic friend of mine:

3 filles
avec la mére
font 4 diables
pour le pére.

ALLEN BATTERMAN SMITH

HOME ApprEss: Kirby Lane, Rye, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREss: c/o Turner Halsey Co., 40 Worth St., New York 13, N. Y.

BoRN: March 3, 1905, Winchester, Mass. parents: George Batterman Smith,
Alice Rebecca Stevens.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924.

MarrigD: Eleanor Fulton Irving, Sept. 19, 1931, Pelham, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Philip Batterman, Jan. 5, 1936; Priscilla Fulton, May 7, 1941.

occupation: Textile sales engineer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II; Coast Guard Auxiliary.

MEMBER OF: Cruising Club of America; Manursing Island Club; American
Yacht Club.

I HAVE led the life of a typical small-town Westchester resident
who commutes to New York by train and travels for business
by air. I am naturally a participant in all the local civic projects
including the Rye Forum which I directed for several years, a
deacon of the church and active in their men’s club.

My principal hobby has been ocean racing since old age forced
me to abandon ice hockey, although I can still manage a bit of
tennis and paddle tennis in the very minor leagues. In recent
years we have managed to get out on the water for most of my
non-working days when the weather permits. For fifteen years
or so I enjoyed the rugged sport of Frostbiting until my boy
(and crew) went away to school. To complete the outdoor
cycle, during the last few years I have taken my family to the
mountains where we have slept in tents and cooked on open
fires — try that on your ukelele some time!

[ 896 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ARTHUR CRITTENDEN SMITH

HOME ADDRESS: 5859 W. Sixth St Los Angeles 36, Calif.

OFFICE ADDREss: Western Air Lines, 6060 Avion Drive, Los Angeles 45, Calif.

porn: Dec. 11, 1903, Omaha, Nebr. parents: Arthur Crittenden Smith,
87, Harriet Foster White.

PREPARED aT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927, DEGREE: $.B., 1927.

marriep: Wilma McFarland, Oct. 5, 1929, Omaha, Nebr. (divorced 1950).
cHILDREN: Allyn Delano (daughter), April 2, 1931; Carol Danforth
(daughter), Nov. 30, 1939.

OCCUPATION: Director, sales administration, Western Air Lines.

orFices HELD: Director, National Travelers’ Aid Association; president,
Rotary Club (Pomona),

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Southern California; Del Mar Club.

FOR many years before graduating it was my ambition to rail-
road. This I did for over eleven years with some success after
two moves Omaha to Pomona (California) to Denver and a lot
of travel and hard work and low salary. I learned to love trans-
portation and its fascinating, demanding, never-ending problems.
Then one day I met a man, the epitome of honesty, intelligence,
sincerity, and ambition. He talked me into the air line business
and I have never regretted the move. He is now president of the
company for which I work. He has taken a bankrupt business,
turning it in five years into one of the best in a highly competi-
tive field. Working for him is exacting but it is fun and I hope
to serve under him for the rest of my working days. Air trans-
portation is demanding, challenging, and trying under present-
day government controls. Few have the courage to stick it out.
Remuneration is modest, hours long, problems complicated but
I love it! The rewards are lots of fast travel — mostly by air, of
course! Plane travel does something to one. It takes you thou-
sands of feet above the earth where human strife seems only
relative and man’s handiwork is dwarfed by the works of nature.
Fly from Southern California to the Pacific Northwest (by West-
ern, please), along the blue Pacific, over bays and inlets, virgin
forests, snow-capped peaks, glacial valleys and streams, and you
will see for yourself that the flying business brings rewards few
businesses can bring! (Yes, I concentrated in geology.)

My two daughters are the pride and joy of my life, partic-
ularly my elder daughter, now a senior at U.C.L.A., Life cover

[ 897 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

girl (Nov. 27, 1950, issue). I plan to bring her to the Reunion.
My younger daughter will grow up to be just as popular and
pretty as her much publicized sister.

My hobby 1 is baseball — Hollywood stars — the Pacific Coast
League is our best travel customer. Then I like fishing when I
get a rare chance. Having lived in Nebraska, Massachusetts,
Colorado, and back in California for the second time, I am con-
vinced that California is the place I prefer and California, I hope,
will continue to be good to me. My associates both business and
social are the best one could ask for. Harvard is pretty much
misunderstood out here but I am proud to be a graduate and
although so far I may have missed the financial rewards of life, I
am grateful for good health, a responsible job in a progressive
company, and last but far from least, two lovely daughters. I am
looking forward to the Reunion!

CARLETON SPRAGUE SMITH

HOME Appress: Waldingfield Farm, Washington, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New York Public Library, Fifth Ave. & q2nd St., New York
18, N. Y.; New York University, Institute of Public Affairs and Re-
gional Studies, Washington Sq., New York, N. Y.; Office of United
States High Commissioner for Germany, I. G. Hochhaus, Bremerstrasse,
Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

BorN: Aug. 8, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Clarence Bishop Smith,
Catherine Cook.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.; Hackley School, Tarrytown,
N. Y.; Ecole Yersin, Paris, France.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. CU? laude, 1927; A.M., 1928;
pr. PHIL. (Univ. of Vienna) 1930.

MarRiED: Elisabeth Cowles Sperry, June 30, 1934, Geneva, Switzerland.
cuitp: Damaris Sayre Sprague, July 27, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alexander Mackay-Smith, ’24, Li.p., ’28.

OCCUPATION: History, music, diplomacy; chief of Music Division, New York
Public Library; adjunct professor, New York University, lecturing in
Music Department and Institute of Public Affairs and Regional Studies
on Latin American History; consultant to United States High Com-
missioner for Germany.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Cultural relations officer, Sao Paulo, Brazil,
1944-46.

MEMBER OF: Council on Foreign Relations, Academy of Political Science,
New York State Historical Society; American Historical Society; Har-
vard Club of New York; Century Association; Grolier Club.

[ 898 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PUBLICATIONS: “Haydn’s Chamber Music and Flute,” Musie Quarterly, New
York, 1933; “The Song Makers,” Survey Graphic, March, 1941; “Re-
cent Work on Music in the Renaissance,” Modern Philology, August,
1944; introduction to book, Makers of Opera by Kathicen O'Donnell
Hoover, New York, H. Bittner & Co. 1948; “The 1774 Psalm Book
of the Reformed Protestant Dutch Church in New York City,” Musi-
cal Quarterly, New York, January, 1948; “William James in Brazil,”
four papers presented in Institute for Brazilian Studies, Vanderbilt Uni-
versity, Nashville, 1951.

AS A freshman and sophomore I never conceived of doing gradu-
ate work — my interests in music and the outside world being
strong — but the autumn of 1926 spent in Spain changed this atti-
tude and led to further study. Professors Haskins and Babbitt and
Exchange Professor Pribram subsequently influenced my intellec-
tual development and HTP of the Boston Transcript my critical
faculties. (I was an assistant music critic on the paper in 1927 and
1928.) After obtaining an A.M. in comparative history and litera-
ture, the next move was a sojourn at the University of Vienna.
There followed a Ph.D. in history with a minor in music, the
research entailing a geo-political-cultural investigation of Austro-
Spanish relations during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries
(the struggle of the Casa de Austria against the other European
powers).

Upon my return in 1931, Columbia University offered me an
instructorship in history and the New York Public Library the
direction of its music activities. I tried also to further the forma-
tion of better musicological collections throughout the country,
called the Music Library Association into existence, and worked
for the appointment of more scholars in American University
music departments. In 1934 I was married in Geneva, Switzer-
land to Elisabeth Cowles Sperry of New Haven, and our daughter
Damaris was born three years later. During this period some time
was also passed abroad purchasing books for the New York Pub-
lic Library and playing the flute professionally. In 1936 I was a
United States delegate to the International Educational Congress
at Prague and the International Musicological Congress at Bar-
celona where I had the honor of presenting to the city a bust of
Pablo Casals by Brenda Putnam from the ’cellists of America.
Its whereabouts today is unknown.

The more I devoted myself to international matters, however,

[ 899 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

1951, and, with Helen Bullock, Aly Head and My Heart — a Little
History of Thomas Jefferson and Maria Cosway, New York, Put-
nam — the war bringing an end to our collaboration, my preface
being dated Sio Paulo, June, 1945. In 1951 I edited for New
Records, Inc., a series of long-playing discs on “Early Music in
America” and the Prokofieff flute sonata Opus Ninety-four for
Leeds, New York. I have these books on the shelf waiting to be
finished: Thomas Jefferson and the Arts, Music and Politics (for
the University of Indiana), and Afusic in North America — with
Raymond Kendall. As will be apparent from the above, the path
since 1927 has led through many fields, and the years have been
busy — entailing interesting assignments and considerable travel.
One always hopes that one has not labored in vain.

CHARLES LAWRENCE SMITH, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 36-40 Bowne St., Flushing, N. Y.

OFFICE appRrEss: Flushing High School, Flushing, N. Y.

BoRN: Aug. 7, 1900, New York, N. Y. parents: Charles Lawrence Smith,
Sophie Elizabeth Martin,

PREPARED aT: DeWitt Clinton High School, New York, N. ¥.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927; AM.
(Columbia Univ.), 1935.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: High school teacher of English.

MEMBER OF: Amateur Astronomers Association.

I AM still teaching English, with somewhat diminished but
yet considerable gusto, in the Flushing High School, a part of
the school system of the City of New York. There, paradoxically,
my contact with the modern teen-ager is both keeping me young
and making me old. Unmarried myself, I find a great deal of
enjoyment in playing with my brother’s children, and his ten-
month-old son, named for my father and me, is already ear-
marked for Harvard. I have been on the verge of marriage
several times, but for me marriage seems something like a
vaccination that doesn’t take.

At various times I have travelled to Havana, Nassau, Bermuda,
and throughout the United States and Canada. Latterly, with
the rising cost of living and the inflated dollar, my travels have
been limited to nearby vacation resorts.

[ 902 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

As for hobbies, I still play a mediocre game of tennis the
year *round — outdoors in summer and in one of the armories
in winter — but now I play doubles only. I am a member of a
duplicate bridge club, and, having had considerable success this
season, I think at this moment that bridge is a wonderful game.
After a lapse of about twenty years, I am again a member of a
bowling club, and I attribute my low average, in part, to the
long cessation. Reading is still a major hobby, and I find much
enjoyment in long walks, either alone or with friends. While
out walking on a clear night, I am apt to do some star-gazing, for
I am a member, though not too active a one, of the New York
Amateur Astronomers Association.

With regard to politics, I] am an independent Republican, but
often find it hard to distinguish between Tweedledum and
‘Tweedledee.

There, gentlemen, after a number of letters, goads, and a
“frantic appeal,” is my “unvarnish’d tale.”

JACOB SMITH

HOME ADDRESS: 1435 Lexington Ave., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 12 E. 76th St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: March 28, 1906, Kief, Russia. parents: Max E. Smith, Helen Savoy.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927, DEGREES: A.B. 1927; M.D. (Rush Medical Coll.),
1932.

MARRIED: Janice Ruth Rosenthal, Sept. 1, 1946, Philadelphia, Pa. cHILDREN:
Leslie Ellen, Aug. 15, 1947; Hollis Hope, Sept. 16, 1951.

OccUPATION: Surgeon. .

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcoRD: U, S. Navy; lieutenant commander on active serv-

ice, June, 1943, to March, 1946.
MEMBER oF: American College of Surgeons (fellow); American College of
Chest Physicians (fellow); American Medical Association; Association

of Military Surgeons.

PUBLICATIONS: Twelve papers relating to surgery of the chest.

FOLLOWING medical school and a four-year residency in
surgery, I was invited to become associated with the Insular
Department of Health of Puerto Rico. From 1936 to 1943, I
was chief thoracic surgeon to the Insular Tuberculosis Service of
the island, visiting surgeon to the School of Tropical Medicine,
attending surgeon to the Boyamon and Fajardo District Hospitals,

[ 903 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

and consulting surgeon to the Presbyterian Hospital of Puerto

Rico.

From 1943 to 1946, I was a medical officer in the United
States Navy, spending a year in the Pacific theatre, first on a
transport and later on the hospital ship, U.S.S. Solace. 1 enjoyed
seeing the play South Pacific, and reading Michener’s Tales of the
South Pacific. But that “ain’t” what I saw, when I was there.

Following my return from active duty, I got married, much
belated to be sure, but to a wonderful girl, and now we have
two magnificent daughters. Instead of returning to Puerto Rico,
I resumed practice in New York City. At present, I am chief of
thoracic surgery at the Jewish Memorial Hospital, and associate
attending thoracic surgeon at the Bronx Hospital, Sea View

Hospital, and Lebanon Hospital (all in New York City).

Life has been a bit hectic these last several years, what with
reéstablishing my practice, getting married, and helping to raise
two daughters. But all in all, it hasn’t been too bad. I’ve had
occasion to meet up with several of my classmates, and a number
of old friends whom I hadn’t seen for years.

I’m afraid the practice of medicine, with several jaunts around
the country to take in medical meetings, has taken up most of
my time. The theatre, of which my wife and I are particularly
fond, and the company of many friends have helped while away
the remaining time.

I have been a Democrat for lo, these many years, and this
fellow, Ike, needs a bit of looking into, and I haven’t yet made
up my mind what I shall do this year.

KENNETH BURTON SMITH

HOME ApprEss: Paint Branch Farms, Silver Spring, R. D. 1, Md.

OFFICE AppRrFss: National Production Authority, Washington, D. C.

BoRN: Aug. 11, 1905, Islip, N. Y. parents: Ellis Burton Smith, Marion
Eloise Hawkins.

prepareo At: Montclair High School, Montclair, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: $.B., 1927; M.B.A. (New York Univ.),
1938.

mMarRirp: Madclcine Payne Hecht, Sept. 27, 1930, Brooklyn, N. Y. cum:
Alice Burton, April 16, 1945 (adopted).

occupation: Chief of Glass Section, National Production Authority,
Washington, D. C.

[ 904 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcoRD: Enlisted, U. S. Navy, July 24, 1943; discharged,
Nov. 8, 1945; aerology.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: O.P.A., 1941-42; U.S. Tariff Commission, 1942-
433 N.P.A., 1951,

MEMBER OF: National Association of Cost Accountants.

THE period from graduation until the late thirties, when either
an ulcer or a fair imitation of one interrupted a routine, dull,
urban existence, seems now pretty much of a blank. There was
the not unusual period of floundering to find my niche, which
perhaps I am still seeking. In 1929 I settled down with a large
company as a roving statistician and economist. During the
depression the fancy titles and duties disappeared, and 1 became a
budget drone. This lasted too long. I should have continued
hopping about as I did with my speculations — from this decline
to that. But I ground and plugged at all hours of the day and
night for big business with many wistful glances at the New Deal
and particularly its anti-trust philosophy. Although I voted with
firm convictions for Hoover in 1932, by 1936 I felt that much of
the Roosevelt program was worth while and necessary and that
some of the social legislation was overdue. So I voted against
Landon. A year later I had to admit to my friends and, alas, to
my wife that I had been subtly misguided.

Nevertheless there were bright spots during this period. I
married in 1930, quite happily in spite of occasional differences
in politics and bridge. There was the grind of night school and
the — perhaps empty — satisfaction of a higher degree. And there
was a little golf, worse tennis, duplicate bridge clubs, and summers
on the Jersey shore with pleasant memories of Jersey Central’s
SS Monmouth and Sandy Hook. In 1938 the so-called ulcer
condition arrived, and I was advised to pursue a more active and
less confining sedentary type of work. I left my worn niche
just when developments were becoming a bit more favorable and
embarked prematurely on a scheme of my own. For several years
I was actively walking streets, surveying some twenty square
miles of Brooklyn. I felt fine, but I wasn’t making any money,
and the affair in Europe extinguished what hopes I had left. My
little staff had been caught in the draft and my customers hesi-
tated to buy maps of areas that might be bombed out in a few
years. In late 1941 I readily enough accepted an invitation to join

[ 905 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

the “price controllers” in Washington, so I left my good wife to
sell our maps to the Civil Defense wardens and I took up my new
duties. I soon had too much of New Deal lawyers and econ-
omists, and I escaped to join the staid staff of the old Tariff
Commission, until I entered the service in 1943. My delightful
experience with ulcers successfully killed several applications for
commissions, and J finally enlisted as a “gob.” Aerology, how-
ever, was interesting, and I had the satifaction, even though never
quite getting to sea, of paying back my training with some
eighteen months’ service at west coast airports.

After the war, I returned to the Commission, thinking that
tariffs would likely become important in our trade again and
that the Congress would probably completely revise them. We
worked with a few Senators and the State Department. I handled
glass products, and although no duties were increased, at least
they were not cut as much as they might have been, for in spite
of my free-trade training under Taussig, I promptly turned
protectionist when it came to reducing duties on hand-made
articles. I don’t think that back in Economics A we considered
the effects of big differences in wage scales.

Shortly after Korea I was asked to set up a glass section in the
National Production Authority. So here I find myself putting
through tax amortization certificates, loans, priorities, and mate-
rial allocations for the glass industry. ‘Though it may be some-
what naive, I hope that I am helping. I am convinced that soon
we shall be faced with World War III and that it will nearly kill
us to win. The bright spot in our now middle-aged life has been
the adoption of a little girl, To our newly-built house in the
country she has been a welcome addition. As wild as days fre-
quently seem, and although the going is pretty rough, the three
of us have lots of good times together.

MORTON SMITH

HOME apprESS: 9 Sylvan Rd., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.

oFFice appress: Hood Rubber Co., Watertown 72, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 3, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: Charles Morton Smith, m.p., 93,
Mary Louise Moulton.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: $.B., 1927.

marRieD: Sylvia Hope Gilman, 1926, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1929);

[ 906 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Mary Lothrop Apollonio, 1932, Brookline, Mass. cittpreN: Morton, Jr,
Feb, 10, 1927 (7m. Nancy Frost, 1950); Lothrop, Aug. 27, 1934; Charles
Moulton, July 28, 1937. craxpocuitp: David Randolph Smith, Sept. 13,
1951.

occuPATION: Methods engineer assigned to production division, Hood Rub-
ber Company, manufacturers of light rubber footwear.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Ordered to active duty as captain, Field Artil-
lery, Sept. 18, 1940; assigned as assistant professor, Military Science and
Tactics, Harvard, Sept. 18, 1940; promoted major, Dec. 6, 1941; execu-
tive officer, Milicary Department, Harvard, January, 1942; promoted
lieutenant colonel, June 22, 1942; assigned to Eldqtrs. rst Service Com-
mand as director of Army Specialized Training Program, March 26,
1943; promoted colonel, Nov. 20, 1943; detailed to General Staff Corps,
December, 1943, chief, Emergency Staff, ist Service Command, July,
1944; detailed Inspector General's Department, Aug. 3, 1945; left for
Manila, Aug. 7, 1945; Waltham Regional Hospital, Sept. 27-Nov. 26,
1945; assistant service command inspector general ist Service Command,
Nov. 27, 1945-Nov. 15, 1946; awarded Army Commendation Ribbon.

OFFICES HELD: Executive Board, Norumbega Council, Boy Scouts of America,
since 1949; commanding officer, 1228th Replacement Center (Train.),
1949-51; chairman Disaster Committee, American Red Cross, 1951; per-
manent secretary, Class of 1923, Noble and Greenough School.

MEMBER oF: United States Power Squadron, Reserve Officers’ Association.

HOW difficult it is to sit down and sum up the happenings of
twenty-five years. How important many things seemed at the
time, which in retrospect fall into place, each adding its share
equally in making an interesting and happy life. There were
the glorious thirty days on the Lady Drake, leisurely poking
among the Leeward and Windward Islands as Mary and I took
our honeymoon cruise; and then there were the days the boys
were born, each starting a new line of activity and interest;
and then the day of the first sail on my twenty-six-foot auxiliary
sloop, Restless I; the first summer in our little cottage at Brewster
down on Cape Cod; the day when Uncle Sam ordered me to
report for active duty; the day when overseas orders arrived and
the excitement of preparing for Manila followed by the disap-
pointment of ending up in Murphy General Hospital instead —
and then the graduation day of Mort, Jr., from Dartmouth, a day
postponed two years by military service in Japan; and then the
days the Court of Honor was held and “Lo” and “Chaz” pinned
the little silver eagles on their mother as they reached the rank
of Eagle Scout; and then the days of snowstorms when the long

[ 907 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

driveway must be cleared and I find the amount of puffing and

panting in direct proportion to the years out of college; and

the beautiful fall day when Mort, Jr., and Nan were married;
and the day, a year later, when the telegram arrived which
started — “Dear Grandpa” and told me of the arrival of “Randy”
—and then the day when the high fidelity amplifier and pre-
amplifier I had been building, finally gave forth the lifelike music
so much desired and appreciated by myself and all the family;
and now the days of watching “Lo” select an engineering school
to carry out his desire to enter the electronics field. Yes, indeed,
each day so important in itself and each a milestone in a busy and
interesting twenty-five-year span.

For the last fifteen years my days have been occupied with the
production problems of light rubber footwear at the Hood
Rubber Company — more recently with the insulated boots which
have met with such favor among the men in Korea this past
winter.

My hobbies have been many and varied. For many years
magic and then badminton ranked number one. League and
tournament play in badminton made many friends and brought
considerable pleasure. Mary joined me in this sport and brought
home more silverware than I was able to corral.

Sailing a small boat on the waters of Cape Cod Bay finally led
to a Jarger boat and membership in the United States Power
Squadron. I have completed all the courses except navigation,
which I am now taking. I also help some with the instructing
in the squadron.

Scouting came in for its share and during the past seven years
I have served as Cubmaster, Pact Committee Chairman, District
Commissioner, and member of the Executive Board of the
Council.

Mary has been associated with the Red Cross for over seven
years, serving in various capacities ranging from motor service
driver to vice-chairman of service groups. So I suppose it is
natural that I now find mysclf confronted with the problem of
heading up the local Disaster Committee, which is probably why
this finally got written -— because when Charlie Draper called
Mary, after I had reccived Goad Number 3, she reported that it
certainly looked like a disaster to her.

[ 908 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT THORNTON SMITH

HOME ADDRESS: 11 Porter St., South Paris, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 6 Pine St., South Paris, Maine.

BORN: Sept. 16, 1907, Saco, Maine, parents: John Gilpatric Smith, Mary
Eliza Gooch.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; LLB., 1930.

MARRIED: Gertrude Nellie Titus, Aug. 25, 1935, South Paris, Maine. cut-
prEN: Alan Titus, March 25, 1939; Dennis Robert, Feb. 3, 1942; Gwen-
dolyn Dorothy, July 26, 1945. .

OccUPATION: Lawyer, general practice; running business as sole proprietor.

OFFICES HELD: County attorney for Oxford County, Maine, 1937-41 and
1947-51; treasurer, Town of Paris, Maine, since 1935; treasurer, South
Paris Village Corporation, since 1935; trustee, South Paris Savings
Bank.

RUSSELL TRAIN SMITH

HOME ApDprEss: 107 Upland Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: School of the Museum of Fine Arts, 230 The Fenway, Bos-
ton 15, Mass.

BorN: March 14, 1905, Concord, Mass. parents: Henry Francis Smith, Mar-
garet Blanchard.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.ARCH., 1930.

MarrieED: Ruth Hadfield, Jan. 11, 1936, Cambridge, Mass. cuitpren: Deborah
Train, Jan. 17, 1938; Henry Francis, 3d, April 14, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Whitney Savage Smith, 723.

occupation: Architect, teacher; head of the School of the Museum of Fine
Arts, Boston; head of Department of Fine Arts, Tufts College; visiting
lecturer, Simmons College.

OFFICES HELD: Head of Department of Art, North Carolina University, 1936-
40; head of School of Museum of Fine Arts, since 1940; head of Depart-
ment of Fine Arts, Tufts College, since 1943; chairman, Red Cross Arts
and Skills, Boston Admissions Committee, 1944-48; Massachusetts Handi-
craft Advisory Committee; director, Sharon Art Center.

MEMBER OF: Washington Water Color Club; Shakespeare Club of Boston.

AFTER graduating in fine arts from college, I went to the
Harvard Architectural School, graduating in June, 1930. I was
awarded the Nelson Robinson Travelling F ellowship upon which
I spent the next year travelling in Europe. My interest at that
time was in the entire art picture, architecture, sculpture, and
painting, in all the countries of Europe from Sweden to Spain,
England to Italy. In the summer of 1930, prior to sailing for

[ 909 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Europe, I was sent as the Harvard representative to the Lake
Forest School of Architecture and Landscape Architecture in
Lake Forest. I was extremely interested in the modern buildings
of Austria and Holland, but I also spent much time seeing,
studying, and drawing the great monuments of the past.
Returning to the United States in 1931, I started working pri-
vately as architect and designer. A few plans were drawn. In
1932 I went to Chichen Itza Yucatan, as an architectural drafts-
man for the Carnegie Institution of Washington. Except for re-
turning to Cambridge for a vacation, the next two years were
spent in the tropics studying the Maya Indian ruins. The following
year, 1935, was spent on the report of the expeditions with work
being done in the Peabody Museum at Harvard.

Early in the year 1936, after marrying Ruth Hadfield, I went
to Williamsburg, Virginia, where I worked on the Historical
American Building survey of Jamestown Island. Offices were
in Williamsburg which was then nearing the three-quarter point
in restoration. But that fall I moved to Chapel Hill, North
Carolina, where I set in motion plans for an art department at
the university. As near as possible an equal balance was maintained
between art history and creative or studio work. At that time I
was closely associated with the dramatic arts department, the
well-known Carolina Playmakers, designing and painting many
productions. I was also connected with many state and university
projects.

In the fall of 1940 I returned to Boston as head of the School
of the Museum of Fine Arts, a professional school. In 1943 I
also became the head of the Fine Arts Department of Tufts
College, thus combining again the historical and creative sides
of art. During the war much work and time was spent on the
many art projects, both for civilians and servicemen in hos-
pitals and in training camps. Both the Museum School and Tufts
College have continued to keep me busy with teaching art and
design. With the exception of one delightful summer spent at
Nags Head, Manteo, North Carolina, when my wife was a mem-
ber of the Lost Colony Company, the months out of school
sessions have been spent in Jaff rey, New Hampshire. Water color
painting with an occasional exhibition has been an avocation since
college.

[910 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THOMAS SMITHAM

HOME appREss: 1720 N. Tucson Blvd. Tucson, Ariz.

OFFICE ADDRESS: German Department, University of Arizona, Tucson, Ariz.

BORN: March 28, 1905, Nesquehoning, Pa. parents: James Smitham (Law
School ’97~’98), Anna Sheridan Pierce.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: A.B. #agna cum laude, 1927; AM.
(Univ. of Arizona), 1950.

MARRIED: Emilie W. MacKinnon, 1928 (divorced); Mildred Louise Pearson,
1947. CHILDREN: Thomas, Jan. 31, 1929; George K., Dec. 12, 1930;
Hector B., July 23, 1934.

OccuPATION: Instructor in German, University of Arizona.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Association of University Pro-
fessors.

I AM at present at the University of Michigan on a fellowship,
studying for the Ph.D. in Germanic languages and literatures.
My hobby is travel. Convictions: Social —? Political — no affilia-
tion, just anti- Truman. Religion — Christian, but no affiliation.

HENRY LLOYD SMYTH, JR.

BORN: Jan. 14, 1906, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Henry Lloyd Smyth, °83,
Margarita Pumpelly.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Elinor Scott, Dec. 22, 1924, St. Stephen, N. B., Canada. CHILDREN:
Charlotte Pumpelly, Nov. 10, 1925; William Pumpelly, Aug. 30, 1928;
Henry Lloyd, 3d, Oct. 23, 1930.

pieD: Aug. 16, 1937, Brattleboro, Vt.

AS AN undergraduate Henry Lloyd Smyth, Jr., was a member
of the Freshman Cross Country Team and the Freshman Track
Team. For a while after graduation he studied at the University
of California until a nervous breakdown necessitated his return
to the East. In 1931 he entered the Harvard Graduate School to
continue his studies towards a career in geology. When poor
health forced him to withdraw after a few weeks, he settled in
Vermont, where he was living at the time of his death in 1937.

[our] |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MURRAY OGDEN SMYTH

HOME ADpREsS: 265 Worthington Rd., White Plains, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 253 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.

BORN: March 2, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: Herbert Crommelin
Smyth, Maimee S. Murray.

PREPARED AT: Riverdale Country School, Riverdale-on-Hudson, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Alice E. Schubert, Jan. 27, 1928, Norwalk, Conn. (divorced
1938); Helen Dorothy Reynolds, June 27, 1941, Worthington, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Murray Schubert, Nov. 30, 1930 (died Oct. 31, 1934); Bar-
bara Reynolds, Dec. 12, 1942; Sally Ogden, Dec. 25, 1943.

OccuPATION: Assistant state director, New York Savings Bond Division,
U. S. Treasury Department.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Member 56th Regiment, New York State Guard,
1942-44.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Woodlands-Worthington Taxpayers Association,
1950-51; vice-president, Elmsford Parent-Teachers Association, 1948.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

DONALD KENNEDY SNOW

HOME AppREsS: 912 Lincoln Pl., Boulder, Colo.

BoRN: Nov. 7, 1904, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Sydney Bruce Snow, ’oo,
s.T.B. 06, Margrette Kennedy.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926. DEGREES: S.B. (Chicago Univ.), 1932; SM.
(ibid.), 1935.

MaRRIED: Gertrude Test McCain, Nov. 22, 1930, Chicago, Ill. (divorced
1949); Alice Gephart Voight, Nov. 1, 1949, Kenosha, Wis. CHILDREN:
Sandra Test, May 31, 1932; Kennedy Bruce, April, 12, 1934; Peter
Gephart, May 9, 1936 (stepchild); Temperance Holcomb, Feb. 7, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Lowell Snow, Sp. (deceased).

OccUPATION: Pharmaceutical chemist.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Xi; Alpha Chi Sigma; Boulder Elks #566.

PUBLICATIONS: Chemical research article in Journal of the American Chem-
ical Society, 1938.

A MASTER’S degree in organic chemistry from the University
of Chicago in the middle thirties led me into production work
in cosmetics in Chicago. We were a private-label house selling
(mostly lipstick, rouge, and face powder) to other companies
who retailed the stuff. Our customers, however, were as temper-
amental as anybody connected with the beauty business, so I
was glad to take a job as a glue chemist for a thirty-place wooden

[912]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

glider to be made for the Army Air Corps in the huge Simmons
plant (which wasn’t making many beds and mattresses) in Ken-
osha, Wisconsin, This was the promotion of a Yale man and his
buddy along with Grant Simmons—also Yale! Because of
delays and various bugs in the design (the glue stood up well,
however) the Army realized that we couldn’t be in production
for the invasion of Europe, so the entire contract was cancelled.
One of these very large gliders is now a roadside eatery outside
of Kenosha — none was ever in the air.

I then fell into production work in a small pharmaceutical
plant — United States Standard Products Company — outside
of Kenosha where I stayed for six years doing almost every-
thing. I then retired and moved out here to Boulder where we
bought an old house and have been remodelling it —a great deal
of it ourselves. I have also been taking refresher courses in chem-
istry at the University of Colorado which is in Boulder. Within
a year I shall be working (in production) in Denver. A toll turn-
pike will be opened soon between Boulder and Denver which
will make the time to drive between the two cities about twenty
minutes.

With our daughter, a sophomore here at the University of
Colorado, and our two boys in high school and with a new baby
we are kept busy enough. But not so busy that we can’t find
time for tennis and golf and skiing in the mountains, all of which
we can do pretty nearly all the year round!

HERMAN SNYDER

HOME AppREss: 147 Clinton Rd., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Snyder & Tepper, 73 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 1, 1907, Chicago, Ill. parents: Abner Joseph Snyder, Anna Hoff-
man.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927; LL.B. 1931-

MarRiED: Bernice D. Kirshen, Dec. 17, 1935, Boston, Mass. cuitp: Stephen
Peter, July 16, 1940.

OccuPATION: Lawyer.

MEMBER oF: Boston Bar Association; Massachusetts Bar Association; New
Century Club; Brookline Jewish Community Center (Board of Direc-
tors); Brotherhood Temple Israel.

PUBLICATIONS: Article on “Marine Employees Under State Unemployment
Compensation Laws,” Marine News Magazine, April, 1944.

[913 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

I THINK the reason for waiting until Goad No. 2 before writing
this account has been the absence of anything significant to
report. Twenty-five years have flown by leaving a blur of
memories and very little of solid accomplishment.

Since graduation from Law School, I have been engaged in
private practice —a practice sufficiently varied and interesting
so that my affection for the law has never waned.

During the first few years after marriage, we found the time
and freedom to do some travelling which was highlighted by a
trip to Europe at the time of Munich. It was a spine-tingling
period to be abroad and we still have vivid recollections of those
eventful days. |

Hobbies are gardening and a little golf when my garden will
excuse me for an afternoon. While our son was a Cub Scout, my
wife and I counted participation in the activities of den and
pack as an avocation — though hardly a hobby.

My views on matters political and social are perfectly ex-
pressed by the recent writings of Mr. Justice Douglas. | agree
with him that the great threat of today is to our basic liberties,
caused principally by our own fears and unwillingness to let our
democracy work and further agree that T. V. A.’s in Afghanistan
and irrigation in Iraq would do more to check Communist
expansion than all the billions we have and will pour into rapidly
out-moded armaments.

This ends the report of a quiet but perhaps not unproductive
twenty-five years. If above ground at the time of our Fiftieth,
I hope to have a more spectacular report of my accomplishments
and a more peaceful world in which to relate them.

JULIUS HARRY SOBLE

HOME ApprEss: 89 Pleasant St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 89 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: March 1, 1906, Lithuania. pARENTs: Henry H. Soble, Minnie E. Wolf.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 19273 LL.B. 1930.

MaRRIED: Katherine Silin, June 20, 1935, Boston, Mass. cHILDREN: Eleanor
Frey, March 21, 1936; Kenneth Howard, Aug. 9, 1938.

OccUPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II: Coast Guard ‘Temporary Reserve.

[914 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Massachusetts Legislature — House of Representatives, 1931~35;
Master in Chancery, 1932-1947; special assistant district attorney, Suf-
folk County, Massachusetts, 1937-38.

MEMBER OF: Norfolk County Bar Association; Massachusetts Bar Associa-
tion; Massachusetts Legislators Association.

I REGRET to say that this is being written after countless goads
and on the eve of closing tme and it will most likely sound like
it. With complete frankness I must confess that the goad to my
spouse which my offspring read is what really did the trick. They
threatened to stay away from the Reunion (but not seriously).
1 think one of the reasons for my procrastination was that I
looked forward to reading the interesting and clever messages
contained in each goad. (For those who were prompt in their
remittances I should like to explain that a goad was a periodic
postcard from our patient and persistent Chairman of the Class
Report containing an impressive and persuasive plea for the
return of the report.)
After three years of jurisprudential happiness with Messrs,
Pound, Williston, Beale, Chafee, Sayre, Warren, and the other
outstanding legal pedagogues at the Law School, I entered the
field of politics and became a candidate for the House of Repre-
sentatives in Massachusetts, as a Democrat in a Republican
District. Aided and abetted by former classmates, I found myself
elected three days before the happy tidings from the Bar
Examiners that I was being licensed to practise law. Leverett
Saltonstall (a Harvard luminary and now U. S. Senator) was
then Speaker of the House, and he appointed me to the impres-
sive sounding Committee on Constitutional Law and Bills in
Third Reading. Our Committee on Constitutional Law passed on
No constitutional questions, and except for the chairman of the
Committee on Bills in Third Reading, the other members, of which
I was one, rarely read or saw the Bills at any Reading. There
were a number of legislators who were alumni of the University,
but nary a one a Democrat, so that we found ourselves attending
Opposite caucuses and rarely voting in accord. During this first
term, Governor Joseph B. Ely (a Harvard Democrat) appointed
me as a Master in Chancery, a position to which I was reappointed
in 1937 by Governor Charles F. Hurley (a Cambridge Democrat),
and in 1942 by Governor Leverett Saltonstall (a Harvard Repub-

[ors ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

lican). In 1932 I was reélected to the House and appointed to
the important and active Committee on Judiciary. In 1937 I was
appointed as a Special Assistant District Attorney for Suffolk
County, and this work dealt primarily with the prosecution of
insurance fraud matters, amongst which were cases involvin

recurring claimants and litigants possessing “trick limbs” and
similar physical eccentricities, with each claim under a different
assumed name.

My law practice has been most varied, involving almost every
type of legal issue, except Shelly’s Rule against Perpetuities, for
which I am most grateful, as we were told at Law School that
few understood this rule and fewer were able to apply it. I
am in the first category and have been spared being in the latter.
My work has taken me to various parts of the country at different
times. One of the most interesting cases that I tried was in Hot
Springs, Arkansas, involving a $65,000 jewelry robbery. The
trial lasted for over a week and mirable dictu my client came
back to Boston with me after the trial.

My political partisanship did not influence my matrimonial
partnership. I chose a lovely and grand Republican who at the
time was with the Boston Herald-Traveler, one of the leading
Republican newspapers in the country. (I now enjoy voting the
Republican way — at home.) Our productivity has been limited
to a daughter and son, and to quote the party of the second part,
“We have made up for quantity with quality.”

Time, space, and material contribute to cause this to come
to an end.

FREDERICK WILLIAM SOLOMON

HOME ApprEss: 45 Hallwood Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.

OFFIcE ADDRESS: Weather Master Alsco of New England, Inc., 445 Cambridge
St., Allston, Mass.

BORN: Noy. 15, 1906, Hartford, Conn. parents: William H. Solomon, Hattie
Waingrow.

prepareD AT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 19273 LL.B., 1930.

marrieD: Mae L. Beserosky, June 27, 1933; New Bedford, Mass. CHILDREN:
Gerald Stephen, Sept. 4, 19375 Cynthia Jane, Sept. 7, 1938.

occuPATION: Attorney and business executive.

[916]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Shawmut Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Boston Chess Club; Cavendish
Club; Boston Bar Association; Massachusetts Bar Association.

SOMEONE called it a “goad” but I construed it as a threatening
letter and I am writing this biography under pressure and sending
it by return mail as demanded in the letter.

If this is a sketchy report, blame it on expediency. It covers
as long a period of time as those long-winded reports, but I
have to write it in haste lest once more, as in an earlier Anniversary
Report (15th), I be relegated to mere vital statistics with the
following:

“(This information is from the Secretary’s files. No question-
naire was received from Solomon.)”

Truthfully, my life has been bound up with my Harvard
background. It was during my student days that I met and
courted my wife-to-be — then a student at Radcliffe.

In 1930— our first Class Reunion—I was graduated from
Harvard Law School and began the practice of law in Boston.

In 1933 I celebrated our second Reunion by marrying that
Radcliffe girl We now have a male offspring at the Rivers
School and a female counterpart at Beaver Country Day School.

In 1947, as a result of an investment in a firm doing a factory
to consumer business, I found, to my pleasant surprise, that
business offered more of a challenge than a law practice and
within a year, I found myself so bound up in business that the
law practice became merely a memory.

PHILIP SOLOMON

HOME apprEss: 249 S. Wetherly Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 416 N. Bedford Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.

Born: April 16, 1907, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Fred Solomon, Jennie
Solomon.

PREPARED AT: Glenville High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926. DEGREES: S.B., 1926; M.D., 1930,

MARRIED: Sarah Gelman, Dec. 29, 1930, Wellesley, Mass. cumpren: Linda,
May 10, 1937; Andrew Lampert, Sept. 20, 1940.

occupation: Physician in private practice, specializing in neurology, psy-
chiatry, and psychoanalysis.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active duty, U.S.N.R., July, 19q1-April, 1946,
functioning as psychiatrist; assigned to Marines for 3 years, serving as

[917]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Division Psychiatrist, 6th Marine Division during Okinawa campaign,
separated as commander.

OFFICES HELD: Resident neurologist, Boston City Hospital, 1933; assistant
in neuropathology, Austin Teaching Fellow in neuropathology, 1934
and in neurology, 1935, instructor in neurology, 1936, assistant in neu-
rology, 1938-41, Harvard Medical School; assistant psychiatrist, Massa-
chusetts General Hospital, 1936; psychiatrist, Habit Clinic for Child
Guidance, Boston, Child Guidance Clinics, Massachusetts Department
of Mental Disease, New Hampshire Childrens Aid Society, 1938-41;
instructor in psychiatry, Tufts Medical School, 1938-41; junior visiting
neurologist, Boston City Hospital, 1938-41; assistant neuropsychiatrist,
Beth Israel Hospital, Boston, 1938-41; member Neuropsychiatric Staff,
Cedars of Lebanon Hospital, since 1946.

MEMBER OF: County, state, and national medical societies; American Acad-
emy of Neurology; American Psychiatric Association, American Ortho-
psychiatry Association; American Psychosomatic Society; American
Society of Electroencephalography; Society of Psychoanalytic Medicine
of Southern California; B’nai B'rith; Phi Beta Kappa.

PUBLICATIONS: Some 42 medical articles on such subjects as: edema, gono-
coccus endocarditis, cerebrospinal fluid, coma, sub-acute combined de-
generation of the spinal cord, the psychogalvanic reflex, multiple scle-
rosis, migraine, Parkinson’s disease, narcolepsy, electroencephalography,
child guidance, military psychiatry, and psychiatric aspects of television.

IN ENGLISH A our first assignment was to write a short sketch
of ourselves. I remember beginning mine, “I wasn’t born!” I
went on to explain that at least I had no personal recollection of
the event and was therefore inclined to discount the whole thing
as hearsay. I thought that being startling and “different” might
get me a good grade and indeed it did. What I did not realize was
the defiance, the immaturity, and the grain of truth that was
implicit in that brief opening sentence.

Three years of college (I received my degree in 1926) brought
about the beginnings of an emotional rebirth. I discarded my
father’s plan that I should be a lawyer and prepared for medicine
instead. I wanted to be a scientist and do research. Medical
school was dull compared to mathematics but I managed to wade
through it. I even picked up some interest when I came to
neurology. After graduation I interned in medicine and neurol-
ogy, then served a year as neurological resident, all at the Boston
City Hospital. I was now married to a girl who taught at the
Y.W.C.A. Her great strength of character and sound sense
of values became a constant bulwark for me. With her encour-

[918 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

agement I went into full-time academic work at the Medical

School. At last, after years of getting along on odd jobs and

borrowing money, I began to be self-supporting.

Emotional maturity was still far away. We took two trips to
Europe before we had our first child in 1937. My research work
had meanwhile led me into child psychiatry. In 1938 I opened
a private office, at first part-time. I now had thrust upon me the
psychiatric problems of adults. I muddled along. My patients
surprisingly did very well, but I never knew why, and this was
frustrating. Organic neurology and the laboratory seemed so
much more satisfying. By 1940 practice was thriving, most of
our debts were paid, and we had a second child. It looked like
we might settle down and that I might “settle” for myself as I
was.

The war changed everything. Because the Navy needed

psychiatrists, I volunteered early and had to stay late. To test
some ideas on combat neurosis, I asked for overseas duty with a
Marine division and got all the experience I wanted and then
some. I wrote about a dozen articles on various psychiatric sub-
jects connected with war, and I think I grew a little trying to fit
my uniform and its stripes. During my trip home from China, 1
was filled with anxiety as to whether I could make a living again
in civilian life. For five years all my work had been largely diag-
nostic, with little chance for therapy. Would I remember how
to treat patients? I decided to move to California where several
doctor friends had urged me to join them with promises of a
busy practice. I thought I wanted the climate, but I think now I
was mostly rationalizing. In any event we did move and I was at
once deluged with more patients than I could handle. For the
first time I was in full-time private practice, and my “success”
was phenomenal. No one but I knew how uneasy I felt at the
kind of psychiatry I was practising. I really did not understand
what went on inside my patients.

In 1947, after much inner turmoil, I went into psychoanalytic
training. For years I had considered myself an organicist and
was hostile to psychoanalysis. My real reasons for avoiding it I
learned only later, in my own analysis. But now I had to have
this training in order to maintain any vestige of inner integrity.
The next four years are almost indescribable in a brief report.

[919 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

The three years of my personal analysis were filled with upheaval
and suffering that were perhaps even greater for my wife and
children than they were for me. The evening seminars, some-
times as often as five times a week, continued through four
years. The supervised work went into hundreds of hours,
Finally, last year, it was all finished and my family and I emerged
as though from fire and anvil, but I think successfully tempered.
I no longer had to fear what was buried in my own unconscious
and I could deal competently with the unconscious and psycho-
dynamics of my patients.

Being born is a lengthy process. It does not finish at age zero
any more than an education ceases with a college degree. My
present status? I suppose I am still taking myself and my work
too seriously (as witness this confessional report that may inter-
est nobody). But I begin genuinely to enjoy my family and to
have fun. I get a kick out of the swimming pool we just added
to the backyard. My wife and I went to Europe again last
summer. I play bridge and tennis and love to see my friends. I
certainly look forward to the future with eagerness and zest, and
this applies with special emphasis to our forthcoming Reunion.

STUART BROWN SOMMERVILLE

HOME AppRESS: 15 Buckingham St., Waterbury 10, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: University of Connecticut at Waterbury, 66 Charles St,
Waterbury 8, Conn.

BoRN: Oct. 2, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: William Boyd Sommer-
ville, Mary Hermione Hughes.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N. Y.; Berkshire School,
Sheffield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927 (26);

_ AM. (Boston Univ.), 1949.

MARRIED: Dorothy Roeader, June 22, 1940, New York, N. Y.

OccUPATION: Instructor in mathematics, University of Connecticut.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Berkshire School Alumni Association, 1930-35;
vice-president, Gordon Musical Association, Falls Village, Conn,
1941-42.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Association of Teachers of Mathematics in
New England.

AFTER receiving my degree a year ahead of time, I spent what
otherwise would have been my senior year as part-time instruc-

[ 920 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tor in mathematics, teaching two freshman classes and taking
two graduate courses. I was reappointed for 1927-28 but re-
signed to teach at the Berkshire School in Sheffield, Massachu-
setts, where I had spent my final year before entering Harvard.
Although I had no definite plans, it was in my mind to return to
graduate study after a brief taste of boarding school life. As it
was, I remained at Berkshire for fifteen years. The last two were
by far the happiest, for I was then a married man!

About this time the Gordon Musical Association of nearby
Falls Village, Connecticut, first asked me to join their corpora-
tion and then to fill the suddenly vacated post of vice-presi-
dent. As this coincided with the beginning of the gasoline and
tire shortage, our meetings were few and far between, and as the
following year found us moving to Albany, New York, I
resigned my post since I could have been only an inactive mem-
ber of the corporation and committee.

At the end of one year at the Albany Academy, I was called

up for a physical examination and classified IV-F (I1V-F-H two
months later). I was then free to accept a position at Harvard as
teaching fellow in mathematics and was assigned to the Army
Specialized Training Program as chief assistant to Professor
Garrett Birkhoff and later to Professor Ralph Beatley. I also
served as department representative on the administrative board
for this program and taught two mathematics classes. When the
A.S.T.P. closed I was transferred to the Navy’s V-12. Again
quasi-administrative duties went hand-in-hand with teaching,
which included two courses at Radcliffe. At this same time I
renewed my student days by becoming a candidate for the A.M.
in Teaching degree at the Graduate School of Education. This
was interrupted by an eight-month stay in Atlanta at the Georgia
Institute of Technology, and on my return I joined the staff of
Northeastern University where, near the end of my first year,
I introduced an elementary course in music appreciation. Mean-
while I shifted to the Boston University Graduate School point-
ing towards an A.M. in mathematics which was awarded me in
August, 1949. The next month I was in Waterbury teaching
mathematics to students at the local branch of the University of
Connecticut. The present moment finds me in my third year
here and liking the work.

[921 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

WILLIAM ENOS SOULE >

HOME ADDRESS: Prince’s Point, Yarmouth, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Soule Glass & Paint Co., 137 Preble St., Portland 3, Maine.

BoRN: Oct. 28, 1905, Newton, Mass. parents: William Gore Soule, Mar-
garet Snow Wallace.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Jean Ransford Root, Sept. 23, 1939, Portland, Maine. CHILDREN:
Margaret Wallace, Sept. 16, 1941; William Gore, April 30, 1944; Mary
Hawley, April 26, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Wallace Gore Soule, ’25; Frank Huntington Soule, ’3o.

OCCUPATION: President, Soule Glass & Paint Company; manager of paint
sales,

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Yarmouth Community Chest, 1942-44, North Yar-
mouth Academy, Portland Savings Bank.
MEMBER OF: Portland Yacht Club, Haraseeket Yacht Club; South Freeport

Maine; Harvard Club of Maine, State Street Congregational Church,
Portland.

TODAY is my twelfth wedding anniversary. Although I am
greatly impressed by the fact that many of my classmates have
been grandfathers for some time, I am, nevertheless, going to
be very proud to show them in June, 1952, that with my family
it is not a case of “too little too late.”

As you will note from above, I am still doing business in
Maine, and have been president of the Soule Glass & Paint Com-
pany during most of the reigns of both Deals, “The New” and
“The Fair.” Our business venture, which was originally inspired
by my father’s dream of having “the boys be their own bosses,”
was incorporated in 1934. We rented part of a small warehouse
in Portland and my older brother and I, a bookkeeper, one truck,
and two men in the shop, comprised our entire organization.
People in Maine do not readily change their habits, and the first
two or three years required a lot of persistent plugging. In 1937
our younger brother joined the firm and we then opened a small
warehouse in Bangor and later another one in Lewiston. Nat-
urally, it is gratifying to feel that one has been a part of a busi-
ness, which for eighteen years has withstood the onslaught of
those who are bent on destroying all private enterprise. Our
fondest hope now is to live long enough to be in business during
the administration of a “Square Deal,” although at present such

[922 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a pleasant turn of events seems very remote. With the trend
towards state socialism continuing unabated, I do not expect to
have the opportunity to finance a business for my son, as my
father did for me and my brothers.

To digress from my anxiety regarding the future, we have
lived in Yarmouth since 1941. It is a lovely old shipbuilding
town located on Casco Bay, about ten miles east of Portland.
We have remodelled and moved an old farmhouse, which now
faces the bay and is surrounded by sixteen acres of land. Since
“taking to the woods,” I have given up golf, but mowing grass
and hay, gardening, caring for ducks, rabbits, sheep, and dogs
has furnished all the exercise that a member of a twenty-fifth-
year class requires.

My elder daughter’s hobby is horses. Since boats have always
been the chief interests of our family, 1 am perplexed, but not
dismayed at this break with tradition. We have a 24-foot Hamp-
ton boat which stays in the water from May 1st to October tst,
and most of our weekends during the summer are spent on one
of our small islands. I have been asked many times, “Hlow do

you find enough to do on an island?” To anyone who has spent
a vacation on Casco Bay, this would be an absurd question. It
is my feeling that too few of us in this generation have spent
enough time on islands, or somewhere “far from the madding
crowd’s ignoble strife.” Who knows, away from the telephone
and the feverish activities of modern living, some men and
women might learn to appreciate the sense of values which
guided our forefathers. Perhaps in such surroundings some ,
leaders might come to light who would be unselfish and strong
enough to stem the tide of spiritual and moral decay which has

almost completely engulfed our nation.

ROBERT SOUTTER

HOME appress: 2185 Mandeville Canyon Rd., West Los Angeles 49, Calif.

OFFICE Appress: Servisoft Soft Water Supply Co., 11653 Gateway Blvd.,
West Los Angeles 64, Calif.

BORN: June 9, 1905, Boston, Mass. Parents: Robert Soutter, ’94, Helen
Elizabeth Whiteside.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927,

[923]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

margiepD: Phyllis Carter Patchin, July 22, 1933, Old Westbury, Long Island,
N. Y. cuworen: Helen Whiteside, Aug. 1, 1934; Robert Patchin,
March 9, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lamar Soutter, 31, M.D., "35.

OCCUPATION: President, general manager, director, The Servisoft Soft
Water Supply Company; president, The Get Company, Los Angeles.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, 1937-38, vice-president, 1938-39, Producers Council
of New England; manager, Washington, D. C., office, OKonite Com-
pany, 1940-46, member Board of Governors, Whitehall School, 1944-46;
secretary and treasurer, Soft Water Operators Association of California,
since 1948.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, 1930-46; American Institute of
Electrical Engineers, 1932-46; Engineers Club of Boston, 1935-40; Mil-
ton Club, 1935-40; International Municipal Signal Association, 1935-40;
American Society of Naval Engineers, 1940-46; Army Signal Associa-
tion, 1945-46; various other trade associations; Harvard Club of South-
ern California, since 1947; Racquet Country Club of Los Angeles, since
1947:

AFTER graduation I spent nearly three years learning the pack-
ing business in the Middle West. This experience has been
invaluable to me in numerous ways.

In July, 1933, I married Phyllis C, Patchin and we lived at first
in New Jersey, then five years in Milton, Massachusetts, followed
by six years in Washington, D. C. We have lived a very happy
life with some travel to various parts of North America, also to
the West Indies and Panama. Most of the time, however, we
have been tied down like everyone else to domestic and busi-
ness matters. One of our main hobbies has been fishing, espe-
. cially the deep sea variety.

From 1936 to 1946, I held various positions with the OKonite
Company, manufacturers of electric wire and cable, managing
their Washington, D. C.,, office from 1940 to 1946. We had a
great many war jobs including special radar cable, mine sweep-
ing cable, and restricted work. A lot of it was for the atomic
energy projects. We received the Army-Navy E awards at all
plants and also a special commendation from General Mac-
Arthur,

At the end of 1946, my wife, two children, and I moved to
California as the execrable climate of Washington had proved
too much. I decided to start my own business in Los Angeles in
an entirely new, fast-growing ficld, namely, water softening.

[924]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

We are now established as Californians, are very fond of our
adopted state and life here. My daughter is a senior at Westlake
School and my son, a third-former at St. Paul’s. The climate has
helped my wife’s health, and the move to California has well
justified itself.

So much for itinerary and biographical data. As I understand
it, the Class is interested in a statement of what the twenty-five
years have done to one in the matter of viewpoints, convictions,
etc. My business experience has impressed upon me more than
ever that the “free enterprise” system is the best. I feel that
Franklin Roosevelt did enormous harm by his policy that the
government should provide social security and general benefits
for everyone regardless of their effort. He put the government
into operating business rather than regulating it. He has been
followed by a president whose political machinations along the
same line have made it worse. I shall not attempt to set down my
thoughts on our foreign policy, as the mess it is in is self-evident.
What we need is a real leader who will have the courage and
ability to help us fight our way back to free enterprise, states’

rights, and a balanced budget. Labor, capital, and the common
man should be governed in accordance with the Constitution
and not pitted against each other for selfish political ends. It 1S
about time we all got together and threw the rascals out. It
should have been done after F.D.R.’s first term! It will be
better late than never, and never seems to be what they are
striving for.

OAKES AMES SPALDING

HOME AppREss: Gansett Road, Woods Hole, Mass.

OFFICE apprEess: Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole,
Mass,

BORN: July 30, 1904, Strafford, Pa. parents: Philip Leffingwell Spalding,
’92, Katharine Hobart Ames.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.

MaRRiIED: Dorothy Goodrich, June 7, 1930, Hartford, Conn. CHILDREN:
Oakes Ames, Jr., Oct. 13, 1931; Marka, March 8, 1935.

HARVARD son: Oakes Ames Spalding, Jr., °53.

HARVARD BROTHER: Philip Spalding, ’25; Hobart Ames Spalding, °34.

occupation: Radio technician.

[925]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Civilian technician, Naval Research.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Woods Hole Yacht Club; Woods
Hole Golf Club; Quisset Yacht Club.

I AM still connected with the Woods Hole Oceanographic
Institution and until this summer have been making cruises on
the Research Vessel, Atlantis, as technician and radio operator.
We have visited the Mediterranean, the Azores, the Cape Verde
Islands, and quite a few of the Caribbean Islands, in addition to
Florida and Gulf ports. Oceanography is a fascinating study
and there are always new fields for experimentation and research.
We know relatively so little about the oceans that there are
years and years ahead of us for discovery and coérdination of
the facts we know.

My son, Oakes Ames, Jr., a member of the Class of ’53, is now
in the U. S. Navy. .

+ JAMES RAYMOND SPENCE

BoRN: Feb. 13, 1905, Rockland, Mass. parents: William Henry Spence, Mary
Gertrude Doherty.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 19273; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1931.

pieD: Oct. 6, 1946, Brockton, Mass.

AFTER graduation from college, James Raymond Spence
studied one year at the Harvard Law School and then transferred
to the Boston University Law School, from which he graduated
with honors in 1931. For the next six years he served as a law
clerk with the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, for
the last two years of which he was chief law clerk. In the fall
of 1937 he became a member of the firm of Devine, York &
Russell in Boston and was with them at the time of his death.

JAMES WILLIAM SPENCE, JR.

HOME appREss: 306 N. Lakeside Ct., West Palm Beach, Fla.

BoRN: Feb, 8, 1906, Rockland, Mass. parents: James William Spence,
Helen Cashman.

PREPARED AT: Rockland High School, Rockland, Mass.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927.

MarRIED: Celia Gary, Oct. 25, 1942, Bartow, Fla. (divorced 1950).

[926]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: John Frederic Spence, ’10, M.B.A., II.

OCCUPATION: Retired.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned 1st lieutenant, March, 1942;
served with 3rd Air Force, Orlando, Fla., April te December, 1942; 7th
Air Force, Hawaii, December, 1942, to July, 1943; 13th Air Force,
Solomon Islands, July, 1943, to February, 1945; discharged as captain,
March 1, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Parmer, Rockland Welting Company, 1927-48; director,
Rockland Trust Company, 1933-50; chairman, Fire Station Building
Committee, 1936.

AFTER a year in the Business School, I went into our family
business in Rockland. I went along in a calm fashion until the
war took me away for three years. In 1948 I retired and moved
to Florida to watch the passing parade. During the next few
years I want to travel to as many parts of the world as possible.
I find that now I have ample time to read extensively and, as a
result, am generally much better informed than when I was
active in business. Whether or not we like what has developed
since 1927, it is certainly an interesting time to live.

+ EDWARD HAROLD SPERRY

BORN: June 29, 1898, New York, N. Y. parents: William Harrison Sperry,
Mary Conway.

PREPARED AT: Pond School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924, 1928-1929.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Mae Walsh, Oct. 24, 1936, Cambridge, Mass.

pieD: Nov. 30, 1949, Boston, Mass.

AFTER leaving Harvard, Edward Harold Sperry went into
manufacturing and at the time of the Fifteenth Anniversary
Report he had his own business, the FE. H. Sperry Company in
Boston, manufacturers of typewriter ribbon. He was survived

by his wife.

ROBERT FREEMAN SPINDELL

HOME ADDRESS: 326 Essex Rd., Kenilworth, Ill.

OFFIcE appREss: 135 S. LaSalle St., Chicago 3, Ill.

BORN: Nov. 17, 1905, Milford, Mass, parents: Stephen Foster Spindell, Marie
Elizabeth Morgan.

PREPARED AT: Springfield Technical High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. Magna cum laude, 1927; LL-B., 1930.

[927 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

marrigp: Ethel Grimmer, Dec. 1, 1937, New York, N. Y. cnizp: Robert
Freeman, Jr., Nov. 10, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Stephen Cornelius Spindell, ’22.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Solar Sturges Manufacturing Company, United Pack-
ers, Inc., Popular Mechanics Company, North Shore Sunday Evening
Club, North Shore Council of Boy Scouts of America; president and
director, Tax News Letter, Inc.; instructor, De Paul University Law
School, 1936-44; director and chairman, Scholarship Committee, Har-
vard Club of Chicago, 1946-48; counsel, Illinois Committee for Con-
stitutional Revision; chairman, Federal Taxation Committee, Chicago
Bar Association, 1947-48.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association, Illinois Bar Association; Chicago
Bar Association, Chicago Law Institute, Chicago Federal Tax Forum,
Chicago Insurance and Trust Council; Legal Club of Chicago; Uni-
versity Club of Chicago, Harvard Club of Chicago; Knollwood Coun-
try Club, Lake Forest, Ill.; Kenilworth Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Need for Constitutional Revision in Illinois,” 1932; publisher
of Monthly Tax News Letter, since 1941; numerous articles on federal
tax matters in Journal of Accountancy, C.L.U. Journal, Taxes Maga-

zine, Tax Digest, etc.

MY COURSES in government at college made me decide to go
to Law School. Upon graduation I left my home in Springfield,
Massachusetts, and entered the law office of West & Eckhart in
Chicago. My study of federal taxation at Law School, plus an
immediate immersion in tax cases, started me on the legal path
I have followed ever since. After six years of practice, along
came the 1936 Revenue Act — the one with the first big bite —
and lawyers were pretty much at sea as to tax knowledge. Flush
from victory in a couple of rather important tax cases, I under-
took to give a course in federal taxation for lawyers at De Paul
University Law School— every Wednesday evening for eight
years. My weekly cramming kept me one jump ahead of the
lawyers and I learned a great deal from the course!

At the end of 1939 I left the law firm where I had been ever
since Law School and started my own firm, where we do nothing
but federal tax work. For twelve years I have enjoyed immeasur-
ably the privilege of combined hard work and complete freedom.
Aside from attending to business during these years, I have given
speeches on federal tax subjects in most of the large cities of
the Middle West and have written quite a few articles for tax
and other periodicals. Since 1941 I have found a great deal of

[ 928 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

leasure in writing and publishing a monthly Tax News Letter,
which is syndicated in most of the large cities of the country.
After two years in Chicago, I came into firsthand contact

with the operation of the Illinois Constitution of 1870, which I
had learned at college was the best example in the United States
of what a state constitution should not be. With the true re-
former’s spirit, I assembled the evidence and wrote a book to
help enlighten the public. It was printed by the Ilinois Legis-
lative Reference Bureau and, when the question of calling a
Constitutional Committee arose in 1934, it was distributed
throughout the state. Like almost all other attempts to change
the Constitution since 1870, this effort failed. Finally in 1950,
all the civic organizations of the state banded together and
formed the Illinois Committee for Constitutional Revision, to
change the amending clause in the Constitution so as to make
future changes possible. We put on a really terrific educational
campaign for the public. I was counsel for the Committee and
one interesting duty was to obtain a treasury ruling whereby
contributions to the Committee would be tax deductible. (I cite
this for the benefit of my classmates who are constitutional re-
formers in other states.) Finally, in November, 1950, we won
the fight of eighty years’ standing by a vote of 2,512,323 C0 735,903.
Since only three articles can be amended at a time, our biggest
problem now is to get the people to agree upon which articles
shall be amended first!

In 1937 I married Ethel Grimmer, a Wellesley girl, who lived
in New York City, and persuaded her to take a covered wagon
to Chicago! Both of us enjoy travel and since 1937 it has been
one of our principal interests. Aly going into the practice of law
for myself was motivated in no small measure by our wish for
more time for vacation trips. Jamaica in 1937, Europe in 1939,
and the Canadian Rockies in 1940 were our preferences before
the war. Since then Bermuda and Nassau have been our favorite
haunts, with side trips to California, the Gulf, Virginia, and
Florida.

If I have a single hobby it is probably colored movies, with
vacations and my ten-year-old son, Bobby, as the prize subjects.
The movie of Europe in 1939 — which had its premiere at the
Art Institute — stirred up so much current interest that for a few

[ 929 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

years I thought I might go into competition with Burton Holmes!
My other hobbies are golf and fooling around our home in Ken-
ilworth where my projects in the flower garden -often give
way to those initiated by Bobby and his friends. At the Knoll-
wood Club I have been shooting the course in the low eighties.
My work with the Harvard Club of Chicago has been very
stimulating. While chairman of the Scholarship Committee, I
instituted a Scholarship Endowment Fund to receive large gifts
and bequests. The money so received is held by the Harvard
Treasury but the scholarships are granted by the local Harvard
Club. I also had a hand in starting a Schools’ Committee to
arouse greater interest in Harvard in the local schools and
students and also to dispel some of the myths about Harvard
that are so prevalent in the Middle West. My latest Harvard
enterprise has been as chairman of the Great Lakes Area for the
Reunion, helping to round up our classmates for this momentous
occasion.

PIERPONT STACKPOLE

HOME ADDRESS: 19 Gun Hill St., Milton 86, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 25, 1905, Boston, Mass, parents: Markham Winslow Stackpole,
"96, Agnes Gleason Smith.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.

MarRiED: Julia Flichtner Doughty, July 16, 1931, Ipswich, Mass. CHILDREN:
John Duke, Dec. 28, 1935; Antoinette, Dec. 11, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Stephen Henry Stackpole, °33.

OCCUPATION: Teacher.

THE year after graduation I spent at Trinity College, Cam-
bridge, and travelled rather extensively in the British Isles and on
the Continent. Then back to Harvard for part-time study in
the Graduate School, with some assisting in English courses. In
the fall of 1933 I began teaching English at Milton Academy and
have been doing so ever since, as well as serving as department
chairman for the past dozen years. I have taught sons of eight
1927 men, but have thus far been able to assign my own son to
classes of other teachers. He is now sixteen and my daughter
twelve —numbers that speak for themselves. Further public
statements about my marriage and family would seem to be

[ 930 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

unnecessary; close friends in the Class well know how extremely
happy I have been.

My chief claim to distinction is the fact that at least half of
my stomach has been removed (operation known to the trade
as a “Subtotal Gastrectomy”), 1945; so I look forward to meet-
ing and comparing notes with any classmates similarly dis-
tinguished.

GEORGE SIDNEY STANTON

HOME ApprEsS: 967 N, Madison St. Arlington, Va.

oFFicz appress: Civil Aeronautics Administration, Washington, D. C,

porn: March 11, 1899, Somerville, Mass. panents: William James Stanton,
Alwilda Kempton.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1918-1919, 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 19273 ED.M., 1932.

MARRIED: Julia McMeen, June 22, 1928, Jonesboro, Ark. (divorced 1949);
Anne Wilson, Dee. 27, 1949. cHMoreEN: Margarct, March 31, 1931;
Charles Russell, April 19, 1933.

occupaTION: Chief, Examination Branch, Civil Aeronautics Administration,
Department of Commerce.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War I; U.S. Navy.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Educational consultant, Civil Aeronautics Ad-
ministration.

PUBLICATIONS: “Summary of Civil Air Regulations”; “Facts of Flight,” “Realm
of Flight,” “Path of Flight,” U. 5. Government publications.

STEPHEN WEEKS STARK

HOME appress: 14 Concord Rd., Port Washington, Long Island, N. Y.

Born: Nov, 22, 1906, Allegheny, Pa. parents: Alonzo Rosecrans Stark, Eliza-
beth Rebecca Abigail Ayers Clark.

PREPARED AT: Glenville High School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.

LAIRD CHESTON STARKEY

HOME appress: 41 Meadow Lane, Crestmont Farms, Philadelphia, Pa.

OFFICE apprEss: Moore, Gossling & Panfil, 1010 Packard Bldg., Philadelphia 2,
Pa.

Born: Aug. 7, 1906, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Lewis Cheston Starkey, Annie
Harris Ford.

PREPARED AT: Frankford High School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.

Marriep; Dorothy Mildred Stearne, Feb. 16, 1934, Philadelphia, Pa. CHILDREN:

[931]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Allen Cheston, Sept. 4, 1935; Robert Laird, Jan. 4, 1944; William Philip,
Feb. 26, 1946.

occupATION: Attorney.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Appointed as principal attorney, General Coun-
sel’s Office, Board of Economic Warfare, Washington, D. C., in 1942;
sent to Mexico in 1943 on negotiation of terms of inter-governmental
exchange of war materials; through 1944, in General Counsel’s office of
then OEW, mainly on contracts for foreign procurement of certain
metals and foodstuffs; resigned in spring of 1945.

WILLARD SAMUEL STARKS

HOME Appress: Edgerstoune Road, R.D., 3, Princeton, N. J.

OFFICE AppREss: Guyot Hall, Princeton University, Princeton, N. J.

BORN: March 13, 1906, Chatham, N. Y. parents: Willard Ralph Starks, Isa-
dora Cornelia Hand.

PREPARED AT: Chatham High School, Chatham, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Jean McVitty, May 4, 1936, Princeton, N. J. cHmLpREN: Cornelia,
Aug. 11, 1937; Albert Elliott McVitty, Nov. 15, 1948. .

occupation: Photography; technical work for various departments of Prince-
ton University.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Navy photographer; served twenty-six months,
including service in the Admiralties and Philippines.

MEMBER OF: Pretty Brook Tennis Club, Princeton, N. J.

I SEEM to be the lad who was stage-struck in youth and who
never recovered. The virus is still at saturation. Iwo straw-hat
productions is the score to date, and I have just finished a piece
for which I have some hopes. Check again at the Fiftieth. Ars
longa est.

HENRY DOWS STEBBINS

HOME apprEss: Corn Point Road, Peach’s Point, Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 342 Essex St., Salem, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 10, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: George Ledyard Stebbins,
Edith Alden Candler.

PREPARED AT: Santa Barbara School, Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; M.D. (Johns
Hopkins Univ.), 1931.

MARRIED: Rebecca Rhodes, June 26, 1937, Brookline, Mass. cHILpREN: Anne,
May 16, 1938; David Dows, Jan. 19, 1942; Susan, July 2, 1943; Robert
Candler, April 22, 1945 (died Feb. 17, 1946); Linda, Sept. 6, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Ledyard Stebbins, Jr., ’28, PH.p., 731.

OccuUPATION: Physician; specialist in cardiovascular disease; visiting physician

[932 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and chief of Cardiac Clinic, Salem Hospital; clinical associate in medi-
cine, Massachusetts General Hospital.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Rejected by Armed Forces in 1941 because of
physical defect; surgeon (reserve), U. S. Public Health Service, 1942-46
(never activated, as this was a “phantom hospital” unit for service in
case of major bombing catastrophe); member, Civilian Defense Med-
ical Unit, Marblehead.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Medical consultant, Selective Service Advisory
Board #5, 1942-45.

OFFICES HELD: School physician, Town of Marblichead, since 1939; secretary,
Fssex South District of Massachusetts Medical Society, since 1942, Johns
Hopkins Club of New England, 1945 and 1946, member, since 1943,
chairman since 1945, Board of Health, Town of Marblehead; vice-chair-
man, North Shore Chapter of Massachusetts Heart Association, since

1951.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Heart Association;
New England Pediatric Society; Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation;
American College of Physicians (fellow); Alpha Omega Alpha and
Nu Sigma Nu (Johns Hopkins Chapters), Eastern Yacht Club, Boston
Wine and Food Society.

PuBLicaTions: “The Pituitary Type of Myxedema,” co-author with J. Ler-
man, m.p., Journal of American Medical Association, 1942.

AFTER reading the masterful sample biographies of the Class of
26 which came with this blank (and which must have been chosen
from hundreds because of the authors’ able literary styles and
interesting lives), I feel sure that anything I can write must
necessarily prove anti-climactic. Or perhaps most of the spell-
binding episodes in a doctor’s life are so integrated into profes-
sional activities that they not only come to be regarded as a
matter of course but also are of litrle interest to outsiders.

The fall of 1927 saw me enrolled at Johns Hopkins Medical
School, where we four Harvard men (the others were two
classmates, Alan Bernstein and Allan Roos, and Merrell Stout, ’25)
soon found that the peculiar half-derisive, half-envious attitude of
some people towards Harvard alumni is also reserved for Johns
Hopkins Medical graduates, especially when visiting in Cambridge
or Boston. This was quite noticeable when I returned to Massa-
chusetts General Hospital for my internship and (in reverse)
while back in Baltimore for a residency at Johns Hopkins
Hospital. After a year at the Boston Dispensary, I hung out a
shingle on Beacon Street, where things were mighty slow for
awhile.

[933]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

The only unanticipated major occurrence in my life was the
sudden untimely death of Malcolm M. Restall, ’22, M.D., ’25,
who left a busy general practice in Marblehead, which I took
over two days later, on January 27, 1938. I had filled in for him
as locum tenens the year before, and knew what I wanted. I
have never regretted the decision; the job was cut out for a medico
whose chief hobby has always been small boat sailing. For two
years I did general practice. By 1940 enough obstetricians, sur-
geons, and other specialists had arrived so that I could return to
my original specialty of internal medicine. In 1948 I restricted
myself to diseases of the heart and blood vessels, partly because
I was told to do something about my ulcer and partly so that I
could get to know my rapidly growing family. While not as
lucrative as was frantic general practice sixteen hours a day, my
present work is more satisfying to me and much easier on my
wife.

Why should two normal right-handed people have three
lefties for children (Linda is so far indeterminate)? Because the
trait is probably a Mendelian recessive, I suppose, and we both
have close relatives who show it. Aside from all the difficulties
with baseball mitts (and later with golf clubs) and the elbow-
bumping with right-handers at the table, it seems, in our cases,
to have led to queer backward twists in reading and writing
which require special training. I am glad that boats are
symmetrical, as it doesn’t seem to interfere with David’s handling
of his “Brutal Beast.”

Parents of four don’t ordinarily travel much, but some pleas-
ant vacations in Florida, Bermuda, Nassau, and Jamaica have
helped to revive me from the wear and tear of practice, and
fall would not be complete without a few days in Maine, where
my wife was born. My last trip abroad was in 1930, to Kiel and
Munich for medical studies. Some day we hope to get over
again, when among other things we shall visit the two English
children we fostered during the war.

Aside from sailing and working on the boat, my chief hobbies
are puttering around the new house we built in 1950 and
studying at first hand the delightful combinations which can be
made with good things to eat and drink. I shudder at the terms
“gourmet” and “connoisseur” —we are both amateurs, which

[ 934]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

enables us to try new and unusual concoctions without the guilty
feeling that we have broken a sacred convention of the fraternity.
No more ocean racing since Bermuda in 1936.

Outside of local affairs, in which I am involved because of my
job on the Board of Health, 1 have done little about politics
except to vote in every election, usually Republican, with the
rest of this town and county. My wife is somewhat of a
curiosity because she voted for Roosevelt, some of our friends
seem to think she must have been temporarily deranged! She
is undoubtedly more liberal than I, but I like to think I might
some day vote for a good Democrat. Religiously, we are both
liberal Episcopal-Unitarian non-church-goers.

Socially, we have been occupied with the usual activities of
suburbia anywhere, having joined badminton, bowling, and
bridge groups, in all of which the sport is secondary to the
conviviality. I have seen little of my classmates and know of none
nearer than Boston. My recent contact with them as a member
of Pat Higginson’s Essex Day Committee will, I hope, re-establish
some old ties.

HENRY ENDICOTT STEBBINS

HOME aDpRESS: 43 Canton Ave., Milton 87, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Division of Foreign Service, Dept. of State, Washington,
D. C.

BORN: June 16, 1905, Milton, Mass. parents: Roderick Stebbins, ’81, Edith
Endicott Marean.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Jacqueline Barker, July 9, 1932, Boston, Mass. (died Aug. 20,
1948); Barbara Worthington, June 22, 1951, Philadelphia, Pa.

HARVARD BROTHER: Roderick Stebbins, ’27.

occupation: Foreign Service officer, Department of State; American Con-
sul General, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Secretary of Embassy, American Embassy,
London, throughout entire period of war.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Boston; Melbourne Club; Athanaeum Club,
Melbourne; Australia Club, Melbourne.

THE Foreign Service has been my only occupation since I
entered it in February, 1929. Most of my career — indeed over
half so far—has been spent in London. My other posts have

[ 935 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

been Berne, Istanbul, Ottawa, Vienna, and Paris. From August,
1950, until June, 1951, I was assigned to the National War College
at Washington, D. C. ,

My most recent assignment and the one which I now occupy
is Consul General in Melbourne, a post which I enjoy as a
fitting climax to ten and a half years’ hard but most enjoyable
labor in London. This brings me to the question of hobbies for
which, until arriving here last September, I have had little or no
time. Now, however, I find that my hobbies are thrust upon me
— horse racing, bicycle racing, boat racing, and foot racing. I
hope soon to develop some of my own choice, such as golf. To
ask a Foreign Service officer for his social and political beliefs is
asking him, in the words of Major General Melville Goodwin,
U.S.A., “to stick his neck out.” Let me cover this point by saying
that I believe in the United Nations, the Rio Pact, the Atlantic
Pact, the Pacific Pact, and the Japanese Treaty.

RODERICK STEBBINS

HOME AppREss: Wallingford, Pa.

OFFICE AppREsS: Pennsylvania Society to Protect Children from Cruelty,
4is5 S. 15th St., Philadelphia 46, Pa.

BORN: Feb. 2, 1903, Milton, Mass. parents: Roderick Stebbins, ’81, Edith
Endicott Marean.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1927(28); A.M. (Univ. of Chi-
cago), 1943.

MarrieD: Jean Clark, Sept. 23, 1942, Canton, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Endicott Stebbins, ’27.

occupation: Social work; supervisor, Family Service Division, Society for
Prevention of Cruelty to Children.

OFFICES HELD: Various committees, American Association of Social Workers,
Philadelphia Chapter, 1946-47; treasurer, Louis Braille Music Founda-
tion, New York City, since September, 1951.

MEMBER oF: American Association of Social Workers, Pennsylvania Citi-
zens’ Association for Health and Welfare; American Academy of
Political & Social Science; Social Work Vocational Bureau; Pennsy]-
vania Prison Society; Pennsylvania Welfare Conference; National Con-
ference of Social Work; Media Interracial Fellowship; First Unitarian
Church of Philadelphia; Unitarian Laymen’s League, Philadelphia Chap-
ter; Swarthmore Players’ Club, Wallingford (Pa.) Art Center; Media,
Pennsylvania, Community Concert Association.

[936 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THIS is a most depressing job which I have put off for weeks
on end. I shall not give the reasons as to why I feel this way, but
shall rely on those who read the following to find those reasons
themselves.

On graduating from college I entered the Old Colony Trust
Company as a messenger and within a few months rose to a
position as clerk in the trust department’s income tax division.
In 1932 I began to tire of a job I considered monotonous, volun-
teered to read to blind students at Perkins Institution on occa-
sional evenings, and resigned from the bank in 1933 to take a nine-
month course resident at Perkins Institution to become a worker
for the blind. Until the fall of 1941, I attempted to find work for
blind men and women either in self-employment or in finding
markets for their handiwork. This was done under the auspices
of the Massachusetts Division of the Blind. |

In 1941, I entered Simmons College School of Soctal Work,
fell in love with a fellow-student, persuaded her that her best
social work would be in taking care of me, and we were married
in her home, in Canton, New York, in September, 1942. Pre-
vious to that I had been rejected by the armed services because
of an eye condition.

Late in 1942 Jean and I set up housekeeping in Chicago, where
I completed work for a Master’s degree in social work and in
July, 1943, I began work at the Social Welfare Society in Lincoln,
Nebraska, heading up its services to the blind, and acting as a
general caseworker. We both liked living in Lincoln from the
social angle, but the extreme heat of summer and the extreme
cold of winter, and the unattractive countryside made us home-
sick for the East. In 1945 we moved to Pennsylvania where we
have been since then. I worked for two years for the Pennsyl-
vania Prison Society as a caseworker, and since May, 1948, I have
been with the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children.

Jean is active in community affairs, League of Women Voters,
mainly, but interested in Media Fellowship, active as a gardener,
and an expert weaver. (She wove herself a full suit.) Our
hobbies which we share are: the garden, a dog, the theatre, birds
(especially Jean), music (Jean plays the piano, I, violin), phono-
graph records, and friends to come to visit us of whom we don’t
have enough.

[937 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

We both are Democrats and at a recent primary where our
little precinct had but one voting machine we were told by the
official whose duty it was to adjust the machine from Republi-
can setup to Democratic setup that he had had to do the adjust-
ment only three times between the time he began work at 8:00
a.m. and the hour we were to vote at 5:30 p.m. Hundreds of
Republicans had used the machine. However, we are not dis-
couraged on that score, as we have many good friends and rela-
tives who are Republicans. We have proof that Republicans in
many instances are among those who add greatly to our joys of
living.

There, I guess P've covered everything. Oh, it’s a great life,
and we love it!

FRED M. STEIN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 43 Cambridge Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.

OFFICE appRESs: C. F. Hathaway Co., 112 E. goth St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: July 9, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Fred Michael Stein, ’95,
Beatrice Borg.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Margaret Frances Hellman, May 11, 1931, New York, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Barbara Anne, Jan. 13, 1934; Virginia Beatrice, May 27, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Howard Stein, ’33.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, C. F. Hathaway, shirt manufacturers.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Altro Health and Rehabilitation Service.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club; Century Country Club.

AFTER graduation I spent a pleasant summer meandering
around Europe. On my return that fall I went to work at R. H.
Macy & Company, on the training squad. My business career at
Macy’s involved several assistant buyer jobs, buyer of men’s
furnishings at Bamberger’s and Macy’s, and merchandising the
men’s-wear division at Macy’s. During the buying period I
made a number of business trips to Europe, which I think are
more fun in retrospect than in reality. The trips were always in
the dead of winter—and unfortunately involved work rather
than play.

In 1938 I left Macy’s to become affiliated with the C. F. Hath-
away Company, an old Maine firm which had gone down to a
small volume but was then on its way up. I have been there ever

[ 938 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

since, primarily concerned with selling but as in most smaller busi-
nesses covering a bit of everything —and keeping very busy
at it.

In 1931 came love at first sight, and | married Peggy, Welles-
ley 1928, whom I had known for only about fifteen or twenty
ears. We were fortunate in getting married during one of the
lulls when the depression was supposed to be over and hence had a
honeymoon in Honolulu — which is made for just that. We
managed some grand trips for a few years: one when Peg joined
me in Europe, one to Bermuda, and one to Nassau. In 1934 our
elder, who is now a freshman at Smith College, came along.
From then on came the fun and the problems which I am sure
most of you have had. Now they are both practically grown up,
and we are beginning to worry about the day when they are
gone. In the meanwhile it really is fun and almost like twenty-
nine years ago to hear all the teen-age problems repeat them-

selves.

ISADORE STERN

HOME ADDRESS: 3702 McGilvra St., Seattle 2, Wash.

OFFICE appreEss: Columbia Distributing Corp. 2601 Market St. Seattle 7,
Wash.

BORN: May 23, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: David Stern, Rose Rotman.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

MarrieD: Hannahbeth Spring, April 2, 1933, Seattle, Wash. CHILDREN:
Rosanne, Jan. 27, 1934; Myrna, Sept. 14, 1936; Coral Jean, March 25,

1945.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Frank Stern, ’11, LL.B., '14; Samuel Stern, ’19; William

Stern, ’27.

occuPATION: General manager, Martin Motors Division, Columbia Distribut-
ing Corporation, in charge of sales (Martin Outboard Motors), for State
of Washington and Territory of Alaska.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Joined U. S. Coast Guard, Temporary Reserve,
aS apprentice seaman, May 11, 1943; on boat patrol, Boston Harbor
until disenrollment as boatswain first class in 1945.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Air Raid Post Warden, Brookline, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Glendale Country Club, Seattle.

PM AFRAID that my life since graduation has taken on more or
less of an “average” tinge, and I am not going to be able to report

[ 939]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

anything particularly outstanding, or hair-raising. In fact, the

one thing I can point to with pride, from a physical standpoint,

is a good head of hair, as my class picture will show. That ap-
parently is an accomplishment, as I note from an occasional
observation of pictures of some of my classmates.

From 1927 to 1946, Boston was my residence, and real estate
was my business. Since 1946 I have been living in Seattle,
Washington, and I should say something right now about the
joys and comforts of living out in the wide open spaces, but I
won't. It is enough to say that life is really wonderful here in
the Northwest. The climate is good, the people are swell, and the
fishing is limitless and extremely enjoyable. I am now engaged in
the business of distributing the Martin Outboard Motor through-
out Washington and Alaska. This occupation practically forces
me to make personal contact with all the scenic beauties and
pleasurable pursuits the Northwest has to offer.

Talking about scenic beauties, my big accomplishment has
been the production and raising of three daughters, of whom I am
justly proud. Out here where the men are men and the women
are really women, my three, Rosanne, Myrna, and Coral Jean,
are no small contributions to the beauties one finds hereabouts.

In closing, I have one complaint: it is that I have felt very keenly
the lack of anything to boast about in Harvard’s athletic history
for the last twenty years. Things have come to a pretty pass
when the best I can do is “point with pride” to another Ivy
League football team, Princeton yet, as a formidable power in
the national football picture! When are we going to be able to
compete with these upstarts out here? When are we going to
be able to hold our heads up out here, and perhaps even win an
occasional argument, not to mention a little wagering money?
Why should we be forced to travel the bypaths, and then only
at night, during the football season? Maybe things will be
different this year, now that Tom Bolles from Washington has
something to say. Here’s hoping!

[ 940 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JESSE MYRON STERN

HOME appress: 17 Garrison Rd., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: J. M. Stern Corp. (Summerfield's), 10 West St., Boston, Mass,

BORN: Sept. 27, 1904, Leslie, Mich. parents: Benjamin Stern, Hedwig Sum-
merfield.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 19273 M.B.Ay 1929.

MARRIED: Sylvia Claire Goldman, June 25, 1930, Worcester, Mass, (divorced
1948). CHILDREN: Judith, Sept. 14, 1931; Margery, May 7, 1935.

OCCUPATION: President, J. M. Stern Corporation, furniture retailers, trustee
and managing director, Bigelow Trust Company; president, Dore Ad-
vertising Agency.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: One-dollar-a-year man with U. S. Civil Service,
recruiting trained men for purchasing, engineering, transportation, etc.

OFFIcEs HELD: Hospitalicy Committee, Temple Israel Brotherhood.

MEMBER OF: Belmont Country Club; Boston Club; Harvard Business Schoo!
Association; Sidney Hill Health Club; Massachusetts Golf Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Radio and commercial scripts — The Friendship Club; a num-
ber of skits and family sketches, singing jingles, etc.

GRADUATION in 1927 found me in a predicament. When I
doffed my cap and gown I stood exposed in my ignorance, naked
of any vestige of education, except a superficial smattering that
had brushed off on me en route from having one hell of a time.
On the horns of this dilemma I joined the eager beavers of the
Graduate Business School determined to learn something, any-
thing, thrashed about madly to keep abreast the first term, but
finally managed to graduate in 1929 with some fair grades, in-
cluding a few scattered distinctions. This convinced me that
I was a business genius, a fantastic notion that the personnel
manager of one of Boston’s leading department stores accepted at
face value, a blunder he’s been trying to live down ever since.

After I had spent my two previous years at school making
top level executive decisions for Morgan, Rockefeller, and
Camegie, involving millions, I found it difficult to descend from
these gilded clouds and assume the rdéle of baby sitter for $2.98
shoes in the stock room of a bargain basement.

I reluctantly concluded that top management didn’t appreciate
my very cleverly concealed talents, that it might take a year or
two before I would be able to replace the firm’s aging president,
that my beautiful Smith College sweetheart might get wise to

[941]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

while our management had a much more fashionable ailment —
stomach ulcers.

_ Not to be outdone by our directors, I visited one of Boston’s
leading diagnostic hospitals to see if I could get my purple heart
for serving as the shuttle cock in this labor management em-
broglio. I really hit the jackpot, a mysterious incurable ailment
that had knocked off a famous baseball player a few years ago.
Perhaps I should have been proud of my distinguished company,
but the prospect of dragging out my few remaining years in a
wheel chair didn’t appeal to me.

Under the circumstances I kept my illness a secret, except
from my family, took a leave of absence from my business, and
spent months in the South fighting to regain my health. Since
no known cure existed, my complete recovery without treat-
ment seems like a miracle.

During my absence the older members of my family did their
utmost to hold the business together, weakened as it was by
labor dissension, but finally decided to call it a day and retire
from the business.

I started my own company, the J. M. Stern Corporation, in
December, 1950, acquired the old company name, and started
to do business on a smaller scale.

This past year has shown sufficient progress to make our staff
feel we are well on our way. Next year we may add pencils and
apples to our present paper route.

After a successful tussle with “The Old Gentleman With a
Scythe,” nothing seems impossible now!

WILLIAM STERN

HOME ADDRESS: 1063 Stearns Drive, Los Angeles 35, Calif.

BorN: Noy. 18, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: David Stern, Rose Rotman.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923~1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1927(28).

marrigD: Cathleen Weiller, June 2, 1931, Hollywood, Calif. cum_pren: Theo-
dore, Oct. 9, 19323 Rhoda, Oct. 14, 1934.

OccUPATION: Independent tax work and business management.

MY STUDIED effort to do all I could to reduce the average
expansiveness of the Class at this time has come a cropper. |

[944 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

simply was unable to resist Goad No. 4. My dearest wife was
Cathleen Weiller when I met her in California, but she is a native
New Mexican. We were married on June 2, 1931. On October
9, 1932, a son was born to us in Los Angeles. He has grown into a
handsome, blond, young manhood, the very personification of
reliability and poise. On October 14, 1934, there arrived upon
the scene, in Boston, what has become a fine first-chair ’cellist,
blond also, chunky, and all girl. Their names: Theodore and
Rhoda.

I spent a number of years with the Treasury Department, and
am now doing tax work on my own, along with general business
management. Since I have neither inherited nor married any
money, and have made darned little, 1 feel that my family has
become my greatest asset, and I am quite happy with that situa-
tion. In conclusion I wish to say that the greatest thrill I have
had out of any matter concerning the Class was at the time I
learned that Milton Katz arrived in town as a member of the
Ford Foundation. I have always felt that he was top banana of
the entire Class!

MARK CHANCELLOR STEVENS

HOME ADDRESS: 280 Moross Rd., Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich.

OFFICE apprEss: Detroit Trust Co., Detroit 31, Mich.

BORN: Dec. 17, 1906, Detroit, Mich. parents: Mark Burnham Stevens,
Emily Mary Charlotte Elizabeth Gilmore.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Detroit, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927, DEGREES: A.B. miagna cum laude, 1927; B.A.
magna cum laude (Univ. of Cambridge).

MARRIED: Betsy Ann Dawson, April 29, 1933, Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich.
CHILDREN: Betsy Ann, April 9, 1934; Mark Chancellor, Jr. June 7,
1937; Thomas Benton, April 6, 1942.

Occupation: Vice-president, Detroit Trust Company; exclusively a fidu-
Ciary institution (no banking).

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, treasurer, and trustee, Elmwood Cemetery; secre-
tary, treasurer, and director, Notloc Company; director, R. H. Fyfe &
Company; vice-president and director, Lake Shore Sugar Company;
director, Fisher Wall Paper & Paint Company; trustee and junior
warden, Mariners’ Church, Detroit; trustee, Detroit Episcopal City
Mission; chairman, Mayor’s Advisory Committee, Women’s Association
for Detroit Symphony Orchestra.

MEMBER OF: Country Club of Detroit; Farmington Country Club (Char-

[945]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

lottesville, Va.); Harvard Club of Michigan; Trinity Boat Club (Cam-
bridge, England).

PUBLICATIONS: “Great Fortunes in New England” in The New England
Economic Situation.

WHEN a mid-westerner is asked: “How y’a doin? Give with no
inhibition!”, Pandora’s box is really opened. Let good taste
temper prolixity.

We have always seemed to me a very successful college class,
viewed from the only objective standard possible — measured
public achievement. On any such basis, I can’t rate myself very
high. As a group, we have made a fair dent in contemporary
American life. For me as an individual—no. Yet my little
contribution gives me great pleasure, a pleasure tending to
increase rather than diminish. For to myself, I seem one of the
luckiest and happiest of people, although quite anonymous;
happy in my work and happy in my home; enjoying thoroughly
the slow process of maturing from an original egocentricity
towards sociocentricity. My position is partly administrative
(handling trusts and estates) and partly executive (handling the
trust department). The trust business, properly conducted, brings
you smack dab against reality of varying sorts at every turn, a
circumstance which thrusts an understanding of, and conse-
quently a happiness with, people and surroundings upon you
willy nilly. It follows that [ whistle going into the office.

If this be so, and pardonable, I am still less sufferable in The
Home. The gamble of marriage being the only lottery I have
ever won, I fondle the chips and stake no more. Betsy and I]
have indeed sacrificed ourselves to our children in a typically
American fashion, providing them with opportunities that we
did not enjoy, at least until a later age. Betsy Ann is attending
Sweet Briar College; Mark Chancellor, Jr., is at Culver Military
Academy, and Thomas Benton is at Detroit University School.
At seventeen, for instance, our college freshman daughter has
already attended the Universities of Geneva and Mexico. There
are signs that these and other investments in character will return
large dividends — signs that inflame the parental ego.

As our home, we constructed a domesticated Harvard dormi-
tory hard by our tenth fairway, roomily dedicated to the prop-
osition that spaciousness begets graciousness. On the whole,

[946 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

graciousness has been achieved, although my keeping abreast of
our lawn, shrubs, trees, and sundry flora has enabled Betsy to
quip that she is a grass widow.

Does this all sound smug, finite, naive, fulsome? Particularly
from one living on the brink of a volcano—the atomic vol-
cano? It amazes me how many different places consider them-
selves atomic target #1. I have been earnestly warned by well-
documented and well-intentioned friends to desert this idyll. We
here do not so view the matter. For better or worse, Detroit is
essentially American. To desert it is to desert America. Our real
danger seems to be not a Pompeian eruption but a latter-day
Rome of bread and circuses. At times I have feared our close
arrival to that state, and sensed a degeneration of our character.
However, a very close friend who is an oriental prince, a histo-
rian, and citizen of the world, and who has recently seen
America, assures me that we are pre-Hannibal Rome, and that as
long as we have a Russia to challenge us, we shall stay strong.
For one, I’m in favor of vindicating his belief.

MARSHALL WILKINS STEVENS

HOME ApprEss: 147 Ward St., Westbury, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREss: Radiomarine Corp. of America, 75 Varick St., New York
13, N. ¥.

BORN: Jan. 2, 1907, Roxbury, Mass. parents: George Holland Stevens,
Florence Harriet Wilkins.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927(28).

MaRRIED: Eleanore Mary Reed, May 12, 1930, Rockland, Maine (divorced
1947); Carolyn Estabrook, June 22, 1947, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Roger Bruce, April 9, 1936; David Reed, May 16, 1939.

OCCUPATION: Assistant to president, Radiomarine Corporation of America,
a service of Radio Corporation of America.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant (j.g.), Supply Corps,
U.S.N.R., Jan. 17, 1940; ordered to Supply Department, U. S. Naval
Shipyard, Brooklyn, N. Y., June 9, 1941; promoted lieutenant Jan. 2,
1942; ordered to Navy Material Redistribution and Disposal Administra-
tion, New York, May 17, 1944; promoted lieutenant commander, Oct.
17, 1944; promoted commander, Jan. 22, 1946; released to inactive duty
May 18, 1947. Received American Defense Ribbon, American Theatre
Ribbon, Secretary of Navy Commendation Ribbon; Victory Ribbon.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Glee Club.

[ 947 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

IN COLLEGE I was going to be a banker, no doubt about it; so
now a depression, a war, and twenty-five years later, here I am
in the electronics industry. It all started out according to plan
with the old, conservative Boston banking firm of Lee, Higginson
& Company. Came the boom, the crash, Ivar Kreuger, “the
match king,” and I wound up in New Brunswick, New Jersey,
married. Translated, that is to say, the firm liquidated in 1932
and “yours truly” transferred his endeavors to commercial
banking. Some three years and ten weeks later (the ten weeks
were to learn the trust business in a large New York City bank),
your classmate was assistant trust officer of the National Bank of
New Jersey. A profitable and interesting three years more, then
a move to Central Hanover in New York, a home in Montclair,
New Jersey, two sons. This was it! A New York banker, sub-
urban living, a family — settled and secure!

This brings us up to 1939. With war in Europe, what could
be more logical than to offer my services to the Navy, just in
case? The Navy extended its welcome in the form of a com-
mission as lieutenant (junior grade) in the Supply Corps in 1940
and further empasized its cordiality by orders to active duty in
June of 1941. Pearl Harbor really brought “big business” to the
Navy Yard, New York, where this neophyte “) o”” was officer-in-
charge of the Receiving Division in the Supply Department.

In the Navy, if you complain about the chow, they elect you
Mess Treasurer. I found that out too late, so I did my complain-
ing after I got the job. This vocalizing insured additional duty
as program director of the Navy Yard Broadcasting System.
That, plus permanent membership in the Harvard Glee Club,
and a record as baritone soloist in a church choir must have con-
vinced somebody that | knew something about music (pardon
me, “Doc” Davison, if you should ever see this). Meanwhile,
another half-stripe appeared on my sleeve and along about 1944
the Navy elected me a charter member of a new outfit, organ-
ized to be ready for surplus property disposal. We wound up
with a nation-wide organization and an unpronounceable name.
Navy Material Redistribution and Disposal Administration, pop-
ularly known as NMR&DA. We ran the show from New York
under the Assistant Secretary of the Navy, but we flew and rode
trains all over these United States, After some more gold braid

[ 948 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

as lieutenant commander and a transcontinental speaking tour,

the Harvard Business School put this officer on its faculty. Don’t

look in the catalogues, but they did invite me to numerous enjoy-

able faculty luncheons when I was commuting by air to lecture

on surplus property disposal to classes of officers newly assigned
to the program as part of their indoctrination course at the
Business School. This was in tg45, then the next year came
a promotion to commander and a commendation from the Secre-
tary of the Navy. Towards the end of 1946 I became com-
manding officer, detached everybody else, disestablished (editor:
leave that alone, that’s a good Navy word) the outfit, and erected
the tombstone in the spring of the next year... Then I boughe
a house on Long Island and settled down again.

Contacts with industry during my naval service brought a
hankering to foresake the financial for the industrial. Since 1948,
as assistant to the president of Radiomarine Corporation of
America, a service of Radio Corporation of America, it has been
a lot of fun satisfying that desire. No reminder of the passage of
time impresses me so much as to look up at my elder son. (1
say “up” advisedly, for he's sixteen and over six fect.) The
younger son is thirteen, but you'd never believe it, he’s such a
“husky” too. When the three of us play football with the neigh-
bors’ kids, my sons say, “Why, Dad, you can still run and throw
a pass!” What do they expect? I don’t feel any different, except
on Monday morning when I try to walk.

GUILFORD STEWART

HOME aporess: Brooklyn, Conn.

OFFICE Appress: Wauregan Mills, Inc, Wauregan, Conn.

Born; March 14, 1905, Brookline, Mass. parents: Ralph Aldace Stewart, L..,
'96, Mary Wallace Guilford.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark's School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1927(28).

MarrieD: Barbara Burns, June 30, 1928, South Dartmouth, Mass. CHILDREN:
Samuel Guilford, April 28, 1943; Sophie, May 9, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Ralph Aldace Stewart, Jr., ’30; Malcolm Chilson Stewart,
"345 LL.B., ’37.

occuPATION: Director of personnel and payroll, Wauregan Mills, Inc., textile
manufacturers.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant U. S. Army, 1942; Sep-
arated as major, 1946; represented Headquarters Army Air Forces (Intel-

[ 949 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

+ THEODORE HEIZL STILLMAN

BorN: March 15, 1906, Newburyport, Mass. FATHER: Harry D. Stillman,
PREPARED AT: Newburyport High School, Newburyport, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

pIED: September 6, 1926.

THEODORE HEIZL STILLMAN was a student in the Harvard
Engineering School but he withdrew at the end of his junior
year. His home was in Newburyport, Massachusetts.

EDWARD SUTTON STIMPSON

HOME ApprEss: 125 Woodlawn Ave., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 175 Albany St., Cambridge 39, Mass.

BORN: June 20, 1904, Boston, Mass. pAreNtTs: Harry Farnum Stimpson,
Frances Maud Greenway.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1927.

MarriED: Margaret Harriet Williams, Dec. 30, 1930, Oak Park, Ill. cuioren:
Edward Sutton, 3d, Jan. 11, 1932; John Williams, Sept. 26, 1935; Wallace
Irving, June 8, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harry Farnum Stimpson, Jr., ’37.

OccuPATION: Real estate; trustee.

OFFICES HELD: Comptroller, Central Trust Company, 1932; assistant cashier,
National Shawmut Bank, 1933-41; director, 1925-51, assistant treasurer,
1929-41, president and treasurer, 1941-51, Stimpson Investment Corpora-
tion.

MEMBER OF: Wellesley Country Club, Cambridge Chamber of Commerce,
Boston Real Estate Board; Building Owners and Managers Association,
Institute of Real Estate Management, Certified Property Manager
No. 532; Cambridge Civic Association.

MY CLASS Life is not going to tell all about my career, family,
travels, hobbies, or convictions, social, political, or religious. I do
have one strong conviction that the Class would be curious about
many questions to which they have little likelihood of getting a
straight answer.

Take the question most frequently asked lately “Why did you
send Eddie to Princeton?” “‘I~wo stock answers are that he is
bigger than I am and that, after having lived with one Harvard
man for eighteen years, he chose Princeton. It seems to be
working out well. Even though he happens to be a good athlete,
I don’t know of any financial inducement that accounted for his

[952 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

choice, but I have had several nice letters from Princeton asking

for funds.

Johnny and Wally have visited Princeton but still are not
committed to any college. I also hope that incentives motivated
by athletes will not sway Johnny from following a career in
medicine, if that desire persists, Everybody tells me that I am
lucky to have three boys who are so attractive, but I believe that
the skill of their mother in molding their character has been
largely responsible for their appeal to date.

Peggy used to lecture for fun and profit but in recent years
has become an ardent spectator at scholastic athletic events and
plays tennis and golf herself. The Radcliffe tradition of the
career woman does get her into running things like part of the
25th Reunion. Many wives would fuss and fume about such jobs,
but she really likes it. She is getting thoroughly indoctrinated
into the committee system of operations, but I remain essentially
an individual operator.

There has been more stability in my life than all but a few
of my classmates. Geographically, I have worked very near
Harvard in Cambridge, in banking and in real estate (excluding
places to live) ever since college. An eight-year venture into
Boston banking at the National Shawmut ended when I returned
to the family business in Cambridge in 1941. A good part of my
business career is a matter of public record in the Middlesex

South Registry of Deeds, if one really cares to look it up.

My home has moved gradually west, from Chestnut Hill to
Newton Center and to Wellesley Hills. My family grew steadily
in number until we had three sons, but growth is now limited
to height and weight. Peggy has finally become the shortest
member of the household.

In spite of all the moralizing about the decline in the family,
we find among our friends surprisingly few divorces and con-
siderable family loyalty. This does not appear to be the result
of any strong religious convictions or religious restrictions. Nor
can it possibly be attributed in a sip-bourbon town like Wellesley

to the abstinence from the use of alcohol. It is just a very satisfy-
ing way to live.

Right now things are in a state of flux. Ar last the Stimpsons
are buying a house and moving nearly half a mile back towards

[953 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Boston. That’s a longer move than my office is making (125
feet). Until a short time ago, I had an impressive title as president
of an investment corporation but the provisions of Internal
Revenue Code Section 112 (b) (7) became too tempting and, in
the liquidation that followed, I became a man without an
employer, but don’t you feel sorry for me yet.

Many people have difficulty persuading their children to under-
take new activities. Within the confines of home, I have tried
to set an example by attempting a wide variety of activities,
cultural and scientific. Musically, I have attempted piano,
harmonica, recorder, banjo, mandolin, ukelele, tonette, and sweet
potato. In games, golf, tennis, squash, ping-pong, bridge, hearts,
chess, checkers, go bang, labyrinth spiel, and Canasta (once).

Scientifically, I have developed a device to measure the speed
of golf putting greens and a system of measuring greens to aid
golf course architects and greenskeepers. I have studied sun spots.
I have concluded that the galactic universe is not expanding as
rapidly as the Doppler shift makes it appear and I am sure the
speed of light is not quite constant if it can be measured accurately
to eighteen decimal places. Furthermore, the apple didn’t fall on
Newton’s head, it was pushed.

After taking thousands of photographs in black and white,
and color, recently I have drawn a couple of pastels and am
now working on some portraits in oils. My days as a ranking
golfer are over but one of my pupils has just knit a superb sweater
to my specifications. This has all been fun and Harvard’s con-
tribution to both the enjoyment and success has been substantial.

ABRAHAM STONE

HOME appress: 53 Arlington St. Brockton, Mass.

oFFice ADDRESS: Wilbar, Wilbar, Dorn & Stone, 106 Main St., Brockton,
Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 7, 1906, Brockton, Mass. parents: Morris Louis Stone, Idletta
Esther Stone.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; LL.B., 1930.

MarRiED: Janie G. Payzant, May 21, 1936, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1947).

occupation: Lawyer; corporate executive in several manufacturing com-
panies,

[954]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Stone Charitable Foundation.
MEMBER OF: Miscellaneous professional, service, and religious organizations.

THE three years following graduation from the College were
spent at Harvard Law School. Since admission to the Bar in 1930,
I have been practising law in my home town associated with my
college and law school roommate, Kenneth Dorn. From 1942 I
have also been associated intimately with several corporations
in executive capacities and have spent much of my time in that
field, especially with the Ward Machine Company, Inc., in Brock-
ton. My life since college days might be termed quite average —
hectic at times but always interesting and usually happy. So far
my lot causes no complaints. I am looking forward eagerly to
the Twenty-fifth, where I hope to sce many old but not for-
gotten classmates. ;

ROBERT KENNETH STRAUS

HOME apprEss: 10 Gracie Sq., New York 28, N. Y.

OFFIce Appress: Omnibook, 76 Ninth Ave, New York 11, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 22, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Jesse Isidor Straus, '93,
Irma Nathan.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; M.B.A., [931.

MaRRiED: Barbara Joan Tuckey, March 6, 1947, Englewood, N. J. ctit-
DREN: Penelope Ann, Dec. 10, 1947; Christopher Jesse, Jan. 25, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Jack Isidor Straus, ’21.

OCCUPATION: Treasurer, Omnibook, Inc.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted U. S. Army Air Force, June 11, 1942;
commissioned 2d lieutenant, ORD, Jan. 16, 1943; two years’ service
ETO, SHAEF; separated with rank of major, March, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Member, City Council, New York, 1938-42.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional magazine articles.

IT WAS fashionable, not too long ago, to pooh-pooh class
reunions and all of the rah-rah stuff that used to go along with
them. However, as we get older I think we realize that there is
something very basic behind the idea of bringing back a group of
men who went through college together and then scattered into
different careers, different experiences, and often into distant
places. And insofar as each of us is successful in giving a brief
statement of his particular and personal experience during these

[955 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

get through our heads that any doctrine is only a hypothesis,
acceptable only until a better hypothesis turns up, it should lead
us to a fairly flexible, realistic and tolerant approach to the
everyday world and its problems.

I think that of all the members of the Harvard faculty, Kirsopp
Lake made the biggest impression, despite the fact that the course
of his that I took was a far cry from any basic interest of mine.
But he was a great teacher and an enormously stimulating person
in the classroom, and I think that if I could have made any
changes at Harvard as it was in ’27, I would urge more emphasis
on getting good teachers, as distinguished from scholars. As an
undergraduate, I could have got more out of college if some
of the curiosity which was stimulated after I got out of college
had been stimulated in college. Undoubtedly this was partly my
fault, but also I think that a few more Kirsopp Lakes would
have helped a lot. I also wish that I had taken some mathematics
courses and more courses in science, not so much for the in-
formation that I might have acquired but because it would
have helped to have an early understanding of their methods.

I am hoping that the Reunion will give us a “‘refresher course”
in what has happened at Harvard since we left. It is too bad
that there isn’t some way in which an alumnus could go back to
college every so often to bone up on some of the things that he
didn’t learn while an undergraduate. Perhaps some day the
University will develop an adult education setup to keep in
touch with its graduates and keep them in touch with its schol-
arship.

WOLCOTT DAVENPORT STREET

HOME AppREss: 46 Myrtle Ave., Westport, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: John Price Jones Co., Inc., 150 Nassau St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Scpt. 4, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: George Howard Street, Ger-
trude Towne.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927.
mMarrigep: Ellen Berry Alpigini, Aug. 22, 1934, Baltimore, Md. cutupren:
Alexandra, Jan. 30, 1940; Nicholas, Feb. 12, 1942; Eric, April 5, 1944.
occupation: Vice-president, John Price Jones Company, Inc.; fund-raising

publicity, and public relations counsel.

[958 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Phillips Exeter Alumni Association of New York City (presi-
dent, 1948).

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous pamphlets for clients; most of the book, Philan-
thropy Today.

A MAN in my profession must have an adaptable mind. He has
to take on the color of a new environment about as readily as a
chameleon. Within a year he may work closely with the
Protestant Council of the City of New York, the Jewish Theo-
logical Seminary of America, and members of the Roman
Catholic hierarchy. (Happened to me seven years back.) He
may have to hop from this into the sanctum sanctorum of the
Metropolitan Museum of Art, there to spend a year among the
masters, the mummies, the curios, and the curators. After this
may come a year on Phillips Exeter business, during which our
man refamiliarizes himself with the Old School Tie in modern
dress. Then it’s off to Philadelphia for two years, to work with the
professors, deans, and doctors of the University of Pennsylvania
and its Hospital, while the poor fellow attempts at the same time
to maintain a semblance of home life in Westport, Connecticut.
For a year, our man may then spend a lot of his time writing
and editing a book on philanthropy and serving assorted clients.
Suddenly he is directing a six months’ nationwide campaign for
the Metropolitan Opera. Barely has he recovered from this pleas-
ant but hectic experience when he finds himself travelling to
Kansas City, Tulsa, Omaha, and Des Moines in the course of a
survey and plan for Midwest Research Institute.

That, gentlemen, is something of my business history since our
last Class Report. It is too confusing to put in chronological
form. The fund-raising profession has its headaches (too many
people hire a dog and then do their own barking); but the
aforesaid headaches do not include lack of variety. Looking back,
I can find our own university among my past clients; for I had
the honor of editing the Tercentenary Gazette in 1936, as
attested by a noble inscription of Mr. Jerome D. Greene’s in
my own bound volume. I can look back on a spell in Washington
as an aide on a Presidential Commission; services to various
divinity schools, hospitals, and social agencies (including the
Salvation Army); wartime years with Red Cross, USO, and
National War Fund; and nearly three years at the Town Hall in

[959]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

New York as director of public relations there. One thing I take
pride in as a by-product of my work is that my friendship
with the CBS color-television wizard, Peter Goldmark, resulted
in the first telecasting of operations in color (at the University
of Pennsylvania Hospital) and afterward in the installation of the
equipment at that hospital for teaching purposes.

Six years ago my family and I moved to Westport, Connecti-
cut. Although it has meant longer hours of commuting, |
haven’t regretted the change. Westport, with its large
representation of artists, writers, musicians, and actors, its
cosmopolitanism, and its fine schools, is a good place in which to
live and bring up a family. My wife, as noted among our
friends for her energy as she is for her charm and her good
cooking, has made a real place for herself in the community;
she is now president of our school PT‘A and program chairman
of the local Girl Scouts. As if this and raising a family were not
enough, she found time last year, with our handy man, to paint
our house—a commodious Victorian structure which we are
fond of calling the Old Manse.

Our three kids, although responsible for a certain amount of
Sturm und Drang in the Street household, are bright, fascinating,
and lovable; and fatherhood, like marriage, is an experience I
wouldn’t have missed for a lot. My wife and I often wonder
whether we'll ever resume the travelling ways that took us to
England and the Continent in the ’30’s (we got to Lake George,
Montreal, and Ottawa with the children this summer); but
parenthood is broadening too.

There’s a lot I baven’t done in these twenty-five years which |
wish I had. I haven’t had any songs published, though I’ve written
plenty (which my wife is good enough to sing) and singers who
are friends of ours have used them successfully in recitals. |
haven’t written down my symphony. I haven’t finished a novel I
started several years ago. Anniversaries like this make you realize
that it’s later than you think. But we’ve got to save something
for the years ahead. Maybe I can make a more complete report
next time.

[ 960 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BARTON HEPBURN STRONG

OFFICE Apress: Jordan Marsh Co., Framingham, Mass.

BORN: July 16, 1903, Binghamton, N. Y. parents: Cyrus Strong, Kate
Ethel Lovell.

PREPARED AT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928.

magRieD: Lucretia Holt Phillips, Sept. 20, 1930, Middletown, Ohio (di-
vorced 1945); Margaret Virginia Denton, Aug. 16, 1946, Cincinnati,
Ohio (died Jan. 20, 1950). camp: Linda Phillips, July 22, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Dodge Strong, *29.

occuPATION: Merchandising.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted U. S. Army, June, 1942; Officers’
Training Camp, 1943; commissioned 2d lieutenant, Field Artillery,
March, 1943, promoted 1st licutenant, September, 1943, served in India,
December, 1943, to November, 1944, released December, 1944; Inactive
Reserve.

I REPORTED in detail for the Twenticth Report and to take
up from there is a short story. Things went along happily and
beautifully until the death of my wife.

I have deserted Cincinnati and am establishing mysclf in the
area of my college days. It is good to be back among so many
of my former acquaintances.

As to religion, I am a better than fair T’piscopalian, My
politics are definitely anti-Communistic, anti- New Deal and what
has followed it. I am a conservative Republican Democrat.
Hobbies are a poor golf game, my daughter, Linda, who
becomes a teen-ager next year, hunting small game, and a toolbox
for tinkering. .

I don’t know how much of a Reunion the 3oth is but I hope to
have more to report then.

STEPHEN VAN RENSSELAER STRONG

HOME apopress: 83 Burnet St., New Brunswick, N. J.

OFFICE AppREss: Strong & Strong, 390 George Sr., New Brunswick, N. J.

BoRN: Nov. 30, 1906, New Brunswick, N. J. parents: Theodore Strong,
Cornelia Livingston Van Rensselaer.

PREPARED AT: Rutgers Preparatory School, New Brunswick, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923~1926.

MarRIED: Marianne Schappert, April 21, 1951, New York, N. Y.

[961 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

HARVARD BROTHERS: Theodore Strong, °22; Woodbridge Strong, °32; John
Van Rensselaer Strong, "34; Robert Livingston Strong, °36; Philip
Livingston Strong, ’40.

occuPaATION: Law; partner, Strong & Strong.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Drafted as private, Nov. 17, 1942, USA.AF.;
Officer Candidate School, Miami Beach, Fla.; commissioned, Aug. 23,
1943; sailed overseas, Jan., 1944; served with U.S.A.A.F. as combat
intelligence officer in England, France, Belgium, Germany, earned six
battle stars; discharged as captain, Feb. 2, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, New Brunswick Republican City Committee, 1937-
42; member, New Jersey Republican State Committee, 1946-49; as-
sistant prosecutor, Middlesex County, 1949-51.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of New Jersey;
Colonial Wars; Lords of Manor, New Brunswick, Middlesex County
and New Jersey Bar Associations.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor-publisher, monthly Republican news letter.

AFTER my college days I read law the old-fashioned way under
my late father and was admitted to the New Jersey Bar as an
attorney in May, 1929, and as a counselor in May, 1932. In the
succeeding years I remained a bachelor studying law and married
to politics in lieu of a wife. My connection with Harvard was
pretty well limited to hopeful bi-annual trips to Princeton to see
Harvard football, such as it was. As my brothers grew up they in
turn became lawyers and now my firm has four partners, all
brothers, and employs still another brother. This year our firm
is in the 100th anniversary of its founding by grandfather Wood-
bridge Strong who returned disappointed from the California
gold rush and became a lawyer for want of something else to do.

Life’s routine was interrupted by World War II. I served as
an enlisted man at Washington, D. C., under classmate Franklin
Q. Brown, Jr. After I was commissioned, I served twenty-two
months in the ETO as a Combat Intelligence Officer for the qoznd
Squadron of the 370th Fighter Group, Ninth Air Force, and
later, after the shooting was over, briefly with the XII Tactical
Air Command. Most of my service in the 4o2nd Squadron was
with classmate Russell M. Cook, my superior, until he was shipped
back home. We met at the Air Intelligence School at Harrisburg
and there decided to take our chances at war together, a most
fortunate idea.

After the war and a short period of adjustment, I resumed
the law and politics. In 1951 I married and my political activities

[ 962 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have since lessened although I remain a staunch Republican. I
consider myself a good citizen, supporter of good government, a
damn good lawyer, a passive Christian, an old soldier, a devoted
husband, and a loyal alumnus.

*+- ROBERT LOUIS STROOCK
BORN: July 13, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Solomon M. Stroock, Hilda
Weil.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N. Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1927; A.M., 1928.
piep: Dec. 30, 1930, New York, N. Y.

DURING his undergraduate years at Harvard, Robert Louis
Stroock won a Harvard College Scholarship in 1925. He was a
member of the Chess Team from 1923 to 1926. A year after
graduation he received his A.M. degree from the Graduate
School of Arts and Sciences and the following year he attended
the American School of Classical Studies at Athens, Greece. At
the time of his death he was studying for his Ph.D. in ancient
history at the Harvard Graduate School.

HARVEY IRVIN STRYKER

HOME AppRESS: 158 Jefferson St., Carney’s Point, N. J.

OFFICE ApprEss: E. I. duPont de Nemours & Co., Deepwater, N. J.

BORN: Nov. 11, 1906, Sharon, Wis. PARENTS: Irvin Wendling Stryker, Ella
Corte.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield-Shields Township High School, Highland Park, Il.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.

MaRRIED: Kathleen M. Boyne, Aug. 11, 1931, St. Paul, Minn. (died June 16,
1939); Mary Katherine Canavan, Nov. 9, 1940, Portland, Maine. cHIL-
DREN: Romayne, July 28, 1932; Nancy, May 25, 1938; Margaret, Aug.
3, 1941; Irvin, Aug. 21, 1943; Jacqueline, March 13, 1945; Sallie, Nov.
15, 1947; William, May 26, 1949; Jane, Oct. 9, 1950.

OccuPATION: Manufacture and development, organic chemicals; chief super-
visor in development.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Scientific consultant, 1947.

MEMBER oF: American Chemical Society; American Association of Textile
Colorists and Chemists.

I STARTED to work for duPont on June 29, 1927, with the
intent of working a few years before going back for graduate
work. In 1931 I was all set to return, but instead became a family

[ 963 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

man. Gardening replaced golf, painting and carpentry replaced
bowling and bridge. Everything by, for, and with the family.
Today I am still with duPont, fortunately at the same plant.
My second longest period at one location remains my four
years at Harvard.

EDWARD STURGIS, JR.

HOME appREss: 73 Laurel Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE Appress: Dy-Dee Service, Inc., 1379 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.

BORN: July 25, 1904, Lucerne, Switzerland. parents: Edward Sturgis, ‘90,
Josephine Putnam.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

margieD: Mary Wilder Eustis, April 24, 1930, Milton, Mass. (divorced 1942),
Florence T. Malcolm Leach, June 30, 1944, Newton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Edith Eustis, May 20, 1933; Josephine Putnam, July 12, 1935; Barbara
Leach, Aug. 6, 1932 (stepchild); Richard Leach, July 16, 1933 (step-
child).

HARVARD BROTHERS: George Putnam Sturgis, ’27,; Howard Overing Sturgis,
"28.

OCCUPATION: President, Dy-Dee Service, Inc.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, Civil Air Patrol, Massachusetts Wing
(Staff Headquarters).

OFFICES HELD: Offices and directorships in local, state, and national diaper
service and laundry associations, and in diaper service corporations.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston, Longwood Cricket Club; Essex County
Club; Manchester Yacht Club; Badminton and Tennis Club; various old
car and sports car clubs.

AFTER college I went to work with the Curtiss-Wright Flying
Service in Boston, where we tried to sell everything from three-
dollar hops to airplanes. My main source of income, and it
wasn’t good, came from teaching ground school and from selling
and taking, and taking and selling (it had to be worked both
ways) aerial photographs. One day in the early thirties we had
repeated calls for mechanics-jumpers with “the big orange Cur-
tiss-Wright on the back.” After some investigation it developed
that these were to be worn to a fancy-dress party where the
men were supposed to represent the company in which they had
lost the most money. As this condition applied in varying degrees
to most of the aviation industry, a complete switch seemed in

[ 964 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

order. Then came a period of looking around, which was inter-
rupted by a two months’ trip to Labrador for purposes of making
an aerial survey of the coast. This expedition was one of several
sponsored by Dr. Alexander Forbes and Sir Wilfred Grenfell
on behalf of the Canadian Government. The high spot of this
trip was undoubtedly a visit by air and on foot to the superb
Grand Falls— probably one of the world’s greatest potential
sources of water power. The low spot was black flies.

In the fall of 1933 I first read of a so-called diaper service in
Philadelphia. There were then two in the country — there are
now many hundreds. In every sense of the word this represented
a change, and despite a lot of kidding which persists, the idea
looked good enough for a serious try. After a very tough first
year, my partner and I decided that it was a one-man business,
and he was happy to be the one to get out. Most of the time I
am glad it worked out that way, but if I ever start another
business it will not be one where the public expects to find you
twenty-four hours a day seven days a weck, and it will not be
one where nearly fifty per cent of the gross is payroll ([ mean
other people’s). For some reason, any radically new type of
business which doesn’t fail is considered a gold mine. Don’t
kid yourself —the mortality of diaper services has been plenty
high in the last few years.

As a preface to hobbies, I have a strong conviction that if you
run your own business it must be your number one hobby. Other
hobbies, aside from family — occasional photography, machines
of all kinds, a home radio-phonograph setup known as the Sturgis
Folly, and still as always automobiles — both very old and very
new. Probably sailing would be included in an indirect way. As
for private flying, it would still be fun, but it just isn’t practical
for most of us. For a brief current picture, Florence and I still
put in a long week at the office, taking most of our time off during
the summer, which we have spent the past few years at
Manchester-by-the-Sea. I have two daughters, one a freshman at
Smith and one with a year to go at the John Burroughs School
in St. Louis; and two stepchildren, one a private in the Wacs and
one a freshman at Trinity.

[ 965 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

GEORGE PUTNAM STURGIS

HOME ADDRESS: 63 Goddard Ave., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1101 Beacon St. Brookline, Mass.

BORN: July 23, 1905, Lucerne, Switzerland. parents: Edward Sturgis, ’9o,
Josephine Putnam.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.D., 1931.

MARRIED: Harriet Morse, Oct. 12, 1931, Milton, Mass. cHiLpREN: Harriet,
Sept. 26, 1932; Jean, Feb. 7, 1936; Robert Morse, May 8, 1938; Linda,
Nov. 7, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Edward Sturgis, Jr., ’27; Howard Overing Sturgis, ’28.

OccUPATION: Physician and part-time research associate, House of the Good
Samaritan.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, MC-V, USNR, Feb.
19, 1942; office of Naval Officer Procurement, Boston, March, 1942, to
August, 1943; U. S. Naval Hospital, Chelsea, September to December,
1943; ACORN 30 training for overseas duty at Lido Beach, N. Y.,
January to June, 1944, and Port Hueneme, Calif., June to October,
1944; served in dispensary, Naval Air Base, Jinamoc Island, Leyte Gulf,
Philippines with ACORN 30 Nov. 15, 1944, to Nov. 8, 1945; returned
to Boston Dec. 12, 1945; released to inactive duty as commander March
12, 1946; received American Service Ribbon, Pacific Theatre Ribbon
(Bronze Star), Philippine Liberation Ribbon (Bronze Star), and Victory
Ribbon. |

OFFIcEs HELD: Assistant physician, Massachusetts General Hospital; visiting
physician and research associate, House of the Good Samaritan; staff
physician, Boston Lying-In Hospital; consultant in medicine, Free Hos-
pital for Women; member courtesy staff, Faulkner Hospital, Mount
Auburn Hospital, Beverly Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical So-
ciety; Massachusetts Heart Association, New England Cardio-Vascular
Society; Harvard Club of Boston; The Country Club, Brookline, Essex
County Club; Manchester Yacht Club.

MY FOUR years at medical school were full and happy ones
with studies occupying most of my time. A trip to Europe,
primarily to Germany, provided a break in the routine in the
summer of 1928. Planned to be a combination of pleasure and
study, it turned out to be mostly the former. The last half of
my final year found me spending all the time I could spare from
my work in concentrated social activity which resulted in my
engagement to Harrict in April of 1931 and my marriage to her
in October of that year.

In the summer of 1931 I gained my first experience in the

[ 966 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

practice of medicine by working with the Frontier Nursing
Service in the Kentucky Mountains. There I learned much,
not only in the field of medicine, but also in the fields of econom-
ics and social welfare.

Two years of medical internship at the Presbyterian Hospital
in New York completed my formal education in medicine and
convinced us that living or practising in New York was not for
us, SO we came to Brookline where we have lived ever since. I
started medical practice in 1934 and have continued with it since,
except for the four-year interruption caused by the war. Loving
the sea, I chose the Navy in 1942. My view of the world was
limited to Boston, Lido Beach (Long Island), Port Hueneme
(California), and Jinamoc Island (Leyte Gulf, the Philippines);
with the exception of Boston, I have no wish to see any of them
again. Furthermore, in four years of naval service I spent only
six weeks on the water, going to and returning from the
Philippines.

Today my medical work is about evenly divided between the
practice of medicine and doing clinical research in rheumatic
fever at the House of the Good Samaritan. All the time I can
spare or steal is spent with my family. This is always exciting
and rewarding, usually entertaining, and occasionally exasperat-
ing, with the four children ranging in age from nineteen to
SIX.

As a hobbyist I classify myself as a tinkerer and handyman
with a love for doing things with my hands. On vacation I like
nothing better than to be on the water, going places on a ship or
simply fishing from a small boat. Politically I am a conservative
and a believer in the need for close international codperation.
Socially I am strongly opposed to the present trend of getting
something for nothing, not only because it does not happen, but
also because I feel it is a demoralizing practice which can end
only in the disintegration of what little civilization we now have.
I hope and plan to continue in my present rut, and expect to do
so, unless Joe Stalin makes a blunder or unless socialized medicine
is forced upon us. God forbid that either of these events will
occur!

[ 967 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

SOMERS HAYES STURGIS

HOME ADDRESS: 47 Raymond St., Cambridge 40, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, 721 Huntington Ave., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: Oct. 14, 1904, Groton, Mass. pARENTs: Sullivan Warren Sturgis, ’9o,
Edith Barnes.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; M.D. 1931.

MARRIED: Frances Anne Sturgis, Aug. 5, 1933, West Dover, Vt. CHILDREN:
Richard Somers, Aug. 21, 1935 (died April 16, 1936); Anne Russell,
March 10, 1937; Margaret, Dec. 7, 1938; Joan, Aug. 22, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Warren Sturgis, *35.

OccUPATION: Surgeon, specializing in gynecology; assistant clinical pro-
fessor of gynecology, Harvard Medical School; senior associate gyne-
cologic surgery, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital; consultant in gynecology,
Children’s Hospital, Boston.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned captain, Medical Corps, Sept.
8, 1940; activated April 16, 1942; overseas (Natousa-Etousa), February,
1943, to June, 1945; received bronze star, July, 1945; appointed major,
Medical Corps, November, 1945; honorable discharge, February, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, American Physicians’ Art Association, 1949;
chairman Research Correlating Committee, American Society for Study
of Sterility, 1951.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons (fellow); American Board of
Surgery; American Medical Association; Boston Surgical Society; Bos-
ton Obstetrical Society; American Society for Study of Sterility;
American Veterans’ Committee; Harvard Club of Boston.

PuBLIcATIONS: About forty articles in medical journals, and co-editorship
with J. V. Meigs, of two volumes of Progress in Gynecology, Greene
& Stratton, 1946 and 1950.

LOOKING back through the wrong end of the telescope, |
can see myself in 1923 at my desk in Gore Hall sweating out
my first autobiography, the week’s assignment for English A.
This, my second attempt, has been no less of a struggle even
though it faces no marginal notes in Robert Hillyer’s blue
pencil calling attention to hanging phrases and erratic grammat-
ical acrobatics.

I was accepted by Harvard Medical School without the
superscholastic record that is indispensable for admission today.
The work became rapidly absorbing, although with George
Sturgis and Roger Coolidge time was found to buy and fly a
second-hand Travel-air biplane mostly on weekends, to North-
ampton, Poughkeepsie, and points south.

[ 968 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Five days after a two-year grind of surgical internship, I was
writing “Dr. and Mrs.” on hotel registers in Switzerland, God’s
gift to honeymooners. We returned to a little duplex apartment
on the back side of Beacon Hill, renting for fifty-five dollars a
month, and to the somewhat stark future of carving out a career
as a young surgeon in the early ’30’s. There were occasional
night forays to patch together some drunk (I was on call at the
telephone exchange) and a daily tramp across the Common with
my black bag for an hour at an insurance office on the chance
of a five-dollar fee for doing a physical exam. In a few years
the opportunity came to assist the outstanding Boston surgeon in
my present specialty. I became increasingly interested in the
endocrine aspects of gynecology, and late in 1941, embarked on a
Rockefeller fellowship for research at the Carnegie Institute in
Baltimore.

I had already joined the pre-Pearl Harbor General Hospital
Army Unit and the fellowship was cut short in 1942 when
this unit was activated. We suffered a frustrating nine months’
training in Florida before getting to Africa and Italy and it was
almost three years before I could return to my chosen field, one
that was particularly inapplicable in the combat zone.

At home there was a two-year-old daughter, the third, to get
acquainted with. I found myself more and more involved in
teaching and research at the Massachusetts General until 1951,
when I accepted the job of heading up my specialty at the
Peter Bent Brigham Hospital as assistant clinical professor at
Harvard Medical Schoo]. Here I am reasonably busy developing
the teaching and research and trying to make a living at the same
time in private practice.

Such an account leaves out much of what has made this
quarter-century a lot of fun. Frances and I continue to enjoy
skiing together as we do tennis—- with more gusto than finesse.
One of the biggest thrills I get is taking a daughter — either of
the older ones — down an expert ski trail, aiming at a no-spiller
rather than a record-breaker.

A few months ago I found a batch of old drawings from Fine
Arts 1A, 2A, and 2B and of course got the kick of my life
out of the uncritical approval of the younger generation. The
discipline of hand and eye taught by Arthur Pope has paid

[ 969 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

dividends through these intervening years. Water colors, book-

plates, drawing, and carving have remained a satisfying hobby.

In Cambridge we have by good fortune enough land to chal-
lenge one’s green thumbs, but not too much lawn to mow on
Sunday. Frances maintains a showy array of camellias in our
flower room, and I go more for South African flamboyant tree
seedlings and a Brazilian rock-garden from seeds personally col-
lected last year.

_Any doctor these days makes up in convention trips for a
reasonably binding schedule of daily work. I have always
favored air travel, but it took International Medical Congresses,
first in Paris, and then in Rio de Janeiro last summer, to convince
my better half of the celerity and convenience of trans-oceanic
flights.

The things that have added the relish to the menu of my
life— these things had their beginnings back at Gore and
Massachusetts Halls. There was the ski trip to Chocorua in
1926; evenings with the Bach Cantata Club started in the Glee
Club; the Fine Arts courses matured into a chess set carved in
meerschaum; and that fine old spirit of Harvard Indifference,
perhaps, nourished a certain tolerance and _ political liberalism
which I trust is something more than sophomoric.

Somehow or other Harvard guided me into medicine. This can
never wear out —the satisfaction of working to help others
back to health, as well as the excitement of the chase, in my

research laboratory, of one little fragment of the eternal truth.

THEODORE CLARK STURTEVANT

HOME AbDpREss: Indian Avenue, Middletown, R. I.

BORN: March 20, 1905, Newport, R. I. parents: Edward Sturtevant, Theo-
dora Van Horn.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Henrietta Forbes Johnson, June 14, 1930, Middletown, R. I. (di-
vorced 1944); Barbara Welch Dane, Feb. 25, 1946, Middletown, R. I.
cHiLp: Thomas Clark, Aug. 30, 1934.

OCCUPATION: Fishing.

IN THE fall of 1927 I went to Middlesex School, Concord,
Massachusetts, as a teacher of history and mathematics and

[ 970 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

remained there for six years. During this time I taught, in addition
to the above, English and manual training, as well as coaching
crew and various other sports and doing the different jobs
that go with being a master in a boarding school. After leaving
Middlesex I returned to Newport, Rhode Island, and taught
at St. George's and St. Michael's, the latter a day school in
Newport.

While I was in college and afterwards while school teaching,
I spent the summers in the lobster and fish business and since 1946
I have devoted myself entirely to this work, having given up
teaching. We live about five miles from Newport on the shore
of the Sakonnet River where we have approximately four acres
of land. A large part of our spare time is spent raising vegetables,
fruit, and flowers, and generally trying to improve the place.

HYMAN SAMUEL SUBRIN

HOME ADDRESS: 270 Grace Ave., Akron, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Harris, Sacks & Subrin, 2323 First National Tower, Akron,
Ohio.

BORN: Jan. 31, 1906, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Samucl Subrin, Tillie
Berson.

PREPARED AT: South High School, Akron, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 19273; LL.B. 1930.

MARRIED: Gertrude Barnett, June 14, 1931, Boston, Mass, cHitpren: Berton
Barnett, Jan. 15, 1933; Stephen N., Sept. 8, 1936.

HARVARD SON: Berton Barnett Subrin, ’54.

OccUPATION: Attorney-at-law.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, various committees, Akron Bar Association; presi-
dent, Akron Jewish Center, Midwestern Section, Jewish Welfare
Board, treasurer, Akron TALM{UD TORAH; member Board of Gov-
ernors, National Jewish Welfare Board; member, faculty, Akron
University, 1948-50; professor, Akron Law School (evidence and legal
ethics), since 1943; president, Tri-City Camp, 1942-47; member and
trustee, Welfare Fund of Akron.

MEMBER oF: Akron Bar Association; Ohio State Bar Association; American
Bar Association.

PUBLICATIONS: “Some Practical Aspects of Antenuptial Agreements Under
the Laws of Ohio,” Cincinnati Law Review, January, 1949; Civic
Forums, September, 1940, J.W.B. Review.

A THUMBNAIL account of my last twenty-five years would
include the practice of law, a happy marriage, two sons, fifteen

[971 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

town, combined their efforts in operating this tremendously

modern, non-profit camp in the foothills of the Alleghenies in

Pennsylvania.

Happily I’ve never felt that my ties with Harvard were
ever broken, despite the distance between us or the twenty-five
years which separate me from graduation. While at the Law
School I lived in the Yard. In 1937 I attended the Tenth Reunion.
Almost every summer without fail our little family would take
a trip to Boston. My wife still has her family there. Invariably I
roamed around the Yard, peeked into dorms and other buildings,
only to leave and eagerly await my return the following year.
The pangs of nostalgia were thus temporarily alleviated.

With a son at Harvard (’54), and as acting chairman of the
school committee for the Akron Harvard Club, together with the
receipt of Harvard Alumni Bulletin (which I strongly recommend
to every alumnus), I feel almost as if I were still in Cambridge.
Interviewing candidates for admission and reporting to the Uni-
versity has truly combined pleasure with responsibility.

For recreation I do some swimming and a little handball at
the Y.M.C.A. Athletic Club. In summer I play golf, not expertly,
but passably enough to continue my efforts. Annually several
of my friends and I travel to the environs of Georgia Bay in
Canada, and for about ten days try our luck at fishing. My wife
and I are very fond of classical music. Consequently, we have
collected a large number of albums. I do a vast amount of read-
ing and enjoy, especially, books on legal topics. I belong,
fraternally, to the Elks, the Masonic Order, 32°, and the B'nai

Brith, and a local golf course. My religious affiliations are with
Temple Israel and Beth El Congregation.

My chief complaint is that the days are too short, that only
a fragment of the things I like and want to do are ever
accomplished. Perhaps one of my classmates will come up with
the solution.

OLIVER STEVENS SUGHRUE

HOME apprEss: 484 Brook Rd., Milton, Mass.

orrice appress: Salomon Bros. & Hutzler, 75 Fedcral St., Boston, Mass.

BORN; Feb. 20, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Michacl Joseph Sughrue,
Elizabeth Frances Quinn.

[974]

- pee
cen er eee EIT FF
pee pape ARI TIP Re -

cep en EMOTE TT LT
bce ng RI LENT ITOK TAT.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MarRieD: Virginia P. Burke, Nov. 11, 1933, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Oliver
Stevens, Jr.. May 18, 1935; Mary Elizabeth, Nov. 13, 1936, Peter and
Paul (twins), May 2, 1943; Virginia, Sept. 24, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Stephen Sughrue, ’22, LL.B "25,

OCCUPATION: Investment salesman.

DANIEL GEORGE SULLIVAN

HOME AppRESS: 80 Temple St., West Newton 65, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Hospital Life Insurance Co., 50 State St.,
Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 6, 1906, Cambridge, Mass. parents: David Daniel Sullivan,
Margaret M. McSweeney.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1023-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.B.Aw 1929.

MARRIED: Dorothy Frances Denning, April 26, 1941, Brookline, Mass.
CHILD: Jane Frances, June 13, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Urbane Sullivan, °36.

OccuPATION: Financial executive (Trust Funds); vice-president, treasurer,
director, Massachusetts Hospital Life Insurance Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, senior grade, USNR,
Aug. 8, 1942; promoted lieutenant commander, October, 1944; assigned
to office of Procurement and Material Navy Department, January,
1943; in charge Navy financing in Federal Reserve Districts of New
York, Philadelphia, and Boston, received Commendation with Ribbon
from Secretary of Navy, released to inactive duty Dec. 27, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Boston Five Cents Savings Bank, since 1950; member
Executive Committee, Harvard Business School Club of Boston, 1951;
member council, Business Historical Society, Inc., Soldiers Field, Boston;
acting Class secretary, Class of 1929, Harvard Graduate School of Busi-
ness Administration; treasurer, English-Speaking Union, Boston Branch,
since 1949; member Advisory Board, Carney Hospital, Boston, 1951.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Charitable Irish Society of Boston,
Newcomen Society in North America; Harvard Business School Club
of Boston; Boston Security Analyst Society.

FOLLOWING my graduation from the Harvard Graduate
School of Business Administration in June, 1929, I spent a short
time in Washington, D. C., on matters related to the Hawley-
Smoot Tariff Act of 1929. Thereafter I was associated with
F. L. Dabney & Company and Poor’s Financial Publishing
Company. Subsequently I was assistant to the state manager,
Home Owners Loan Corporation and in 1935 became executive

[975]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

assistant to the regional director for New England, Federal
Housing Administration, resigning in the spring of 1937. In
1937 I joined the Massachusetts Hospital Life Insurance Company,
Boston, and was elected assistant treasurer in March, 1939. This
company has been in the fiduciary business at its present location
for over one hundred and twenty-five years. In June, 1939, I
also became secretary and treasurer of the Committee of the
Independent Group of Stockholders of the Boston and Provi-
dence Railroad Corporation in connection with the New Haven
Reorganization. I resigned from this latter assignment in August,
1942, when I was commissioned a lieutenant, senior grade,
United States Naval Reserve. Assigned originally to the Bureau
of Supplies and Accounts, Navy Department, Washington, D.C,
I was later transferred to the Office of Procurement and Material
in the Secretary’s Office. In this duty, I specialized in financial
problems associated with naval procurement. This necessitated
frequent assignments out of Washington.

Upon release to inactive duty at the end of 1945, I assumed the
position of treasurer of Massachusetts Hospital Life Insurance
Company (having been elected treasurer while in the service).
In March, 1949, I was also elected vice-president and a member
of the Board of Directors. My present assignment involves, among
other things, investing the various funds in the custody of the
company, including the assets of the Massachusetts Life Fund,
an open-end common trust form of investment trust which 1s
registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Among
the funds presently managed is the bequest of Benjamin Franklin
at his death to the City of Boston which initially came to my
company in 1827 in the amount of $10,000. From the income
accumulated a total of about $800,000 has been paid to the
trustees of the Franklin Fund, and a substantial balance is still on
hand for future accumulation.

As for my ideas in general, or philosophy if you will, I have
always tried to adhere to the belief as well as practice that an
open mind is the only intelligent approach to be taken in matters
of public policy, education, or with respect to any vital problem
or issue. It has been my observation, however, that extreme
liberals are often quite intolerant in that they generally dislike
Opposition to their ideas and stamp the objector as a reactionary

[976 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

even though the latter may have sound historical or moral
grounds for his disagreement. To me, a society to be progressive
and lasting must not only respect the individual with proper
reward for his efforts, but should be guided always by sound
moral principles.

FREDERICK RICHARD SULLIVAN

HOME ADDRESS: 239 Charles Sc, Boston, Mass.

orFice aporess: Suffolk County Court House, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 13, 1905, Charlestown, Mass. parnnts: Joseph Michael Sullivan,
Agnes Theresa Folcy.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DFGREES: A.B, 1927; MBA. 1929; LLB. (Boston
Coll.), 1947.

margigep: Muriel C. MacDonald, Oct. 15, 1950, Winthrop, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Joseph Sullivan, ‘25, Charles Raymond Sullivan, °33.

occupation: Sheriff of Suffolk County, Massachusetts.

MILITARY OR NAVAL record: Office of Quartermaster General, Washington,
D. C,, December, 1941, to February, 1943; Command and General Staff
School, Fort Leavenworth, Kans, February to April, 1943, New Cale-
donia, South Pacific, May, 1943. to May, 1945; Island of Cebu, Philip-
pines, May to September, 1945, Yokohama, Japan, September to Novem-
ber, 1945; released from active duty at Fort Devens, Mass. April, 1946.

OFFIcES HELD: Member, 1934-41, chairman, 1936 and 1937, Boston School
Committee; alumni adviser for Office of Student Placement at Harvard
College, since 1946, executive council, Efarvard Graduate School of
Business Administration, 1948-32; chairman, Boston division for various
charitable fund-raising campaigns — Community Fund, Red Cross, Chil-
dren’s Hospital; overseer, Boys’ Club of Boston; trustee, Children’s
Museum.

Memaer oF: Harvard Club of Boston; Elks, American Legion; Veterans of
Foreign Wars, Knights of Columbus, other social and fraternal organ-

izations.
AFTER graduation [ enrolled in the Harvard Graduate School
of Business Administration from which I graduated in June, 1929.
During those years I coached boxing and rowing at the College.
In 1928 it was the class crews and from 1929 to 1933, the 150-
Ib. varsity crew.

In 1933 I was elected to the School Committee of the City of
Boston and served there as a member and as chairman of
the committee for a period of eight years. During that time
I engaged in a variety of business ventures, and started law

[977]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

studies at Boston College Evening Law School from which I was

to graduate a year after the end of World War II.

In 1931 Senator Leverett Saltonstall, ’16, then governor of
Massachusetts, appointed me to fill an unexpired term as sheriff
of the county of Suffolk of our state. Suffolk County is made
up of the cities of Boston, Chelsea, and Revere, and the town of
Winthrop. A year later I was elected to retain that office, but with
the declaration of war in 1941, I took a leave of absence. I was
at that time a second lieutenant in the Officers’ Reserve Corps
attached to the Quartermaster Corps. In December, 1941, |
entered on active duty in the office of the Quartermaster General
in Washington, D. C., where I served until February, 1943. Then,
there were a few months at Command and General Staff School
at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, as a preliminary to a flight overseas
to the South Pacific.

Before the American troops were prepared to strike at Japan,
our outfit was moved to the Philippines and just as the war
ended we were ordered to Yokohama. By that time, I was a
lieutenant colonel commanding the 523rd Quartermaster Group.
As soon as possible I came home and took off my uniform.

While I had been overseas, in the year 1944, my term of office
as sheriff was expiring and my friends and associates ran a
campaign for my re-election which was successful, so when I
came home I had my old job waiting for me. A year and a
half ago it was again my turn to run for re-election, and | was
happy that it turned out in my favor.

A month after the election I fulfilled a hope which I had had
for many years and married the young lady who had been my
secretary since I had first been appointed sheriff.

PAUL SULLIVAN

HOME ADpress: 101§ Beacon St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFicz appREss: Metropolitan Transit Authority, Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 24, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: John Andrew Sullivan, a.m.
(hon.) ’11, Mary Elizabeth Donovan.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

mMarrieD: Anna Eleanor Maloney, Oct. 22, 1938, Brookline, Mass. crtp:
Anne, Aug. 9, 1940.

[978 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHERS: Donal Mark Sullivan, ’33, John Andrew Sullivan, Jr.,
"38.

OccUPATION: Transportation; senior timetable constructor; traffic engineer.

MEMBER OF: Hatherly Country Club.

I HAVE had varied experience in selling, manufacturing, and in
public service. It has been my experience that a boy with nothing
but his own nerve to back him up (i. e. family wealth counts a
great deal in most cases) has a very hard row to hoe. In 1929 I
started as an employee of the old Boston Elevated Railway and
now have an excellent chance of second guessing my boss, Ed
Dana, ’o5.

My circumstances do not permit much travel, although with
my family I managed to get to see another old boss (Doug
MacArthur) parade in New York last spring. I still play golf
in the high seventies or low eighties after a twenty-year absence
from the game, and about fifteen years ago I beached a 50-
pound striped bass on a fish finder rig at Wellfleet and haven't
caught one since.

I still believe in free enterprise, the Roman Catholic religion,
and am an independent Democrat.

RUFUS ORLANDO SUTER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 4321 Southern Ave., Bradbury Heights, Md. .

OFFICE apprEss: Army Map Service, 6500 Brooks Lane, Washington, D. C.

BORN: Sept. 2, 1904, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Rufus Orlando Suter, Mary
Clarene Beatty.

PREPARED aT: Warren High School, Warren, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREES: 8.B. cum Jaude, 1927(28); AM.
1929; PH.D., 1932+

UNMARRIED,

OccuPATION: Translator.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Private, U. S. Army, July 11, 1942, to March 9,
1943; AAFTS Truax Field, Madison, Wis., Baer Field, Fort Wayne,
Ind.; shortwave radio operator.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Translator, Army Map Service, Washington,
D.C.

OFFICES HELD: Cataloguer, Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., 1938-
42; translator, Army Map Service, since 1943.

MEMBER oF: American Association for the Advancement of Science.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on the history of 16th- and 17th-century science,
most of which appear in The Scientific Monthly,

[979 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

LOOKING back at my thirteen years at Harvard, I cannot help
but feel that it would have been practical, after a reasonable
length of time, to have left and found a job. However, part of
this stay was spent in getting a Doctor's degree from the
Department of Philosophy. My thesis was about Jonathan
Edwards, and the reading for it gave me a deep and lasting
respect for colonial New England culture. For this reason,

among others, the years at Harvard were worth while. In 1936

the opportunity came to move to the Library of Congress in

Washington, to collaborate on a biographical dictionary of the

last Imperial Chinese dynasty. This project was under the auspices

of the American Council of Learned Societies, at that time much
interested in supporting Sinological studies.

Shortly afterwards, I joined the staff of the Library of Congress
as a cataloguer of philosophy and related subjects, and remained
there until drafted into the Army. From the Army I obtained
an honorable discharge to join the staff of the Army Map Service
as a Civilian Chinese translator. I have been with the Army Map
Service ever since, and am enthusiastic about the splendid quality
of my associates, the interesting character of the work, and the
intelligence and fairness of the employers.

In the summer of 1949, I spent a vacation in England, becoming
acquainted with London and the British Museum, and visiting
Oxford, Cambridge, and Colchester — the last because of interest
in William Gilbert, who was born there. Last fall 1 spent
another vacation in Italy, and made fairly long stops in Naples,
Rome, Florence, Padua, and Venice. I was lucky enough to be
in Rome on November 1, when the Pope proclaimed the dogma
of the bodily Assumption of the Virgin, a sufficiently thrilling
experience even for a non-Catholic. My chief interest in Italy,
however, was to see as many relics and memorials of Galileo as
possible. In this respect the visit to Florence was especially
rewarding.

About domestic life there is little to say. I own a comfortable
home, bought while real estate was still cheap, but have never
married. Thus far, life has been unusually kind. If my health
holds out as well as it has for the last twenty-five years, it will be
a pleasure to add another sketch to our Fiftieth Class Report.

[ 980 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES DONALD SUTHERLAND

HOME ADpRESS: 16 Park St., West Roxbury 32, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: 40 Court St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. Iq, 1905, Jamaica Plain, Mass. PARENTS: James Watt Sutherland,
Anna Marie Hahn.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 19273 LL.B., 1930.

marRigeD: Dorothy Marcia Hayward, Sept. 11, 1937, Winchester, Mass,
cHILp: Marcia Anne, Oct. 5, 1944.

OccUPATION: Attorney-at-law.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered as F. A. captain, Sept. 11, 1942; battery
commander and S-2, 734 F. A. Battalion; assistant corps judge advocate
VIII and XXI Corps; acting staff judge advocate 12th Armored Division,
C. O., 1269 Engineer Combat Battalion, S-2 of 84th Division Artillery,
battle stars: Normandy, Northern France, Ardennes, Rhineland, and
Central Europe; ribbons: E.A.M.E., American Theatre, and Victory.

OFFICES HELD: President, West Roxbury Citizens Association; treasurer,
Judge Advocates Association; secretary and director, Highland Club
of West Roxbury; director, Roxbury Charitable Society, Bellevue Co-
operative Bank, assistant secretary and life member, Scots Charitable
Society; senior deacon, West Roxbury Congregational Church.

MEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association; Massachusetts and Federal District
and Circuit Court of Appeals Bars; Prospect Lodge, A. F. & A. M.

AFTER four enjoyable years at the College, I spent three more
interesting ones at the Law School. A summer in Europe provided
a welcome break between the study and the practice of the law.
I began my practice in Boston in the fall of 1930 in the office of
Sewall C. Brackett (Harvard 1891), and later became associated
with the firm of Carpenter, Nay & Caiger. Since 1935 I have
had my own office at 4o Court Street, Boston. In 1937 two
unusual events took place in my life. Chronologically and in the
inverse order of their importance, they were a trip to South
America, and my marriage. Much to my good wife’s disgust, I
continued to be somewhat active in politics and ran for the Great
and General Court of Massachusetts and also for the Boston City
Council. As a Republican in Boston, my lack of overwhelming
success can well be imagined.

Things went along on an even keel until our fifth wedding
anniversary, when through an over-optimistic idea of the army
that the war might be materially shortened thereby, I was
ordered to active duty as a captain of Field Artillery. After

[ 981 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

passing through Fort Bragg, North Carolina, Fort Sill, Oklahoma,
Camp Maxey, Texas, Camp Gruber, Oklahoma, the Louisiana
Maneuver Area, and Fort Slocum, New York, I proceeded
overseas with the 734th Field Artillery Battalion to England,
France, Luxembourg, Belgium, Germany, and Czechoslovakia,
as part of General Patton’s Third Army. After the fighting
stopped, I served as a judge advocate on the staffs of the VIII
and XXI Corps and the Twelfth Armored Division, as com-
mander of the 126gth Engineer Combat Battalion and as S-2 of
the 84th Division Artillery. With this last organization I returned
to the United States in January, 1946. I resumed my law practice
and settled down once more to civilian life.

My wife and I have found great joy in our little daughter,
Marcia, and her cocker pup, Cindy, who manage to keep us on
the jump most of the time. We have been spending our summers
in Brewster and Barnstable on the Cape.

Our outside hobbies have been restricted to occasional bridge
parties and bowling. We have attended several of the preliminary
Reunion events and have enjoyed them very much; we are
looking forward to joining my classmates and their families at the
festivities in June.

BENJAMIN EUGENE SWEDE

HOME ADRESS: 12751 Marlboro Drive, Brentwood, West Los Angeles, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Swede Co,, Inc., 1240 S. Main St., Los Angeles, Calif.

BORN: Feb, 22, 1902, Norristown, Pa. parents: Alfred Swede, Anna
Robbin.

PREPARED AT: Mercersburg Academy, Mercersburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

MARRIED: Jeanette Grace Fulmer, Oct. 8, 1938, Las Vegas, Nev. cup: John
Allen, Dec. 17, 1941.

OCCUPATION: President, Swede Company, Inc., manufacturers of ladies’
sportswear.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Owned defense plant for aviation parts (sub
contract for Douglas).

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Los Angeles.

[ SPENT the first two years after college coaching track and
teaching. Found out I had to look for something more lucrative;
therefore, went into business and finally got a chance in manu-
facturing in California. I finally became owner of a ladies’

[ 982 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sportswear manufacturing company serving nationwide chain
stores and department stores. I also spent a lot of time on the
golf course getting down to a mediocre ten handicap. This
is practically my only hobby.

I have really nothing of note to report. Aly accomplishments
have not been what is generally expected of a Harvard man.
However, in my field of business our company enjoys a good
reputation nationally and has made great strides in the mercan-
tile world. Intellectually, I spend much time with writers in the
movie industry who help stimulate my otherwise dormant mind.

FRANK SWEENEY

HOME aporess: Fast Haverhill, Mass.

Born: Oct. 11, 1891, Haverhill, Mass. parents: John Morgan Sweeney,
Mary Donahue.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DbGREFS: A.B. Cum laude, 1927, A.M. 1928;
ro.p. (Southwestern Univ.), 1936.

MaAraiep: Myrtl dAnglemont, Nov. 9, 1923, Vera Cruz, Mexico.

OCCUPATION: Economic research and writing.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REconD: World War I: entered as private, 1917; 6th
Engineers, Second Division, separated as first lieutenant, 1919.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Fffect of Purchasing Petroleum For Shipment Abroad,”
“The Effect of Purchasing Lumber For Shipment Abroad,” “The
European Economic Situation ~ 1948," “The Changing Forest Situa-
tion” (A Study of Conservation on Strate and Private Forest Lands).

I ETAVE made economic and sociological surveys in the U. S.
Southwest and Midsouth, Mexico, and Latin America; and have
engaged in mining in U. S. Southwest, Alaska, and South America. °
I was formerly superintendent of schools in Newburyport, Mas-
sachusetts, and president of Le Moyne College, Memphis,
Tennessee.

RICHARD SYKES

HOME AND OFFICE Appress: R. F. D., Friday Harbor, Wash.

BorN: Sept. 7, 1905, Santa Barbara, Calif. parents: Richard Sykes, Fanny
Eliza Walton.

PREPARED AT: Santa Barbara School, Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: $.B., 1927,

MarrieD: Alice V. Brakeman, Aug. 15, 1928, Ventura, Calif. (divorced
1933). cHiLp: Peter, Oct. 21, 1930.

OCCUPATION: Semi-retired farmer.

[ 983 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Twenty months in South Pacific with Army
Amphibian Engineers.

MEMBER OF: Seattle Yacht Club.

SANTA Barbara, California, 1927 to 1929; Seattle, Washington,

1929 to 1948 (except for war); Friday Harbor, Washington, and in

the San Juan Islands, 1948 to 1952.

WILLIAM HEWITT TABER, JR.

HOME ADpREss: Threnton Avenue, Dalton, Ga.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1906, Memphis, Tenn. parents: William Hewitt Taber,
Edith Cranston Maare.

PREPARED AT: Baylor School, Chattanooga, Tenn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.

IRVING TALCOFF

HOME AppRESs: 302 Weston Rd., Wellesley 81, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Talcoff’s Inc., 63 Central St., Wellesley, Mass.

BORN: May 11, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: Hilary Talcofsky, Esther
Weiner.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928, DEGREE: A.B., 1927(28).

MARRIED: Bess Rosenberg, Sept. 18, 1927, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Herbert Murray, Aug. 13, 1929; Edward Lee, April 18, 1935.

HARVARD SON: Herbert Murray Talcoff, Business School, ’51.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Jacob Talcoff, p.M.p., 718.

occupaTION: Shoe merchant; treasurer, buyer, and general manager of
Talcoff’s Inc., retail shoe store.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Combined Jewish Appeal, Wellesley, Bonds for
Israel Campaign, Wellesley.

MEMBER OF: Temple Lodge, A.F.A.M.; B’nai B'rith; Kiwanis Club of
Wellesley; Boston Club of Harvard Business School; Harvard Business
School Association.

IT HAS been a long time since this son of Fair Harvard set out
into the world with vague but wonderful visions of success in
his young mind. Happily, my first step was in the right direction.
On September 18, 1927, I insured my basic happiness in the
form of a marriage license between yours truly and the girl of
my dreams. Bess and my sons Bert, now a second lieutenant in
the United States Air Force, and Edward, a junior at Wellesley

[ 984 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

High School, have always provided me with three excellent
reasons for spending my evenings in front of the fireplace or
the television set.

With the intenuon of applying for Medical School, I took
courses in chemistry and physics from September, 1927, through
January, 1928. Revising my plans, I began work in a wholesale
coat business. In September, 1928, I entered Elarvard Business
School. Unable to complete my studies, I started work as a
stock boy in William Filene’s Sons Company in Boston, in March,
1929. After working in various departments in the merchandising
field, I rose to the position of assistant to the assistant buyer, in
the women’s shoe department, with the high-sounding title of
merchandise clerical. In 1933 | was rewarded with the position of
assistant buyer. Four years later I went against some of the
soundest advice I shall ever receive and opened a women’s retail
shoe store in Wellesley, Massachusetts. This store was soon
joined by a summer branch at Elyannis, Massachusetts, in 1940 —
then in 1951 a shop in Shoppers’ World in Framingham, Massa-
chusetts.

Bert, my elder son, graduated from Amherst College in June,
1949, with cum laude Phi Beta Kappa honors. Following his
graduation from Harvard Business School in 1951, he started
work in the executive training department at Abraham & Straus
department store in Brooklyn. Hlis work was interrupted in
November when the Air Force called him. So it remains for
Ed to drag me out to the ball games or once in a while to the
golf links where he puts me to shame with a booming driver.
With tennis having become a trifle too fast for these weary
bones, my sole recreational activities are swimming and playing
golf. Bess and I manage to take short trips in September up north
to New Hampshire, Maine, or Canada. In 1949 and 1950 I went
to New Brunswick, Canada, on hunting trips.

That is me on paper. The same old guy who spends the
majority of his time in attempting to guess accurately what
styles the fickle feminine mind will wish to tread upon for the
next few months.

[ 985 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

LLOYD DUDLEY TARLIN

HOME ADDRESS: 56 Stella Rd., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE aDpRESS: Stop & Shop, Inc., 393 D St., Boston 10, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 17, 1906, Boston, Mass. ParENTS: Morris Tarlin, Rose Bern-
stein.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926. DEGREES: A.B. 19273 M.B.A., 1928.

marrieD: Sylvia Gordan, July 14, 1936, Millerton, N. Y. cutoren: Lloyd
Dudley, Jr., June 21, 1937; Judith L., Feb. 10, 1940; Nancy J., June 23,
1944; Betsy J., April 2, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Assistant treasurer, controller and director, Stop & Shop,
Inc., chain grocery stores.

OFFICES HELD: Cubmaster Pack #1, Newtonville, Mass., 1947-48; treasurer,
Jewish Community Center, Brookline, 1949-51; chairman, Organizing
Committee of Controllers’ Conference, National Association of Food
Chains, 1951; trustee, Associated Jewish Philanthropies, Boston; vice-
president, Brotherhood Temple Israel, Boston, 1951-52; president, New
England Chapter Institute of Internal Auditors, 1951-52, chairman,
Combined Jewish Appeal Drive, Belmont, 1951, Foodstuffs Division,
American Red Cross, Boston, 1950.

MEMBER OF: Shawmut Lodge A.F. & A.M.; Institute of Internal Auditors;
National Association Cost Accountants; Controllers’ Institute; Belmont
Country Club; Controllers’ Conference of National Association of Food
Chains,

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional contributions to trade and professional pub-
lications.

MY LIFE since graduation has been relatively uneventful. I have
lived and been employed in the same general area in which I was
born and attended school. I was too young for the first war
and was either too old or had too many dependents for the
second. I have been connected with food retailing for the past
twenty-two years. This is a relatively stable business that does
not usually suffer the pangs of depression nor the sharp upward
zoom of prosperity. Although the business cycle is relatively
tranquil, the day-to-day problems are varied and numerous
enough to continue to hold a fascination and leave me exhausted
on Friday to recover by Monday for further battles.

We have just about reached the stage in life when our children
need our personal attention the most. One or another has to be
driven some place all the time — dancing lessons, music lessons,
swimming, Sunday School, and even back and forth to caddy —
in one more year our son will be sixteen and take over the job

[ 986 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of chauffeur, we hope. Harvard associations would be difficult
for me to forget as I drive along the Charles River past the old
freshman dorms on the way to and from my office, and I can see
the tower of Memorial Hall from my home — about three miles
away. I visit Harvard Square quite often and still patronize
the “Coop.”

I find the days too short to enable me to leave my desk with
work completed, and the evenings too few to afford me oppor-
tunities to attend all the meetings that are called by the various
organizations in which I am active, visit the friends we want to,
have the guests we intend to, and catch up on the sleep we need.

But — time marches on — and twenty-five years have gone by
— the world has endured its worst depression and most horrible
war — it’s hard to believe — it doesn’t seem too long ago.

FRANK MEREDITH PRESTON TAYLOR

HOME AppREsS: Gaztambide 11 (V. Izq.), Madrid, Spain; Presso Tonjoroff,
Via Pier Capponi 79, Florence, Italy.

BORN: Jan. 13, 1906, Cincinnati, Ohio. PARENTS: Benjamin Preston Taylor,
Edith Josephine Black.

PREPARED AT: University School, Cincinnati, Ohio; Franklin School, Cincin-
nati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREE: B.A. (Univ. of Oxford), 1928.

MaRRiED: Anna White Newlin, Dec. 22, 1937, Geneva, Switzerland (di-
vorced 1947). cHILD: Cordelia Morgan Shipley, Sept. 26, 1938.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Lend-Lease, several months; Psychological
Warfare Branch, Italy, 1943-46.

IN MANY ways, as I think about it now, I regret having left
Harvard after only two years there, but at the time I very
much wanted to live in Europe (in which I have been successful
up to now, since I still do) and to study music (a desire so far
only very partially fulfilled). I remember also being alarmed by
the prospect of studying, in my third year, palaeontology,
“Comparative Religions,” some difficult Greek texts, and a bit of
Russian. That was to comply with Harvard requirements re-
garding the study of a science and things known as distribution,
concentration, and one’s field. My interests lay in other directions.

I finished at Oxford in 1928 with an honors degree and then
off and on studied at various other universities, including those
of Paris, Florence, Perugia, and Madrid.

[ 987 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

For about ten years my ties were chiefly with Paris (which
above all other centers I admire, even as it is today) or at least
with French-speaking cities, among them Algiers, where I spent
three years with Standard Oil. Since 1924 I had also spent part of
every year in Italy, and gradually the French period of my life
came to a close, temporarily I hope, and I then lived for fourteen
years almost entirely in Italy finding it the most beautiful and, in
many ways, the most likeable of all countries. In 1941, for
reasons unconnected with the war but not without difficulties
arising from it, I left Italy and went to Mexico. I thus began a
more or less Spanish period, for it was not until 1943 that I was
able to leave Mexico to return, it is true, to Italy, though by
then even there I had many Spanish ties; and finally, since
early 1950, to live in Spain, a country and people I likewise greatly
admire.

Travelling, with its usual study of people, art, and languages
is a hobby if you like. I can think of no other to claim even if
my interest in music and books deserves no better name, except
in my hopes. I have visited most countries on this continent of
Europe and a good many on others.

As to “social, political, or religious convictions” I believe in
a return to the past, at least in spirit, and an attempt after
thorough study and comparison to surpass its triumphs: a return
to 1914, to 1789 and 1776, even at times to 1530 and 30, to Rome
and Greece —a return to the past in almost all fields outside that
of science and at all points where obvious progress has not been
made subsequently. I believe in monarchial governments for
most European, Asiatic, and Mohammedan states based on the
family and religion; on a spiritual, artistic, and intellectual as
well as hereditary and traditional aristocracy, grosso modo on
language and race (this not to prevent a federation of govern-
ments at a high level); and, for a further time, on colonies, pro-
tectorates, and the like. I believe in aristocratic, if kingless,
governments for the New World with a minimum of regulation,
protecting but not pampering (as at present) the masses; exercised
by a small, severely trained, and selected elite — the right to vote,
when existent at all, being restricted to the educated. And I
believe, for the Western World at least, in the supremacy of
the Church of Rome, the various Protestant sects appearing to

[ 988 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have largely served their purpose already, great as some of their
accomplishments have been and even continue to be. As it is
religion which strikes me as our chief hope of avoiding war and
the bolshevism with which we so recently allied ourselves, I hope
that what good there is in every religion whether Baptist, Jewish,
Seventh Day Adventist, or Shintoist, will flourish. [To think that
absurd as it appears to talk of emulating a past now in ruins,
it is also absurd not to see that there is a good deal to be said
for the idea and that if many people bear it constantly in mind,
as they will be more and more apt to do if our present world
continues, gradually such a movement will take place —in
reality a forward not backward movement, creative not imitative.

SAMUEL TAYLOR

HOME apoRESS: 312 Coleridge Ave., Palo Alto, Calif.

OFFICE appress: Taylor & Schwartz, 351 California St., San Francisco 4,
Calif.

BoRN: Nov. 5, 1906, Boston, Mass, parents: Louis Taylor, Freda Dora
Pearlson.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. tagna cum laude, 1927; LLB.,
1930.

MarRiED: Anna Rose Asher, Dec. 6, 1934, New York, N. Y. ciitpRen: °
Elizabeth Ann and Margaret Rose (twins), May 3, 1939; Jane Deborah,
March 30, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Henry Taylor, '31, 11.8., °36, Harold Ralph Taylor, 39,
M.P.A., '47.

OCCUPATION: Tax attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Member Board of Directors, San Francisco Bar Association;
chairman Committee of Taxation, San Francisco Bar Association;
member Committee on Taxation, California State Bar; professor of
taxation, Loyola University Law School, Los Angeles, 1941-42.

MEMBER OF: San Francisco Bar Association; California State Bar; American
Bar Association; Concordia-Argonaut Club; Masons; Harvard Club of
San Francisco; Sierra Club; Mental Health Society of Northern Cali-
fornia; Northern California Association of Phi Beta Kappa.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles on taxation published in The Tax Law Re-
view, California State Bar Journal, etc.

UPON graduation from Harvard Law School in 1931, I was law
secretary to the Justices of the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts for a year. I then had a month’s vacation and

[ 989 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

for the first time some money that I did not have to use to go
back to school. I indulged in the luxury of a month’s vacation
trip in the course of which I arrived in San Francisco in August,
1931. I intended to stay in San Francisco for only a few days but
was offered a job with one of the larger law firms.

The offer changed my life. I became a California lawyer
instead of a Massachusetts one. I stayed with the firm for about
two and a half years. Then the New Deal came along, and I
went back to Washington with the Federal Emergency Admin-
istration of Public Works. After a year and a half in Washington,
I returned to San Francisco as the regional counsel for the Public
Works Administration a position I held until 1931. I then decided
to become a tax lawyer and went into the office of the Chief
Counsel of the Bureau of Internal Revenue, where I spent four
years, first in Washington and then in Los Angeles. In March,
1943, I returned to private practice with a San Francisco firm,
In October, 1945, I opened my own office.

I opened my office with fear and trepidation, without a client
and without even a telephone. Telephones were hard to obtain
in San Francisco in October, 1945, and it was three weeks after I
opened my office before I had one. However, the practice
clicked from the beginning and very soon brought me to the
point where my own income tax made working too hard rather
pointless. I suppose, however, that I shall continue to work hard,
high taxes or low taxes, because I have done it all my life, and
it has become to me a way of living. There are worse ways, and
I do not regret this one.

I have been happy being a lawyer, particularly a tax lawyer,
with my own practice. Were I to live my life over, I would not
be averse to becoming a lawyer again, although I would become
a tax lawyer much sooner than I did.

So much for my career. Now for my family. I married a San
Francisco girl, a graduate of the University of California. As we
have three girls, I shall not be able to send my children to
Harvard College unless — as I suspect may happen one of these
days — it becomes coeducational. We live in Palo Alto, and I
cover the thirty-five miles to and from my office in San Francisco
via the Southern Pacific. Palo Alto is a lovely place in which to
live, so I put up with the commuting which I dislike.

[ 990 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I have been too busy to have as much time as I would like for
hobbies. I dabble in photography. I enjoy hiking, especially in
the Sierra Nevada. I try to devore some time to reading and as
much time as I can to my family. Some day I hope to do a lot of
travelling, but so far I have confined it to the United States.

JOHN WHITTEMORE TEELE

HOME ADDRESS: 24 Monument St. Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Personnel Office, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass,

BORN: June 25, 1905, Waltham, Mass. parents: Arthur Page Teele, ‘gs,
Winifred Whittemore.

prepared AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGRER: 8.B. IN EB. cunt laude, 1927.

MARRIED: Katharine P. Hughes, Dec. 26, 1932, Cambridge, Mass. ciinnren:
Sylvia Lombard, Aug. 22, 1934; John Hughes, Aug. 20, 1936; William
Lambert, Aug. 10, 1939 (died March 7, 1942); David Whittemore,
March 27, 1944.

occupation: Personnel and placement director, Harvard University.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Massachusetts State Price Executive, O.P.A.;
Public Panel Member, War Labor Board; Personnel Manager, Harvard
Underwater Sound Laboratory; captain, Massachusetts State Guard.

OFFICES HELD: Labor Panel, American Arbitration Association, member
various professional organizations, active in municipal and charitable
activities.

MEMBER oF: Concord Country Club, Annisquam Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional articles, pamphlets, or talks in my professional

field.

THE trouble with writing about part of a life now past is that
it becomes painfully evident that things might have becn
managed better. However, all that any of us can do is to muddle
along making the best decisions possible. In our current and
continuing work with Harvard students (in the Office of Student
Placement) we find an awareness of the difficulties they are
facing in this respect. We try to give them some reassurance
that they may expect reasonably good things in life if first they
will find an interest in something and second pursue that interest
with ten per cent more zeal than the next fellow. This formula
or secret of success is not patented and may even be of some
assistance to somebody in spite of his having become an old
man returning for the Twenty-fifth Reunion! By no means have

[991 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

all of my problems or those of my friends been resolved as this
milestone approaches.

There’ is no particular reason—other than the accident of
being underfoot — that I should have had the good fortune to be
assigned two interesting jobs at Harvard after some fifteen years
of varied experience in business and finance. However, that has
been my experience and I am grateful for it. It is difficult to say
which of the two has been and is the more interesting and
rewarding. I find that Harvard is a big and complex business
entity with thousands of employees and very large budgets. My
job as personnel director is busy and active and offers an
opportunity to contribute to the smooth and effective functioning
of this enterprise. Surely the purpose of the University is to
provide teaching and counsel for youth and not primarily to be
the employer of many people. However, in these (to us) com-
plex times the latter is a prerequisite for the former. The present
administration is wise enough to see that its officers obtain varied
experience in educational administration. My job-related activities
have included service on various faculty committees and a period
as a member of the Committee on Admissions. Students now at
Harvard include many sons of friends or classmates. My present
resolve is to retire (defined as taking up some other line of work!)
if I am still around when for “sons,” above, I will have to write
“grandsons.”

Hobbies include too many; tennis, golf, yacht racing, fishing,
and so forth. Trying to keep up with my wife and children is a
hobby in itself! So far as “social, political, and religious convic-
tions” are concerned, I am convicted of believing that times are
not as tough as they seem. It does not appear to me that the
world is hopeless in spite of atoms and Russians and corrupt
politicians.

BERNARD TERAN

HOME aApprEss: c/o Joseph Teran, 12 Allendale St., Worcester, Mass.
BORN: Feb, 28, 1906, Russia. parents: Jacob Teran, Rebecca Rudashevsky.
PREPARED AT: B. M. C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Wounded in service.

[992 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALOYS H. THIEMANN

HOME ADDRESS: 38 Oval Ave., Riverside, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New York Life Insurance Co., 51 Madison Ave., New
York, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 10, 1904, Reedsburg, Wis. paReNTS: Henry Thiemann, Agnes
Schewe.

PREPARED AT: Reedsburg High School, Reedsburg, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1927. DEGREE: $.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Wicker, June 30, 1928, Cambridge, Mass. cHILpREN:
Susan, Jan. 7, 1935; Nicholas Wicker, Dec. 19, 1939.

OCCUPATION: Assistant vice-president, New York Life Insurance Company,
in charge of Public Relations Department.

TO THE Class of 1927 I have always been a sort of bastard
stepchild. If you can comprehend such a relationship you will
understand my almost anonymical position as a “Harvard °27.” I
transferred from Notre Dame University in the middle of my
sophomore year (because of disagreeableness arising from edi-
torial writing in the college paper), and finished my academic
work at Harvard at midyears, 1927. The Class of 1925 lost me
because during my Harvard years I had taken time out to go to
Florida to work for newspapers and to write publicity; and
then to Paris to take postgraduate journalistic training on the
staff of the famous Paris edition of the old New York Herald
(now Herald Tribune).

From Harvard in January, 1927, I joined the editorial staff of
The Atlantic Monthly, and later became associate editor of a
magazine of world affairs, The Living Age, then published by
the Atlantic and now defunct. Come June of 1928, I successively
was married, moved the magazine to New York City, resigned
from it, and determined to take a more direct part in trying to
resolve world affairs.

After competitive examinations, I was appointed Assistant
United States Trade Commissioner in the Bureau of Foreign and
Domestic Commerce of the Department of Commerce and
assigned to the new American Legation in Ottawa, Canada. I
was presumably an expert in foreign trade, tariffs, and similar
subjects. My published reports included everything from citrus
fruits to chemicals, iron ore to watch springs. But the Smoot-
Hawley Tariff, British retaliation, the move of the Japanese

L993 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

into Manchuria, and the failure of the United States to recog-
nize its new position as a creditor, instead of a debtor nation
combined to discourage me.

A new and small advertising agency in Chicago, Gamble &
Company, was seeking a writer and account executive. This was
in 1930 when the bond business was burgeoning, and the principal
account of the agency was Halsey, Stuart & Company. I took
the job and for the next couple of years learned about the
investment business. And also advertising.

In those early days we had a radio program — symphony
music and a speaker called ““The Old Counsellor,” who expounded
the principles of sound investment. I not only produced the show
but wrote the talks of The Old Counsellor, which a Senate
Finance Committee in the early thirties reviewed and gave a
pristine-pure bill of health.

Then came 1932 and early 1933. Banks closed. Financial adver-
tising disappeared. And so did the bread-and-butter industrial
advertising accounts.

New York Life Insurance Company was looking for a writer
who could also handle publicity and advertising. I landed the
job in March, 1933. At that time public relations was an almost
unknown field. But the need for it was recognized. For some time
I bore the extraordinary title of “Secretary to the Vice-presi-
dents.” The plural in the title simply reflected my roving
assignment, which even included sales promotion and sales
motivation through national sales contests. Eventually there
came a broader appreciation of the function of public relations
and the use of advertising as a medium for mass communications.
In 1943 I was named assistant secretary and in 1949, assistant vice-
president in charge of the public relations department which
includes advertising, publicity, and various aspects of employee
relations, policyholder relations, tenant (housing developments)
relations, investments, and so on.

There is no reason for reciting industry committee chairman-
ships and memberships as they would be generally incompre-
hensible. Briefly, my business career during the past eighteen years
is reflected in public opinion towards New York Life; and my
personal career is reflected in my children: Susan (Suki) and
Nicholas W. (Niki) Thiemann.

L 994 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FREDERICK METCALF THOMAS

HOME ADDRESS: Hanover, Conn.

BORN: March 23, 1905, Winona, Minn, parents: Percy Ernest Thomas,
S.1.B., 12, Anne Maria Metcalf.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence Academy, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925, 1926-1927. DEGREES: 8.B. Cum laude, 1927(29);
s.M. (Massachusetts Inst. of Technology), 1929.

MARRIED: Helen Lewis, Sept. 1, 1928, Cambridge, Mass. (divorced 1938);
Lorinne Crawford, 1938, London, England. cHioren: Roger Meri-
wether, Feb. 28, 1930; Lileo Tring, 1939; Frederick Metcalf, Jr. 142;
Patricia Anne, 1945; Conrad Hilary Knox, 1946; Velia Luanna, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Gordon Fairbanks Metcalf Thomas, a.M., "33.

BEFORE putting anything down on this blank shect, I gazed at
it a long time, wondering what the years have really written
there — taunted by the opportunity of describing one of the fine
figures open to me a quarter of a century ago in place of the
capers actually cut. But here goes.

Prophetically, I stayed out of college during the third year in
order to focus my thoughts on a career. Thus, I did not complete
the work for the Bachelor’s degree until after a summer school
session at Harvard and further work at ALI.T. Two years at
ML.I.T. launched me into aeronautical engineering. As I look
back on my career in aeronautics, now one decade dead, it
appears serenely successful. The first five years included publica-
tion of several technical papers and participation in a couple of
national engineering prizes. During the next five years I lectured
before the Royal Aeronautical Society in London, and helped to
build up there a large organization making propellers under
American license. I then bought a house near Bristol and settled
down to await the war with interest. Soon the severe bombing led
me to send my family back to America; after a year of this, my
interest in war became reoriented, and I joined my family in the
States, in July, 1941. The dozen years in semi-military technology
left me something less than satisfied with it as a life work. Since
then I have worked here and in New Zealand as a woodworker,
a nurse in a mental hospital, a draftsman, an engineering salesman,
a housekeeper, and an author (nothing published). Nowhere have
I found anything to restore my confidence in the work I orig-
inally chose. On the contrary, the conviction has steadily grown

[ 995 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

on me that blind acceptance of the present trends in politico-
military science is a major cause (through the psychological
actions of fear) of the trouble that appears to lie just ahead of
all of us.

The best part of my mental efforts during the past decade
has been devoted to unravelling the threads in the pattern of
war and peace. By 1947 they were clear enough to put down
in a book called Strategy For Survival. It is an analysis of what
one often hears called the central problem of our times, the
problem of curbing lethal technology. Naturally, my findings
differ from the general trends, perhaps differ too much. In
refusing publication, editors sometimes say the book wouldn't
make money, but offers to indemnify them against loss have
produced no effect. However, the manuscript has been read by
many good men and found worth praising. In the preface which
he kindly wrote for it, Albert Einstein said, “It is an honest
book, which in my opinion deserves the attention of all those
who take their duties as citizens of a democratic country
seriously.”

Conflicts of this kind have always been common enough, and
I accept this one as characteristic of our times, but yet with
feelings of deep concern. Whatever happens, my life has been
laid on the concept that the subservience of technology to
militarism is a dead-end line of development. I pass over the
mistakes and misfortunes of ill health in my family life to make
one more comment: I observe how the press of the years forces
one deeper and deeper into the resources that underlie one’s
individuality; at last one comes face to face with one’s faith.

RICHARD HENRY THOMAS

HOME Appress: Kitchell Road, Convent, N. J.

OFFICE AppREss: Long Lines Department, American Telephone & Telegraph
Co., 32 Avenue of Americas, New York, N. Y.

BorN: Aug. 16, 1906, Philadelphia, Pa. Parents: Richard Henry Thomas,
Bertha Hamer.

PREPARED AT: Baltimore Polytechnic Institute, Baltimore, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.

MARRIED: Louise Hanson, June 22, 1929, Presque Isle, Maine. CHILDREN:

[ 996 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Richard Henry, 3d, Aug. 18, 1931; Jarvis Hayward, July 25, 1935 (died
Nov. 9, 1935); Louise, Sept. 23, 1937 (died Sept. 23, 1937).

HARVARD SON: Richard Henry Thomas, 3d, ’52.

OCCUPATION: Supervisor of rate problems, Office of General Commercial
Engineer, Long Lines Department, American Telephone and Tele-
graph Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered U.S.N.R. as lieutenant (j.g.), April, 1942;
assigned communications duties with Port Director, New York; returned
to inactive duty as lieutenant commander, January, 1946; received
Commendation Ribbon.

MEMBER OF: Keene Valley Chapter of Essex County (N. Y.) Fish and Game
Club; New Jersey Choral Society (vice-president); Shakespeare Club
of Morristown (past president).

I LIKE to think we lead a quiet life, but somehow there never
seem to be enough hours in a day. Perhaps being a New Jersey
commuter going daily to New York makes a truly quiet life
impossible — or is it that in twenty-five years each of us has
established the pattern of living he really desires?

My occupation since graduation, excepting four years for
Navy duty, has all been in the Bell System, working first in
various capacities in the commercial department of the New York
Telephone Company, and the past six years in commercial work
in the Long Lines Department of the American Telephone and
Telegraph Company. My present position is that of supervisor of
rate problems in connection with interstate toll rates.

Except for occasional temporary duty in Washington, my
entire war service was in the office of the Port Director, New
York, working in communications handling convoy and merchant
ship sailings. I was made communications officer and left the
service as a lieutenant commander.

Through the years one of our greatest joys has been learning
to know and love the Adirondack Mountains at Keene Valley,
New York. Walking, climbing, camping, and fishing have given
wonderful summer holidays to all the family. I can only conclude
that everyone should be introduced to mountains and streams at
a very early age, for my son puts me to shame on a trail and
there is something about a dry fly on his line that always has
more appeal to a trout than the same fly on my line. Last year
we began building our own house on the side of one of the
mountains. Much of the house is built of wood from our own

[997 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

pines and has been put together by our own hands. For some
years to come you will be able to find us working on floors,
cabinets, closets, and felling trees to obtain new mountain vistas.

More serious activities consist largely of reading, the Shake-
speare Club, and music. The Morristown Shakespeare Club boasts
seventy-five years of vigorous life, reading and discussing the
plays of the Immortal Bard. I thank Kitty and his English 2 for
the excellent grounding in the subject matter but I think he
would not altogether approve of some of the reading.

Membership in the New Jersey Choral Society has been most
rewarding for the leadership of David Randolph is inspiring to
each of the seventy members of various races, creeds, and
occupations. No “glee club” singing for us! In the three years
of its existence, in its concerts, the society has done several Bach
cantatas, Beethoven’s “C Major Mass,” Monteverdi’s “Tears of a
Lover,” and Mozart’s “Requiem.”

Hobbies? Perhaps after all it’s the hobbies that make the hours
of the day not long enough. Vegetable and box and rose gardens
get increasingly engrossing. Wegetables and fruit provide our
summer and winter supplies and many hours go into tending
garden and freezing surplus. Photography records our increasing
age, our beloved mountains, and makes our Christmas cards each
year. Fly-tying is rewarding for there is always the thought that
one of my own creations will charm the biggest trout of all.
Leatherwork makes possible the right wallet, belt, or handbag for
Aunt Hattie’s birthday. But the new mountain house increases
hobby activity more than anything else. Lamps, chairs, tables are
being turned out at a great rate. These and a g’ x 12’ hooked rug
_of striking modern design really keep us busy during the “long!”
winter evenings.

But by far the best accomplishment I can report twenty-five
years out of Harvard is that our son Richard will be graduating
this June!

CHARLES GOODRICH THOMPSON

HOME ADpkeESS: 3020 Palisade Ave., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREss: 71 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BORN: April 22, 1906, Chestnut Hill, Mass. parents: William Goodrich
Thompson, 88, Lt.B., ’91, Mary Hinckley Huntington.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

[ 998 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; CERT. (London School of
Economics), 1928; LL.B. (Harvard Univ.), 1931.

MARRIED: Alice Bemis, June 17, 1933, Tamworth, N. H. cHitpren: Joan
Phillips, Sept. 25, 1934; William Goodrich, Jan. 1, 1936; Victoria, Oct. 9,
1938; Katharine True, July 16, 1945; Alice Huntington, July 1, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Huntington Thompson, ’25.

occuPATIoNn: Lawyer and trustee.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant (j.g.), U.S.N.R., May,
1942; Officer training, Ithaca, N. Y., July-August, 1942; Naval Local
Defense, Newport, R. I.; Fitting Out Section, later officer in command,
Compass and R.D.F. officer, Narragansett Area; acting director, Harbor
Facilities; officer in command, YTB179 for rescue and salvage in area;
inactive duty as lieutenant commander, November, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: President and treasurer, Fund for Astrophysical Research, Inc.;
trustee and treasurer, New York Training School for Deaconesses, and
St. Andrew’s Church, Tamworth, N. H.; vestryman and assistant treas-
urer, Christ Church, Riverdale, New York City; president, Manchester
Yacht Sails, Inc., South Dartmouth, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York; New York
State Bar Association; Century Association; Harvard Club of New
York; Harvard Club of Boston; American Astronomical Association,
American Association for the Advancement of Science; Off Soundings
Club; Reserve Officers Association; American Pheasant Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Co-author with Dr. Theodore Dunham, Jr., of short technical
article about instruments used at eclipse at Canton Island, June 8, 1937.

THE instructions at the head of this section of our Report
suggest the topics we should cover. The first is “Career History.”
All the little LL.B.’s that were hatched that June day in 1931
looked alike — for the first and last time. Thereafter the proud
possessor of each went his own way, and no two went in exactly
the same direction. Until 1941 my practice was a fairly personal
one of wills, trusts, and estates, which never but once made the
headlines and seldom made the courtroom. War more or less dis-
located this practice, but the loss has been compensated for by
various new pursuits. Whatever the outcome may be, I shall
always be thankful for my law school training —if nothing
else, it was and will always remain a wonderful antidote to
credulity.

The three most interesting experiences of my life since 1927
have had nothing whatever to do with “career.” The first was a
year (1927-28) spent in the London School of Economics,
under the tutelage and guidance of the late Harold J. Laski.
(Naturally such an admission as this will scandalize any McCar-

[999 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

STEPHEN THOMPSON, II

HOME ADDRESS: 332 Parkwood Rd., Fairfield, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 177 State St., Bridgeport, Conn.

BORN: June 6, 1904, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Benjamin Franklin Thompson,
Bertha G. Young.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

marrieD: Doris Underwood Hays, June 24, 1933, Schenectady, N. Y. cmp:
Peter Robert, April 8, 1942.

occuPATION: District manager, Bridgeport office, American Mutual Liability
Insurance Company.

MEMBER OF: Patterson Club (golf); University Club of Bridgeport, Masonic
Order, Fidelity Lodge #134.

WITH “Goad No. 3” at hand, addressed to my wife, I have
been ushered quite forcibly to my desk and with pen in hand find
myself meditating over the joys and problems of the past twenty-
five years. I am reminded of a Coney Island roller coaster —
from the depths to the heights—and before I can acclimate
myself to either I am again down or up. It is fortunate that life

is that way, for the high points in life are more pleasant and

enjoyable because of the low.

All of this preamble is merely to point out that my past
twenty-five years have had the same ingredients as you, my class-
mates, have experienced — depressions, two wars, the regime of
F.D.R., prosperity, inflation, good and not so good jobs, mar-
riage, children, and through it all a feeling of contentment and
satisfaction.

Insurance has been my vocation since 1934, when I joined the
American Mutual family. After spending a few years in Boston
in the sales department, I was transferred to Bridgeport, Connecti-
cut, where I have remained, At the present time I am district
manager for the Southern New England district and spend the
greater part of my time keeping large policyholders happy and -
contented. (This is particularly true during the past two years
because rates keep rising as our legislators continue to increase
benefits.)

My spare time is occupied by various hobbies and sports. Due
to the passing of years I have all but deserted the tennis courts,
still my “first love.” I have turned to the less strenuous game of

[ 1002 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

golf and enjoy it immensely. My wife and I like bridge, Canasta
and poker, and even limber up the old joints enough to take
in an occasional dance. Cub and Scout work consume much of
my spare time, now that my son is ten years old.

I sometimes wonder if I missed “my calling,” since I have
discovered that I like to paint—not the kind of paintings
you find in museums but rather the kind for which union mem-
bers receive twenty dollars per day. At any rate, painting the
house helps the budget and now I am busily brushing away at
the interior.

A trip to Bermuda last spring was one of the high spots and
we hope to take another before the wheel chair overtakes us.
Our summers are spent at our cottage on Little Squam Lake in
New Hampshire, where we enjoy swimming, boating, and
fishing with our son.

Through the years it has been my good fortune to keep in
close contact with several of my college classmates in Connecticut
and Massachusetts, which has been a source of great pleasure to
me. A Harvard-Yale football game is always a good excuse to
get together for a weekend.

If it were possible to go back and live these twenty-five years
all over again, I would not change them in any way. Now I am
looking forward to the next twenty-five — may they hold more
of the same and may we all be back for the Fiftieth in 1977.

SAMUEL LOTHROP THORNDIKE

HOME ADDRESS: 936 Oak St., Emporia, Kans.

OFFIcE AppREss: College of Emporia, Emporia, Kans.

BORN: March 16, 1905, Boston, Mass. Parents: Albert Thorndike, ’81,
Mary Quincy Gould.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; PHD. (Univ. of Cali-
fornia), 1932.

MarRiED: Mary Loring Miller, Nov. 12, 1933, Auburndale, Mass. (divorced
1947); Sarah Robinson Simons, June 17, 1950, Summerville, S.C. cHiL-
DREN: Samuel Lothrop, Jr., Aug. 26, 1937; Janet, Sept. 10, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Benjamin Apthorp Gould Thorndike, '26; Albert
Thorndike, ’36.

OccuPATION: Associate professor of mathematics, College of Emporia.

OFFICES HELD: Graduate assistant and research fellow, University of Cali-

[ 1003 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

fornia, 1928-32; assistant, Mount Wilson Observatory, 1932-33; re-
search associate, Harvard College Observatory, 1933-373 instructor in
astronomy, Wellesley College, 1937-43; instructor in naval programs,
Williams College, 1943-44; staff member, Radiation Laboratory, Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology, 1944-45; assistant professor of mathe-
matics, University of Maine, 1946-49; associate professor of mathematics,
College of Emporia, since 1949.

MEMBER oF: American Astronomical Society; Sigma Xi; American Associ-
ation for the Advancement of Science; Massachusetts Society of the
Cincinnati.

PuBLicATIONs: A number of technical astronomical papers.

LET’S begin this story in the middle. The effect of World War

II upon my life was the reverse of specialization. I had become

settled in research and teaching in astronomy, as may be gathered

by glancing at my “offices held.” When we entered the war, I

wanted to do something more practical but something which
would utilize my training. After casting about trying for a naval
commission, I succeeded in working for the Navy without
joining it, first teaching in the programs for cadets at Williams
College and then participating in war research at the Radiation
Laboratory at M.I.T. At the end of hostilities I took a job
teaching at a southern college which isn’t very well known and
won't be any better known if I can help it; however, I found
something likeable there. (Come and see us sometime.) I next
accepted the chairmanship of mathematics at the temporary
annex of the University of Maine, where I became diverted from
my previous specialty of astronomy into general undergraduate
mathematics. Upon termination of this annex, I was appointed by
the small mid-western college mentioned under “present occu-
pation.” When I first came here, I thought it might be too
“churchy.” It is a Presbyterian college with Christian emphasis.
But I’m quite happy here. It just takes a little bluffing at times. I
still teach astronomy occasionally, but am busy mostly with
mathematics courses.

JOHN TALBOT TIMLIN, JR.

HOME appress: 109 King St., Reading, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Anderson-Nichols & Co., 53 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 2, 1904, Melrose, Mass, parents: John Talbot Timlin, p.m.o.,
’y8, Harriet May Jones.

[ 1004 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927.

MARRIED: Charlotte Mae DuBord, Jan. 15, 1949, Reading, Mass. cup:
Jonathan Thomas, June 4, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Engineering; instruction manual writer.

JAMES EDWARD TOBIN

HOME ADDRESS: 55 Cedarwood Rd., Jamaica Plain, Mass.

BorN: Nov. 18, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: John Joseph Tobin, Catherine
Manning. .

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

CARL OTTO TONGBERG

HOME ADDRESS: 421 Tuttle Pkwy., Westfield, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Standard Oil Development Co., Linden, N. J.

BORN: Nov. 8, 1906, Lynn, Mass. parents: Otto Herman Tongberg, Emma
Christina Peterson.

PREPARED AT: Lynn English High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 10923-1927. DEGREES: S&B. 1927; A.M., 1930; PH.D. (Penn-

sylvania State Coll.), 1936.

MarRiED: Eleanor Carey, June 26, 1931, Marblehead, Mass. cuttpren: Carl
Nelson, April 15, 1938; Richard Carey, Sept. 15, 1944.

occuPATION: Petroleum refining; acting director, Research Division, Stand-

ard Oil Development Company.
WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Miscellaneous industry and government com-

mittees.
OFFICES HELD: ‘Trustee, First Methodist Church, Westfield, N. J.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Society of Automotive Engineers;
Echo Lake Country Club; Appalachian Mountain Club.
PUBLICATIONS: Numerous technical publications.

TWENTY-FIVE years later finds me fortunate enough to be
working in the interesting and dynamic oil industry and associated
with the Standard Oil Development Company, an affiliate of
Standard Oil Company (New Jersey). Strangely enough, in
recent years this has brought me into closer contact with Harvard,
since many of our executives have attended the famous thirteen

[ 1005 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

weeks’ Advanced Management Course of the Harvard Business
School and become fellow-alumni. The University deserves
great credit for instituting this course.

Since I joined the Standard Oil Development Company in 1937,
my work has been in the field of research — specifically process
and product development. My present position is acting director
of the Research Division. This division is concerned with petro-

‘leum product development and present and future quality
requirements.

After Harvard graduation I had the good fortune to spend one
year as an assistant to Professor Conant, working in his com-
bination office and private laboratory on the first floor of Boylston
Hall. This led me into graduate work in organic: chemistry for
two years and a Master's degree in 1930. Fate in the person of
Harvard alumnus Dean F. C. Whitmore of Pennsylvania State
College intervened at this point and transported me to State
College, Pennsylvania, and petroleum research. There I worked
for seven years with Dr. M. R. Fenske. I left Pennsylvania State
in 1937 with the rank of assistant professor and a doctorate
degree obtained in 1936.

Marriage to Eleanor Carey of Marblehead, Massachusetts, came
in 1931. We have two fine children, Carl Nelson, aged thirteen,
and Richard Carey, aged seven. Since leaving State College we
have lived in Westfield, New Jersey. As a trustee of the First
Methodist Church in Westfield, I am proud that our pastor,
Dr. Wesley Lord, became Bishop of the Boston area and there-
fore the spiritual leader of Harvard Methodists.

HOWARD POWELL TRAVIS

HOME ADDRESS: 5261 N. Pennsylvania St., Indianapolis 5, Ind.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Royse, Travis, Backer & Riddell, 1011 Fletcher Trust Bldg.,
Indianapolis 4, Ind.

BORN: Dec. 13, 1904, LaPorte, Ind. Parents: Julius Curtis Travis, Ethel
Closser.

PREPARED aT: Lake Forest Academy, Lake Forest, Ill; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; LL.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Pauline Mansfield, March 6, 1928, Exeter, N. H. cHiLpRen:

[ 1006 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Howard Powell, Jr., Dec. 7, 1928 (a. Margaret White, March 13,
1949); Curtis Sumner, Jan. 13, 1930.

HARVARD SON: Curtis Sumner Travis, °52.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; secretary-treasurer, LaPorte Lumber & Coal Com-
pany, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Fellow, Lake Forest Academy, 1940-45; treasurer, Indian-
apolis Bar Association, 1946-47.

MEMBER OF: Indianapolis, Indiana, and American Bar Associations; Harvard
Club of Indiana (past treasurer and president); Lawyers Club; Columbia

~ Club.

AFTER completing Harvard Law School, I went to work
here for a fairly large firm doing mostly public utility business.
For about six years I spent a good deal of my working time with
the Pennsylvania Railroad. The work was good experience for
a young lawyer, but it was fantastically unremunerative and had
a sameness to it that did not satisfy my venturesome spirit. Also,
I found myself displeased with the “big firm” regimentation and
wanted more freedom of action and thought. So in 1936 I went
to the other extreme and started a partnership with another
lawyer whose business had been entirely different from mine,
with criminal law and everything else mixed in. This was a most
fortunate change and has made me enjoy the law practice above
any other vocation I have ever seen. Our practice is general in
the most literal sense of the word. We have handled everything
from a rape case to settling a millionnaire’s estate, have broken
and sustained wills, sued bank directors for fraud, consulted
profoundly with boards of directors, and have enjoyed every
minute of it. Last January we started up the ladder of size again
and are now a firm of four instead of two (but we still bat around
with anything that strikes our fancy).

In a business way I was fortunate in having an outside interest.
My father owned control of a retail coal and building material
business in LaPorte, Indiana, and was at an age where travelling
the 150 miles up there and back was an impossibility. I therefore
started a long-distance management about 1933 and have con-
tinued it until the present. Grappling with all the problems of
this business has added a great deal of interest to my life and it
has been gratifying to watch it grow ten-fold (through force
of circumstances and not because of my business genius).

On our vacations we went for many years to Marblehead each

[ 1007 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

summer, until our boys reached the age when they wouldn’t go

along with that anymore. Since then we have been going to Fort

Lauderdale, Florida, in March. As to travelling, we have pretty

well covered the eastern half of the country and had one trip to

Mexico City. My wife is now hell-bent on going to Europe for

our twenty-fifth anniversary in 1953 and when she is hell-bent

on doing something — well, I am already reading travel books
and getting rates and fares together. You can find me at Maxim’s
or the Folies Bergére.

As for hobbies, I have dabbled with a lot of them over the
years — golf, woodworking, photography, and so forth. Now I
take my exercise sitting down, stay at home a good deal, unfor-
tunately look too much at television instead of reading good
books, and go to the horse races as often as I can get there. As
to the last, I am getting an ambition to own a race horse, but
have not yet figured out how to get it within my budget.

My elder son, Howard, Jr., tried Purdue for a half-year, did
not take well to college education, and so quit and went to work
in our lumber yard at LaPorte. After a year up there he married
a lovely girl and they are now sinking their roots in the life of
the town where our family lived for three generations. To date
they have not made a grandpa out of me and this is particularly

unfortunate because it leaves him open for the draft. Curtis
took more kindly to education, entered Harvard in 1949, and
after completing two and one-half years, had the draft board
breathing down his neck. He preferred the Air Force to the
Army, and so enlisted last January for a four-year term. He
is now at Syracuse University in the Air Force Russian Language
School. This was quite a blow because we had looked forward
to his graduation at the same time as my Twenty-fifth Reunion.

I pride myself on having been a regular Republican in every
national election and firmly believe that the Roosevelt-Truman
dynasty has set in motion forces which have already rotted several
apples in the barrel. Whether the good apples can be saved or will
go on rotting is a question for the people to decide, and I have
frankly grown quite cynical about the political intelligence of
the American people. I was against the Truman-Korean war and
am against going into other Russian-devised encounters. It’s time
for some honest-to-goodness diplomacy where we don’t get out-

[ 1008 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

maneuvered every time we discuss something with Russia. A
law school freshman should have been able to write better
agreements than were made at Yalta, Teheran, and Potsdam.

At the present time I have a mother and father in good health,
eighty and eighty-three respectively, a beautiful, devoted, and
obedient (?) wife, two fine sons, a daughter-in-law whom we love
like our own, an eight-year-old Boxer dog, and enough money
to buy cigarettes and whiskey. Boy — am I lucky!

WALTER EGAN TREVVETT

HOME ADDRESS: 2548 Grant Ave., Richmond, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Richmond Redevelopment Agency, Richmond, Calif.

BORN: Oct. 14, 1904, Westfield, N. J. Parents: Sidney Alexander Trev-
vett, Jane Egan.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; M-.ARCH., 1930.

MarRIED: Madeline Cullen, July 29, 1934, Washington, D. C.

OccuPATION: Architect; chief redevelopment planner, Richmond Redevelop-
ment Agency.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Assistant director for development, Federal
Public Housing Authority, Boston, Mass.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; National Association of
Housing Officials.

I GRADUATED from the Architectural School in 1930 in the
midst of the Depression. I spent nine months at an Atelier of the
Beaux Arts in Paris — drew many grandiose schemes on table tops
only to be erased by the wiping cloth of the waiter. I returned
to Chicago and helped to found “The Twelve Men Without
Wives” Club, a subsidiary of the Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club.
I went to Washington in 1933, working for the Housing Division
of the Public Works Administration. Just as our appropriation
was running out, I had the good fortune to be awarded the
Arthur K. Wheelwright Fellowship for a year’s research of
European housing.

Upon returning I resumed my position with the United States
Housing Authority as assistant director of development in Bos-
ton and director for the Oregon-Vancouver area. I helped to
develop temporary war housing. I am now trying to redevelop
the housing I developed.

[ 1009 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

JAMES WALKER TUFTS

HOME ApprESS: Pinehurst, N. C.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Pinehurst, Inc., Pinehurst, N. C.

BORN: Jan. 14, 1903, Medford, Mass. PARENTS: Leonard Tufts, Gertrude
Ware Sise.

PREPARED AT: Afiddlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

MARRIED: Helen I. Kohler, Sept. 3, 1939, Glen Cove, Long Island, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Robert Ware, Sept. 15, 1942; James Walker, Jr., July 25, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and director, Pinehurst, Inc.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Managed Holly Inn for two summers while

Army conducted medical experiments there; chairman of Moore County
Civilian Defense Council.

BENNER CRESWILL TURNER

HOME AND OFFICE aDpReEss: State A. and M. College, Orangeburg, S. C.

BORN: Oct. 30, 1905, Columbus, Ga. PpareNTs: Edwin Jesse Turner, Leila
Mae Benner.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; LL.B. 1930; LL.D. (Allen
Univ.), 1951. ‘

MARRIED: Julia Elizabeth Allen, Aug. 22, 1934, Jefferson City, Mo. cuit-
DREN: Elizabeth Ann, Dec. 31, 1943; Benner Creswill, Jr., April 27,
1946.

occupation: Attorney; president, teacher, State A. and M. College.

OFFICES HELD: President, Social-Civic Club, Columbus, Ga., 1933-42, Delta
Zeta Lambda Chapter, Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc., 1950, State
A. and M, College, Orangeburg, S. C., since August, 1950; dean of Law

School, State A. and M. College, 1947-August, 1950; member Editorial
Board, National Bar Journal, since 1945.

MemBeR OF: Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc.; Pennsylvania Bar, South

Carolina Bar Association; Palmetto State Teachers’ Association; National
Bar Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Law notes and reviews of legal publications in the National
Bar Journal.

I WENT on to Harvard Law in September, 1927, and did not
come up for air until one spring night, in 1930, when after the
last Law School examination, I sat on a bench on Cambridge
Common and reflected philosophically over the years I had spent
in school. I thought I was through with schools forever, and the
thought brought so much relicf, But soon I had to go right

[ roro |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

back to plugging, this time for the Pennsylvania Bar examina-
tions. Once past them, there was the none too inviting prospect
of practice in Philadelphia, with about 4,999 competitors. For-
tunately, I was employed by a large and established firm with an
extensive clientele. A few years with them afforded a valuable
experience and perhaps the small salary received by a novice
was better during those worst days of the depression than the
perils of attempting independent practice.

While the depression was still in force, my father died at the
family home in Georgia, which forced me to confront the prob-
lem of whether or not to remain in Pennsylvania. A decision
to settle in Georgia and on what to do there resulted in my going
into real estate for ten years—an interesting work, especially
as nearby Fort Benning caused the population of the metro-
politan area to increase by leaps and bounds and the war years
came along to ease the pressures and change the picture. It is
indeed odd how much little things can change the course of one’s
life. During the fall of 1942, an old friend who was teaching law
at North Carolina College, at Durham, wrote that one of his
faculty members had resigned and gone into OPA. He asked if
I would come and finish out the school year, which I thought
would be an interesting experience. My wife and I decided to
go, just for the balance of the school year—six months, We
never returned home.

After teaching law for five years in Durham, I came to State
A. and M. College, in 1947, as dean of the law school here. In
August, 1950, although I had done no wrong and harmed no one,
I was made president of the college. I often think back to that
evening on the park bench on Cambridge Common and the feel-
ing of relief at the thought that I was through with schools for-
ever. As to the work of a college president, it has been better

described by one more experienced than I. “He is a hewer of
wood and a drawer of water, a dray horse, a galley slave, a
bellhop, a hack, and a nursemaid all wrapped up in one. He may
seem to be the top brass of an educational institution, but actually
he spends most of his time polishing other people’s brass — and
breaking his back in the process.” Amen. Since South Carolina
is not one of the larger states, I am fortunate in having only about
two million people to please. My wife’s father was a college pres-

 

[ rorr |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

ident during her childhood. Now the poor soul has to go through
all that again.

For the first several years of our marriage we were very vague
in what we had to say about children. “Yes, we think children
are lovely.” “No, we have none.” “Yes, we like other people’s
children very much,” etc. Then it began to happen to us. In
1943 along came Elizabeth Ann; in 1946, to complete the family
circle, a boy, named after me, but called “Butch” as all small boys
in America are called. They are now two little devils of seven
and five, respectively, and frankly, we often wish they could
stay right there. We travel a good deal, usually by car. It’s
the slowest and most expensive form of transportation, but
America is such a grand and beautiful place that we just get a
thrill out of looking at it, and a car is the best way to do that. I
played a good deal of tennis during the thirties, but now the
rocking chair has definitely got me. Politically, I am not willing
to carry any party label. I do believe the country’s population
is grouping into camps of conservatives and liberals cutting
across present party lines eventually to emerge with an entirely
new alignment. My sympathies are with the liberals.

WILLIAM ULLMAN

HOME ADDRESS: Apt. 3B, 885 Park Ave., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Leon Israel & Bros., 101 Front St., New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 8, 1905, Selma, Ala. parents: Herman Valentine Ullman, ’97,
Josephine Messing.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MaArRiED: Suzanne Lee Israel, March 27, 1929, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Wiliam Anthony, Nov. 2, 1932; Susan, March 25, 1936.

OccuPATION: Vice-president, Leon Israel & Bros., coffee growers, exporters
and importers.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant commander, U.S. Navy; spent three
years overseas in the Pacific and South Pacific areas,

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Wabash Warehouse Inc.; trustee, Hospital for
Joint Diseases, New York City.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York, Century Golf Club; Lakeview
Golf Club, New Orleans.

OTHER than the war years in the Pacific my life has been
“uneventful” — except to me. I have a son, aged eighteen, at

[ ro12 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Tulane, and a daughter, aged fifteen, at Dalton School. As to
social, political or religious convictions, I have no convictions,
only a very few mild opinions.

Fortunately, due to the nature of my business, travel to Brazil,
Columbia, and Europe is a frequent necessity. We grow and
export green coffee in Brazil and Columbia, and import green
coffee into the United States. We have offices in New York,
New Orleans, San Francisco, and Chicago. My hobby is trying
to keep even.

PAUL VANDERBILT

HOME ADDRESS: 2505 Brentwood Rd., N. E., Washington 18, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Library of Congress, Washington 25, D. C.

BorN: March 5, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Harold Moody Vander-
bilt, ’08, Minnie Miner.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Julia M. Lloyd, Aug. 28, 1933, Philadelphia, Pa., Marion Lambert,
Dec. 7, 1946, Pelham, N. Y. cuitp: Charity, Nov. 10, 1947.

occupation: Librarian; consultant in iconography, Library of Congress
(planning consultant, engaged in writing reports and in varied exper-
imental work involving the use of pictures, photographs, etc., as
reference material).

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Consultant, U. S. Navy, 1941-42; consultant
and visual program specialist, Office of War Information, 1942-45;
assistant archives officer, Office of Military Government, Berlin, Ger-
many, 1945-46.

OFFICES HELD: Librarian, Philadelphia Museum of Art, 1928-43; director,
Union Library Catalogue, Philadelphia, 1936-39, Bibliographical Plan-
ning Committee, Philadelphia, 1939; acting chief, later chief and in-
cumbent, Chair of Fine Arts, Prints and Photographs Division, Library
of Congress, 1946-50, secretary, Washington Chapter, American Insti-
tute of Graphic Arts, since 1951; member Board of Editors, Journal
of Documentary Reproduction, 1936-39.

MEMBER OF: American Folklore Society; Bibliographical Society of Amer-
ica (formerly); International Federation for Documentation (formerly);
American Library Association (formerly); Special Libraries Association
(formerly).

PUBLICATIONS: Brief account of principles and formative period of Union
Library Catalogue in Philadelphia, 1937; articles in various professional
journals,

I COME from a bookish, collecting, and travelling family and
have myself had the good fortune to be able to follow the same

[ 1013 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

bent. After Harvard training at the Fogg Museum, I became a
bookseller’s clerk in New York, at Weyhe’s, the best-known
American specialist in books on the fine arts. Later one of my
best customers sent me abroad to buy books and then appointed
me librarian to take care of the books I had purchased. There
followed twelve years as a librarian in the Philadelphia Museum
of Arts, broken by several trips abroad and leaves of absence on
other jobs. I spent some time at the Huntington Library in
California and became increasingly interested in what the pro-
fession calls “bibliographical controls,” or the general control of
recorded information by indexing, microcopying, interlibrary
codperation, and related tactics.

No scholar and relatively unread myself, my sympathies have
always been with the man who is trying to do a well-grounded
piece of work, theoretical or practical, but finds almost impos-
sible the task of getting himself oriented in the tangled mass of
data scattered all over the world. Research is all very well when
accompanied by a salary or grant and an appropriate time allow-
ance, and facts can readily be ascertained after someone has care-
fully assembled and published them in compact form. But
knowledge is being written down faster than anyone who needs
to use it can absorb it; and short-cuts and necessary quick deci-
sions have had to be substituted, on innumerable important issues,
for true information which no one has the time or patience to go
after. From inside the profession, one sees how primitive is the
machinery of libraries for establishing real lines of communication
from mind to mind. My work has generally been some form of
attempt to improve those broad lines rather than to find books
in a particular library.

After several bouts with the mechanics of knowledge as a
whole, including a directorship of the Union Library Catalogue
in Philadelphia, work with the Bibliographical Planning Com-
mittee, and several other experimental projects which were prof-
itable but did not really solve anything, it seemed that I might
do better with some area not quite so limitless. 1 became an
iconographer, that is, one concerned with the subject of pic-
tures, Old prints, architectural drawings, cartoons, news photos,
motion pictures, and the like are “reference materials” as much
as bouks, and even less well organized. Effective illustration, dis-

[ 1014 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

play, and visual education are important fields today. So now
for several years, I have been working on various phases of that
fascinating problem, from the standpoint of raw material —
what collections of pictures are in existence, what has become of
all the valuable old photographic records, what paintings are
pertinent to what subjects of research, what pictures are in what
books, and the like. For a while I worked with Roy Stryker on

the sociological and economic survey of America in photographs
made under his direction for the Farm Security Administration,
and I have for some time been involved in the history of photog-
raphy. At the moment of writing this I am compiling a guide to
all the pictures concerning Iran which can be located, from aerial
surveys to Armenian political cartoons.

All this has so many angles and contacts that I hardly need
any hobbies, but of lighter matters not immediately involved I
might mention, not in order of preference: good food and drink,
good talk with friends, sailing (when I get a chance with some-
one else’s boat), old “classic” cars (I drive a 1933 LeBaron-
Chrysler phaeton, sometimes referred to as the best designed car
in Washington; my wife has a modern car), typography and
calligraphy (just for fun), out-of-the-ordinary movies, and my
family.

LLOYD VANDER HORST

HOME ADDRESS: Washington Apts., 700 N. Charles St., Baltimore, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wm. H. Cole & Sons, 40 S. Charles St., Baltimore, Md.

BORN: Jan. 1, 1905, Orange, N. J. parents: Elias Vander Horst, Ella
Virginia Cole.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1927(28).

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Partner, purchasing agent, Wm. H. Cole & Sons, wholesale
hardware.

OFFICES HELD: Member vestry, Emmanuel Episcopal Church of Baltimore.

MEMBER OF: Bachelors Cotillion; Baltimore Country Club; University Club;
Harvard Club of Maryland (president, 1949-50).

I JOINED the ranks of promising young bankers. However, no
resignation occurred within a couple of years, so I tried the lead
smelting business. Finding the scrap dealers too smart, I switched
to selling office equipment, but my “you don’t want any today,

[ rors ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

do you?” did not prove too effective. I went to work in the
family wholesale hardware firm in 1933, became a partner in
1941, and expect to spend the rest of my days there. It is a good,
clean, profitable business — patronize your local hardware store!
Never having married, the joys and/or tribulations of family
life have escaped me, but I may have a companion come June.
Travel has not been my lot either, other than single vacations in
England, Bermuda, and California, and annual ones in Vermont.
The armchair state exists as far as sports are concerned, except
for bowling and golf, and even there the scores frequently are
vice versa. My main interests have been my business, prep school,
college, and church, but as each entailed raising money, success
has been limited. I was born a Democrat and still am one, but . . .

GORDON MILLER VAUGHAN

HOME ADDRESS: 706 i1th St., La Porte, Ind.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 506 A, First National Bank Bldg., La Porte, Ind.

BoRN: Aug. 24, 1904, Detroit, Mich. parents: Jay Wesley Vaughan, Mary
Ethel Miller.

PREPARED AT: Evanston Township High School, Evanston, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; A.M. (Northwestern Univ.),
1928.

. Marerlep: Margaret Marie Fifer, June 26, 1929, Balitmore, Md. CHILDREN:
Marjorie Jane, Oct. 16, 1930 (m. Lt. Arthur de Rohan Barondes, Feb.
23, 1952); Dorothy Marie, Nov. 15, 1932.

occupation: Corporation officer and real estate; vice-president and director,
Vaughan Company, National Saw Service and Supply Company, and
Plastic Specialties Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Commodore, La Porte Yacht Club; vice-president, Potta-
wattomie Council, Boy Scouts; junior warden, St. Paul’s Episcopal
Church; secretary, Kiwanis Club, Visiting Nurse Committee; director,
Fairview Hospital, La Porte County Cancer Society.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Chicago; Harvard Club of Indiana; former
Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club of Chicago; Michigan City and La Porte
Yacht Clubs, Elks; Chamber of Commerce; Historical Society; Con-
servation Club; American Rose Society.

AFTER similar pursuits at Harvard, I further pursued Germanic
languages, literature, folklore, philology, and dialects at North-
western and the University of Chicago. I increased my
repertoire of languages to eleven: six dead ones, five living. This

[ 1016 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

did not include the dialects, or the languages which had to be
theoretically reconstructed because of absence of written records
(such as “Primitive Indo-European”). All this was not too
hilarious, and I wearied of chasing the umlaut around the
prehistoric corners. I also wearied of competing with German
Sitzfleisch (tr. posterior padding). The climax came with the
reading of a two-volume work (about 800 pp. per volume). The
second volume of this unintelligible masterpiece was solid foot-
notes, about sixty per page!

So I bought me a farm near (but now within) La Porte,
Indiana. Here, in addition to children, I have raised goats, cows,
rabbits, and pigs; ponies and horses; ducks, bantams and chickens;
dogs, cats, and canaries. I also raised guinea hens, but they woke
me up too early in the morning. These animals have all gone
to their reward except one horse and a couple of cats. In the
vegetable kingdom my interests are: a five-acre lawn (which I
mow myself), a small arboretum, and a small pine woods (planted
from seedlings and now twenty feet high), a vegetable garden,
and roses. Some day I should like to limit my farm life to cows
and roses, a happy combination. (Get it?)

La Porte, the “Maple City,” is a grand town to live in, wRh 120
years of history, industrial diversification, beautiful lakes, trees,
and parks. It has as much culture and sophistication as any town
needs. Here one really meets on a friendly basis with all sorts of
folks from millionaires to ditch diggers. There is a society here
for almost any interest or hobby, from fine arts to fox hunting.

In business, I am veep and director in three small corporations,
and expect to have a similar assignment in another. My chief
interest is in the Vaughan Company, manufacturers of meat
saws. My father originated this application of the band saw
principle back in 1919. I also dabble in real estate. Last year I
moved about 15,000 cubic yards of earth, to develop some com-
mercial frontage, saving the precious topsoil. Does anybody want
to buy 3,000 yards of good old Hoosier dirt? Another commer-
cial frontage of mine is really Lilly Lake, and I wish some
bureaucrat would build an airport on “The Summit” and give
me a half-million yards of fill.

Socially, we have a rather small, but very congenial group of
friends. We always prefer dealer’s choice poker to the somber

[ 1017 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

game of bridge. Although I enjoy participating in civic affairs,

I do not particularly enjoy the 5 a.m. to 1 a.m. ordeal of working

at the polls. I have done this as a civic duty for the past twelve

years. There is consolation, however, in the three or four home-

cooked, Swedish meals they serve us.

Politically, I am a Republican, a Taft Republican. Prior to
his death in 1927, my Dad always emphasized Republicanism, but
from several sources I had acquired some pinko ideas which
caused my Dad a great deal of dismay, and from which I have
had to recover.

My family is a matriarchy consisting of four beautiful superiors:
wife, mother, and two daughters (one each, blonde and brunette).
My wife and I have had only this one venture in matrimony
and have been very happily married for over twenty-two years.
My elder daughter, blonde Margie, got her A.B. (Ed.) from the
University of Michigan in January, 1952, and was married
February 23rd. She is a member of Pi Lambda Theta, educational
honorary “fraternity” for women. An accomplished violinist, she
has played in several amateur symphonies and was soloist at her

high school graduation. Her hobby is winning sailing trophies.
My younger daughter, brunette Dottie, is a senior at Monticello
Junior College, and is accomplished in flute tooting and piccolo
playing, in ceramics, and especially in horsemanship, both the
saddle and harness varieties. Dottie expects to succeed Margie
and join me in the hobby of sailing our “Lightning.”

My religious afhliation is Episcopalian, and I attend church
regularly. Travel-wise, I have been to Europe twice since 1927,
and have travelled extensively in the U.S.A., neglecting only
Vermont and the Carolinas. Since everybody in La Porte hunts
or fishes, I have followed suit with “big game hunting.” Prior
to my first moose hunt the only animal I ever shot was a ’possum
in the hen house, just before going to a New Year’s Eve party.
I was attired in a tux. Five big game hunts still have not made
me a hunter, but I always enjoy the outing and the primitive
life. I have attended and enjoyed practically all of the meetings
of the Associated Harvard Clubs since about 1936. I might
observe that Harvard is very much misunderstood in northern
Indiana. At least that is my impression. It is my hope that
some scholarships will be awarded from this region, especially

[ 1018 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

since our distinguished classmate, Bill Bender, came from this
part of the country.

I imagine that many of my classmates join me in having
expected to feel much older and more dignified on the occasion
of our 25th. Looking at the world, I am as confused, bewildered
and apprehensive as anybody, and wonder what th’ hell is going
to happen in the next 25 years— or within the next 25 minutes,
for that matter.

HARRY JAMES VICKERSON

HOME AppREsS: Rutherford, R.R. 4, Dresden, Ont., Canada.

BorN: Nov. 15, 1902, Hermitage, Prince Edward Island. PARENts: Charles
Hayden Vickerson, Edna McMillan.

PREPARED AT: Prince of Wales College, Charlottetown, P.E.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; S.T.B., 1933.

MARRIED: Nellie Mae Longhurst, Sept. 12, 1940, Ufford, Ont., Canada.
cHILD: Charles Edward, July 29, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Minister of the United Church of Canada.

OFFICES HELD: Teacher, Ashton School, East Haddam, Conn., 1929; presi-
dent, League for Social Reconstruction, Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario,
1934-35; social worker, South End House, Boston, 1936-37; minister,
First Congregational Church, Wareham, Mass., 1937-39; trustee and
secretary, Tobey Hospital, Wareham, 1937-39.

MEMBER oF: Tobey Hospital Corporation, Wareham; United Church of
Canada Ministerial Association; Prince of Wales College Alumni As-
sociation; Dalhousie University Alumni Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Anglo-Dutch Rivalry in the Indies, 1927; Public Welfare
Administration in Canada, 1933; Labor Unions in Canada, 1933; Religion
in the Philosophy of Professor Whitehead, 1941; The Loyalists in
Prince Edward Island, 1945; Sermons, 1932-51.

AS I look back, I see my boyhood and youth on Prince Edward

Island, with home, church, and school influences, two years at

Prince of Wales College, a short period of teaching in the Can-

adian West, and two years as an undergraduate at Dalhousie Uni-

versity, Halifax, before coming to Harvard.

In the summer of 1925, I went “up to Boston” and was capti-
vated by Harvard, and, since my brothers lived in Boston, and
since a friend, Horace Nelson, ’28, was attending Harvard, I
determined to go to Harvard, too.

The way was not clear or easy, but I made it, with help from
home, some part-time work, and, in my senior year, a scholar-
ship. I entered the Class of ’27 as a junior, in the fall of 1925, and

[ 1019 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

I was never quite able to get acquainted with my classmates.
During the years in college, the intention of becoming a minister
which I had held at Dalhousie was, if not abandoned, at least
in abeyance. For that reason, the year following graduation
included some business experience, study of law, and teaching
before I returned to my first loyalty. I must here mention my
experience, for several summers, as forester and guide at Lost

River, New Hampshire. Here I made friendships with students

and others which have lasted through the years.

In the fall of 1930 I entered the Harvard Divinity School,
taking the regular course but with emphasis on social ethics and
the special aspects of religion. I prepared some papers on social
conditions and welfare in Canada. However, my interests were
really philosophical, and in the end centered in the realm of
values under Perry, and the philosophy of organism under
Whitehead.

Following my graduation from the Divinity School in 1933,
and after some supply work in New England churches, I entered
the ministry of the United Church of Canada in Ontario. I was
ordained in Toronto on June 10, 1934.

Since then my life has centered in Ontario, New England, and
Prince Edward Island. I went back to New England in the
summer of 1935, and held a pastorate at Wentworth, New
Hampshire. I did graduate study at the Harvard Divinity School
from 1935 to 1939, and social work at the South End House,
Boston. I was pastor of the First Congregational Church, Ware-
ham, Massachusetts. Here I had the experience of having some
part in the building of the Tobey Hospital, of which I was sec-
retary and trustee, and I am a member of the corporation for life.

In the fall of 1939, after another half-year at the Divinity
School, I returned to Ontario, to Windermere, Muskoka. Here
I met my future wife, and we were married, September 12, 1940.
Our son, Charles Edward, was born at Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario,
July 29, 1941. This event is a highlight of my life.

Since 1939, I have held pastorates in the Toronto and London
Conferences of the United Church. The work has been difficult
at times, but it has its compensations and rewards.

During these years one of my joys has been our vacations in
Muskoka, where my wife’s people live, and especially, for

[ 1020 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Charles and me, our annual summer trip and holiday on Prince
Edward Island.

Through the years I have been concerned with religion,
influenced by my boyhood background, but influenced also by
Harvard — especially by Professor Whitehead and many other
teachers there.

My social endeavors in Sault Ste. Marie, in Boston, and in the
Church were influenced by the department of social ethics at
Harvard, and also by the career and interests of W. L. McKenzie
King, Prime Minister of Canada, who attended Harvard before
entering the Department of Labor in Canada, and whose career
I followed with great interest.

Any political endeavors I have made might be described in the
intention which I signified as my reason for entering Harvard,
namely, to help to draw closer together the United States and the
British Empire. I have tried to work for this end through the
years. In Canadian politics, my family have been traditionally
Liberal — and it was natural for me to inherit the tradition.

Religion has meant more and more to me as the years have
gone on. I have kept the Faith of my Fathers, but I always
cherished the ideal of “adding thereto” or rather of applying it
to all the areas of life, including the economic and international.

History, literature, pastoral work, friendships, the ties of home
and family have all meant much to me. They have been a source
of hope and inspiration to me. But I look back and pay tribute
to Harvard and recall with gratitude all that I owe to her.

I have learned that “life is checkered shade and sunshine” with
the sunshine redeeming the shade, and the good finally compen-
sating for the evil — and hope sustaining all, by which we can
face the future fearless and unafraid.

THEODORE ALBERT VIEHE

HOME ApDpREsS: 286 Highland Ave., Hamburg, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 638 Prudential Bldg., Buffalo 2, N. Y.

BORN: June 11, 1904, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Albert Edward Viehe, Martha
E. Wulfman.

PREPARED AT: Hughes High School, Cincinnati, Ohio; Hamburg High School,
Hamburg, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; LL.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Ethel Louella Paris, July 30, 1939, Buffalo, N. Y. cHitpReN: Martha

[ 1021 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Paris, May 2, 1942; Richard Blake, April 1, 1944; John Henry and
James Edward (twins), Aug. 25, 1949.
occuPATION: Attorney.
OFFICES HELD: Town Attorney, Boston, New York, 1933-45; Assistant Dis-
trict Attorney, Erie County, 1938-1940.

AFTER graduation from Harvard Law School in 1930, I entered
practice in Buffalo, commencing the practice with the usual high
hopes and ambitions of all law graduates, but I soon learned that
in spite of names and titles, my first job was really only that of
errand boy. After a year, however, I joined forces with another
firm specializing in trial work, and for four years tried almost
all their lower court cases. Those were days of interesting and
exciting apprenticeship. In January, 1938, I received an ap-
pointment as an Assistant District Attorney of Erie County
and spent the next three years prosecuting all types of criminal
cases, sometimes spending days in Supreme or County Court
in Buffalo, and evenings before some country Justice of the
Peace. At one time, three assistants on the staff handled three
usual steps in felony cases, namely, magistrate’s hearing, grand
jury, and court trial. After several successful cases in succession
in which I was number three man, handling the final court trial,
some of our colleagues began to call us the Tinker to Evers to
Chance combination. I had occasion to prosecute the first case
in Erie County where chemical tests for alcohol content in the
blood stream were used in a driving drunk case. A number
of years later I was retained to represent a defendant in a like
case and against whom the same kind of evidence was presented.
After a series of mental gymnastics and considerable research.
I was able to demonstrate that science had advanced a great deal
since the early days and that what was sufficient to convict years
before was now no longer enough.

Some cases have given great satisfaction, such as securing
substantial sums of money for a widow with four children for
the loss of their husband and father, and for aging parents for
the loss of their only son. Of course, there are tragedies and
heartbreaks as well as triumphs in the practice of law but there
is never a minute of boredom,

Since 1941 I have been associated with two very capable part-
ners and have found life exceedingly interesting. My principal

[ 1022 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

non-professional interests include swimming, camping, church
work, politics, music, and gardening. Several times I was delegate
to the national meetings of the Federal Council of Churches
(now called National Council of Churches) and was interested
in observing the slow but perceptible movement of uniting
American Protestantism. I was also delegate to the General Synod
of the Evangelical and Reformed Church which voted for
merger with the Congregational Christian Churches, but saw
the movement halted, maybe only temporarily, by a decision of
a judge in Brooklyn.

I still go on occasional camping trips. This year I made a two-
week canoe trip from Elk Lake, Ontario, into several inaccessible
lakes. After three days’ hard travelling by canoe and portage to
get back to our base, we thought we were pretty good bush
travellers until a bush pilot offered to fly us in six minutes over
the ground we had just covered in three days!

We have four children, our Martha, nine; our Richard, seven;
and Johnny and Jimmy, twin boys, two. The twins’ capacity for
pranks and general hell-raising certainly makes them a lively
pair. If any other classmate has twin boys, I would like to compare
notes with him; that is, if he is not too worn out to come to the
Reunion. My wife, Ethel (A.B., University of Buffalo; A.M.,
Cornell), in spite of her experience as a high school teacher in
the Buffalo public schools, finds that disciplinary problems get
her down, too!

There are many activities which might be mentioned, such as
my interest in the Masonic Lodge in our town (Master in 1943),
our summer cottage at Chautauqua where we spend many happy
hours, two years as discussion leader in Great Books, where the
methods of investigation and questioning learned at the feet of
Professors Williston, Pound, Bohlen, et al. in the Harvard Law
School were of great help. I am also interested in Republican
politics. I am a local committeeman and a member of the Erie
County Republican Committee and have done occasional speaking
in several campaigns.

I am very proud of my Harvard degrees and as far as I can
ascertain, am the first one in the family ever to come here. I
hope that others in our family will have the benefits and ad-
vantages of a Harvard education in the years to come.

[ 1023 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

JOHN ANDREW VOGEL

HOME ADDRESS: 1100 Morgan Ave. Drexel Hill, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Vogel and Son, Drexel Hill, Pa.
BORN: June 18, 1905, Saratoga Springs, N. Y. Parents: Andrew Vogel,

Margaret Feulner.
PREPARED AT: Saratoga Springs High School, Saratoga Springs, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

marrigD: Orabelle Virginia Harrison, April 27, 1929, Buffalo, N. Y. cui-
DREN: John Andrew, Jr., Dec. 14, 1931; Brenda, Dec. 6, 1938; Roberta,
Sept. 27, 1940.

OccUPATION: Owner, roofing application business.

I AM sure that a detailed account of my life since graduation
would not cause anyone “to sit up and take notice.” Suffice it to

say, insofar as my personal life is concerned, I am pleasantly
married with a family of three young folks who are developing
at too rapid a rate. I feel that we, as a group, lead normal middle-
of-the-road lives without rabid convictions social, political, re-
ligious, or otherwise. My interests are largely tied up with the
family, although I do find time to contribute support and effort
to local civic enterprises, to shoot an occasional round of golf,
to raise a few flowers, and to attend sporting events as a spectator.
As to my business pursuits, after having been employed for
twenty-two years by a large building material manufacturer in
various capacities from field representative to assistant-to-the-
president, I severed my connection two years ago to establish
my own business in the roofing application field. As to the new
endeavor, we can report “progress.” That’s it! The fill-ins are

subject to verbal discussion.

JOHN VOLKMANN

HOME Appress: 11 Wright Pl., South Hadley, Mass.
OFFICE AppREsS: Mount Holyoke College, South Hadley, Mass.
BORN: June 20, 1906, Sleepy Eye, Minn. parents: Frederick John Volkmann,

Charlotte Irving Brown.
PREPARED AT: Shenandoah Valley Academy, Winchester, Va.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927; AM.,

1929; PH.D., 1931.

[ 1024 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Bernice Park, July 25, 1933, Stoneham, Mass. cHiLp: Diana, Aug. 13,
1939-

occupation: Teaching and research; associate professor of psychology,
Mount Holyoke College.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Special Research Associate, Harvard Psycho-
Acoustic Laboratory, 1942-45.

OFFICES HELD: Consultant, Cambosco Scientific Company, since 1945; presi-
dent, South Hadley Fireman’s Association, 1951-52.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Phi Beta Kappa; Sigma Xi; Society
of Experimental Psychologists; American Psychological Association;
Eastern Psychological Association; Massachusetts Psychological Associ-
ation, New York Academy of Sciences; Acoustical Society of America.

PUBLICATIONS: “Scales of Judgment and Their Implications for Social Psy-
chology,” Social Psychology at the Crossroads, (ed. J. H. Rohrer and
M. Sherif), New York, Harper, 1951; sixteen other papers and notes
on technical subjects; 3 U. S. patents on acoustical devices, assigned to
the U. S. government.

EVER since the junior year at Harvard | have been a psychologist
and psychophysicist, and wouldn't be anything else for worlds.
The years have been spent in teaching at Harvard and Radcliffe,
at Columbia, and at Mount Holyoke; also in research at all of
these places. During the late war, my friend, 5. Smith Stevens,
asked me back to work at the Psycho-Acoustic Laboratory in
the basement of Memorial Hall. Some of the equipment designed
at the Laboratory still shows up in pictures of aviators and
marines.
My long-term concern is not with acoustics, however, but
with the psychology of judgment: how to bring this subject
into the laboratory and shape it into dependable science. Good
colleagues and good students have done most of the work; I
have been blessed with both. (Some of these girls at Mount Hol-
yoke make first-rate laboratory scientists.) In recent years our
work has been generously supported by the Navy. We have
found out less about judgment than I might have hoped, but
much more than I seriously expected to find. The latest effort
is to extend the conclusions to some problems of social psychology
and education. For example, what do we mean by gaining
perspective through education? Perhaps the psychologists are
beginning to find out.
Bernice was Radcliffe, ’29; we met in Emerson Hall, where
she was working following graduation. After years of living

[ 1025 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

in apartments, we now enjoy a house on a side street. There
is a deep freezer, but no mink coat. Bernice is the secretary
of the English department at the college; she works with the
Girl Scouts and the P.T.A., and does some interesting painting
in oils. Diana is now in seventh grade in local public school.
Probably the most popular member of the family is a small,
doleful-looking Beagle pup. Life in this small town has real
advantages; we can do some relaxing and we have time for our
friends. When the town siren blows, I take off with fellow-
townsmen on our new fire truck. They are very tolerant of
the only professor in the fire company.

On larger social and religious problems, I am impressed mainly
with the lag between knowledge and application. It seems to me
that some of the logicians and scientists have known for years
how to distinguish real problems from false ones, and how
to go about solving the real problems. (If they are philosophers,
these people are likely to be called “logical positivists.”) Maybe
we should listen to them.

ROBERT EDMUNDSON WADE, JR.

HOME appress: 1014 Elsinore Ave., Oakland 2, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Coldstream Products Co., 22 Battery St., San Francisco 11,
Calif.

BORN: Jan. 28, 1905, New Haven, Conn. parents: Robert Edmundson
Wade, Willie Claiborne Spindle. '

PREPARED AT: Queen Anne High School, Seattle, Wash.; Schenectady High
School, Schenectady, N, Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

marrieD: Dorothy Evelyn Warner, Aug. 30, 1934, San Francisco, Calif.
CHILDREN: Jay Hambidge, Oct. 15, 1924 (stepson); Geoffrey Claiborne,
Oct. 11, 1936.

occupation: Sales and advertising manager for margarine and shortening
division, Safeway Stores, Inc.

OFFIcEs HELD: Board of directors, publication editor, Advertising Club of
Oakland; committee member, publication editor, Lions Club of Oak-
land; Oakland and Almeda County War Bond and War Chest Com-
mittee; publicity, Oakland Area, Council of Dads’ Clubs.

PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous magazine pieces.

LOOKING back from the interesting problems involved in the
margarine and shortening business, I realize now that it was a

[ 1026 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

good thing to have worked my way from Brooklyn to San
Francisco in the galley of the Andrea Luckenbach in \ate 1927.
Little did I know, when I strode up the gangway in Brooklyn,
that the voyage would teach me the uses of curry powder!

My charming wife, Dorothy, is a persuasive individual, and
within the past few years she has been able to administer pre-
prandial influences sufficiently effective to result in my eating
curry dishes again. But only just.

Fortunately, neither Sunnybank Margarine nor Royal Satin
Shortening is involved in most curries. So I carry on with the
best smile available. For your information, these two brands
may be purchased only in Safeway Stores. But it’s worth the
trip from Boston to Westchester.

Family? A New York-born-and-raised wife who is now
almost accustomed to this seasonal climate; a fifteen-year-old son
who shows some mental and musical promise, but thinks plumb-
ing would be a fine occupation (perhaps he has something there),
a twenty-seven-year-old Navy veteran stepson who prospers as
a machinist in the Pacific Northwest, and whose income gives
me pause.

Travels: Maybe the most interesting recent journey was a
couple of years ago, when Dorothy and I drove up the Coast to
Port Angeles and over to Victoria and thence to Vancouver for
a two-day shopping tour, and back down the “inside route,”
most of the time in driving storms, in a week in a ’38 Chev. We
still like southern Tahoe for summer breathers.

Hobbies: If I ever get caught up with my reading, particularly
on western history, I'll be able to look at a golf ball again, pro-
vided I can still lift a brassie.

Convictions — Social: I’m against snobs and bores; political:
I’m against the Truman system but there’s a lot about Taft that’s
wrong as of now (11/10/51); religious: still agnostic.

[ 1027 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

OLIVER FAIRFIELD WADSWORTH

HOME ADDRESS: 7 Gracie Sq. New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE ADpREss: Fiduciary Trust Co. of New York, 1 Wall St., New York 5,
N. Y.

BORN: June 27, 1904, Great Falls, Mont. parents: Oliver Fairfield Wads-
worth, ’92, Rose Evelyn Miller.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Barbara L. Aldrich, June 14, 1929, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Susan,
March 16, 1931 (7. Francis T. P. Plimpton, Jr., Nov. 24, 1951); Oliver
Fairfield, Jr. Dec. 5, 1933.

HARVARD SON: Oliver Fairfield Wadsworth, Jr., 55.

HARVARD BROTHER: Eliot Miller Wadsworth, °33.

OCCUPATION: Assistant vice-president, Fiduciary Trust Company of New
York.

OFFicES HELD: New York vice-president, Milton Academy Graduates’ As-
sociation, since 1950; director, Marine Model Company, Inc., Haselite,
N. Y,, since 1945, Haselite Yacht Service Inc., since 1945.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Huntington Country Club;
Down Town Association, New York; Lloyd Neck Bath Club, Hunting-
ton, N. Y.; Cold Spring Harbor Beach Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional contributions to The Exchange and Trusts and
Estates.

FOR seven years after graduating, my work kept me in Boston
with Stone & Webster Inc. and its various offshoots. Then there
was a brief interlude in Washington, D.C., while we were com-
ing out of the depression. As it turns out this was a particularly
useless but interesting phase of my life which brought many new
friends and ideas, Back in New York in 1936, my job was first
with Coffin & Burr Inc, and then Delafield & Delafield. In 1942
a desk was found for me at the Fiduciary Trust Company of
New York, largely at the instigation of our late classmate Dick
Scott, and there I sit to this day.

As to family, there is a daughter who married a fine boy late
last year and a son who is now a freshman at Harvard. He seems
to be having as much fun or perhaps more than we did at the
same age.

My political leanings have always been Republican and as a
result my presidential vote has been cast for one winner, Her-
bert Hoover in 1928. Perhaps this grim sequence will be broken
in 1952, but it is a tough handicap for the Republican candidate

[ 1028 }

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

whoever he may be. Hobbies consist of a small place in the
country, a2 mediocre game of golf at which my wife beats me
with great regularity, and color photography which adds con-
siderable interest to our rare trips off the beaten track.

_ While the twenty-five years spent since college have not ful-
filled all my earlier ambitions, they have contained many less
glamorous satisfactions. For these I am thankful, and it is my
hope that in the years ahead the dire events for which we are
now preparing will never see the light of day.

JOHN WAGAMAN

HOME ApprEss: Fountain Head Heights, Hagerstown, Md.
BorN: March 28, 1904, Hagerstown, Md. parents: Frank Gantz Wagaman,

Mary Buzzard.
PREPARED AT: Mercersburg Academy, Mercersburg, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREE: LL.B. (Univ. of Maryland), 1929.
MARRIED: May Belle Louise Moller, Aug. 22, 1928, Hagerstown, Md.
OCCUPATION: Law.

ERIC THOMAS WAKEFIELD

HOME ADDRESS: 3337 Niolopua Drive, Honolulu, Hawaii.
OFFICE AppRESS: Wakefield, Sons & Co., Ltd., Honolulu, Hawaii.
BoRN: Aug. 29, 1905, Honolulu, Hawaii. parents: James Wakefield, Eva

Beatrice Oldfield.
PREPARED AT: Punahou School, Honolulu, Hawaii.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.
MARRIED: Hattie Louise Gordon, June 8, 1934, Honolulu, Hawaii.
OCCUPATION: President and treasurer, Wakefield, Sons & Company, Ltd.,

wholesale textiles.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, 1929-31, chairman Scholarship Com-
mittee, 1929-1936, Harvard Club of Hawaii; vestryman, St. Andrew’s
Cathedral Parish, 1932-41; leader, Group Honolulu, Anthroposophical

Society, since 1949.
MEMBER OF: General Anthroposophical Society.

ANYONE who has ever waited for a long overdue letter from
me will be surprised that anything of this length from my hand
beat the deadline. Perhaps I am just not busy enough to qualify
as one to whom the saying is applicable that “if you want a job
done give it to a busy man.” If that be the case I have spent a
good part of the last twenty-five years fooling a lot of people —

sometimes myself.
After graduation I stepped into the family wholesale merchan-

[ 1029 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

dise business, being thus spared much shoe leather and inner
agony pursuing jobs or contemplating changes of calling. Per-
haps I missed something at that. From being the sole survivor
of the original partnership, 1 became the head of the successor
corporation, now owned principally by the employees, who are
thus, to my real satisfaction, as much my bosses as I am theirs.

Result: a new family of brothers— and no labor troubles.

Thanks to the geography of the Islands and the nature of com-
pany business, it has been my happy lot to travel quite exten-
sively and fairly frequently. Since these trips seem never to
coincide with June Class Reunions, I try to get together with
individual classmates where possible. These small reunions are
among the happiest fruits of that four-year stretch. Two trips
to Europe, fifteen years apart, remain as high spots of travel and
vacation experiences. With a Classics-major wife along, who
needs a Baedeker?

One by one outside activities and hobbies have fallen by the
wayside. Tennis was the first to go; then golf. (Thanksgiving
turkeys now cost more than the tournament entry fee.) The -
attic is full of power tools and gadgets gathering rust, and my
stock of fancy Hawaiian hardwoods is probably the home of ter-
mites. I served my turns on local Harvard Club committees and
filled a nine-year stint on the Vestry of the Episcopal Cathedral
Parish, But no politics. I want no part in perpetuating the divi-
sion of human beings into race, class, nation, creed, sect, party,
union, or what have you.

All available spare time now goes to studying and working
for anthroposophy, the legacy to the world of the late Rudolf
Steiner pointing the way towards an understanding of man —
where he comes from, what he is, and whither he is going. Since
much of the material for study is available only in the original
German, translations often have to be made for the use of those
interested. German A had thus to be dredged out of the deep
freeze of memory, becoming with English A the most useful
of my college courses, instead of others I had imagined would
prove most valuable. So goes the change of values in twenty-
five years. Sometimes the avocation threatens to become voca-
tion, but where equilibrium is kept, neither is complete without

the other.

[ 1030 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

KENNETH HERBERT WALKER

HOME ADDRESS: R. D., New Hope, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Manhattan Soap Co., Bristol, Pa.

BORN: June 12, 1906, Stoneham, Mass. parents: George Herbert Walker,
Ethel Claire Flynn.

PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: 8.B., 1927.

MARRIED: Louise Marie Souther, May 25, 1934, Melrose, Mass. cuitp: Julia
Bertha, April 26, 1935.

OCCUPATION: Soap and glycerine manufacturing; chief perfume chemist,
Manhattan Soap Company.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society.

AFTER eighteen years of trying to clean up as a chemist for
Lever Brothers Company, I managed to shake loose from Lux,
Lifebuoy, et al., and went to Pennsylvania as the chief perfume
chemist for the Manhattan Soap Company to wrestle with the
problems of Sweetheart Soap. This was before Luckman — some
of my ex-Lever friends think I must have been clairvoyant. Bris-
tol, where our factory is located, is reasonably close by train to
both Philadelphia and New York. Hence we have ample oppor-
tunity of enjoying recreation in two large cities.

After six years out of New England, everyone still recognizes
our New England accent. Julie, our daughter, seems to be
absorbing more Pennsylvanianism. Last year we bought an old
farmhouse with about an acre of land just outside of New Hope,
Pennsylvania. We are now in the midst of alterations and all
that goes with them. I never realized what a task it was to get
things done when you wanted them. Some day I suppose we
shall be finished, but right now that day seems far away. Mean-
while we are learning about water pumps, septic tanks, and all
that goes with country living. At least we don’t have any
chlorine taste in our water.

To our hobbies of golf and fishing, we have added the above
remodelling. One of our reasons for leaving city living was a
new hobby —two years ago we decided to mate our English
Springer Spaniel — now we have the mother as well as a son
and daughter. The male dog we showed in several shows as a
puppy without too much success. Maybe we'll try again when
our present project allows more time.

[ 1031 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

THOMAS FRANCIS WALL

HOME ADDRESS: go Edward Ave., Torrington, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 79 Main St., Torrington, Conn.

BORN: Aug. 11, 1907, Torrington, Conn. Parents: Thomas Joseph Wall,
Helen Hoffman.

PREPARED AT: St. Bonaventure.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 19273 LL.B. 1930.

MARRIED: Susan Markham, June 30, 1937, Torrington, Conn. CHILDREN:
Thomas, April 27, 1938; Susan, October, 1939; Rosemary, April 28, 1942.

occuPATION: Lawyer; partner, Wall & Wall.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Armed guard officer, U.S.N.R., in command
naval gun crews; rank: lieutenant (j.g.). Campaign ribbons: American
Area; European African Area; Asiatic Pacific Area, Philippine Liber-
ation.

EDWARD ISAAC WALLACH

HOME ADDRESS: 2973 Kingsley Rd., Shaker Heights 22, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wallach & DeVinne, 1o10 Society for Savings Bldg., Cleve-
land 14, Ohio.

BORN: Jan. 23, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Adolph Tobias Wallach,
Pauline Fell.

PREPARED AT: Glenville High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1927} LL.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Dorothy Lee, Dec. 13, 1931, Cleveland, Ohio. cHILDREN: Paula
Ann, July 12, 1936; David Lee, Aug. 21, 1940.

occupation: Lawyer; senior partner, Wallach & DeVinne.

OFFICES HELD: President, Sword & Mask (fencing club) 1949-51; Executive
Committee, 1936-51, chairman Tax Committee, Cleveland Bar Associa-
tion, 1948-50.

MEMBER OF: Cleveland City Club; Cleveland Chamber of Commerce; Mid-
day Club; Citizens League, B’nai B'rith; American Jewish Council,
Amateur Fencers League of America; Federation Internationale d’es-
crime; Societé des Gourmets; Cleveland Bar Association; American Bar
Association,

AFTER graduation in 1927, I went abroad, took a tourist-stu-’
dent summer course at the University of Paris, visited some rel-
atives, and decided to stay over at the University for the scholas-
tic year. Between the end of the summer course and the begin-
ning of the regular fall term I went on a bicycle trip with another
American student, Wesley Benton, of whom I have since lost
track. I completed my work at the University, most of which
was in the field of aesthetics under Professor Victor Basch. Dur-

[ 1032 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing the fall I became interested in fencing and became the only
American member of the fencing group known as the Salle
Hazotte, so called because its master-at-arms was Leopold
Hazotte. He was a man of short stature, wiry, and with a very
ferocious mustache. At that time he was sixty-nine or seventy
years old, although he claimed to be younger, and in that year
he won the world’s three-weapon professional championship for
the “umpteenth” time. Under his tutelage I became a fairly good
épéeeist. During that period I also acquired some skill in cooking.
I still follow both of these rather delightful activities.

On my return I entered the Law School and completed the
course in the spring of 1931. Returning to Cleveland, I opened
my own office in association with Max P. Goodman and in 1933
took over a suite for myself. In December, 1931, Dorothy Lee and
I were married as a happy conclusion to an engagement in 1929.
We are still married to each other. My daughter, who is the
elder of our children, is about to enter Shaker High School.
When she practises diligently she is an excellent pianist. Whether
she practises or not, her fencing is remarkably good and I hope
to enter her in the novice tournaments during the coming sea-
son. David, who is not quite eleven, is at Hawken School, where
he does rather well in mathematics and in science. Johnny
Papke, the old pro who trained some notable boxers, tells me that
the boy is doing fairly well at boxing.

My professional and civic activities keep me busier than is
good for me — so much so that I have gone up from 210 pounds,
which I weighed at school, as high as 270, but I am down now to
a very svelte 230. I have given up boxing, wrestling, and tennis,
as well as tournament fencing and chess, although I still do a
little fencing and play some rapid transit chess. Of my old
hobbies I have kept up with only two— bridge and cooking.
Obviously, therefore, aside from my family life, my existence is
quite unremarkable. Socially and politically I am decidedly
middle class. I long since have left both the Republican and Dem-
ocratic parties and long to find a party which will express in its

platform the convictions of the middle class. If such a party
ever got into power I would be hopeful that its leadership would
carry its platform into practice instead of honoring it in the
breach, as both of our major political parties have been doing

[ 1033 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

for farther back than I can remember. I still belong to the con-
gregation and faith in which I was confirmed, that is, the Euclid
Avenue Temple of Cleveland, which practises a reform Judaism.

RICHARD JOSEPH WALSH

HOME AppREsS: 53 Oak Ridge Rd., West Medford 55, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Warner Stackpole Stetson & Bradlee, 84 State St., Boston 9,

Mass.

BORN: Jan. 9, 1905, Somerville, Mass. paRENTs: Richard William Walsh,
Mary Elizabeth Dayton.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; LL.B., 1930.

marriep: Ruthven E. Parker, Sept. 3, 1932, Belmont, Mass. CHILDREN:
Phyllis Anne, Sept. 15, 1933; Patricia Ruthven, Feb. 19, 1938.

occuPATION: Lawyer; partner, Warner Stackpole Stetson & Bradlee.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U, 5. Coast Guard, Temporary Reserve, appren-
tice seaman to chief signalman.

MEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association.

IN THE fall of 1927 I entered Harvard Law School and received
my LL.B. in due course in 1930. I then became associated with
the Boston firm of Warner Stackpole Bradlee & Cabot, which is
now Warner Stackpole Stetson & Bradlee, of which I am now
a partner. After a good many years of trial and appellate work,
I have come to spend more and more time in labor law and
labor relations, since labor legislation and the steadily increasing
power of labor unions have brought many new problems to our
clients in industry.

Since 1932 I have been happily married to my high school
classmate, Ruthven Parker. We have two daughters, Phyllis
and Patricia. Phyllis is now a freshman at Mt. Holyoke and
Patricia is just entering senior high school.

During World War II, apart from the usual efforts of civil
defense, my participation was confined to the United States
Coast Guard Temporary Reserve in which, from 7:00 p.m. to
7:00 a.m. one night a week, I stood watch in the Coast Guard
Signal Tower at Constitution Base, Boston, and spent additional
time standing watch on troop transports in Boston, such as, the
Aquitania and Ile de France. Within the confines of Boston
Harbor I fought the war so vigorously that I rose from ap-
prentice seaman to chief signalman, I realize that this is reminis-

[ 1034 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

cent of “HI. M. S. Pinafore.” Considering that the TR’s consider
one of their ensigns to be roughly the equivalent of a Navy rear
admiral, I boasted (to the family only) that ‘this was quite an
achievement.

As for my religious, social and political convictions: I am a
Roman Catholic. I believe that individual and family integrity,
freedom and courage, are basic ideals which must never be
surrendered. Accordingly, in politics I was opposed to the efforts
of President Roosevelt and his coterie, and I am opposed to the
efforts of their successors in power to transfer to government the
rights and duties of the individual and family. “Welfare” as
preached by these gentlemen is sugar-coated slavery. By way
of applying courage socially and in politics I mean fighting for
your principles and going to honorable defeat if necessary in
doing so — but saving your self-respect and rallying your forces
for another day. Applying this to the current scene I mean that
everyone who hates the corruption, arrogance and stupidity of
the group now in power should choose to fight to win with
Senator Robert A. Taft and to lose honorably with him, if
necessary (which I do not believe will happen), rather than to
surrender ultimate victory to win an empty election victory.

ROBERT NEWMAN WALSH

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Edgewood Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.

OFFICE ADpREss: International Tel. & Tel. Corp., 67 Broad St. New York 4,
N. Y.

BoRN: Oct. 5, 1906, Oradell, N. J. parents: Myles Walsh, Louise Phinney
Newman.

PREPARED AT: Hackensack High School, Hackensack, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: 8.8. IN E.E. cum laude, 1927.

MARRIED: Doris Monkman, Nov. 6, 1935, Buenos Aires, Argentina. CHIL-
DREN: Michael Robert, Jan. 29, 1937; David William, Aug. 17, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Myles Alexander Walsh, ’33.

occuPATION: Telephone engineer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Santiago Peru Committee of Coérdinator of
Inter-American Affairs, 1941-1942; Lima Peru Committee of Coérdina-
tion of Inter-American Affairs, 1942-45.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Electrical Engineers; Harvard Engineering
Society; Tigre Boat Club and American Club, Buenos Aires; Southern
Cross Club, New York City; Lincoln School Board, Buenos Aires,

1949-50.
[ 1035 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

GRADUATION was immediately followed by my becoming a
student engineer with the International Telephone and ‘Tele-
graph Corporation. I gradually went up through the ranks con-
structing, engineering, operating, and administrating in the for-
eign telephone properties of this organization. Work was first
in Cuba, then Uruguay, followed by eight years in Argentina
where I met my wife. On reaching Chile in 1937, I had risen to
assistant manager and chief engineer of the Chile Telephone
Company. During my five years there I had the satisfaction of
being honored by the Chilean government by their conferring
on me the “Order Al Merito” in the grade of “Comendador” —
an official recognition of my headaches in developing the com-
munications of that nation. In 1942 I left my friends in Chile to
become vice-president and general manager of the Peruvian Tele-
phone Company at Lima, Peru.

Meanwhile, the spread of controlled economies and _ political
poison of nationalization had become a serious handicap to oper-
ating public services in foreign lands. The Spanish Telephone
Company was sold to the State and I went to Madrid as tech-
nical adviser to the nationalized organization. History was
repeated in Argentina where I returned in 1948 as chief of a
committee providing under contract technical advisory services
to the telephone company now the property of that nation.

After twenty-three years of foreign service, I am now work-
ing in New York City, still with the International Telephone
and Telegraph Corporation and still associated with the develop-
ment of international communications. The change from life
outside U.S.A. gives me a chance to renew old Harvard friend-
ships.

+‘ THOMAS BINGHAM WALSH

BoRN: Aug. 7, 1904, Littleton, N. H. parents: Frederick Thomas Walsh,
Katherine Bingham.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925.

marriep: Alice Crawford Wrye, 1940. cHitp: Frederick Thomas, 2d.

pIED: Oct. 20, 1945, Boston, Mass.

AFTER the completion of his sophomore year at Harvard,
Thomas Bingham Walsh transferred to McGill University in

[ 1036 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Montreal where he was a member of the Zeta Psi fraternity. In
1927 and 1928 he worked for the Travelers Insurance Company
and afterwards he became associated with the First National
Bank of Boston. Also, he was treasurer of the Thomas Leyland
Machinery Company of Readville, Massachusetts.

He served with the Massachusetts State Guard in civilian de-
fense and as an aide in the hospitals of Boston.

Walsh was an enthusiastic and expert skier. With his brother
he carefully explored the eastern mountains for possible trails
and in 1937 they helped survey the Richard Taft trail on Cannon
Mountain. At the time of his death he was living in Dover,
Massachusetts.

e

ANDREW LEE YATES WARD

HOME ADDRESS: 3939 Noela Pl., Honolulu, Hawaii.

BoRN: Aug. 23, 1904, Rochester, N. Y. parents: Levi Smith Ward, Florence
Yates.

PREPARED AT: St. George's School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; Diploma in Social Work

(Univ. Southern California), 1935.

MARRIED: Priscilla Camp, June 23, 1931, Buffalo, N. Y. cio: Andrew Lee
Yates, Jr., Sept. 11, 1933 (died Sept. 16, 1942).

OCCUPATION: Investor; volunteer social work.

OFFICES HELD: Director, since 1938, secretary, 1945, Medical Social Service
Association, trustee since 1938, vice-president, 1946-48, president, 1948-51,
secretary, since 1951, Paloma Settlement, chairman, American Red Cross
First Aid and Water Safety Committee, 1942; member, Territorial Board
of Health, 1942-46, and since 1949; member, Honolulu Community Chest
Executive Budget Committee, 1944-46, chairman, Honolulu Community
Chest Institution Budget Review Committee, 1945-46; member, Hawaii
Hospital Service Committee, 1946, trustee, since 1949, member Execu-
tive Committee, since 1950, Queen’s Hospital; director, Volunteer Place-
ment Bureau, since 1950; member, Honolulu Community Chest Pro-
fessional Personnel Exchange Committee, since 1951, Personnel Policies
Study Committee, since 1951.

MEMBER OF: Rochester Country Club, 1925-33, Genesee V alley Sports Club,
1931-35; Harvard Club of New York, 1927-35; Hawaii Polo and Racing
Club, 1935-40; Harvard Club of Honolulu; Pacific Club of Honolulu.

TWO years at Oxford and one year of travel were followed by
one bachelor year of teaching at St. George’s and then twenty
years of happy —at least from my point of view — married

[ 1037 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

life, blemished only by the untimely death of our nine-year-old

son.

Having inherited enough on which to live comfortably, the
two biggest problems have always been a) how to keep it, and
b) how to justify it. The extraordinary times we live in have
increased the difficulties of coping with the former and my own
innate laziness has complicated the latter.

Two years of living in Rochester, New York, where I worked
for the Council of Social Agencies as a volunteer, convinced us
that only fools would stay in such a climate if they possessed the
power to move. Consequently we went west, first to southern
California for two years where I took a diploma in social work,
and then to Hawaii. The climate, the beauty, and the people
of these unbelievable islands have held us enthralled ever since.

A sociological survey of the territory’s prisoners was followed
by five years of volunteer research work for the medical adviser
of the Hawaiian Sugar Planters Association in connection with
the diets of plantation workers and statistics on their morbidity
and mortality. Since this individual was also the medical di-
rector of the Queen’s Hospital, the months just prior to Pearl
Harbor were spent on war preparations for the hospital. This
led to my acting as administrative assistant at the hospital during
the war years.

Since the war, board and committee work, particularly at
Paloma Settlement where I have filled in as acting director on two
occasions totalling over eight months, and the hobbies of occa-
sional house building, gardening at home, and touring the country
have kept me busy and relatively healthy.

SAMUEL BOND WARD

LAST KNOWN ApprEss: 415 Fourth St., N.W., Washington, D. C.

BoRN: March 28, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Henry M. Ward, Lucy
Bond Morgan.

PREPARED AT: Deane School, Santa Barbara, Calif.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925.

SAMUEL BOND WARD has been carried as a “lost” man on
our records since 1946. |

[ 1038 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY WARE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 3918 East Lane, Mariemont, Cincinnati 27, Ohio.

OFFICE AppRESs: American Telephone and Telegraph Co., 138 E. Court St.,
Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

BORN: June 8, 1905, Brookline, Mass, parents: Henry Ware, ’93, Louisa
Fuller Wilson.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREES: A.B. Ct7 laude, 1927; SM. 1928.

MaRRIED: Elizabeth Bancker Dahl, Jan. 17, 1931, Bayport, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Jane Bancker, March 17, 1933; Henry, 3d, June 30, 1935; William, Dec. 8,

1937-
occuPATION: Circuit layout section engineer, engineering special services

(private line telephone and telegraph, telephotograph, and radio pro-
gram) in Central Area of Long Lines Department.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Cincinnati; Telephone Pioneers, Metropolitan
Bell Symphony Society; Shindiggers.

IT SEEMS but a short twenty-five years ago that I “com-
menced” my business career by going to New York to work
with the American Telephone and Telegraph Company. To be
sure, there had been previous summer experiences away from
New England — one as a surveyor during the driving of the
Moffat Tunnel, another with Jim Hurlbut, Howland Francis,
and Bob Bennink batting about Europe, and a third snooping
among the Indian Villages of Mexico observing the various tech-
niques used in weaving — but New York was to be “‘it,” the
center of the world, the place of unlimited opportunity. Looking
back, I find many youthful dreams unfulfilled, but there has been
a pleasant sense of satisfaction at being a cog in a big and useful
machine, and during the years of war activity, a feeling of some
usefulness in being responsible for much of the communication
service furnished to the military. During the past year there has
been added the excitement of helping to establish a new area
headquarters office in Cincinnati with the attendant headaches of
organization details as well as the exhilaration of starting anew.

Away from the office, family and suburban life have prevailed
with occasional evenings off for duplicate or playing clarinet
with amateur symphony orchestras. The difficult summer vaca-
tion question — mountains or seashore? —has been answered
by a cottage on the shore of a Vermont lake and visits to the
parental place on Buzzards Bay.

[ 1039 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Recently Betty has begun to satisfy her lifelong desire to paint
in oils and is satisfying all but her own ambition. Daughter Jane
is a sophomore at Pembroke, and son Henry is endeavoring to
get marks high enough to get him into Harvard as the sixth in
the father-son line. Young Bill dreams of following his great-
uncle William in architecture. My political convictions will not
have to be changed for me to be allowed to live in Cincinnati.

FRANCIS EDGAR STANLEY WARREN

HOME AppRESS: 349 W, 22nd St, New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Benton & Bowles, Inc., 444 Madison Ave., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 6, 1906, Newton, Mass. parents: Prescott Warren, Emily Frances
Stanley.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

marrigD: Elizabeth F. Mathews, July 7, 1929 (divorced 1940); Anne Cammell
Waring, Nov. 4, 1942, Charleston, S. C.

occupation: Advertising, public relations, publicity, promotion.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in advertising and publicity trade journals, in-
cluding many ghost-written pieces for publicity and promotion pur-
poses.

MY LIFE during the past quarter-century has been about equally
divided between Boston and the insurance business on the one
hand and New York City and show business on the other. After
twelve comparatively dull years with several Boston insurance
companies, I suddenly pulled a big switch and came to New
York to join the publicity staff of the American Broadcasting
Company, where I remained for eight years thoroughly enjoy-
ing the entertainment world hoop-la. Last winter I was tapped
by Benton & Bowles, Inc., for the position of public relations
account executive and moved across Fifth Avenue to assume my
new duties. In addition to working on several of the agency’s
accounts, I am currently handling publicity and promotion for
various network radio and television programs, notably the Red
Skelton Show over National Broadcasting Company — TV Sun-
day evenings.

Having been connected with the Cambridge Summer Theatre
at Brattle Hall in the early days of its history, I have rekindled
my interest in the drama recently by becoming a founder and
partner in the Grist Mill Playhouse, a successful summer theatre

[ 1040 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in Andover, New Jersey. Although I insist I have no hobbies as
such, I have often been accused of being a devotee of jazz music
(which I admit) and a doggedly determined Red Sox rooter
(oh! those last few years!). 1 don’t play golf, see many of my
classmates, or ever expect to live outside of New York City. In
my quieter moments I read books, argue military history with
anyone, and spend considerable time trying to think of some
place to lunch other than Toots Shor’s.

HENRY HOLDRIDGE WATCHPOCKET

HOME ApDpREss: 17616 Grandville Rd., Detroit 19, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ebling Creamery Co. 8145 Greenfield Rd., Detroit, Mich.

BORN: Nov. 12, 1902, Pontiac, Mich. parents: John Watchpocket, Lura
Wilson.

PREPARED AT: Pontiac High School, Pontiac, Mich.,; Albion College, Albion,
Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.

mMarrRiED: Marie Antoinette Patenaude, April 14. 1934, Detroit, Mich, cnino:
Dr. John L. Montgomery (stepson), (7. Anna Grace Martin, Jan. 30,
1942). GRANDCHILDREN: Richard Lee Montgomery, Ronald Jean Mont-
gomery.

occupation: Mercantile business; salesman, dairy products.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Nu.

BEFUDDLED and surrounded by fellow C1.O. employees,
thinking for yourself is a thing of the past. Accumulation of
taxes, Truman in your hair, initiative out the window, how can
one remember freedom of twenty-five years ago?

ARTHUR MARTY WATERMAN

HOME ADpREsS: 31 Belmeade Rd., Portland 3, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Maine Motors Co., gor Forest Ave., Portland 3, Maine.

BORN: March 29, 1907, Portland, Maine. parents: Ellis Elbum Waterman,
Bella Anna Wolf.

PREPARED AT: Portland High School, Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925.

MARRIED: Frances D. Helfont, Oct. 18, 1931, Portland, Maine (divorced
1934).

Occupation: Automobile dealer: president and treasurer, Maine Motors
Company, Portland, and Bellis, Inc., Portland; president, Swearingen
Motors Company, Portland; treasurer, Morris Auto Mart, Oakdale
Auto Company, Oakdale Realty Company, all in Auburn, Maine.

[ 1041 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

OFFICES HELD: President, Maine Used Car Dealers Association; regional
vice-president and director, National Used Car Dealers Association;
senior vice-commander, Jacob Cousins Post, Jewish War Veterans;
director and member Executive Committee, Maine Jewish Home for
Aged; vice-president, Jewish Federation of Portland, Maine; special
gifts chairman, United Jewish Appeal of Portland, Maine.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Maine; Reserve Officers Association, Masons;
Portland Shrine Club; National Automobile Dealers Association; Na-
tional Used Car Dealers Association; Portland Jewish Community
Center.

I DABBLED in law after college but had no great or lasting in-
terest in it. I travelled a bit in Europe and even tried a business
venture or two in New York but couldn’t gear myself to the
right pace or arouse the proper enthusiasm for the metropolis;
possibly it was my “Down-East” nature, so I went back to the
“rock-bound” coast of Maine. I skidded into the automobile
business with varied success until Uncle Sam called in 1942.
I was out of uniform (and almost “out”) in 1946. I again swung
back to automobiles and found the needed change from the
military life. I expanded (literally and figuratively) in my home
state like a true “Mainiac” and soon discovered that the “gas-
propelled buggies” had become both my vocation and avocation.

Relaxation was provided by my interest in Jewish community
affairs, especially the fund-raising branches. Diversion was once
provided by horse-back riding and travelling but at greater
intervals as time “fugits.” I fly a lot, but mostly on business,
I can’t seem to get “hurry” out of my system . . . a carry-over, no
doubt, from my military days. I derive my greatest satisfaction
from observing my old school and college through the sharp
eyes of my ten-year-old nephew. Harvard is already his first
choice, and many a blustery and cold fall Saturday afternoon
finds me shivering in the Stadium making vain attempts to answer
his keen questions. I hope to bring him to the Twenty-fifth
Reunion with me.

KINGSLAND DEMING WEED

HOME Abpress: 6 South St., Burlington, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Vermont Bankers Association, P. O. Box 702, Burlington, Vt,

BORN: Sept. 25, 1904, Burlington, Vt. parents: Harry Stowell Weed, Lucy
Hunter Kingsland.

[ 1042 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Burlington High School, Burlington, Vt.; Phillips Exeter Acad-
emy, Exeter, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: S.B. 1927; A.M. (Univ. of Vermont),

1931.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Executive secretary, Vermont Bankers Association; registrar,
The School of Banking, University of Vermont.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Voluntary induction, U. S. Army, Aug. 11, 1942;
assigned U.S.A.A.F.; honorably discharged technical sergeant, Sept. 2,

1945.
OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, St. Paul’s Parish, Burlington, 1937-42; secretary-

treasurer, trustee of St. Paul’s Parish trust funds, since 1946; treasurer,
Burlington High School Alumni Endowment Fund, 1934-42 and since
1946; chairman, National Bank Division, Vermont Bankers Association,
1939-41; State vice-president, American Bankers Association, 1940-42.

MEMBER OF: Ethan Allen Club; Burlington Country Club, Harvard Club of
Vermont; Sons of the American Revolution.

OUR Senior Album suggested an interest in foreign trade. It
was never developed. I returned for a year at the Law School
and am still glad to have had the opportunity, although Dean
Pound thought I should have used the year to better advantage
elsewhere. Perhaps I should have followed all the free advice
given me and entered the Business School. In 1928 it was too
late.

Largely as a result of a senior thesis on the subject of the
Stevenson Rubber Restriction Scheme, I had the opportunity to
enter the employ of the U. S. Rubber Company and spent three
months at the tire manufacturing plant in Hartford, Connecti-
cut, and then went into the Commercial Research Department
at the New York office. This connection terminated in October,
1930, when the department was abolished. Employment con-
ditions were not too good at that time, and after quite a bit of
looking throughout the northeastern part of the country, I seized
the opportunity for additional education at the University of
Vermont and received a second degree the following June. The
following year I continued my studies.

In June, 1931, I entered the employ of the Howard National
Bank & Trust Company of Burlington, organizing and taking
charge of its Investment Research Department. I was elected
Statistician in 1935 and assistant cashier in 1941. Following mili-
tary service, I was elected assistant vice-president in 1946, but

[ 1043 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

resigned that August. That fall I organized the firm of Weed,

Inc., to provide investment counsel and income tax service.

About the same time I agreed to serve as secretary of the Ver-

mont Bankers Association. The latter won. The firm of Weed,

Inc., was dissolved in 1948, as my work for the bankers of the
state was requiring all my time. At the 1949 convention of the
association, the office of executive secretary was made a full-
rather than a part-time job, and to this date I have been fortunate
in being able to fulfill the hopes and wishes of the Vermont
bankers. It is fascinating work and I have no desire to relinquish
it. Our program grows each year and the association is now an
integral part of Vermont banking.

My hobbies, if any, are figures and travel. My work furnishes
plenty of opportunity to work with the former and I am not
relieved of the necessity of filing reports with the government.
My work has also supplemented my travel. I have now visited
every state in the Union except Louisiana and still hope to see a
Mardi Gras. Last winter I had my first extended taste of salt
water, a West Indies cruise, and I recommend it as a delightful
vacation. Just now I am in the throes of building a house, where
any member of the Class will find a cordial welcome and usually
enough Scotch for a drink. While Burlington is the largest city
in the state, it naturally has limitations when compared with the
metropolitan centers. On the other hand, we in the country live
perhaps more sensibly and are much less of a problem to the
undertaker. I hope to see many of you in Burlington before our

Fiftieth!

MORRIS MURRAY WEIN

HOME AppREsS: 628 N. Elm Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.

BorN: March 14, 1905, New London, Conn. parents: Nathan Wein, Mae
Klein.

prepareD AT: Bulkeley High School, New London, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.

occuPATION; Motion pictures.

[ 1044 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RALPH WEINBERG

HOME ADDRESS: 157 Naples Rd., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Weinberg Bros. Co., Inc., 600 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 26, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: David Meyer Weinberg, Sadie
Alpert.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925. DEGREE: LL.B. (Suffolk Law School), 1930.

UN MARRIED.

occupation: Treasurer, Weinberg Bros. Company, wholesale furs, ladies’
coats and suits,

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member O.P.A. board for wholesale fur indus-

try.

MEMBER OF: Temple Lodge, F. & A.M.; Boston Lafayette Lodge of Perfec-
tion; Giles Fonda Yates Council, P. of J.; Mount Olivet Chapter, Rose
Croix; Massachusetts Consistory, S.P.R.S., Aleppo Temple; Blue Hill
Country Club.

AFTER leaving college I had several jobs. I went to Europe in
1927 and upon my return joined my father in business. Upon
his death in 1934, I took over his interest and have remained in
it ever since. Although a fisherman by avocation almost from
birth (I had to row my father around), since I was bitten by the
golf bug twelve years ago, I have given up bass, trout, and sal-
mon fishing in Maine for deep sea fishing off the coast of Flor-
ida. I believe we should have more religion, less politics, and
better weather for golf.

ALEXANDER LOUIS WEINER

HOME ADDRESS: 1737 N. Whitely Ave., Hollywood, Calif.

BoRN: Dec. 13, 1904, East Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Max Weiner, Fanny Ross.
PREPARED AT: Princeton University, Princeton, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

+ HAROLD WEINSTEIN

BORN: June 30, 1906, Portland, Oregon. parents: Abe Weinstein, Rebecca
Nagel.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln High School, Portland, Oregon.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREE: 8.B. cum laude, 1927.

pieD: May 2, 1942, at sea en route to USSR.

[ 1045 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

HAROLD WEINSTEIN studied a year at Reed College and
another year at the University of Washington before he came
to Harvard College in his junior year. He received his degree
with distinction in the field of history. In the years following
graduation little was heard from Weinstein until 1937 when it
was learned that he was in Moscow on a Social Science
Foundation grant for Columbia University. In 1939 he returned
to the United States and taught history at Brooklyn College.

In October, 1941, he served in the Division of Coordination of
Information of Allied Countries under the State Department.
His assignment was in the Washington office of the Russian
Section, Research Division. He continued with this work
until February, 1942, when he was appointed assistant and
interpreter to the special representative of the War Shipping
Commission. He was assigned to duty under Admiral Land in
Archangel, Russia, and was on his way to the new assignment
when the convoy was attacked and torpedoed and his ship was
sunk. At the time of his death he had been working on a book
dealing with Russian minorities. He had published articles in
Foreign Affairs, The Slavonic and East European Review, and the
Journal of Economic History. His home was in Seattle, Washing-
ton.

JAMES JULIAN WEINSTEIN

HOME ADpRESS: 1151 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 209 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 17, 1904, Cambridge, Mass. parents: George Weinstein, Clara
Gertrude Borowsky.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 19273 LL.B. 1931.

MARRIED: Selma Rubin, Sept. 12, 1943, Boston, Mass. cHtLDREN: David Nelson,
June 9, 1945, Wendy Louise, Feb. 29, 1948.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U, §. Coast Guard, Temporary Reserve, Seaman
1st class, 1943-45.

oFFices HELD: Member Executive Committee, Massachusetts Club, since 1938;
member Committee Civil Procedure, Boston Bar Association, 1946-50;
member Board of Directors, Jewish Big Brother Association of Boston,
since 1936; class agent, Roxbury Latin School, district chairman, Amer-
ican Red Cross, 1950, Bonds for Israel, 1951; district director, Com-
munity Fund, 1951.

[ 1046 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: University Club of Boston; Boston Bar Association; Massachu-
setts Bar Association; various fraternal and industry organizations.

THE questionnaire says, “account for your life since gradua-
tion.” All I can say is that the time has slipped away unaccount-
ably and I am wondering what my life (sic) will be twenty-five

ears from tonight when I am asked to account again. One thing
is definite; if I had a shorter bachelorhood and a longer marriage,
I should not be regretting the absence of my son and daughter
under ten from the Reunion.

My legal practice is quite general, but with a special emphasis
on interstate commerce law. I represent a number of large motor
common carriers, and that work brings me before the various
federal and state courts and public utility commissions. I took
an active part in the revision of a section of the state statute in
this field and wrote an article on the subject for the Boston Bar
Association bulletin. In addition an opportunity was presented to
me some time ago through some clients in the fruit and produce
industry in Boston to establish a credit clearing association for
the entire trade. This has further increased my activities. All
in all it makes for a pleasant life but with a measurable toll on
my squash and skiing.

As for my community and charitable interests, I have for
many years been a director and active worker in the Jewish Big
Brother Association of Boston, a pioneer organization of its kind
and the prototype of the Big Brother Association of America.
And with the various seasonal fund raising drives, I am a soft
touch for being enlisted as a campaign worker. But with my
children growing up I still have ahead of me those problems
which should have been behind me. I do look forward, how-
ever, to the fun I shall have in teaching my son to kick a foot-
ball and to jump a hurdle. And thus endeth the quarter-century.

LEWIS H. WEINSTEIN

HOME ApprEss: 56 Varick Rd., Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE ApprEss: Foley, Hoag, & Eliot, 10 Post Office Sq., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: April 10, rgo5, Arany, Lithuania. pARENTs: Jacob Milton Weinstein,
Kuna Leah Romanow.

PREPARED AT: Portland High School, Portland, Maine.

[ 1047 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. PQA Ctr laude, 1927; LL.B., 1930.
MARRIED: Selma Yeslawsky (Radcliffe °32), Sept. 2, 1932, Boston, Mass.
CHILDREN: David Jacob, June 11, 1936; Louise Belah, July 30, 1945.
HARVARD BROTHER: Sidney Moses Weinstein, "39.
occupaTion: Lawyer; parmer, Foley, Hoag & Eliot.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered active duty Oct. 12, 1942; graduated
from School of Military Government, Charlottesville, Va., January,
1943, and from Command and General Staff School, Fort Leavenworth,
Kansas, April, 1943; claims officer and claims commissioner, North
Africa, April, 1943, to March, 1944; civil affairs officer (chief, govern-
ment and personnel branches) on staffs of Generals Eisenhower and
Lee and Marshal Montgomery, London, England, and Normandy,
France, April to August, 1944; liaison officer from Generals Eisenhower
and Lee to Generals DeGaulle and Koenig, August to October, 1944;
entered Paris with Generals DeGaulle and Koenig on Day of Libera-
tion, August 25; chief and deputy chief, liaison section of European
Theatre of Operations, October, 1944, to August, 1945; separated from
acuve duty on Dec. 26, 1945, as a lieutenant colonel in the General
Staff Corps; received Legion of Merit, Bronze Star Medal with Oak
Leaf Cluster, French Legion of Honor (Chevalier), French Croix de
Guerre with Palm, and various commendations from Generals Eisen-
hower, Lee and Koenig (France) and various theatre, campaign and
occupation ribbons and battle stars; now in active reserve (Judge Advo-
cate General's Department) with Military Government Area Command.
OFFIcES HELD: President Board of Trustees, Hebrew Teachers College; chair-
man, Massachusetts Housing Council; vice-president, Associated Jew-
ish Philanthropies and Jewish Community Council of Metropolitan
Boston; secretary and member of Executive Committee, Armed Forces
Advisory Committee of Boston; formerly chairman, Massachusetts
State Board of Housing and chairman, Massachusetts Emergency Hous-
ing Commission; vice-president, National Federation of Jewish Men’s
Clubs; assistant corporation counsel, City of Boston, consultant, United
States Housing Authority and Federal Public Housing Authority;
Executive Committee, National Community Relations Advisory Coun-
cil, Bureau of Jewish Education of Metropolitan Boston and American
Jewish Committee (Boston Chapter); Board of Trustees, Temple Ke-
hillath Israel, Combined Jewish Appeal and Massachusetts Community
Organization Service, Board of Governors, American Association of
Jewish Education and National Housing Conference; Committee on
Meetings, Boston Bar Association, Rent Control and Housing Com-
mittee of National Defense Advisory Commission, member. several
Massachusetts Legislative Recess Commissions.
MEMBER OF: Various professional, military, charitable, benevolent, educa-
tional and social organizations,
PUBLICATIONS: One play, several poems, occasional book reviews and articles,
and many (alas!) legal briefs.

[ 1048 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MY DESK is piled high with stenographic transcripts and exhibits
in a tax case I am in the midst of defending as special counsel for
the City of Boston (a claim by the Boston Consolidated Gas
Company for some eight million dollars). I have just laid
away the record and briefs in a taxpayers’ petition I argued before
the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, hopeful that a decision
will soon be handed down in a controversy involving an eleven-
million-dollar construction contract. In front of me lies the
bond transcript of my client, the Worcester Housing Authority,
involving some six million dollars.

_ As I stare at these papers, watching the merry pranks of the
figures as they stretch into seven and eight figures, I try to
remember whether the bill my wife asked me to pay was six
dollars and forty-five cents or five dollars and forty-six cents.
And with a jolt, I remember that this is the last day, the very last
day, to write the “account” of my life, the “reflection” of myself
and my point of view. .

Several days ago, we moved into the home we have just built;
a modern, exciting, functional, flat-roofed, three-level structure,
unlike the Georgian colonial on the one side of us and the salt box
on the other. Among the tons of books, papers and bric-a-brac
that we dragged through the snow, was a carton of photograph
albums, and I sat turning the pages and reminiscing.

Here is Selma on the Cambridge Common, during her freshman
year at Radcliffe (when I was a second-year student at the Law
School), radiant with her grace and her joie de vivre — just as
she is today. There we are, both of us, playing shuffleboard on
deck during our honeymoon four years later. Here she stands in
"35, at the Colony of Tel Joseph in Palestine, surrounded by
children who had fled from Hitler’s Germany. There she is
ready for an Alpine climb at the Jungfraujoch in °37. In ’42, as
I prepare to leave for an overseas’ tour of duty (that was to last
two and a half years), her eyes sparkle as she instructs our then
six-year-old son in a proper military salute. In ’48 at Ingonish on
Cape Breton Isle, she and our then twelve-year-old son and
our then two-year-old daughter let the waves caress them. And
in ’50 at Yosemite with California classmates, or at Banff with
some Indians, or a few months ago on a mound of snow where

[ 1049 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

our garden will be next summer, her joyous zest for living

sings out from every picture,

And there am I: in ’33 on the steps of the Supreme Court

Building in Washington the morning that we argued a murder
case (we lost four to five —a moral victory — but the client —
wished on us by the Massachusetts Court — went to the electric
chair); in front of the Wailing Wall in Jerusalem in ’35 and at
the Paris Exposition in ’37. Here is the *37 assistant corporation
counsel, with his then chief and present partner, Henry Foley,
handing back to the city treasurer a check for some hundred
and fifty thousand dollars collected from a surety company (to
reimburse the city for secret profits earned at the city’s expense
by a city treasurer who had served during an earlier Curley
term). There is the ’39 general counsel of the Boston Housing
Authority, emerging from Faneuil Hall, where he was heckled
and boohed by one group and applauded by another as he pre-
sented the need for a Boston slum-clearance and low-rent housing
program.

I remember thumbing the pages of the war years album: sur-
rounded by Arab litigants and the “Cadi” (judge) in North
Africa in ’43 when I was “admitted to practice” before the
Moslem courts; in ’44 in a fox-hole near Utah Beach in Nor-
mandy: with my jeep covered with flowers and Parisiennes on
the Day of Liberation (August 25, 1944) when all Paris was intox-
icated with joy — about an hour after we were almost mowed
down by German snipers; several days later with General Eisen-
hower and Koenig at the Arc de Triomphe; in ’45 with Swiss
Guards at the Vatican, just prior to a private audience with Pope
Pius XII, and with heaps of human ashes in the crematoria of
Dachau.

Scores of “official” photographs record other incidents:
receiving French decorations in Napoleon’s Courtyard at the
Invalides in ’45; being sworn in as chairman of the State Board
of Housing in ’47, and greeting Prime Minister David Ben Gurion
of Israel at the Hebrew Teachers College in ’51.

But family albums must be tucked away to be reopened, per-

haps, for another reunion.

[ 1050 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

NOAH WEINSTEIN

HOME ADDRESS: 7 Warson Hills, St. Louis County, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 705 Olive St., St. Louis, Mo.

BoRN: Feb. 1, 1906, Lexington, Mo. parents: Louis Weinstein, Sophia Lade-
son,

PREPARED AT: Caney High School, Caney, Kans.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926, DEGREES: A.B. 1926(27)3 LL.B. 1929.

MARRIED: Marie Zatlin, Dec. 28, 1933, Corsicana, Texas. CHILDREN: Lois,
Aug. 5, 1936; Joan, Oct. 13, 1939.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

LOUIS ROBERT WEISS

HOME ADDRESS: 1619 Centre St., Newton Highlands, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Veterans’ Administration, 17 Court St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: April 24, 1906, Malden, Mass. parents: Morris Wies, Fanny Goldberg.

PREPARED AT; Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B, 1927; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1931.

MARRIED: Ruth G. Grauer, April 24, 1948, Hudson, N. H. crip: Martin
Bram, Aug. 14, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Physician; internist, allergist.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered as rst lieutenant, U. S. Marine Corps,
July 1, 1941; promoted major, July 1, 1944; commanding officer, Third
Hospital Unit, 45th Field Hospital; all five campaigns, ETOUSA;
awarded Bronze Star Medal during Normandy campaign; separated
Nov. 29, 1945; currently in active reserve, 9959 General Hospital,
ORTSU.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in medicine, Tufts College Medical School; physi-
cian in medicine, Boston Dispensary; consultant in allergy, New Eng-
land Medical Center; chief of allergy section, Veterans’ Administration.

MEMBER OF: Shawmut Lodge, AF. & A.M. Boston; American College of
Physicians (associate); American Board of Internal Medicine (diplo-
mate); International Correspondence Society of Allergists, American
College of Allergy (fellow), American Academy of Allergy (fellow).

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles published in medical journals on the subjcct
of allergy.

THERE was something about a riot, as I recall, in the year 1927.
I had arrived on the scene in its final stages but in time to witness
a tug o’war between a city cop and a Yard cop. This rope-pull-
ing contest took place at one of the gates, representative of the
line which divides jurisdiction between the so-called town and
gown. The unfortunate “milieu” at the moment was one of our
fellow-students fleeing the clutches of the law. It was wondrous

[1051 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

to behold how the student was pulled this way and then that
way, his clothes torn to tatters and his abundant hair virtually
waving in the air. Finally, one good yank by the Yard cop shot
him into the confines of safety. How we all cheered!

On the following day I was summoned to Dean Bacon’s office
and pointedly asked if I were Daniel Webster. Apparently, one
of our more riotous classmates had been apprehended by the
police, taken to the station, booked under the name of Daniel
Webster and then subsequently made his escape with the police
in hot pursuit. He was described as having a full shock of hair.
“You always look as if you need a haircut,” the Dean said when
I showed surprise, “and I thought Daniel Webster might be
you.” That settled it. I clipped my hair short, threw my fiddle
into the Charles River and became a physician instead of a
musician. As I look back, little did I have the temerity to become
involved in violence nor the ready wit for such a beautiful alias.

Many of our patients are ill from perpetually trying to bal-
ance the buck. And the country suffers from a creeping inflation
which will result eventually in a general paralysis. Never mind
the five-cent cigar! Just return us the days when our kids could
go into a store and come out with a fist full of candy for the
price of a penny. But with security soon becoming a thing of
the past, we live happily from day to day, hoping that posterity
will deal kindly with our progeny.

MATTHEW WEISS

HOME ADbrEsS: 698 Empire Blvd., Brooklyn 13, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Foster Wheeler Corp., 165 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 23, 1903, Boston, Mass, parents: Max Wyzanski, Lena Rubin.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH. ENG. cum laude, 1927.

MarRIED: Rose Rivlin, Dec. 18, 1932, Garden City, Long Island, N. Y. cuit-
pREN: Melford Stephen, July 25, 1937; Carol Naomi, July 19, t9q0.

occuPATION: Chief structural designer, Foster Wheeler Corporation.

A QUIET man, leading a quiet happily married life. Chief
interest—two children who keep us on our toes. My hobby,
recreation and spare time occupation is reading. After supper I
open a book —history is my favorite— and settle down for a

[ 1052 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

comfortable evening. When my eyes get tired, I listen to some
symphonic music.

A good description of my politics would be Roosevelt New
Dealer and Truman Fair Dealer.

LENSON ARNOLD WEISSBERGER

HOME ADDRESS: to WV, 86th St. New York 24, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 509 Madison Ave, New York 22, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 16, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Harry Arnold Weissberger,
Anna Lenson.

PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. miagna cum laude, 1927, LL.B. cum
laude, 1930.

UN MARRIED.

occuPATION: Theatrical lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Signal Corps, U. S. Army, 1942~4}3.

OFFICES HELD: Director and vice-president, Bronx Efouse, Inc. 1936-45;
trustee, Federation of Jewish Philanthropic Societies, 1938-44, Harlem
Eye and Ear Hospital, New York.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American National Theatre and Academy,
Bar Association of New York City.

PUBLICATIONS: “Political Influence of Machiavelli in Tudor England,”
Political Science Quarterly, December, 1927, “Right of Federal Trial
Judges to Comment on the Evidence,” Brooklyn Law Review, Febru-

ary, 1932.
ONE of the first things I did when I came to the College was
to make use of a letter of introduction to Professor Felix Frank-
furter at the Law School. I wanted advice on what to study at
college, the better to be ready for law. Professor Frankfurter’s
counsel was precise and emphatic. Under no circumstances, he
told me, try to use college to prepare for law. You will get
everything you need for the law at the law school itself. Take
advantage of your college education to acquire what will enrich
your leisure hours in later life. I followed this advice (though not
even Professor Frankfurter could have anticipated the felicitous
fruits that it would one day bear). I majored in history and
literature of the Renaissance. I took courses in the fine arts,
music, drama, and contemporary literature. I sang in the Glee
Club, subscribed to the Boston Symphony, and paid periodic

[ 1053 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

one basket, but the terms were inviting, and by this time I confess

I had become fascinated by the entertainment business. Also,

perhaps, I had left in me some of the spirit of recklessness that

had led me through the swindle imbroglio when I worked for

Untermyer.

In October, 1939, I opened up my own office. For the first

few years, Orson was my only client in the theatre. Then,
gradually, others began to come to me, and the development of
a full-fledged theatrical practice was in swing. At first I tried
not to call myself a theatrical lawyer; the only theatrical lawyer
I had known well up to that point appeared to me disreputable.
Theatrical lawyers, I felt, subscribed to the ethics of the theatre
— where talent counts for more than integrity — rather than
to the ethics of the law. As I went on, however, I found that
this did not have to be so and that — whether in the theatre or any
other field — one’s standards as a lawyer were as high as one
wanted them to be. I suppose that the biggest thrill a lawyer had
is the first time a stranger walks into his office to engage his
services because he has heard the lawyer well spoken of by the
“trade.” It was a world-famous actress who gave me this thrill,
and after I had got over my surprise, I really began to relish and
savor the reputation of being a theatrical lawyer.

Today I am enjoying my professional life beyond any antici-
pation. My hours are spent with and in the service of distinguished
actors and actresses, authors, composers, musicians, singers,
dancers, choreographers, painters, designers, directors, producers.
All of the avocational learning I had acquired at Cambridge,
following Professor Frankfurter’s advice, has now become as it
were my stock in trade. Drama and literature, the fine arts and
music — these are the subject matter of my daily work. And I
have come to perceive also the wisdom of Untermyer’s dictum,
because — thanks to my Harvard education and my advent into
the entertainment field—I am equipped with knowledge and
understanding of my clients’ business. Orson has not for many
years been a client of mine (he is spending his time in Europe
these days), but he has left me a fine legacy. “They used to ask
me often whether I thought Orson was a genius. A client is not
usually a hero to his ex-lawyer; but I have my own definition of

genius, and, yes, I think Orson is a genius.

[ 1058 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

There is one point I want to make in conclusion. I am earning
my living doing the things I enjoy most. Yet this should not have
resulted from accident, as it has; it should have been the result of

lanning. I should like to recommend to all young men in college
that they think of their careers in terms of those special facets of
their nature, those particular proclivities and talents from the use
and development of which they can expect the greatest emotional
and intellectual satisfaction. The majority of us have to earn our
living; but it’s a wonderful thing when one’s way of earning a
living can also be a way of life.

FRANCIS WILLIAM WELCHI

HOME AppreEss; 16 N. Aurora St., Easton, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Internal Revenue Bureau, Easton, Md.

BoRN: Aug. 27, 1904, Dedham, Mass. parents: Francis William Welch,
Ruth Hayes.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.; Phillips Academy, Andover,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-192.

MARRIED: Emily Lee Travers, March 14, 1932, Preston, Md. cuitnaen: Mar-
riott Lee, March 29, 1933; Ruth Hayes, June 30, 1934; Francis William,
June 1, 1936; John H,, 2d, Aug. 18, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Hayes Welch, ’30.

occuPATION: Deputy Collector, Internal Revenue Bureau, Easton, Md.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant (j.g.), U. S. Coast Guard, May 2,
1941; inactive duty, Jan. 8, 1946; permanent rank lieutenant commander;
two years and eight months at sea and on foreign duty; American De-
fense, European (battle star), American Campaign, Victory Ribbons.

MEMBER OF: Chesapeake Bay Yacht Club.

EDWARD MOTLEY WELD

HOME AppRESS: 8 Chelsea Pl. Simpson Street, Montreal, P. Q., Canada.

OFFICE appreEss: International Aviation Bldg., 1080 University St., Montreal,
P. Q., Canada.

BoRN: May 24, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Edward Motley Weld,
Sarah Lothrop King.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cur laude, 1927; LL.B., 1930.

MARRIED; Elizabeth Barbara Merriman, Oct. 21, 1932, Bushkill, Pa. CHILDREN:
Barbara Bruce, March 4, 1936, Helen Merriman, March 28, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lothrop Motley Weld, ’20.

[ 1059 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

occupation: Assistant secretary general, director, Air Transport Bureau,
International Civil Aviation Organization (a specialized agency of
United Nations).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned captain, Air Corps, U. S. Army,
June, 1942; promoted major, July, 1943; ordered to inactive status Octo-
ber, 1944, to take post with Surplus Property Administration.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Executive officer and counsel, Latin American
Aviation Division, Defense Supplies Corporation; assistant director,
Aviation Division, War Surplus Property Administration.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Commission on a Multilateral Agreement on Com-
mercial Rights in International Civil Air Transport, Geneva, 1947; sec-
retary general, ICAO Conferences on Joint Financing and Operation of
Air Navigation Services, London, 1949.

MEMBER OF: Tuxedo Club; Harvard Club of New York; Metropolitan Club,
Washington.

PUBLICATIONS: “International Policy for Aviation,” pamphlet prepared for
National Planning Association, 1946.

AFTER graduating from the Law School, I was engaged in
general civil practice for some seven years in the employ of a
couple of the better known higher pressure large New York law
firms. I specialized in financial and international law, eventually
branching out into practice on my own account. At that point I
began to take an interest in the legal and financial side of aviation,
as a result of doing a large amount of research on the Civil
Aeronautics Act of 1938 which was then on its way through Con-
gress. Since that time I have been engaged almost entirely in
various attempts, primarily from the government standpoint, to
make sense of the problems that beset air transport in the fields
of law and economics.

I became a principal attorney with the newly formed Civil
Aeronautics Board (then the Civil Aeronautics Authority) in the
autumn of 1938, moving my family to Washington and getting
fairly well fascinated by the place. Since then I have worked for
a number of government organizations, usually in trying to get
them properly launched, which to my way of thinking is about
the hardest work that there is. It is certainly even tougher
than the practice of financial law in New York City which in
itself rates pretty high. After about two and one-half years of
legal work for the CAB, most of it in the international field, I
went with the Latin American Aviation Division of the Defense
Supplies Corporation (an RFC subsidiary) in the capacity of

[ 1060 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

executive officer and counsel. This organization had been set
up, as a pre-war measure, to provide United States airplanes and
equipment for the various airlines in Latin America, with a view
to eliminating the German influence in these companies and
substituting our own. The work was most ably directed by the
joine efforts of W. A. M. Burden and W. B. Harding, under the
general supervision of Jesse Jones and W. L. Clayton. In the
course of about two years a pretty thorough clean-up of the Latin
American situation was effected.

About half way through the job, we being by then actually in
the war, 1 got commissioned in the Air Forces and spent a little
over two years at Wright Ficld, Dayton, Ohio, acting as con-
tracting officer in charge of the United States Army Air Forces
contracts with the civil airlines. Instead of “taking over” the
airlines, as was done with the railways in the first war, the
government harnessed their services in a series of general con-
tracts under which just about any sort of activity could be
ordered. I had the job of making this arrangement work and
supervising an expenditure thereunder that attained a peak of
about 200,000,000 dollars per annum. By October, 1944, this
activity began to slacken off with the approaching end of the
war and the growth of the Air Forces’ own Air Transport
Command, and I got “drafted” out of the Army to act as second
in command to W. B. Harding in the Aviation Division of the War
Surplus Property Administration, this being the largest and most
urgent war surplus property disposal problem. Unfortunately the
legislation eventually adopted to deal with this subject proved
extremely difficult to operate under and gave rise to all sorts of
political pressure so that, after about a year, I resigned and was
very pleased to be offered immediately my present job.

For a little bit more than six years, starting in November, 1945,
I have been living in Montreal which is the headquarters of the
International Civil Aviation Organization. ICAO, as it is usually
called, is an international (1.e., inter-governmental) organization
set up towards the close of the war to develop the principles
and techniques of international air navigation and to foster the
planning and development of international air transport. Its work
falls into two main divisions: one dealing with the various aspects
of the technique of flying and the other dealing with the even

[ 1061 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

more complicated questions arising in the economic field, my work

being concerned with the latter. It involves, among other things,

seeing what can be done about simplifying border-crossing formal-
ities and securing international financing for air navigation
facilities where necessary. Finally, it involves the entire programs
of statistics and economic research that underlie the unravelling
of the still more difficult and basic questions of how commercial
rights can be secured, how aviation can be made to pay its way,
the respective treatments to be accorded to scheduled and non-
scheduled operators, etc.

The job is a fascinating one, notwithstanding the sometimes

very irksome delays and discouragements that attend the opera-
tion of intergovernmental machinery. One sometimes has to
quote the poem Roosevelt quoted to Churchill about “say not
the struggle nought availeth,” but as one looks back a year or two
one does « sce that progress has been made. A good deal of travel
is involved as well as a large amount of conference work. I think
I hold the distinction of being the only person in the world’s
history who has ever been secretary general to three simultaneous
international conferences.

Montreal is a pleasant place to live and not too far away from
Cambridge and the vicinity of New York City where our roots
are. Our kids have taken enthusiastically to the local sports,
especially skiing, but otherwise refuse to become Canadianized.
Our dogs can be allowed off the leash with comparative safety,
where this would be fatal at home. A diplomatic privilege facil-
itates the acquisition of certain types of produce at advantageous
prices. The climate is not quite as rigorous as it is reputed to be,
and on the whole life goes on very smoothly.

HENRY WENDT, JR.

HOME AppREss: Tuxedo Park, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y.

BORN: May 23, 1907, Pearl River, N. Y. parents: Henry Wendt, Laura
Russell.

PREPARED AT: Kelvin School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1927(29).

marRieD: Rachel Seton Wood, June 2, 1932, Monmouth Hills, N. J. (died
April, 1939); Ruth Martha Keyes, May 31, 1940, Somerville, Mass.

[ 1062 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

cHiLpREN: Henry, 3d, July 19, 1933; Lindsay Rachel, June 16, 1936;
Martha Karen, March 14, 1942; Nancy, July 12, 1944.

occupation: Director of sales, Lederle Laboratories Division, American
Cyanamid Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Sales Executives’ Club of New

York.

TRYING to review the last twenty-five years of my life for our
Twenty-fifth Reunion permanent record is indeed a difficulr
task. Never having kept a diary, 1 am unable to be either accu-
rate or detailed for such a résumé.

After leaving college, I worked with the First of Boston Cor-
poration here in New York City in various departments until 1933.
At that time I became a salesman in Detroit for Lederle Labora-
tories, and have been associated with this company ever since —
four years in Detroit, two years in Boston, and one and one-half
years in San Francisco, and since 1941 back in New York City.
During that period my efforts have been completely with sales
in various capacities, and my interests are expected to continue
in that direction for some time to come.

In the years since leaving Harvard I have managed to raise
four children in spite of taxes and school bills, a boy and three
girls. My outside interests have wavered between golf and
tennis, and in retrospect it seems that I have been completely
absorbed in either one or the other at various times. The days
seem to go by quickly, each is very busy with a multitude of
problems, and I hope that will continue to be the case for the

next twenty-five years.

ISIDORE WERBY

HOME AND oFFicE Aporess: 1 Elko St., Brighton, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 23, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: Jacob Werby, Kate Fishman.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1923-1927, 1928-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1927(29); M.D. (Mid-
dlesex Coll.), 1937.

UNMARRIED.

OCccUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Physician, Medical Mission Dispensary, Boston, Mass.

MEMBER oF: American Medical Association; American Academy of General
Practice; American Heart Association,

[ 1063 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

IF IN turning these pages you are looking for the big brass
among your Class, keep turning. I claim no honors or distinctions,
I have no rank, medals, honorary degrees, published papers of
scientific achievement. I have held no office, and am not a five

percenter. I could not even get a freezer even though I wanted
to pay that unpatriotic extra.

Twenty-five years have passed by all too quickly. As a general
practitioner of medicine, I am extremely happy. Each day for
me is another day of play. Each morning brings a challenge,
each evening a satisfaction if there is a successful conclusion. I
am happy in delivering babies, helping them cut teeth, treating
their measles, taking out their tonsils, watching them grow,
arbitrator in their sit-down strikes against eating, protector of |
their early anti-social habits, smoothing out their growing-up
troubles, giving them the facts of life which their parents can
only explain by birds and bees, keeping their secrets, taking blood

tests for marriage, and perhaps will be delivering their babies, and
go through the same process again.

It does not seem such a long time since the Freshman Smoker
at the Union and the boys singing about the hot water difficulty
up in the Bronx, and the Dean’s story about another Twenty-fifth
to which Sinclair Lewis came back. At the very same time we
were oblivious of another incident at Munich where Hitler staged
his Beer Putsch. We entered the sophomore year thinking we
were being liberally educated while Scopes was being tried in the
same country for teaching evolution. After four years of meager
training we all thought we knew everything, but wondered why
they called it Commencement. Talking pictures started, Lind-
bergh flew the ocean, Secretary Fall took $100,000. “These events
and many more were beginnings, Coolidge prosperity collapsed.
I did not even begin anything. Roosevelt ¢ame and his New
Deal philosophy. I became a student again for a New Deal for
myself,

Hitler became top news and over-ran Europe. I was studying
anatomy, physiology, and chemistry. Haile Sclassie wasn’t both-
ering anybody either, but Mussolini became emperor. Fireside
chats were on the air, but I was determining whether the systolic
murmur I heard was significant. There was fighting in China, and
Shanghai gave up, but I found it out when my laundryman was

[ 1064 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

collecting pennies for China War Relief. In ’38 Chamberlain was
calling at Munich and at a hospital in Chicago they were calling
intern Werby day and night for fractured skulls, broken bones,
people in heart failure, babies being born, people taking their
last breath. The case with a horseshoe kidney took precedence
in my mind over Franco’s taking over Loyalist Spain. Britain
and France declared war on Germany as I hung out my shingle.
The U.S. declared Lend-Lease and a few dollars were being
thrown around. I was battling the finance company to remove the
fifty-cent fine for not making my payment on time. Then came
Pearl Harbor, and I was rejected for military service because I was
unfit physically. A significant point in my life. The first rejection
was in college, I was unfit mentally.

Where the time went since, I do not know. Mrs. Aye’s anxiety
neurosis had me worried because the pain had no organic basis.
Mr. Bee’s headaches had me baffled. It wasn’t the overdue note but
the overdue secretary. It seems silly to be trudging out at three
a.m. when you are dead on your feet, but Tommy’s bellyache
might be appendicitis. I am tired but so busy all the time that
I just got myself married to my work. I have no other hobbies.
I don’t collect stamps, I don’t play golf, and I have no time for
television. I like to travel but I have never done any because the
fellows that have Financial after their names were telling me to
buy when I should have had it before and sold. When the next
Reunion rolls around, Deo volente, I hope to report that I am still
doing my little bit in life and that I am just as happy.

OLIVER LOOMIS WEST

HOME aAppress: 14 English Village, Cranford, N. J.
OFFICE ApprEss: High School, Cranford, N. J.
BORN: Oct. 14, 1905, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: James Hadley West, Minerva
- Loomis Glasson.
PREPARED AT: South Side High School, Rockville Center, Long Island, N. Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; a.m. (Columbia Univ.),
1936.

MARRIED: Marion June Meserve, June 22, 1931, Westboro, Mass.
occuPATION: Head of mathematics department, High School, Cranford, N. J
instructor of mathematics, Union Junior College, Cranford, N. J.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant Gj-g.), U.S.N.LR., in

March, 1939; called to active duty April 7, 1941; graduated from Insti-

[ 1065 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

tute of the Armed Services in July, 1941; assigned to Office of Chief
of Naval Operations from July, 1941, to December, 1945; promoted
lieutenant commander in July, 1943; received American Defense, Amer-
ican Theatre, Victory, and Naval Reserve Ribbons, the Order of
Orange, Nassau, and rank of Officer with Crossed Swords from Royal
Netherlands Government in 1947; at conclusion of war, received a
letter of commendation from Fleet Admiral Ernest J. King, Chief of
Naval Operations and Commander-In-Chief, United States Fleet.
MEMBER OF: U, S. Naval Reserve, New York City; American Legion, Cran-
ford, N. J.; Phi Delta Kappa, Columbia University; New Jersey Sec-
ondary School Teachers’ Association; Association of Secondary School
Department Heads of New Jersey; Trinity Protestant Episcopal Church,
Cranford.

MILTON ALONZO WESTGATE

HOME AppREss: 51 Old Warren Rd. Swansea, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 84 N. Main St., Fall River, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 5, 1904, Fall River, Mass. parents: Frank Everett Westgate,
Cora Adele Creighton.

PREPARED AT: B. M. C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; LL.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Eliza Louise Hallas, June 24, 1944, Fall River, Mass. CHILDREN:
Janet Louise, April 7, 1947; Nancy Creighton, Jan. 14, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ray Creighton Westgate, 28, LL.B., 731.

OCCUPATION: Law.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Civilian Defense; Draft Board.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Fall River Co-operative Bank, B. M. C. Durfee Trust
Company, Fall River Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children,
Massasoit Council, Boy Scouts of America (past president); trustee,
Fall River Five Cents Savings Bank; assistant attorney-general of Massa-
chusetts, 1941-43.

MEMBER OF: Fall River Kiwanis Club (past president); Bristol County and
Fall River Bar Associations, Fall River Harvard Club; Quequechan
Club of Fall River; Massachusetts Bar Association.

SINCE my graduation from college and law school I have en-
gaged in the practice of law, with the usual experiences that go
with a general law practice. My political philosophy has leaned
towards that of the Republican party and my religious interest
towards the Methodist Church, although I have never quite
agreed in full with either.

[ 1066 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES WEXLER

HOME ADDRESS: 1215 Maple Ave., Tempe, Ariz.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Arizona State College, Tempe, Ariz.

BORN: July 5, 1906, Fall River, Mass. parents: Samuel Wexler, Mamie Starr,
prePareD AT: B. M. C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: 8.B, cur laude, 1927; A.M., 1924; PH.D.,

1930.

MarRRiED: Helen Cluck, Aug. 15, 1927, Boston, Mass. ciuitp: Jonathan David,
Dec. 12, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Harry Wexler, ‘32; Raymond Wexler, °36,

OccUPATION: College teacher of mathematics.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: A.US., March 22, 1943-Nov. 6, 1946, 1st lieu-
tenant to captain; since then, major, O.R.C,

MEMBER OF: Mathematical Association of America.

PUBLICATIONS: Small, inconsequential things.

LIFE as usual in a small college town — immersed in my teach-
ing and enjoying the company of friends (mostly other col-
leagues and professional people); concerned about the present
inflation, the international situation, the coming presidential
election, and why my boy doesn’t like school — with the last
problem the most important, the conclusion being that the boy
is less at faule than the school systems and that this is not just a
local problem. I read a Jot, listen to music a lot (Cesar Franck as
this is being written), play a good game of conversational bridge
with our friends, work around the house and yard a little, work
with my students a lot (a few seem to think I help a little). I
think frequently about the friends I had at Harvard, even though
I don’t write to them — for which I am duly ashamed; and I am
grateful to Harvard for introducing me to the pleasures intel-
lectual.

CHRISTIAN HENRY WEYMER

HOME AppRESS: 1105 Stratford Ave., Melrose Park, Philadelphia 26, Pa.

OFFICE appress: c/o Mark C. Brown Associates, Southampton (Bucks
County), Pa.

BORN: Feb. 6, 1905, Syracuse, N. Y. PARENTS: August Ferdinand Weymer,
Grace Louise Portas.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B, cu72 laude, 1927, LL.B., 1930.

MaRRieED: Frances Louise Bieber, June 17, 1941, Philadelphia, Pa.

[ 1067 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederick Portas Weymer, '26.

oocupaTionN: Manufacturers’ representative.

IN THE absence of a war record or other incidents of note —
with one exception — during my career, I am afraid an extended
biography would prove dull reading. My marriage was the
exception. The satisfaction derived from my married life has
fully compensated for a routine career in other directions.

JOHN OGDEN WHEDON

HOME ADDRESS: goo Fowler Ave. Pelham Manor 65, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 5, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Burt Denison Whedon, 1L2.,
’03, Marion Steele.

prepaRED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory Country Day School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1927(28).

marrieD: Carroll Angell, June 20, 1931, New York, N. Y. cuitpren: Thomas
Avery, Aug. 3, 1932; Julia Carroll, June 30, 1936.

HARVARD SON: Thomas Avery Whedon, ’55.

HARVARD BROTHER: Roger Denison Whedon, "29.

occuPATION: Writer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

pusLications: Contributor to Collier’s, Cosmopolitan, The Forum, Harper’s
Magazine, The New Yorker, The New Yorker Book of Verse.

NOTHING can humble a man like being faced, all at once,

with the accumulated facts of the past twenty-five years of his

life. This group exercise in autobiography should drive us all
to better deeds, or to drink. Perhaps if we thought of each stage
in our life as a chapter in an autobiography we would edit it
more wisely as we went along, and try to work into it a greater
sense of direction, and eliminate some of the irrelevancies. But
that would eliminate much of the fun. I have the following
irrelevancies to report:

I went from college to work on The Forum Magazine, under
Edward Aswell, a Crimson man broadminded enough to hire a
Lampooner. Aswell soon went on to better things, but I remained
with The Forum for five years. During that time 1 wrote occa-
sional verse and nonsense for The New Yorker, and eventually I
transferred to their staff. Life on a humorous weekly I found far
more earnest than life on an earnest monthly. Part of my job was
to try to anticipate the whims of Harold Ross, a great editor but a

[ 1068 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

most unpredictable gentleman. No one has ever succeeded at
this, but Ross tolerated me for five years. During those years I
became involved in a play, “Life’s Too Short,” which was pro-
duced in 1935 by Jed Harris. In his way, he was as brilliant as

Ross, and in every way more unpredictable.
This should have taught me a lesson, but didn’t. I left The

New Yorker and editorial work and started writing fiction for
Collier’s and Cosmopolitan, and tinkering with radio. Suddenly,
on the magic carpet of radio, I was whisked out to Hollywood,

where in the next few months I found myself called upon to
put words into the mouths of an assorted group which included
Ronald Colman, Groucho Marx, Noel Coward, Carole Lombard,
Alexander Woollcott, Madeleine Carroll, and Frank Lloyd
Wright. I still can’t believe it. The public couldn’t believe its

ears either, and refused to listen.
The magic carpet of radio was jerked out from under me

several times. Once, in New York, I was invited by CBS to
work out a script for a new show which turned out to be
“Duffy’s Tavern,” in collaboration with a man three thousand
miles away in Hollywood whom I didn’t meet till years later, and
who turned out to be Abe Burrows. In radio, nothing was

impossible. Except some of the shows.

In 1941 I made another flying trip to Hollywood and stayed

five years, happily collaborating on an epic called “The Great
Gildersleeve.” I quit because | suddenly realized that I had a
son of high school age, and it was going to take more than the
Los Angeles public school system to get him into Harvard. So
I moved back east, where he could go to Exeter.

Again I was unwary enough to get involved with the Broad-
way theatre. I collaborated on a musical which was accepted
for production by Lawrence Langner, of the Theatre Guild,
who changed its name to “Texas, Li'l Darlin’ ” and presented it,
under a pseudonym, in association with Anthony Farrell. As it
‘urned out, I guess it had some of the characteristics of a Pud-
Jing show, but it ran for nearly a year in New York and was
ater imported to Dallas by the Texans, who accepted its ribbing
vith the greatest good humor.

At present I am working in television and, like everyone else
onnected with it, trying to figure out where it is headed. |

[ 1069 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

have a hunch, which few seem to share, that theatre television
could be the salvation of the Broadway theatre. (This may be
merely wishful thinking because I feel another play coming on.)
I believe the time may come when performances of plays in New
York will be transmitted by wires to theatres in other cities, mak-
ing it possible greatly to extend the audience, and so reduce pro-
portionately the excessive costs which prevent the production
of many plays, cause all but the immediate smash hits to close,
and limit the potential audience to those who can afford to pay
exorbitant prices for tickets. Television may not offer much
today, but its possibilities are vast and exciting.
I should like to end this Harvard autobiography with a brief
tribute to Vassar. Over a period of twenty years I have made
an exhaustive survey, based on broad personal experience with
one of its graduates, and I can conclusively report that Vassar
girls make wonderful wives. Vassar teaches them not to be
satisfied with that, but to take a lively interest and participate as
far as possible in all that goes on in the community and the world
around them — which of course makes them even better wives.
My own manages to run a household and meet the demands of a
fifteen-year-old daughter and a nineteen-year-old son, and still
keep up with a full-time job as copy chief of advertising and
sales promotion at CBS Television. In her spare time she is edit-
ing the Twentieth Annual Report of her class as Vassar.
To the sons of the Class of 1927, who are probably looking
around by now, I would say don’t overlook Vassar.

JEROME WHEELOCK

HOME AppREsS: c/o H. L. Wheelock, Eastland Hotel, Portland, Maine.

BORN: July 13, 1903, Waltham, Mass. parents: Harvey Lincoln Wheelock,
"96, Lilla Eastman.

PREPARED AT: Stone School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.

marriep: Dorothea A. Kiley, Feb. 10, 1928, New York, N. Y. (separated).
CHILD: Joan Wheelock MacDougall, Aug. 1, 1929 (72. June, 1951).

OCCUPATION: Officer, United States Merchant Marine.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II: Officer, U. S. Merchant Marine,
Tanker Service.

MEMBER OF: French Institute, New York.

[ 1070 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER leaving Harvard I entered the legion of Wall Street and,
after being associated with various organizations, I became a
partner in the firm of Prescott & Wheelock. With the advent of
the war, I found myself pushing tankers around the world for the
Standard Oil Company of New Jersey. After a bricf interlude in
commercial photography, I am again watching the water go by.

ARTHUR RAY WHENMAN

HOME ADbRESS: 14 Country Club Rd., Melrose 76, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: General Electric Co. 140 Federal St, Boston 1, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 6, 1905, Malden, Mass. parents: Robert Lee Donoho Whenman,
Margaret Ray.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-19728, DEGREE: 8.8. IN £.£., 1928.

MaRRIED: Helen Louise Beach, June 22, 19279, Dexter, Mich, citrpren:
Loretta May, Oct. 22, 1940, Wallace Judson, Sept. 7, 1942.

occupation: Manager, electric utility department, New England District,
General Electric Company.

OFFICES HELD: Master, Mount Vernon Lodge AF. & A.M. Malden, Mass.,
1950-51.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; National Society of Professional En-
gineers, Newcomen Society of England, Vermont Electrical Associa-
tion; Tri County Electrical Associates, Essex County Electric Club;
Mount Vernon Lodge AF. & A.M. of Malden,

FOR the last twenty years I have spent most of my waking
hours selling power equipment to electric utilities in various
parts of New England. My current activity is still in the same
field except that I am now in charge of all apparatus sales to all
utilities in New England. In the later years, the time spent
travelling has leveled off to the point where I can devote a small
part of my attention to my family and to community affairs.
This has been a pleasant and satisfying change of pace, and I
hope it can continue.

JOHN FONDA WARD WHITBECK

HOME appress: 6 E. 97th St. New York 29, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREss: Georgeson & Co., 52 Wall St., New York 5, N. Y.

Born: Aug. 25, 1904, Saranac Lake, N. Y. parents: Brainerd Hunt Whitbeck,
’99, Edith Emily Plummer.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

[ 1071 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.
marriep: Dorothy Benner, Sept. 26, 1936, Bronxville, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Brainerd Hunt Whitbeck, Jr., ’29; Franklin Plummer
Whitbeck, 735.

occupation: Staff consultant, specializing in reorganizations, recapitalizations,
mergers, pension plans, etc., Georgeson & Company, consultants to man-
agement on stockholder relations and corporate problems.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Member Company K, Seventh Regiment, New
York State Guard, 1942-45.

OFFicEs HELD: Chairman, Harvard Club Squash Committee; member Advisory
and Finance Committee, U. S. Lawn Tennis Association; treasurer and
member Board of Governors, Metropolitan Squash Racquets Associa-
tion; chairman Men’s Ranking Committee and Eastern Intercollegiate
Tennis Championships Committee, Eastern Lawn Tennis Association
(all since 1944).

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Bronxville Field Club; Interna-
tional Lawn Tennis Club; Seventh Regiment Tennis Club; Associates of
the Engineer Corps and Company K, Seventh Regiment; Veterans Asso-
ciation of the Seventh Regiment, New York.

KENNETH JOSEPH WHITE

HOME ApprEss: 201 Oak St., Binghamton, N. Y.

BoRN: Dec. 2, 1905, Binghamton, N. Y. PARENTS: Joseph White, Margaret
McManus.

PREPARED AT: Binghamton High School, Binghamton, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; A.M., 1928.

OCCUPATION: Education.

RICHARDSON WHITE

HOME ADDRESS: 226 Jerusalem Rd., Cohasset, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 5, 1904, Cohasset, Mass. PARENTS: Charles James White, ‘go,
Olivia Algin Richardson.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MarrigD: Cornelia D. Hallowell, Sept. 15, 1928, North Haven, Maine. cut-
DREN: Richardson, Jr., Aug. 7, 1929; Frank Hallowell, Aug. 29, 1931,
Donald, April 2, 1934.

HARVARD SON: Frank Hallowell White, ’55.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Clark White, 17, M.D., ’23.

occuPATION: Sculptor; saw mill operator.

[ 1072 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RUSSELL WHITE, JR.

HOME apprEss: South Road, Candia, N. H.
oFFIcE ADDRESS: Salomon Bros. & Hutzler, 75 Federal St., Boston, Mass.
BorN: March 4, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Russell White, Agnes Ross

Smith.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-10927. DEGREE: $.B., 1927.
marRIED: Beatrice Rollins, 1931; Udell S. Redmond, 1943, Boston, Mass.

cuit: Russell, 3d, Dec. 31, 1931.
OCCUPATION: Investment business, manager, Municipal Bond Department,

Salomon Brothers & Hutzler.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Navy, 1942-45.

THE story of the last twenty-five years I find on reflection

amazingly devoid of important milestones. After Business School

I was in the campaign business in Boston for several years and

then the investment business since 1936. Inasmuch as_ these
pursuits have all occurred around Boston, the lack of newsworthy
occasions can be readily appreciated. Nowadays I find that be-
tween my job and living in the country I have time left for not

much more than a mild interest in photography.

STANLEY VAN VUIET WHITE

HOME ADpREsS: 1302 Harrison Ave. Redwood City, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 56 rue Du Rhone, Geneva, Switzerland.
BORN: July 2, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Thomas Marshall White, Mildred

Banker.
PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1927; E£D.M. (Boston Univ.),

1933; LL.B. (Stanford Univ.), 1947.

MarRieD: Louise Lewis, Jan. 29, 1935, New York, N. Y. crmpren: Derek
Van Vliet, Sept. 7, 1938; Loren Pierce, April 27, 1940; Peregrine Lewis,
April 23, 1948.

occupATiION: Lawyer, urbanist, associate of Joseph Allen Stein, architect.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: War Manpower Commission, San Francisco
area director, regional assistant, chief of operations, 1942-44; liaison
official, War Manpower Commission 12th region; Fair Employment
Practices Committee, and War Labor Board Regional Offices for the
Wrest; special mediator, U. S. Mediation and Conciliation Service.

PERCEIVING in college that the accepted pattern was to gather
moss until you became a mossback, I preferred to become a roll-
ing stone. From ordinary seaman on ships to Africa and Europe,

[ 1073 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

I turned to group tour conducting throughout Europe for three
summers, then was a student at the Sorbonne, a cook on a
schooner-yacht crossing the Atlantic, and a hiker from Paris to
Poland and back. Stopping a year at Boston University to get a
Master of Education degree, I taught high school in Connecticut
and New York City for two years, only to forsake pedagogy
for work in the teeming New York garment industry. Soon
thereafter, jobless, I married, and again went to teaching at a
workers’ college in Arkansas. Next, I became a WPA field econ-
omist studying depression-stricken areas in the South and South-
west, and when that work ended, I became a federal mediator
in the United States Department of Labor’s Conciliation Service,
helping settle labor disputes in nearly every state of the Union,
first out of Washington, D. C., later out of the San Francisco
regional office. When the war started, I became area director of
the new War Manpower Commission, northern California area,
later a regional official in the same agency, handling job-freeze
appeals, race-relations problems (in liaison with the Fair Employ-
ment Practice Committee), wage arbitrations for the War Labor
Board, and special mediation tasks for the Conciliation Service.
As the war needs eased off, I resigned from government work
to enter Stanford Law School. Admitted to the California Bar,
I worked first as deputy district attorney in San Mateo County,
then set up in private practice in Redwood City. By the summer —
of 1950, I again determined to move out of the comfortable
rut, to rediscover the world abroad before it was too late. I sold
home and practice, entered into association with an outstanding
architect and long-standing friend, Joseph Allen Stein, who was
similarly motivated, and came to Europe, family and all. I am
presently located in Geneva, Switzerland (American Express
here forwards mail). In the new ambiance ‘we have developed a
thoroughly new approach to low-cost housing of homeless mul-
titudes, with emphasis on self-help in executing designs that per-
mit the most drastic economies in construction consistent with
achieving a greater share in the amenities of living. At present
we are obtaining excellent publicity for our sociologically-based
architectural concepts, which we seek to execute as large-scale
projects in one or more of the awakening but less industrially

developed lands.
[ 1074 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

So much for career history. For family I have three fine sons,
thirteen, eleven, and three, all capable travellers, a like-minded
wife, Louise, who draws and paints with an increasingly pro-
fessional flair, and a mother living in California. My hobbies
are poetry, sketching, and chess, not to mention travel, Jan-
guages, and people. My social convictions are that the common
people of every land, sympathetically known and wisely organ-
ized, constitute the wealth of the world, and that the age of their
exploitation is drawing to its tumultuous end. My religious con-
victions, as such, have never congealed, but consist in a rejection
of all intolerant or exclusive orthodoxies, and an acceptance
of all unifying humanistic drives that tend to link the individual
with a greater social whole. My political convictions are that
support must be given to whatever forces in the world are striv-
ing to maintain peace, and at the same time to enrich the living
and cultural opportunities of the underprivileged.

WILLIAM WILSON WHITE

HOME ApprEss: 48 Wooddale Rd., Philadelphia, Pa.

OFFICE ApprEss: White & Williams, 1900 Land Title Bldg., Philadelphia, Pa.

BORN: Feb. 23, 1906, Germantown, Pa. pareENTS: Thomas Raeburn White,
Elizabeth Wilson.

PREPARED AT: Germantown Friends School, Germantown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1927(30); Lu.B. (Univ. of Penn-
sylvania), 1933.

MarRieD: Mary Lowber Sailer, Dec. 27, 1932, Philadelphia, Pa. cHi_preN:
William Wilson, Jr. April 18, 1934; Welsh Strawbridge, April 17, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve,
1940; active duty April, 194:-October, 1945; separated commander,
US.N.R., 1945; served in American, Pacific, and European Theatres;
in command of USS SC 1033, USS PC 783; executive officer USS Gen-
eral W. F, Hase (AP 146).

OFFices HELD: Commanding officer, Organized Battalion 4-11, U.S.N.R.;
judge advocate, Houston Post No. 3, American Legion, director, United
Nations Council of Philadelphia, Philadelphia Chapter, Reserve Officers
of the Naval Services.

MEMBER OF: University Club, Sunnybrook Golf Club; Military Order For-
eign Wars.

[ 1075 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

+s GEORGE D’ARCY WHITESIDE

BoRN: March 1, 1904, Champlain, N. Y. parents: John Robertson Whiteside,
Ethel D’Arcy Boulton.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Robertson Whiteside, ’24.

piep: Aug. 10, 1926, Conowingo, Md.

GEORGE D’ARCY WHITESIDE graduated from St. Paul’s
School magna cum laude in June, 1923. In September he entered
Harvard Engineering School and, as part of his engineering course,
he secured a ten weeks’ job with Stone and Webster for construc-
tion work on the Susquehanna River. He had been on this job
for seven weeks when, on August 10, he was killed in an accident
in the company’s railroad yard. His home was in Champlain, New
York,

JOHN HARRISON WHITFIELD

HOME ADDRESS: Suffield, Conn.

BORN: May 18, 1903, New York, N. Y. parents: Henry Davis Whitfield,
98, Emily Harrison Thorp.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

MARRIED: Jean Judd, Feb. 11, 1929, Hartford, Conn, CHILDREN: Patricia,
May 27, 1930; Ann, Aug. 14, 1932; Henry Judd, Aug. 13, 1936.

occuPATION: Manufacturing.

CLARENCE WHITMAN, II

HOME aborEss: 150 FE, 72nd St., New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Iselin-Jefferson Co., Inc., 90 Worth St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 5, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Clarence Morton Whitman,
’99, Eleanor Motley.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; M.B.A., 1929(30).

MarRieD: Carolyn Whitman, June 25, 1938, Millbrook, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Charles Lawrence, Dec. 26, 1942; Bradford Flint, March 13, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Peter Morton Whitman, °32.

OccuPATION: Department head, Iselin-Jefferson Company, Inc., merchandis-
ing textiles, and coérdinator of production, sales, etc., of four fancy
cotton and rayon textile mills.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant A(V)S, U. S. Naval

[ 1076 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Reserve, May, 1942; Caribbean sea frontier, anti-sub operations, Puerto
Rico, Jamaica, Cuba, staff flag secretary to Vice-Admiral Commander,
Caribbean sea fronticr, August, 1932, to April, 1944; Quonset, R. I,
airfield operations, staff aide Commander, Naval Air Base, ist ND,

April, 1944, to March, 1945; Bureau Aeronautics, Washington, produc-
tion division, textiles, April to September, 1945; appointed member
ARCO Board under Joint Chicfs of Staff; promoted lieutenant com-
mander.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Stevens Manufacturing Company, Fall River, Mass.
secretary, Whitman Operating Company; director, Anchor Rome Mills,
Rome, Georgia.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Racquct and Tennis Club, Mer-
chants’ Club; Laurentian Club of Canada; Saunderstown Yacht Club.

1 LOST my life two weeks ago. It was all in verse and racy-like,
particularly that two years in Chicago before the end of Prohibi-
tion settled me down. Anyhow — here’s me best prose — sedate
and dignified-like. May be good my odyssey did get mixed up
with those tax papers. The right ‘people might have read the
wrong things.

The Business School gave me papers and a job at $35.00 per
week with Bauer & Black, a surgical dressing, etc., company in

°
Chicago. The U. S. Patent Office lists me as inventor of “The

Cotton Picker,” which you all use; also, as inventor of several
unmentionable elastic contraptions designed to be worn by
young men engaged in the rougher forms of athlctic endcavour.
As a reward, come the depression, my salary remained, as a
splendid example of the company’s gratitude, uncut.

My private life in the windy city during these two years of
beer barons, bombs, and bathtub booze was better hallowed by
verse than prose. A minor mobster once did poke a gat in my
guts, and that delightful chill still lingers.

No hills and only fresh water drove me home to the East
where for the next two years I made like a travelling salesman
from Maine to Florida for the family textile mills. In those days
you couldn't be good and it was the best thing that ever happened
ro me.

In August, 1933, an old jacquard bedspread mill in Fall River
wanted to go bankrupt so bad we had to buy it (for what they
wed us), and father sent me up to liquidate. The remaining

wenty-five employees were so nice and the machinery such fun,

[ 1077 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

that I sold a huge order to Sears, Roebuck. Father was furious and
made me sign the banknote, but, after eight years, we had 600
nice employees and were quite solvent.

About 1938 I started looking for a wife, but it was too late,
Carol caught me early in the year and a June Bermuda honeymoon
is highly recommended. After awhile she went trout fishing with
me in Canada every other year, but, my mountain grouse shoot-
ing still remains an all-male privilege.

Came the war, a Navy commission, overseas service, and my
eldest unmarried son, Larry, in that order. My first annual leave
from that ubiquitous brick foxhole, “The Caribbean Sea Fron-
tier,” was our first meeting. That tour of duty was also best
hymned in rhyme. Too bad you missed it. Ah! The romance of
those names, Trinidad, Curagao, Barbados, Dominica, Martinique,
Grenada, Demarara, Haitian and Puerto Rican, each with its
subtly different bouquet and all magnificent health-giving rums.

Stateside duty for a year or so at Naval Air Bases and even
Washington, then, a second son, Bradford, closely followed by
V-J Day. :

Now — playing Mother-Hen to four textile plants in Georgia
continues to be fun and at times profitable. Our best directors’
meetings are often held in a sunny “lespedeza” patch — those
present, the mill owner, the bird dogs, a covey of quail, and me.
There are all kinds of work.

++ CHARLES HAYDEN WHITNEY

BORN: Nov. 20, 1905, Concord, Mass. parents: Charles Hayden Whitney,
Caroline Josephine Patrick.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927.

HARVARD BROTHERS: George Kirkpatrick Whitney, ’29, M.B.A., 313 Otis Minot
Whitney, 30, LLB., ’33.

piep: July 21, 1929, Brookline, Mass.

CHARLES HAYDEN WHITNEY died suddenly in Brookline
in the summer following the completion of his second year at the
Harvard Law School. His home was in Concord, Massachusetts,
where he had been active in Boy Scout work and in Trinity
Church. |

[ 1078 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

NATHANIEL WHITTIER

HOME appress: Bridge Street, Medfield, Mass.

orFice appress: C. W. Whittier & Bro. 8: Devonshire St., Boston 9, Mass.

BorN: Jan. 26, 1904, Milton, Mass, parents: Charles Woodbury Whittier,
Sarah Crapo Ross.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.; Berkshire School, Sheffield,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B., 1927.

marrieD: Polly Baldwin, Sept. 3, 1937, Millis, Mass. (divorced 1949); Mrs.
Eleanor J. Withington, March 22, 1952, Nashua, N. H. cumpren;
Sara G. Withington, Wendy R. Withington (stepchildren).

HARVARD BROTHER: Ross Whittier, '16.

OCCUPATION: Real estate broker with C. E. Whittier & Bro.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

ANTON WILLIAM WIESMAN

HOME AppRESS: 36 Hancock St. Boston 14, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 20, 1906, Clinton, Mass. parents: Anton William Wiesman, Eliza-
beth Ellen Murphy.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1927.

occupation: Area supply officer, International Refugee Organization.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War IJ, Army Air Corps.

ERNEST LEYLAND WILKINSON

HOME ADDRESS: 57 Salem St., Andover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 301 Essex St., Lawrence, Mass.

Born: April 8, 1902, Methuen, Mass. parents: Herbert Paul Wilkinson,
Blanche Burleigh.

PREPARED aT: Edward F. Searles High School, Methuen, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.By 1927.

MarRRieD: Helen C. Knight, June 6, 1940, Reading, Mass. cHiLpren: Wendy
Knight, March 28, 1942; Linda Leyland, Oct. 26, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Owner of real estate and insurance business,

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Broadway Savings Bank, Lawrence, Mass.; honorary
director, Henry C. Nevins Home for the Aged and Incurable, Methuen,
Mass.; secretary Greater Lawrence Board of Realtors, member Execu-
tive Committee, Lawrence Community Chest.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club (past president); Annisquam Yacht Club.

[ 1079 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

ALLEN WINDER WILLIAMS

HOME ADDRESS: 992 E. Circle Drive, Milwaukee 11, Wis.

OFFICE AppREsS: Leekley & Williams, 757 N. Broadway, Milwaukee 2, Wis.

BoRN: May 5, 1905, Salt Lake City, Utah. parents: Thomas Allen Williams,
Susan Sophie Winder.

PREPARED AT: East Side High School, Salt Lake City, Utah.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREES: S.B, IN MECH. ENGIN. cum laude, 1927
(28); rr.B. (Marquette Univ.), 1936.

marrieD: Grace Alice Christiansen, Sept. 17, 1938, Milwaukee, Wis. cH-
DREN: Susan Winder, June 6, 1940; Carol Ann, Oct. 1, 1941; Grace Alice
and Allen Winder, Jr. (twins), Sept. 8, 1944.

OccUPATION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: President, Milwaukee Rotary Club, 1945-46; chairman of
finance, Milwaukee County Council of Boy Scouts of America, since
1948; president, Volunteers’ Day Nursery, since 195t.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club of Milwaukee; American Bar Association, Mil-
waukee Bar Association.

AN acquaintanceship established at Harvard developed into a
business association, then a partnership, with John Leekley
of the Class of 1927. We originally got together in 1929 in the
investment counsel business, and since that time have added the
practice of law, specializing in estate and tax work along with
general investment counsel.

In the early ’30’s when business was not so pressing, I became
interested in local politics to the extent of heading up a non-
partisan group of Milwaukeeans who wanted to encourage
capable business men to run for local offices. We were reasonably
successful until business picked up and the people did not have as
much time to moralize on or work in political campaigns. I have
voted for quite a few “winners” in Wisconsin but I haven’t been
at all successful since 1928 nationally.

I have taken a rather active part in community youth and
family guidance work. The family travelling that we have done
has been largely in the Rocky Mountains and not too much of
that because the family is still pretty young.

[ 1080 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY FRANKLIN WILLIAMS

HOME ADDRESS; 223 San Sebastian Ave., Coral Gables 34, Fla.
OFFICE ADDRESS: University of Miami, Coral Gables, Fla.

porN: Dec. 11, 1906, Providence, R. I. parents: Leonard Worcester Wil-
liams, Martha Reynolds Clarke.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. suztnra cum laude, 1927; B.A,
(Univ. of Cambridge), 1929; a.m. (Harvard Univ.), 1931; pup. (ibid.),
1935-

MaRnen, Florence Roselle Parisa, July 30, 1938, Minneapolis, Minn. cn.
preEN: Leonard Parisa, Oct. 28, 1940; Grace Mary, Oct. 7, 1942.

occupATION: Professor of history, vice-president, and dean of the faculty,
University of Miami.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant in history, Harvard, 1929-33, teaching fellow in his-
tory, Amherst, 1934-38, instructor in history, Hliram College, 1938;
assistant professor of history, 1939-43, associate professor of history,
1943-46, professor of history, dean of the College of Liberal Arts, 1946-

48, vice-president and dean of the faculty, since 1948, University of
Miami; board member, Family Service, Miami, 1944-51; president, 1945-
46, board member, since 1948; Mental Health Society of Southeastern
Florida, president, 1950, board member, 1951, Welfare Planning Coun-
cil of Dade County; board member, Haven School, 1948-51; Protestant
co-chairman, Miami Round Table of the National Conference of Chris-
tians and Jews, since 1947; president, Harvard Club of Miami, 1946-49.

MEMBER OF: American Historical Society; Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Chi; His-
torical Association of Southern Florida, Florida Academy of Sciences;
Alpha Phi Omega; Omicron Delta Kappa; Phi Eta Sigma, Phi Alpha
Theta.

PUBLICATIONS: Italy since 1870, privately printed, 1940; “The State of the
Dailey Press of London between 1858 and 1861 with special reference to
the Italian questions,” Proceedings of the Florida Academy of Sciences,
March, 1944.

AT THE time of our graduation Professor Merriman asked me
whether I planned to “return to the fold.” I have been in the
academic fold ever since. My two years at Cambridge, my four
years as graduate student and “section hand” in History I, my
year of research at the Public Record Office, and my Ph.D. were
all designed to prepare me for college teaching. I hoped then to
stay where “shades are more soothing and sunlight more dear
than descend on less privileged earth,” but the depression led me
to four happy years at Amherst as a teaching fellow, with sum-
mer teaching at Massachusetts State College and the University
of Maine, and to a position for one quarter at Hiram College in

[ 1081 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Ohio. I was back in Cambridge working on Italy since 1870 when

the University of Miami offered me a position.

I am still in the academic fold at the University of Miami, but
the atmosphere is very different from Harvard’s. A young uni-
versity, growing rapidly, has given me a breadth of experience
and an intellectual stimulation which most academic settings
would not offer. I arrived here in time to feel the pioneering
spirit of the university and to share in the strange adjustments
imposed by the war. In my case, it made a mathematics teacher
of me. After the war, as the university grew, I found myself in
administrative work, although I still try to keep up a little teach-
ing. I find the work interesting and rewarding.

Outside the university, I have tried to participate in commu-
nity activities. In inter-faith work I have served for ten years as
moderator of a radio round table devoted to discussion of that
problem. By work with Family Service and the Mental Health
Society, I have been drawn into Community Chest work. This
year I am chairman of the budget committee which allocates
the money raised by the Dade County Community Chest. My
recreations center largely in the abundance of nature in Florida.
We have a garden to give us the tropical plants. We study the
birds and flowers and shells that abound here. Since all of us love
these things, we think of Florida as the finest place there is to
live and work and play.

HOYT INSCO WILLIAMS

HOME apprEss: 66 N. Allen St, Albany 3, N. Y.

OFFICE appress: New York State Dept. of Public Works, Gov. Alfred E.
Smith State Office Bldg. Albany 1, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 31, 1905, Buffalo, N. Y, parents: Charles Hoyt Williams, ’98,
Florence Williams Buchanan.

PREPARED AT: Williamsville High School, Williamsville, N. Y.; Nichols
School, Buffalo, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928.

marrieD: Helen Margaret Hart, Jan. 22, 1932, Buffalo, N. Y. (divorced
1946); Mildred Hoskin Harris, Dec. 15, 1948, Albany, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Suzanne, Jan. 18, 1930 (adopted); Thomas Insco, March 21, 1934; Hoyt
Hart, July 8, 1935; Nancy Buchanan, April 9, 1944; Bonnie Harris,
March 9, 1951.

occupation; Civil engineer, Bureau of Research and Statistics, New York
Department of Public Works.

[ 1082 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Fastern New York; New York State Associa-
tion of Highway Engineers.

SINCE leaving Engineering School I have followed public service
engineering lines. In the fall of 1928 I obtained a temporary
position with the United States Engineers and in April, 1929,
received a permanent appointment as junior civil engineer with
the Erie County (New York) Highway Department. This
employment lasted throughout the depression, but with the
unsettled conditions arising from Pearl Elarbor, IT applicd for
commissions in both the Army and Navy. Because of depend-
ents “lack of usefulness to the armed services,” opportunity to
serve was denied. With highway work at a standstill I turned to
war work, and I became associated with the Bell Aircraft Cor-
poration, Georgia Division, in July, 1942.

Picking up the family and all our belongings, we headed for
the “Deep South” and moved into Atlanta on New Year's E-ve,
1942. There, ’mid the dogwood and corn likker, we proceeded
to turn out thousands of B-z9’s. For the first year I was in the
Administrative Branch of Bell as head of the Statistics Depart-
ment. Upon a change in management, I became assistant to the
production manager, a position I resigned in September, 1944,
because of lack of housing facilities in Atlanta. I returned with
my family to Buffalo and was employed in the Engineering
Department of the same corporation at Niagara Falls. It is inter-
esting to look back on this connection as having worked on the
preliminary design of the XS-1, the first plane to break the
sound barrier. With the arrival of V-J Day this industry came to
a virtual standstill, and since January, 1946, I have been employed
as engineer in the New York State Department of Public Works.
I first was employed in the Buffalo office doing chiefly construc-
tion work in the field. In December, 1947, I moved to Albany
to take a position in the Bureau of Research and Statistics. I am
now employed in that bureau as assistant civil engineer and acting
assistant director.

I have always been a member of the Unitarian Church and am
at present in my second term as treasurer of that church in
Albany. My recreations are gardening in the summer and bowl-
ing during the winter season.

[ 1083 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

JOSEPH MASON WILLIAMS

HOME ADDRESS: 73 Parker St., Newton Center 59, Mass.
orFice appress: Columbian National Life Insurance Co., 77 Franklin Sr,
Boston, Mass.
BORN: July 26, 1902, San Antonio, Texas. PARENTS: Joseph Mason Williams,
Frances Callaway Nevins.
PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

marrieD: Mary Elinor Morrison, June 15, 1929, Nashua, N. H. cyipren:
Joseph Mason, Jr. and Joanna Ash (twins), Nov. 4, 1932; Philip Mor-
rison, April 24, 1934.

occuPATION: Superintendent of claims, Columbian National Life Insurance
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Neighborhood commissioner, Norumbega Council Boy Scouts
of America, 1945; chairman, Troop 19, Norumbega Council Boy Scouts
of America, 1949-51, Republican Finance Committee, City of Newton,
since 1950, president, Parent Teachers Association, John W. Weeks
Junior High School, Newton Center, 1946-48; director, Newton Center
Improvement Association, since 1949; member, Republican City Com-
mittee, Newton Ward 6, since 1950; secretary, Boston Life and Acci-
dent Claims Association, Boston.

MY MOTHER was in Europe when I was graduated in 1927.
She left me what I call then and now a small pittance to carry
me through the following year. Meanwhile, I set forth to make
my career and increase the pittance by free-lance writing. Hav-
ing attended Copey’s class, I felt equipped for anything in the
literary line, in fact, superior to most of them. I managed to
squeeze through the early months of 1928 when I arrived at a
complete financial crisis following which I got a job. During
the interim and to my regret, although I wrote quite a few of
what I thought were the genius stories of the year, nobody else
thought so including my most intimate friends and most certainly
including all the editors from here to Timbuktu. I resolved to
get lost. I did this very successfully, starving in July, 1928, with
a “temporary job” with the Retail Credit Company, Inc. In June,
1929, I married Mary Elinor Morrison (Smith, 1923) of Nashua,
New Hampshire, and for that reason, I suppose, as well as a good
many others including three subsequent children, my “tempo-
rary job” did not terminate until November, 1949, when I started
working with the Columbian National Life Insurance Company,
where I have been since. We have three children, twins, oppo-

[ 1084 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

site sex, now nineteen. The boy is presently in the Air Force.
The girl is studying at the New England Conservatory. The
other is in high school and runs the mile when his grades allow
him to. We have lived in Newton since 1933 and for the past
eighteen years in Newton Center.

HENRY MAYER WILSON

HOME aAbpRESS: 80 Ridgedale Ave., Madison, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New York Telephone Co., 140 West St., New York, N .Y.

BORN: May 5, 1906, Chicago, Ill. parents: William Boyd Wilson, Lillian
Bertha Mayer.

PREPARED AT: Louisville Manual Training High School, Louisville, Ky.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: S.B. IN EE. magna cum laude, 1927.

MARRIED: Beatrice Fischer Meyer, Nov. 20, 1947, Brooklyn, N. Y.

OCCUPATION: Transmission engineer, Operating Staff, New York Telephone
Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Called to active duty as lieutenant, Naval Re-
serve, March, 1941, promoted lieutenant commander, August, 1941, com-
mander, February, 1943, captain, December, 1945; released to inactive
duty, April, 1946; now in inactive Naval Reserve.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society; Quiet Birdmen; Skytop Country
Club.

ON JULY 1, 1927, in the uniform of an ensign and naval aviator,
I reported to the Commander Aircraft Squadrons, Battle Fleet, at
San Diego, for one year of active duty in the Navy. I had taken
flight training in the Navy during the summer of 1925 and had
been appointed a naval aviator on April 6, 1926.

On August 1, 1928, I went to work for the New York Tele-
phone Company and except for five years’ leave of absence
during World War II, I have been with them ever since. Unless
you also work for a telephone company you wouldn’t understand
what a telephone transmission engineer does, so I had better not
try to explain it.

During World War II, I was successively in charge of Aviation
' Cadet Procurement, Aviation Training, and Aviation Planning in
the Bureau of Naval Personnel.

I now live a most pleasant and peaceful life as a commuter
from Madison, New Jersey. My wife is a deacon in the Presby-
terian Church, president of the local Vassar Club, and otherwise
active in the civic life of the community, whereas I am very

[ 1085 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

content to do as little along that line as possible. I enjoy raising
flowers, taking color pictures, and doing the endless jobs of
painting and carpentry that are (in my opinion) one of the
major rewards that go with owning a small house in the suburbs.

PARKER WILSON

HOME ADDRESS: 533 Riverside Drive, North Tarrytown, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREsS: Guaranty Trust Company of New York, 140 Broadway, New
York, N. Y.

BoRN: Oct. 1, 1904, Washington, D. C. parents: Francis Cushman Wilson,
98, Charlotte Lansing Parker.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926. DEGREE: LL.B. (Brooklyn Law School), 1929.

MARRIED: Jessie Macgregor Luke, March 30, 1930, South Salem, N. Y. cHi-
DREN; Janet Luke, June 6, 1931; Parker, Jr., April 16, 1933; Jessie Mac-
gregor, April 9, 1935; Francis Cushman, May 8, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Guaranty Trust Company of New York; now
on leave of absence serving as executive vice-president, Wilson Oil
Company, Santa Fe.

OFFICES HELD: Member Board of Governors, Sleepy Hollow Country Club.

MEMBER OF: Independent Petroleum Association of America (associate);
American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers (associate).

BECAUSE of the long illness and recent death of my father, I am
now on a leave of absence from the Guaranty Trust Company to
serve as active head of the Wilson Oil Company, our family
company, operating in Lea County, New Mexico. My office
address is: % Wilson Oil Company, Sena Plaza, Santa Fe, New
Mexico.

WILLIAM EDWARD WILSON, JR.

HOME apprEss: South High Street, R. F. D., Bloomington, Ind.

OFFICE ApprEss: English Dept., Indiana University, Bloomington, Ind.

BoRN: Feb, 12, 1906, Evansville, Ind, parents: William Edward Wilson,
Nettie Ora Cook.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Evansville, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES! A.B., 1927; A.M., 1930.

MarriEp: Ellen Janet Cameron, June 29, 1929, Carnegie, Pa. cHitprEN: Wil-
liam Edward, 3d, June 4, 1934; Henry Cameron and Douglas Cook
(twins), Dec. 18, 1940.

occupation: Writer; Professor of English, Indiana University.

[ 1086 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned licutenant, U.S.N.R., July 5, 1942;
promoted lieutenant commander, July, 1945; indoctrinated U. S. Naval
Academy; served at U.S. Naval Academy, July, 1942-—December, 1945.

MEMBER OF: Providence Art Club, Rhode Island Historical Society; Indiana
Historical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: The Wabash (Rivers of America), 1940; Yesterday’s Son, 1940,
Big Knife, 1941; Shooting Star, 1942; Crescent City, 1947; Abe Lincoln
of Pigeon Creek, 1949; The Pursuers (to be published in 1952); stories
and articles in magazines since 1934.

SINCE 1927 my life has been devoted chiefly to earning a living,

moving about, raising a family, and writing. I went to Puerto

Rico after graduation, taught there for a short while, and then

came back to the States and worked as a newspaperman in

Evansville, Indiana, and New Bedford, Massachusetts. After

marrying in 1929 and acquiring a Master's degree in English

at Harvard in 1930, I taught for three years at Brown University

and, during the subsequent nine years before I joined the Navy,
was head of the English department of the Rhode Island School of
Design. At the end of my naval service, I received a Guggenheim
Fellowship and stayed on in Annapolis to write Crescent City, a
novel; thence to The Evening Sun, Baltimore, where I was an
associate editor, writing editorials, for a year and a half; after
that to the University of Colorado, where I was a professor of
English and director of the University of Colorado Writers’ Con-
ference; and finally to Indiana University, where I am now — al-
though I am not actually there as I write this, but in the kitchen of
Bishop Berkeley’s 18th-century farmhouse in Newport, Rhode
Island, where my wife and I have been curators during the sum-
mer of 1951 while I put the finishing touches on a novel and she
begins her third juvenile book.

My three boys (all southpaws) do not scem to have suffered
from this gypsy life, except to have acquired a mixture of ac-
cents that makes them a linguistic atlas all to themselves. The
eldest, “Wigs,” who crashed the Twenty-fifth Reunion of the
Class of 1926 this year, thanks to Robert A. Schacht, Jr., and
Jun R. Miyakawa, would like to be a professional baseball player,
I suspect, but will probably be spared that highly lucrative fate by
the straight A’s he is making in high school. “Cam” wants to be a
farmer but is afraid there won't be any farm land left when he is a

man, because of the rapid growth of urban population. “Doug”

[ 1087 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

won't commit himself, but he has the look of a writer in his eye,
poor fellow!

My own professional writing began with the publication of my
first short story in Story in 1934 and my first book in 1940.
Since then, except for the war years, I have lived a large part of
my life hunched over a typewriter. Competition developed
within my family in the spring of 1951 when my wife published
her first book for children, Three Boys and A Lighthouse, and
it became the Junior Literary Guild selection for the month of
April. Scribner’s has accepted her second book for publication
in 1952, and she is at work on a third.

My political convictions can probably be summed up best by
saying that I vote fairly consistently not so much for Democrats
as against Republicans, and I don’t like people who whine about
their income taxes. I am proud to live in a country where men,
by their own initiative, can increase their tax burdens by increas-
ing their incomes, and where most of them have the guts and the
good grace to take on an even greater tax burden when their way
of life is in danger.

My hobbies are vegetable-gardening and watching my boys
grow up to excel me at tennis, swimming, and baseball. I have
recently bought a brick farmhouse in Indiana, built in 1816, and
its surrounding eleven acres, and I expect that investment to
occupy most of my spare time from now on.

JOHN WINDER

HOME Appress: Little Compton, Rannoch Road, Crowborough, Sussex, Eng-
land,

OFFICE ADDRESS: c/o Civil Secretary, Sudan Government, Khartoum, Sudan.

BoRN: Aug. 22, 1905, Horwich, Lancashire, England. parents: Oliver
Winder, Winifred Heywood Haslam.

PREPARED AT: Oundle School, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924. DEGREE: Gr. (Univ. of Cambridge), 1927.

Makrrigp: Isobel Margaret Dale Green, June 24, 1939, Hove, England. cxit-
pREN: Winifred Margaret, Oct. 13, 1940; Oliver, Dec. 8, 1941; Elizabeth
Jane, Oct. 1, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Assistant civil secretary, Sudan Government, Sudan Political
service,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Sudan Auxiliary Force, 1940-41.

[ 1088 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER a freshman year spent in Cambridge, Massachusetts, I
returned to my own country and took my degree in Cambridge,
England, where I earned a History Tripos (Class II) in 1927.
Having started fencing at Harvard, I continued and represented
the side against Oxford. After graduating in 1927, I was selected
for the Sudan Political Service, a service analagous in many ways
to the British Colonial Service, though coming for various
reasons under the distant control of the Foreign Office through
the governor general, who is a Foreign Office selection. The
members of the Sudan Political Service work only in the
administration of the Sudan, a country which is expected at some
date in the not distant future to attain some form of independence.
The Political Service has always been one which not only
administers the Sudan but also carries a definite burden to teach
the Sudanese self-government. The Political Service not only
carries out policy laid down but also lays down the policy.

The Sudan is a vast country and from 1927 to this time I have
been in many parts of it. Port Sudan with its outlet on the Red
Sea, its pilgrim traffic, its viewx port of Suakin a few miles away
and its piles of long staple Gezereh cotton on its quays; the
extreme south bordering on Uganda, Kenya, and the Belgian
Congo; Gambela Enclave some seventy-five miles into western
Abyssinia; Khartoum, which grows so fast, and the Sudd Region
of the upper Nile. It is mainly in the last area mentioned that I
have been employed, among the long-legged Nilotic tribesmen,
the Nuer, Dinka, and Shilluk — cattle men roaming vast savan-
nahs in the dry season and huddled on small patches of higher land
during the time of rains and flooded rivers. At present I have
returned to Khartoum, where I hold the post of assistant civil
secretary. Immediately before the war, in June, 1939, I married
Isobel Margaret Dale Green, and she returned with me to the
Sudan at the outbreak of the war.

WILLIAM ROTCH WISTER

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Oldwick, N. J.

BORN: Feb, 18, 1904, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Owen Wister, ’82, Mary
Channing.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

[ 1089 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

marriep: Frances Kearsley Mitchell, Dec. 7, 1929, Philadelphia, Pa. CHILDREN:
William Rotch, Jr. Sept. 20, 1933; Frances S.. Nov. 27, 1935-
HARVARD SoN: William Rotch Wister, Jr., °55.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Owen Jones Wister, ’23; Charles Kemble Butler Wister,
"30.

OCCUPATION: President, general manager, water treatment service.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant (j.g.), U. S. Naval Reserve, 1940;
receiving ships, Brooklyn Navy Yard, 1941; U.S.S. South Dakota, 1942-
43; Eighth & Eleventh Assault Forces, Normandy and St. Raphael, 1944;
USS. Portsmouth, 1945.

I AM still persuaded that the hedonistic attitude is the most
rewarding.

HENDERSON MALCOLM WOLFE, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: The Color Farm, New Preston, Conn.

BORN: July 6, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Henderson Malcolm Wolfe,
Elizabeth Fayerweather Wood.

PREPARED AT: Peekskill Military Academy, Peekskill, N. Y.
UN MARRIED.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

OCCUPATION: Art.

OFFICES HELD: Teacher, Department of Art History, Bryn Mawr College,
1949-50.

WHEN I last made a fool of myself in these pages I was living
in New York, trying to find the answer to the question as to
whether I was an artist. New York, less diffuse than some auto-
biographers not a hundred miles from here, replied, “No.”

It seemed to me at the time that most of the technical problems
that beset an artist are pretty inaccessible, so I determined to
explore one of these problems thoroughly, with the hope of
making one path, at least, easier for students with more genius
than I. The result is the Color Farm. I raise not vegetables but
questions. I deliver not sirloins but answers. The admission fee
is an enquiring mind. This, of course, has needed private endow-
ment, and it was this my Dad tried to give me.

If I may, I should like to pay tribute to him, although he was
not a Harvard man. (He finally graduated from N.Y.U. with
the help of a friendly policeman, who took notes for him when
Dad had to work nights, he was already working all day.) How
he would have graced these pages! He belonged to many clubs,

[ 1090 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

held many offices, but he said, “I have worked very hard all my
life, but I never had much fun. I would like you to do what
you want to do and I'll help you to do it.” Hence the Color
Farm. It has been fun.

HENRY RUSSELL WOOD

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Katherine PI., Asheville, N. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Six Associates, Inc., Architects — Engineers, 1095 Hender-
sonville Rd., Asheville, N. C.

BoRN: Aug. 21, 1905, New Bedford, Mass. parents: Henry Wood, Clotilde
von Kretschman.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: S.B., 1927; M.ARCH., 1932.

MarRiED: Anne Rose Morton, June 12, 1941, Asheville, N. C. cyivp: Eliza-

beth Gordon, July 30, 1944.

occuPATIOoN: Architect.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant, U.S.N.R., aerial gunnery instructor.
I HAVE never seen a Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report and
haven’t the faintest idea of what is wanted or for what you have
room. George Russell, in his latest “Frantic Appeal” to the back-
sliders, calls it a complete and readable life. I shall try to make it
brief and leave a space in the book for those best qualified to fill
It.

After graduation from the Harvard School of Architecture
in 1932, the Nelson Robinson Travelling Fellowship took me to
Europe for twelve months of sketching and travel. The trip
afforded me a welcome opportunity to visit my mother in Pots-
dam, and to savor once more the color and beauty of Europe.

When I returned to this country in the fall of 1933, I spent
months searching for a job. Then, in the spring of 1934, I was
asked by a good friend to set out once more on a year’s (expenses
paid) motor tour through the British Isles, the Scandinavian
countries, Europe, and North Africa — thirty-three countries
in all. I jumped at the chance to make that trip of which every
day and hour is a golden memory. We spent weeks in Taormina,
Sicily, that could have been taken from the pages of Norman
Douglas. From Syracuse we crossed to Tripoli and drove over
Rommel’s rough and frequently unmarked route to Alexandria,
Cairo, Shepherd’s Hotel, floated blissfully for three weeks on the
Nile. Too good to be true, and of course too good to last. I was

[ togt ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

soon to find out how the other nine-tenths live. During 1935 I
was doing architectural odd jobs in Massachusetts and Maine.
During 1936 I was working for Raymond Loewy, New York
industrial designer. A grand office, everyone clever and a little bit
mad. In 1937 the opportunity presented itself to go to work in
Asheville, North Carolina, for Anthony Lord, a Yale architect
with many interests and hobbies, including wrought iron work.
Here, I thought, was the ideal life, not too hurried, time enough
left to be a human being. I am afraid it was a mirage. Business
was just off temporarily. I have been working nights and week-

ends since then.

In 1940 I became a registered architect in North Carolina and
went to work in Wilmington on some Defense Housing Projects.
In June of the same year, I married Anne Morton Norman and
became the proud stepfather of bright and talented Nancy Nor-
man. In 1941 I returned to Asheville to work for Six Associates,
Inc., on a couple of Army hospital projects. In 1943 I received
a reserve commission in the Navy and went to Panama, Oklahoma,
and Iowa to teach aerial gunnery. In 1944 I became the proud
parent of Elizabeth Gordon Wood. Since 1946 I have been
associated with Six Associates, Inc., Architects — Engineers. At
present I am resident engineer-inspector on the Memorial Mis-
sion Hospital now under construction.

STANLEY DUMONTE WOODARD

HOME ADDRESS: 8220 Eastern Ave., N.W., Washington, D. C.

OFFice apprEss: Dept. of the Air Force, Pentagon Bldg., Washington 25, D. C.

BORN: Oct. 1, 1904, Indianapolis, Ind. parents: Stanley Pomphrey Woodard,
Adcle Ferree.

prepareD AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

Makarigp: Grace Elizabeth Colvin, July 5, 1936, New York, N. Y.

occupation: Federal government budget officer, military construction.

IN THE fall of 1926, I enrolled in the Floating University which
was a college on the 5.5. Ryndam with 500 college students and
a faculty of fifty-five. We sailed west around the world for
eight and a half months and touched almost every major country
on the way. Classes were held daily and conformed to the
Jocale. Such an experience can never be forgotten.

[ 1092 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I joined the International General Electric Company and
advertised G. E. refrigerators abroad. I went into Wall Street in
preparation to joining my father’s investment banking firm. After
the crash and a few years of depression, it seemed as though
government work was the best bet. I have been in Washington
ever since and intend to stay. I have done industrial research for
the National Resources Board, was assistant director in housing
management in the National Housing Agency, and since 1948
have been in budget work in the Air Force. We have a home in
northwest Washington and my hobbies are golf and gardening.

HENRY SEWALL WOODBRIDGE

HOME ApDpRESS: Rocky Road, Pomfret, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Optical Co., 14 Mechanic St., Southbridge, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 20, 1906, New York, N. Y. Parents: George Woodbridge,
Harriet Manley.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass., Middlesex School, Concord,
Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

mMarRiED: Dorothy Steese White, Jan. 8, 1928, Willimantic, Conn. CHILDREN:
Henry Sewall, Jr., Dec. 11, 1928 (7. Rosamund Logan, June 6, 1951);
Anne Sidney, May 20, 1930 (7. Charles P. Howze, Jr., Sept. 8, 1951);
Ellen Victoria, June 10, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, American Optical Company, manufacturers of
ophthalmic and optical products and equipment, safety products, sun
glasses, scientific and optical precision instruments, and military instru-
ments. .

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Representative of industry on the National
War Labor Board and member of the Industrial Advisory Committee
of War Production Board.

OFFICES HELD: Town Meeting Representative, Brookline, Mass., elected 1932,
reélected twice, served until 1940; member of Committee of Thirty
(Finance Committee), Brookline, 1937-39; chairman, Committee on
Police, Fire and Public Welfare, Brookline, 1939; co-chairman, Repub-
lican Town Finance Committee, Pomfret, Conn,, since 1944; chairman,

Pomfret School Building Committee, 1945-49; member, State of Con-
necticut Development Commission, since 1949; chairman Eisenhower
for President Club, Pomfret, 1952; director, Raymond-Whitcomb, Inc.,
Boston, 1936-41; president and director, International Proprietaries,
Inc., Dayton, Ohio, since 1940, Tri-County Development Corporation,
Hartford, since 1951; member, National Industrial Conference Board,
New York, since 1946; Chamber of Commerce of the United States,
Southbridge, since 1946, Industrial Relations Research Institute, Urbana,

[ 1093 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

since 1946, Scientific Apparatus Makers Association, Chicago, since
1949; director, Wauregan Mills, Inc. (Conn.) since 1946, Eclipse Glass
Company, Thomaston, Conn., since 1951; Connecticut Forest and Park
Association, Hartford, since 1951; wustee, Children’s Museum, Boston,
1936-42, Old Sturbridge Village Museum, Sturbridge, since 1941, Day-
Kimball Hospital, Putnam, since 1945, Middlesex School, Concord,
since 1945, Clark Memorial Medical Centre, Abington, since 1950;

vestryman, Christ Church (Episcopal) Parish, Pomfret, since 1944, and
treasurer, 1944-47.

MEMBER OF: Metropolitan Club; Cosmos Club, Washington, D. C.; Harvard
Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New York; The Pontefract Club,

Pomfret, Conn.
I looked far back into other years, and
Jo! in bright array
I saw as in a dream —

MY FIRST job on leaving college was with Stone & Webster,
Inc., in Boston. My pay was $12.00 a week and my duties were
those of a messenger boy including the washing of inkwells and
the cleaning of pens. We were called Table Boys and were shifted
from floor to floor to learn the work of the various departments.
And if you made the grade you were promoted to the basement
where, as a mail clerk, you were well on your way to success.

After a year and a half I was offered a job in the cruise depart-

ment of Raymond & Whitcomb Company, one of the world’s
three great travel companies. I remained with the company for
twelve years eventually becoming general manager and a director.
The rise of Nazism and the war in Europe reduced the travel
business almost to zero and so, when offered, I accepted the job
as business manager and assistant to the publisher of the Boston
Evening Transcript. | stayed with the paper until the last edition
was published on April 30, 1941.

A month later I accepted the position offered me as special as-
sistant to the president of American Optical Company, half my
time being spent in connection with the affairs of the family who
owned the company and half my time with the company. Within
a year I was spending my full time with the company and still am.
During the intervening years I have successively been manager of
the War Service Bureau, Washington, D. C., 1942-44, assistant to
the executive vice-president, 1944-46, assistant to the president,
1946-47, director of Industrial and Public Relations, 1947-49,

[ 1094 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

assistant to the president and director of the Government Service

Bureau, 1949-50 (a year in Washington, D. C.), director of Busi-

ness Research and Development, 1950-51, vice-president, Ameri-

can Optical Company, since 1951.

During these years I have been fortunate in having to travel
uite a bit on business. I took a cruise to the West Indies in 1927.

The following year I went around Africa on a cruise visiting

ports and places of interest on all sides of that vast continent. Also

that year I went on a North Cape cruise visiting Scandinavia and
northern Europe. In 1929 I cruised throughout the Mediterranean

Sea including a second visit to Egypt and the lower Nile. I again

made the North Cape Cruise which included a trip to Russia with

visits to Leningrad and Moscow. I have made a number of trips to
England and France, the last being a five-week stay in London in
the spring of 1944 during the war. There I saw first-hand the de-
termined courage of a people who would not accept defeat.
Believing firmly that democracy will succeed only if everyone
is willing to make personal sacrifices in sharing the burden of try-
ing to make it work no matter how unimportant or unspectacular
their share may be, I have for years taken part in the processes of
government. When living in Brookline, Massachusetts, a town of
about 50,000 inhabitants, I was elected one of the 243 Town Meet-
ing members, first in 1932, and reélected twice thereafter, serving
until I left in 1940. For three years I served on the Committee of
Thirty (Finance Committee) and was one year chairman of the
Committee on Police, Fire and Public Welfare. I also worked in
local and state campaigns and accompanied the Willkie train in
Massachusetts during the election campaign of 1940.

In 1941 we moved to Pomfret, Connecticut, a rural community
of 2,000 inhabitants set in some of the loveliest rolling country of
the eastern part of the United States. Pomfret’s affairs are still
carried on in the old-fashioned way through Town Meetings con-
ducted for all practical purposes the same way as they were almost
300 years ago. In 1945 I was made chairman of the Pomfret
School Building Committee. This committee was responsible for
building the new Central Elementary School and was able to re-

turn unexpended money to the town treasury on the completion
of the school. I have served as moderator at town meetings and
also as co-chairman and chairman of the Republican Town Fi-

[ 1095 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

nance Committee. In 1949 I was appointed by the governor to the
State of Connecticut Development Commission on which I am
still serving. I have also been chairman of the Connecticut Eastern
States Exhibit, the Eastern Connecticut Development Committee
and the state’s representative on the Committee for Contemporary
Connecticut Painting. I have recently been elected president of
the Tri-County Development Corporation, its purpose being to
revive industry in eastern Connecticut without the use of public
money.

During World War II, I served on an advisory committee of
the War Production Board and also as a representative of industry
on the National War Labor Board. The latter with its first-hand
experience in management-labor relations was most interesting.
After the war I served for two years as a member of the National
Industrial Conference Board’s Advisory Council on labor matters.

For a number of years I served as a trustee of the Children’s
Museum of Boston. I have also been and still am a trustee of Old
Sturbridge Village, Sturbridge, Massachusetts (an educational
non-profit institution that can be described as a centre of living
history that is the Northeast’s largest lived-in and functioning re-
constructed museum community). I am also a trustee of the Day-
Kimball Hospital, Putnam, Connecticut (it operates in the black
and charges the lowest rates of any comparably sized hospital in

the state), and the Clark Memorial Centre of Abington, Connecti-
cut (to bring medical care and health education to rural districts).
I am also a director of the Connecticut Forest and Park Associa-
tion (it works for the preservation, protection and conservation
of our state’s natural resources). 1 was formerly treasurer and am
still a member of the vestry of Christ Church, Pomfret.

Dorothy and I have been married for almost twenty-five years
and despite the usual trials and difficulties, the years have passed
in happy fashion providing us, if not with a future, at least with an
old age pension and a sea of memories to sail on in our old age (if
inflation should devaluate the pension we might have to swim).

We have three children. The first, Henry, Jr., missed being the
Class Baby by a small margin. He followed me by going to Mid-
dlesex School but unfortunately after leaving school he fell prey
to the decaying influences of modern times (in the words of a
radio comedian: “This is a joke, son.”) and chose Yale from which

[ 1096 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

he graduated in 1951. Just before graduating he niarried Rosa-
mund Logan of New London and after graduation was sworn in
as a 2nd lieutenant in the United States Marine Corps Reserve and
is now on active duty.

Anne, our second child, went to Concord Academy and then
for three years to the Boston Museum School of Art where she
learned the craft of silversmithing. This past September she mar-
ried Charles P. Howze, Jr., a senior this year at Yale, with a
Virginia and Alabama background (rebel yells now echo through
our house).

Our third child, Victoria, now fourteen, pretty much runs our
family affairs. For the past ten years she has been attending the
Rectory School in Pomfret, with one year out at the Potomac

School in Washington and is headed this fall to Miss Porter's
School, Farmington, Connecticut.

I have enjoyed many things in my life but the thing that I have
perhaps least enjoyed has been writing this biography. It is a
curious state of affairs that the 1927 Twenty-fifth Reunion Com-
mittee should inflict this torture on one and then ask for contribu-
tions; but their acceptance is such that they get what they want
without much difficulty. What greater tribute than this can be

paid to Harvard’s continuing influence?

ROLAND BEAVAN WOODWARD, JR.

HOME aAppress: Oval Avenue, Riverside, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Satterlee, Browne & Mathews, 30 Broad St., New York, N. Y.
BORN: Jan. 24, 1905, Rochester, N. Y. parents: Roland Beavan Woodward,
Anne Murray Yule Curr.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927; LL.B. 1931.
MarrigD: Jean Marie Goodger, Nov. 22, 1941, Rochester, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Deanne Jean, Feb. 10, 1943; Roland Beavan, 3d, Nov. 4, 1945.
HARVARD BROTHER: Harper Woodward, ’31, LL.B. "34.
occuPATion: Lawyer; member of firm, Satterlee, Browne & Mathews.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II: U.S.N.R.; entered as lieutenant,
April, 1942; separated as commander A-V(S), April, 1946.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Riverside Yacht Club, Riverside,
Conn.

[ 1097 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

AFTER graduating in 1927, I spent a very enjoyable year in
Europe travelling and studying. The next three years were
devoted to the much more arduous task of getting through
Harvard Law School and, that having been accomplished, I went
eagerly and hopefully to New York City where the oppor-
tunities seemed so much more promising than in the old home
town. The financial rewards were not as great as I had hoped,
but the experience gained during the next six years was con-
siderable, varying all the way from a clerkship in one of the
largest New York offices to corporate reorganization work with
an individual practitioner.

With that experience behind me, I persuaded my brother to
join me in opening an office in Rochester, New York, where we
had both grown up. The years there, from 1937 to 1940, proved
to be both interesting and enjoyable, as almost every type of
legal matter came our way sooner or later and I had time to
give to numerous extra-curricular activities such as serving on
various committees of the Chamber of Commerce, as secretary
of the Citizens’ Tax League and of the local Harvard Club, and
as a member of the board of trustees of a neighborhood settlement
house.

In spite of the many attractions of living and working in a city
the size of Rochester, we were disappointed to discover that the
big corporations and the banks seemed satisfied with their regular
counsel. Feeling that our talents were being wasted, we both went
back to New York City where in 1940, I became associated
with the firm of Satterlee & Green.

The war soon intervened and for the four years from 1942 to
1946, I was in the Navy. Although I never left the country, I was
fortunate enough to have interesting types of duty —as an
operational intelligence officer at the headquarters of the Gulf
Sea Frontier and at the Naval Air Station in Corpus Christi,
Texas, as voting supervisor for the Seventh Naval District and
as judge advocate of a General Court Martial.

When it was over I returned to the old office, became a part-
ner in 1947, and am still with the firm which is now known as
Satterlee, Browne & Mathews. Although we handle a general
practice, our specialty is tax law which is a busy field these days.

Having married in 1941 and acquired two children during the

[ 1098 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

war, the obvious, and in fact about the only thing we could do
when we came back in 1946, was to buy a house in the suburbs.
As a result, we live in Riverside, Connecticut, in a neighborhood
with lots of children and dogs, and a public school which is as
good as any private school I know. A commuter does not lead
the ideal life, bur I am rclatively fortunate in travelling on the
New Efaven Railroad.

When my wife becomes annoyed, as she sometimes does,
about the few waking hours I spend at home, she accuses me of
being married to the law. This I deny. But I must admit that
the law is a jealous mistress. So I have both a jealous mistress and
a jealous wife, and I love them both.

Under the heading of travel, hobbies, and convictions of all
sorts, | have nothing of particular significance to report. Solely
for the record: I am a liberal Republican, I belong to the
Episcopal Church, send my children to Sunday School regularly,
and go to church occasionally myself. I hope that the next
twenty-five years will include much interesting travel and many
fascinating experiences which I can recount for our Fiftieth
Anniversary Report.

TALMADGE WOODWARD

HOME Appress: Afanana Lane, Palm Beach, Fla.

BorN: April 14, 1905, Le Roy, N. Y. parents: Ernest Leroy Woodward,
Edith May Hartwell.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.

MarrigD: Jane Kelly, July 22, 1927, Rochester, N. Y. (divorced 1948); Molly
Melville, Sept. 25, 1948. cHitpren: John, July 10, 1928, Joan, Nov. 23,
1933.

HARVARD SON: John Woodward, ’s5o.

MEMBER OF: Genesee Valley and Country Club of Rochester, N. Y.; Batavia
Club, Batavia, N. Y.; Everglades, Palm Beach, Fla.

ANTI-ROOSEVELT, ant-Truman, anti-Russian, anti-income
tax, anti- Harvard’s attitude towards its football] teams, anti-conven-
tions and college reunions.

[ 1099 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

SAMUEL HARRY WOOLF

HOME AppRESS: 1221 E. 71st Pl., Chicago 19, Ill.

BorN: Feb. 23, 1904, Kansas City, Mo. parents: Harry Bernard Woolf, Alma
Salomon.

PREPARED AT: Enid High School, Enid, Okla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927(28).

UNMARRIED,

MEMBER OF: International Society for General Semantics; Institute of Gen-

eral Semantics.

IT IS extremely difficult for me to write the story of my life,
not because it is “too difficult to get started” but mainly because I
somehow feel that I have not attained material goals as so many
classmates have. I continue to wonder how I ever got through
Harvard College on account of my life-time deafness which made
it so difficult for me to comprehend the lectures as well as to
establish good means of communications. I feel that it was simply
luck that I got my degree because I was very much in the dark
on many subjects. The only good thing I got out of Harvard
was mathematical training which has been very useful to me in
coping with so many situations or complexities of life more or
less successfully.

From 1931 to 1937, I was studying chemistry at the University
of Chicago hoping to get a doctorate. Circumstances which I
could not help somehow changed my plans. I now regret very
much that I did not continue with my studies, for I would have
long ago become a theoretical chemist. My deafness as well as
other problems made it much more difficult for me to establish
good communication ties which are very necessary.

As a result, I have been working very hard in efforts to over-
come the obstacles of difficulties of communication and have
been learning to my stark realization that these difficulties are
basic everywhere in our society. No wonder there is so much
misunderstanding throughout the world. We are living in an
age of communications; thus, it becomes much more important
to do something about them on account of the atomic bomb.
These are merely my views I am expressing.

Finding that I was not needed in the war effort, I went to the
Art Institute in 1943, where I studied drawing and painting. |

[ 1100 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

learned a great deal about the meaning of self-expression in
painting as well as in other arts. It was a very valuable experience
for me.

My chief hobby is photography. At present I am very much
absorbed in studying various subjects which I more or less
overlooked while at Harvard and am learning much more about
many things only to find that I really know very little. It is an
honest fact that I am confronted with the stark realization that I
have yet so much to Icarn.

Circumstances have prevented me from having a clear perspec-
tive towards my personal problems with the result that I am
not married and that I have no career at this moment. I guess
that it is because I simply refuse to accept belicfs or views or
dogmas on the part of others on account of my mathematical or
rather scientific orientation which I apply to everyday life rather
than within the confines of the laboratory.

RUFUS MORGAN WOOTTEN

HOME ADDRESS: 39 Boonwood Homes, Gibsonville, N. C.

OFFICE aAppress: Western Electric Co., Inc., Burlington, N. C.

BORN: Jan. 1, 1902, New Bern, N. C. parents: Charles Thomas Wootten,
Mary Bayard Clarke.

PeRPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DFGREE: $.B. IN MECH. ENG. 1928.

MarRiED: Helen Sutphin Lucas, July 3, 1929, Brookline, Mass. cHILDREN:
Mary Louise, Feb. 7, 1931; Virginia, April 14, 1936.

occupation: Radio and radar manufacturing; project enginecr for trans-
oceanic, and ship-to-shore radio telephone equipment.

MEMBER OF: Atlas Lodge #125, F. & A. M., Westfield, N. J.; Chapel Hill
Rotary Club; Harvard Engineering Club; Burlington Engineers’ Club.

AFTER graduation I went to work with the Western Flectric
Company in Kearny, New Jersey, as an equipment engineer.
Always swore one thing I did not want to do was electrical
engineering but on my first job I was in it up to my neck —
telephone circuits. The depression put an end to that in 1933,
when I, along with 20,000 other employees, was laid off. The fol-
lowing two years I would forget if I could. I was among the first
to be called back to Western Electric and it was a happy day. I
worked there for the next ten years doing various jobs in the

[ 1101 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

manufacturing of telephone equipment. During the last stages

of the war, I changed jobs while I could — was too old for the

draft but worked as a consulting engineer on job evaluation.

This required travelling to the various plants of General Cable

on one assignment. In 1946, due to the illness of my mother, I went

home to North Carolina to manage her photographic business in

Chapel Hill. When she recovered, I went to work for the West-

ern Electric Company again, this time in Burlington, North

Carolina, as a project engineer in charge of trans-oceanic,
emergency, and ship-to-shore radio telephone equipment. This
' job I find very interesting and am free to handle as I please — it’s
my baby.
I married Helen Lucas of Brookline, Massachusetts, in July,
1929. Our first child, a red-headed daughter, Mary Louise, was
born in New Jersey on February 7, 1931. She graduates from
Tufts College this June—a sociology major. The depression
again interfered and our second daughter, Virginia, was not
born until 1936. She is a junior in high school and is planning to
go to Tufts — Bouvé in 1953. We live in Gibsonville, a small
town in the Piedmont section of North Carolina, where the
climate is warm in the daytime and cool at night. We practically
commute to Boston and Rockport, Massachusetts — making the
trip three or four times a year. When we aren’t travelling north,
we are going east to the coast of Carolina for fishing and
swimming.

I take great joy in my strawberries — still picking them in
November, and in asparagus, which I can cut two or three times
a year. My pet hobby right now is earthworms, which do won-
ders for the Carolina clay soil.

I register as a Democrat, that being the only way I can vote in
the local elections but I am perfectly willing to vote Republican
when a good man can be found. Living in the middle of the so-
called “Bible Belt,” I am a baptized Episcopalian, but am apt to
be found in the garden communing with God on a Sunday
morning. My wife is still waiting for me to make the million
dollars I promised her but with all our ups and downs she says
it has not been dull and we rather enjoy life.

[ 1102 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ FRANCIS WALTER WORRIS

Born: July 13, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Peter Worris, Pauline
Pasteur.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924.

piep: Feb. 19, 1925, at Pembroke, N. EL.

IN NOVEMBER of his sophomore year at college, Francis
Walter Worris was given a leave of absence for reasons of health.
From that time until his death the following year, he was under a
doctor’s care with a pulmonary condition. Ele dicd in New
Hampshire, but his permanent home was in Cambridge.

CYRUS GORDON WRIGHT

HoMeE aporess: 506 S. Union Ave. Fergus Falls, Minn.

OFFICE appress: Otter Tail Power Co. 125 S. Mill St, Fergus Falls, Minn.

BoRN: June 29, 1904, Fergus Falls, Minn. parents: Vernon Ames Wright,
Grace Tileston Clarke.

prepareo AT: Blake School, Minneapolis, Minn.; Phillips Academy, Andover,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927,

marrige: Louise Ely Hannah, June 24, 1930, Evanston, Ill. ciumpren: Robert,
Jan. 9, 1932; Alice, April 5, 1933; Malcolm, April 17, 1939; Margaret,
April 9, 1945.

occuPATION: Vice-president, Otter Tail Power Company.

JOHN GODDARD WRIGHT

HOME apoRESs: 158 Woodfield Rd., Westwood, N. J.

orFice appress: Lederle Laboratories Division, American Cyanamid, Pearl
River, N. Y.

BORN: June 24, 1905, Brookline, Alass. parents: George Henry Wright,
D.M.D., '03, Mary Louisa Watson.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.; Phillips Acad-
emy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; A.M. (Cornell Univ.), 1932.

Marriep: Margaret Virginia Benedict, April 28, 1939, New Haven, Conn.
CHILDREN; Nancy Alison, Jan. 9, 1941; Langdon Goddard, May 19, 1943.

occuPaTION: Industrial hygiene engineer, pharmaceutical manufacturing.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: A.U.S.; entered as ist lieutenant, Sanitary Corps,
July 21, 1943; served as industrial hygiene engineer at Wright Field,
Dayton, Ohio, November, 1943, to April, 1945; Warner Robbins Air
Technical Service, April, 1945, to January, 1946; reserve commission
as captain, Sanitary Corps.

[ 1103 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Wellesley Lodge, AF. & A.M.; St.
Paul's Chapter, Boston Council, De Molay Commandery, Knights
Templar.

THOSE members of the Class who are interested in a factual
account of my existence will find it in previous Class Reports. As
I sit down and try to recreate the twenty-five years of travail
since 1927, I feel more and more like H. M. Pulham, Esq. (one of
the few fictional characters I really understood) who tried to
sum up and express in a few well-chosen words the ups and downs
of his career since graduation. I find it increasingly difficult to
justify the investment both personal and by the University for
the four formative and fruitful years spent at Harvard.

These are not wholly wasted for there emerged a set of stand-
ards of thought, conduct, and achievement which holds as true
today as they did then. The function of a great university, there-
fore, is to perpetuate those standards in the face of the general
disintegration of morals and character which is the pattern taken
by many of our colleges today. Therefore, I am grateful to have
had a part in the great traditions of Harvard.

Such a large part of the time was spent in trying to find myself
and to fit i into an occupation where I could find personal satis-
factions. This took me about twelve years before I felt I was
making progress. Fortunately, the war did not halt but increased
my experience in my profession. Therein I was more fortunate
than others.

I have just undergone a major upheaval in leaving New Eng-
land and going to New Jersey. But large opportunities were avail-
able here. I am looking forward to another fifteen years of
increasing usefulness to myself and family before I retire.

CECIL IRTON WYLDE

HOME Appress: Centre Street, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE ADpkESS: Putnam, Griswold, Wylde & Ames, 53 State St., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: Jan, 28, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: John Wylde, Kate Irton Rob-
ertson.

prepARED AT; Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass,

YPARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1927.

Maaniep: Emilie Winslow, June 6, 1931, Newport, R, I. ctttpren; Cecil
Cameron Irton, Oct. 4, 1932; John, Feb. 26, 1936.

[ 1104 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD SON: Cecil Cameron Irton Wylde, 54.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Irton Wylde, ’17.

OccUPATION: Architect; partner in firm.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Head of Drafting and Design Department,
Radio Research Laboratory, Harvard University.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; Royal Institute of British
Architects (associate); Boston Society of Architects; Massachusetts State
Association of Architects; Dedham Country and Polo Club.

UPON graduation in 1927 I received from Harvard a Sheldon

Fellowship for travel and study abroad. This led to two years at

Cambridge University studying architecture and enjoying college

rowing and ice hockey in Austria, Germany, and Switzerland

during the Christmas vacations and travel in England and on the

Continent on the other vacations. Another year at Harvard work-

ing with Professor Mower, trying to paint and etch, convinced

me (together with the fact that since I was about to get married,
it might be advisable to try and earn some money) that a job was
essential. Thanks to Professor Sachs, the next three years I spent
with Coolidge, Shepley, Bulfinch & Abbott where I learned a lot
about colonial architecture and was lucky to get a chance to
spend much of my time working on the Harvard Memorial

Church.

In 1933 the depression was in full swing and most architectural
draftsmen, as well as many architects, were selling apples on
street corners. England, however, was enjoying a boom in build-
ing, so in 1934 the three of us (now) went abroad. For the next
four years I worked in three different offices, two in London and
another that combined two practices, one in Cumberland and the
other qoo miles to the south in Deal. The experience was valuable
and varied from making drawings for modern interiors on an
ocean liner to the renovation of the roof of Carlisle Cathedral.
Studying for the R.I.B.A. examination with instructors at London
University, working on various competitions with some travel
and a certain amount of mixed shooting, made life pleasant and
varied. Another son was born in Edinburgh, in 1936. It was an
interesting time to be in England; in these few years between 1934
and 1938 there were three kings. Life in the country was still like
living in the eighteenth century. We were lucky to have a chance
to share in it.

In 1938 we returned to Boston and an attempt to practise archi-

[ 1105 J]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

tecture as a principal. War started in Europe; like many others, I
joined the State Guard and rose to the rank of staff sergeant in the
1st Motor Squadron. I went into the Radio Research Laboratory
at Harvard as a draftsman, later becoming head of the drafting
and design department, working on radar jamming devices. In
December of 1945, with William E. Putnam, Roger Griswold, and
Theodore Ames, we formed the firm of Putnam, Griswold, Wylde
& Ames, architects at 53 State Street, where we share offices with
Dana Somes and Lincoln Boyden, all erstwhile Harvard men. We
have been, and are at present, very busy, but, if government re-
strictions get much stiffer, we can always sell apples or, better
still, go fishing.

GEORGE FRANCIS WYMAN

_ HOME Appress: 80 Lewis Rd., Northport, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Association of Cost Accountants, 505 Park Ave.,
New York 22, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 10, 1906, Mount Vernon, N. Y. Parents: Joseph Gray Wyman,
Martha Nichols Hobart.

PREPARED AT: White Plains High School, White Plains, N. Y.; Roger Ascham
School, White Plains, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1927.

MarRieD: Florence Denn, Feb. 8, 1944, New York, N. Y. cHILpReN: Claudia
Denn, Feb. 23, 1945; Diana Denn, Nov. 2, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Hobart Wyman, ’25.

occupation: Certified public accountant; editor, N.A.C.A. Bulletin.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered U. S. Army, November, 1942; received
finance training at Fort Harrison, Ind.; officer candidate training in
anti-aircraft artillery, Camp Davis, N. C.; promoted corporal and par-
ticipated in training of sr4th Anti-Aircraft Battalion, Fort Bliss, Texas,
in August, 1944, received medical discharge at Deshon General Hos-
pital, Butler, Pa., because of near-total deafness resulting from cerebro-
spinal meningitis.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Accountants.

AFTER graduation, stimulated partly by having been one of the

editors of the Harvard Crimson and partly by an active interest

in political and social affairs, I started out in newspaper work only
to realize that my father’s occupation of certified public account-
ant was more suited to me. In 1931 I entered the employ of Price,

Waterhouse & Company, as a junior accountant, later becoming

[ 1106 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a senior and receiving my C.P.A. degrce in 1937. In 1940 I joined
the staff of Arthur Andersen & Company, where [ remained until
1946 (except for military service) when I accepted a post on the
technical service staff of the National Association of Cost Ac-
countants (a primarily educational association in the industrial
accounting field with nearly 30,000 members and 109 chapters in
principal cities or industrial areas).

From the start a portion of my work related to the association’s
monthly publication, the N.A.C.A. Bulletin and in September,
1947, I was made its editor. The Bulletin is a full-fledged period-
ical, containing approximately ten technical articles in cach issue
and departments appropriate to the field of industrial accounting
and to association activities. It has been and continues to be a
challenging assignment.

During the fifteen years which followed graduation, life marked
time. I read and wrote varying amounts of poctry and felt keenl
the economic and political events of the 1930's. After my father’s
death in 1931, I was resident son to my mother and friend to my
brother who took up work in Washington.

It was not until June, 1942, a month before my mother’s death,
and a half-year before my entry into the Army, that I met Flor-
ence Denn and began to live to destined purposes. After our
marriage in 1944 in New York City, and birth there of our two
little girls, Claudia and Diana, in 1945 and 1947 respectively, we
settled down to permanent living in Northport on the north shore
of Long Island, where we purchased a house in 1949.

At this point, the narrative, like all others in this book, disap-
pears, so to speak, into the present where there is much to do.
There is little time for the earlier preoccupations, though there
is still a keen interest in world affairs. There is also, and more im-
portant, a growing awareness that we live in God’s sight and for
His purposes.

Since these words were written, the announcement has appeared
in the press that expansion of the Divinity School into an inter-
denominational graduate school for the education of Christian
ministers is contemplated. The project, an answer to a cultural as
well as spiritual necessity in a civilization conditioned largely to
consideration of God as either absent or remote, stirs hope that
here too Harvard will take a place of leadership.

[ 1107 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

CHARLES EDWARD WYZANSKI, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 39 Fayerweather St., Cambridge 38, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: U. S. District Court, Boston 9, Mass.
BORN: May 27, 1906, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Charles Edward Wyzanski,
Maude Rebecca Joseph.
PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Acad-
emy, Exeter, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1927; LL.B. 1930.
maRRiED: Gisela Warburg, July 23, 1943, White Plains, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Charles Max, Nov. 26, 1944; Anita Henrietta, Jan. 18, 1946.
occupaTion: U. S. district judge for the District of Massachusetts, since
Jan. 26, 1942.
WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Public member National Defense Mediation
Board, 1941-42; consultant, Lend Lease Administration, summer, 1942.
OFFICES HELD: Overseer, Harvard University, 1943-49, since 1951; lecturer on
government, Harvard University, 1942-43, 1949-50; visiting professor,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1948-50; trustee, Phillips Exeter
Academy, 1942-49, since 1950; trustee, Smith College, since 1949; over-
seer, Shady Hill School, Cambridge, since 1950; member council and
Executive Committee, American Law Institute, since 1942; fellow,
American Academy of Arts and Sciences; Rosenthal lecturer, North-
western University, 1942; Morison Foundation lecturer (Calif.), 1947;
Harvard Phi Beta Kappa orator, 1947; Marshall-Woods lecturer, Brown
University, 1950; member, International Labor Organization Committee
of Experts on the Application of Conventions (Geneva, Switzerland),
since 1945; judge, International Administrative Tribune (Geneva), since
1949; member, UNESCO Committee of Experts on International Copy-
right (Paris), since 1949; member, U. S. National Commission for
UNESCO (Washington, D. C.), since 1951; member, National Citizens’
Commission for the Public Schools, since 1949; law clerk, U. S. Circuit
Judges Augustus N. Hand, 1930-31, and Learned Hand, 1932; associate
and later partner, Ropes, Gray, Boyden & Perkins, and Ropes, Gray,
Best, Coolidge & Rugg, 1930, 1931-33, 1937-41; Solicitor, Department
of Labor, 1933-35; special assistant to attorney general, 1935-37.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New York; Satur-
day Club; Examiner Club; St. Botolph Club; Tavern Club; Curtis Club;
Nisi Pruis Club; Bar Association, City of Boston.
PUBLICATIONS: Occasional contributions to Atlantic Monthly, Fortune, The
Annals, The Harvard Law Review, and so forth.

WHILE I have always been glad I went to Harvard College, I
left it without any fire in my belly. In the material prosperity of
the twenties it was easier to have aims than ideals, views than
visions. Professor Babbitt had buttressed my inbred conservatism;
Whitehead, Niebuhr, and other prophets I now acclaim, I did

[ 1108 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

not then know; and experience came to me through Montaigne
rather than in the raw. Our generation was slow to fecl the
whip of adversity or the wind of adventure.

The Law School was a more exciting, friendly place — partly
because its specialized focus brought all into a brotherhood of
tradition. Almost all of us regarded Holmes as our apostle, and I
took for my bookplate a phrase from a letter he wrote to me in
1927: “For your sake I hope you may realize that when your
work scems to present only mean details you may realize that
every detail has the mystery of the universe behind it and may
keep up your heart with an undying faith.”

But the fulcrum on which my last quarter-century turned was
my clerkships for Judge A. N. Hand and Judge Learned Hand.
They gave me professional canons, intellectual standards, and
criteria of what makes a useful citizen. My reading, associations,
and habits of two decades stand in debt to them.

At Ropes, Gray, I worked with men whose character and
professional skill I also respected. While we did not always agree
on how far society could promote equality of opportunity
without impairing liberty, I found that they practised a larger
measure of fraternity than most men who more loudly declare
their democratic principles.

In 1933 FDR appointed me as Solicitor of Labor for Secretary
Perkins. In 1935 Solicitor General Reed took me on his staff
for arguments in the Supreme Court of the United States, and
I had the fortune to be there in 1937, which in historical im-
portance can be compared only with 1819 and 1895. Both Miss
Perkins and Mr. Reed practised with their own juniors the New
Deal doctrine that opportunity and responsibility are the great
developers of men’s capacities. We youngsters were given an
authority which brought to Washington in the thirties an
unusually large number of men who realized not only their
own promise, but the promise of the American creed. Some
who enlisted as torchbearers merely for the excitement of
marching in the parade discovered before they were mustered out
that idealism may also become a powerful force in the world of
reality.

From 1937 to April, 1941, I had a heavy, and far from parochial,
schedule of private practice. But I had no hesitation (after nine

[ 1109 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

months’ service in Washington on the National Defense Mediation
Board) in accepting a district judgeship as, for me, the most
rewarding way of life. The judge’s calling gives him an unrivalled
opportunity to discern the values preferred by his community
and to learn how they must be limited or expanded when applied
to the details of daily living. It leaves him a measure of inde-
pendence unknown elsewhere in modern America. It summons
forth his initiative and his courage. It utilizes during his working
hours all he learns during his playtime. It bids him grow in
sympathy and understanding. And while it may well be that
there are no absolute standards of truth, beauty, and goodness
to guide him, the judge’s work is shot through with a moral
process. For it is his daily task to appraise with detachment and
humility the competing interests “between whose endless jar
justice resides,”

The outside errands I have most cared about concerned Harvard
and Exeter. This may seem to exalt the municipal over the
universal. But most of us cherish the rock whence we are hewn.
And I know no better company than a mixture of men of affairs
and men of scholarship bound together by a common concern for
the future of youth and of learning.

My annual ILO and UNESCO trips to Europe have the zest
which comes from working with men of wide culture and varied
backgrounds. They represent my confidence that peace depends
as much on the evolution of tolerable adjustments acceptable to
men of diverse patterns and purposes as on any balance of military
or political power.

In 1943 I had the incredible luck to marry the happiest, most
unspoiled, and most lovable girl I have ever met. Living with her
makes the whole year spring. From her I have learned much, but
especially about the Jews. During my college days and for long
thereafter I thought the solution was assimilation to the point of
complete surrender by the Jews of their identity. Now I doubt
its possibility as a universal principle for minorities of every color
and creed; and I also doubt its desirability. Psychologically it
promotes in the individual a sense of shame. Socially it would
make America sacrifice the variety of inspiration on which we
have grown great, and substitute the dread evil of mass conform-

ity. I confess that I have done very little about studying the

[ 1110 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

contributions of the Jews. Yet perhaps the first step which counts
is to recognize that the dignity of man begins with oncself, and
that every strain which has entered into one’s being is part of the
total spiritual worth which one has to contribute to the common
store.

We have two fine, healthy, alert children. They and their
mother far outweigh all other influences on me and have over-
whelmingly turned the balance in the scales so as to make my
life as happy as any I know.

FREDERICK TRACEY YATES

HOME AporeEss: 111 Thompson St, Springfield 9, Mass.

orice appress: Kinki CIXE Region, GHQ, SCAP, APO 15, c/o PM, San
Francisco, Calif. (Osaka).

BorN: Sept. 27, 1898, Little Lever, Lancashire, England. parents: Thomas
Yates, Betsy Nancy Jenkinson.

PREPARED AT: Springfield High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: 8.B., 1927.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Chief, Civil Information Division, GHIQ, SCAP.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U, S, Army, Chemical Warfare Section, Octo-
ber, 1942; Air Force Intelligence School, December, 1943, England
with ill-fated 49znd Bomb Group, April, 1944; transferred to 467th
Bomb Group, August, 1944, returned to U.S., June, 1945, retraining to
move to Okinawa when war ended; honorably discharged and _ pro-
moted to civilian (permanent rank), September, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Advertising manager, Brentano's Bookstores, 1930-36, Amer-
ican Writing Paper Corporation, 1936-42; chief, Information and Adver-
tising Division, War Assets Administration (New York), 1946-48, chief,
Civil Information Division, GHQ, SCAP, 1949-51.

MEMBER OF: Military Government Association (Tokyo Branch).

PusLications: Miscellaneous book publishing and advertising trade articles.

DURING much of the past twenty-five years I have been a
rolling stone without gathering a great deal of financial moss but
deriving boundless satisfaction from my activities, travels, and
contacts with many peoples.

After graduation I was reluctant to clamp my nose to the
commercial grindstone without seeing something of the world.
As a result I spent some fifteen months studying in Munich and
Vienna and rambling through a dozen countries afoot or awheel.

[ri]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

Back in New York just before the Great Depression, I turned
to the book publishing and advertising professions. In one sense

I was successful, for I was never out of a job, while bigger and

better men were eased out on to the street. But promotions

were usually followed by salary cuts, until it looked as though

I'd end up paying for the privilege of working. After riding out

the depression, I shook the dust of dismal New York off my

tired feet and turned to the open spaces of New England. As
an advertising agency executive and later as advertising manager
of a leading paper mill, I still found time for real living —
gardening, reading, sports, and lasting friendships.
When the war came along, I was glad to do what little an “old
man” of forty-four could do and eventually found myself in
the “Comical Warfare Section.” For half a year I observed in
the Utah desert, the repeated building, bombing, burning, and
rebuilding of entire German and Japanese-ty pe villages — a
project that paid off when the Japanese will to resist had to be
broken. However, I wanted overseas duty and more action.
Early in 1944, I transferred to Air Force Intelligence and went
to England with a heavy bombardment group. Over-eager and
inadequately trained, the group was thrown into the great air
battles over Germany prematurely and was shot to pieces in the
first few weeks. When morale dropped to “ceiling zero,” the
group was disbanded, and my squadron was transferred to
another group, where its fortunes and effectiveness improved.

At the end of the war I gladly resumed my civilian status and
less gladly returned to New York City, where I was offered a
job with the War Assets Administration. As chief of the In-
formation and Advertising Division of the New York Region I
had to publicize and advertise the sale of war surplus materials
and plants costing several billions of dollars. The fabulous WAA
project and the equally fantastic civil service mentality deserve
a book, but I haven’t time to write it. Besides, it would have to be
sold as fiction!

About the time WAA and my job began to run out in 1948, I
was offered a post as civil information officer with the Military
Government Section in Japan. For six incredible months I
jeeped all over one of the primitive mountainous prefectures of
upper Honshu to encourage and supervise postwar reconstruc-

[ rr12 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion. Then I was uprooted and given supervision of the big
northern island of Hokkaido, the Japanese equivalent of New
England. Apparently, I was too happy there also, and six months
later I was ordered to Tokyo to head up information activities
for all Japan. But now the sands of the Occupation are running
out, and another move looms ahead, probably on to a boat for
home this time.

The past several years in this wondrous country have been
like living on the other side of the moon. This exotic, up-ended
land is rarely beautiful, but its narrow valleys and hemmed-in
plains are crowded with teeming millions, struggling for ex-
istence. The people are a paradox — sincerely friendly to their
conquerors; shockingly poor but serene or even gay; shrewd and
naive; honest in their personal dealings but ever ready to rook
the government or a corporation or a charity; anxious to run
their own show but afraid of the responsibility. With their
ancient traditions, strange customs and obscure code of ethics,
they are generally unpredictable. Whether or not they have
really come to understand and value democratic principles only
time can tell, We can merely hope that we have “won friends
and influenced people.”

HARRY ROSS YOUNG

HOME aApprEss: 329 Valley Rd., Llanerch, Havertown, Pa.
OFFICE ApprEss: E. I. duPont de Nemours & Co., Inc., Wilmington, Del.
BORN: Aug. 28, 1904, Lynn, Mass. parents: Albert Edwin Young, Clara
Susanna Jones. .
PREPARED aT: Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.; English High School,
Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: 8.B. cum laude, 1927.

MarrieD: Margaret Mason Olsen, April 18, 1931, Pepperell, Mass. CHILDREN:
Elizabeth, Sept. 30, 1932; Rebecca, June 11, 1936.

occupaTION: Supervisor, New Products, Industrial Sales, Finishes Division,
E. I. duPont de Nemours & Company, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Philadelphia Professional Chapter, Alpha Chi Sigma.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Delaware, Alpha Chi Sigma; Armed Forces
Chemical Association; National Security Industrial Association; Phila-
delphia Paint and Varnish Production Club; Girl Scouts of the U.S.A.;
Haverford Township Historical Society.

[1113]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles on paint and varnish subjects in Journal of
Industrial and Engineering Chemistry; New England Gas News; New
England Purchaser; contributed extensively to technical articles ap-
pearing in Chemical Engineering, Chemical and Engineering News,
Electrical Manufacturing, Bookbinding and Book Production.

AFTER our graduation ceremonies had been completed, I took

the first train to Philadelphia to begin my duties as a paint research

chemist for duPont in their then paint, varnish, and lead division.

In order to entice chemists into this mysterious business, salaries

were ten dollars a month higher than in other more classical

pursuits — and this was a sufficient attraction.

By 1932 I had become a sales service chemist, and in 1935 a
laboratory group leader. In 1946 I was transferred to Wilmington
to work in the field research section of the fabrics and finishes
department, and in 1951 was given my present assignment in
the finishes division, where I am concerned with the manufacture
and sale of paint, varnish, lacquer, enamel, resin, and adhesive.

The elder of my two daughters is at Radcliffe College where
she has now completed two years of work.

As a result of certain U.S. Patents which had been granted to
me, I received in 1940, the “Modern Pioneer” award of the
National Association of Manufacturers, thus reaching the lime-
light briefly.

My travels have been constant, incidental to earning a living,
but, except for brief journeys into Canada and Mexico, have all
been domestic. I willingly leave the glamorous and distant
reaches of the world to my classmates.

ENRIQUE CARLOS ZANETTI

HOME AppRESS: Pampa 1839, Planta Baja, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sarmiento 355, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

BORN: May 11, 1905, Havana, Cuba. parents: Enrique de Cruzat Zanetti,
Esperanza Conill.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1927.

MaRRieD: George Pearson, Dec. 30, 1933, Pittsburgh, Pa. cuitp: Helen,
Dec. 24, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Representative of the Chase National Bank of the City of New
York in Buenos Aires, for Argentina, Brazil, Chile, and Uruguay.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

[1114 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SIR Francis Bacon said, “Travel in the younger sort is a part of
education, in the elder a part of experience.” Perhaps as far as
the first is concerned, I might say yes, as for the second, it is
always continuing.

Graduation completed, I spent a year in the Law School,
where I enjoyed the company of many of our Class now famous
masters of tenures and quidditics, Then came three years in the
First National Bank of Boston, and the Great Depression!
Emerging again, I spent four years in Rumania, with the Inter-
national Telephone and Telegraph Corporation, from 1935 until
Hitler’s war against mankind in a land of peace, plenty, caviar,
and champagne, where no one ever starved. Pucrto Rico, Uncle
Sam’s problem child, was my next post abroad, and, in the period
from 1940 to 1945, came the war. San Juan, Paris of the Second
World War, as an ambitious reporter described it, was at least a
crossroads where many classmates came and went, to m
family’s and my joy and pleasure. Brazil, where future beckons,
was the next land that gave me, from 1945 to 1947, the measure
of our South American neighbors, who will be our great friends
and allies—if we do it right.

We live at present in Buenos Aires, where I am the representa-
tive of the Chase National Bank of the City of New York for
Argentina, Brazil, Chile, and Uruguay. I am striving always to
establish better relations with these countries, who should be our
best friends in trade, in peace, and, if necessary, in war. Fortu-
nately I return to the U.S.A. periodically, and although I have
not been able to vote in recent years, I remain a Republican.
During these stays I always try to see as many classmates as I can.
In return, if any of you come to Buenos Aires, please remember
that mi casa es sty a.

ISADORE ZARAKOV

HOME ADDRESS: 393 Clinton Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Camp Zakelo, Harrison, Maine.

BorN: Nov. 24, 1903, Boston, Mass. parents: Isadore Zarakov, Sarah Sheik.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.

MARRIED: Lillian Silverman, Aug. 24, 1927, Brookline, Mass. cxivp: Lillian
Evan, May 28, 1932.

[1115 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1927

occupation: Director of boys’ camp; advisory service for placement of boys
in private schools.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Varsity Club, Zeta Beta Tau Fraternity; Camp Direc-
tors’ Association; Archery Association of America, National Rifle
Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Textbook and Guide for Directors and Counselors.

TWENTY-FIVE years of camping and working with boys have
occupied my years for the most part since leaving college. It
has been an interesting period, establishing a camp of which we
are mighty proud. My work necessarily involves a great deal of
travel — combining business with pleasure — much opportunity
to visit and be with a number of college friends wherever my
travels may take me.

While camping takes most of my time, another interesting
phase of guidance and direction of boys is the placement of boys
and girls into private schools. The time element is such that it
works in very well with camping and keeps me in continual
touch with the educational movements of both public and private
schools throughout the country.

Lectures on education, visits to schools, camp director conven-
tions, educational conferences, study groups, attending athletic
contests, and the compilation of a Textbook on Camping for
Directors and Counselors, are but a few of the absorbing elements
in my schedule. Some day when I find time, I shall revise my
book into a standard textbook to be used in the increasing number
of colleges and educational institutions offering camping courses.

During the summer, I get most of my recreation — still play a
fair game of ball and tennis — enough to keep me in fairly good
physical condition for the greater part of the year. Coaching and
playing with our campers keeps me “up on my toes” most of the
time.

My daughter is now in her junior year at Radcliffe College,
takes after her Dad in many ways in her figure skating and music.

While the responsibility of supervising a group of 130 boys
and a staff of fifty is very great, I feel that there is no field that
I could enjoy more than instructing, guiding, and being with
boys. It has been a source of ever-increasing interest and enjoy-
ment watching these youngsters develop and take their places
in the country as worthy citizens,

[ 1116 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SIDNEY ZION

HOME ADoRESS: 156 Amory Sc, Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE AponEess: American Flour Co. 334 Rutherford Ave. Charlestown 29,
Mass.

porn: Sept. 25, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: Abraham Zion, Hannah Minsky.

PREPARED AT: Revere High School, Revere, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927. DEGREES: A.B, 19275 LL.B, 1930.

MAagieD: Mildred M, Levi (Radcliffe '33), Oct. 25, 1936, Brookline, Mass.
cuitpren: Macthew William, Feb. 16, 1941; Ellen Diane, July 3, 1946.
occuraTion: Treasurer, American Flour Company and Potter Wrightington

Company; attorncy-et-Lw.
MEMBER oF; Germania Lodge, Masons, Temple Kehillath Isracl, Brookline.

FOR me, not too glamorous — twenty-five years filled with
hard work: Law School, Bar exam, then the Icisure of a private
law practice to a business with its work and responsibilitics always
on the increase. Our companies are jobbers of flour, groceries,
and bakery supplies, we also grind and blend coarser types of
flour. Our business is extremely competitive, but since our system
demands the advantages of free competition, in the long run
this means the survival of the fittest — or most fortunate.

I have been very happy with my family: a wife who possesses
many qualities which I always admired in others because I did
not possess them my'self; a son, who though only ten, has a keen
desire to learn and the ability to retain knowledge; and not Icast,
a daughter who, at the early age of five, has all the feminine
charms of a young lady.

[1117 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Deceased Men

* Men whose deaths have been reported since 1947.

James Percival Abbott
*Hamilton Ford Allen, Jr.
James Richard Bunker
James Hiram Burnap
Jacob Carp
Charles Parsons Clifford
*Lawrence Coolidge
Kenneth Strock Conkey
Liddell Spencer Davis
James Michael Doyle
George Wing Dryer
*Laurence Hayden Duggan

*Robert Johnston Dunkle, Jr.

William Harrison Ennis
Carl Oscar Erickson
Louis Percy Feinberg
*Oliver Drayton Ferguson
Frank Hamilton Force
Howland Coit Francis
Gordon Godowsky
Walter Goff
William Goodman, Jr.
Henry Hartshorn Hack
Carlton Cooper Harding
*Francis Russell Hart, Jr.
Julian Phelps Hayward
Robert Mountain Henschen
Nelson Shoemaker Hesse
James Woolson Hurlbut

*Thomas Dean Kirmayer
*John Raymond Kochendorfer
*Louis Henry Kohn, Jr.
*Damodar Dharmanand
Kosambi
Herbert Mervin Kullman
Hollis Avery Lee
Philip Manton Lenhart
George Sutro Loewenstein
*Charles Francis McNeil
Richard DuMur Merian
*Glenn Allan Millikan
Harry Morss Neuburger
*Richard Frothingham
O’Neil, Jr.
Frank Jesse Otis, Jr.
William Roland Otto
Abraham Sigmund Pactovis
‘Torrance Parker, Jr.
Charles Platt, Jr.
Robert Raisbeck Proctor
Henry Ware Putnam
Harry Spencer Lindley
Reno, Jr.
Palmer Chamberlaine Ricketts
Renshaw
Robert Marshall Roloson, Jr.
John Opdyke Rosecrans

*Henry Suydam Satterlee, Jr.

Henry Eugene AlexanderIlsley = Henry Franklin Sayward

Henry Norman Jasper, Jr.
*Charles Glentworth Jenkins
*Morton Eliot Kent
*Francis Boland King

Richard Sanders Scott
Emmet Joseph Shea

“Edward Carroll Sibley
*John Roger Simpson

[1119]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Henry Lloyd Smyth, Jr. Thomas Bingham Walsh
James Raymond Spence Harold R. Weinstein
*Edward Harold Sperry George D’Arcy Whiteside
Theodore Heizl Stillman Charles Hayden Whitney
Robert Louis Stroock Francis Walter Worris

[ t120]

Geographical Index

ARIZONA
Tempe: C. Wexler
Tucson: F. W. Galbraith, 3d, T. Smitham
Williams: 8. Morris, Jr.

CALIFORNIA
Atherton: W. D. Patterson, Jr.
Beaumont: S. S. Skrypzak
Beverly Hills: S, L. Fox, P. Solomon, M, M. Wein
Burbank: C. S. Gross
Carpinteria: H. S. Russell
Covina: C. Merriam
Highland: R. E. McAnern
Hollywood: E. M. Purver, A. L. Weiner
La Jolla: A. Lane
Los Angeles: S. Andrews, A. C. Smith, W. Stern
Los Gatos: J. A. MacKinnon
Los Olivos: F. M. Sedgwick
Oakland: R. E. Wade, Jr.
Ojai: C. G. Raymond
Palo Alto: S. Taylor
Pasadena: G. H. Irving, M. Katz
Puente: H. Musgrave
Redwood City: A. Donald
Richmond: W. E. ‘Trevvett
Riverside: B. C. Moise, Jr.
Rolling Hills: R. L, Pruyn
Salinas: R, B. Burnett
Tarzana: K. L. Sicherman
West Los Angeles: R. Soutter, B. E. Swede
Whittier: K. N. Brundage, N. E. Rawlinson

COLORADO
Boulder: D. K. Snow
Denver: J. W. Herr

[ 1121]

